Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that primarily affects motor neurons leading to muscle weakness, paralysis, and ultimately, respiratory failure. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) facilitate intercellular communication by mimicking the functions of their parent cells. In this study, we found that repeated administration of neural stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (NSC-derived EVs) improved motor performance and provided protection to lumbar motor neurons, the neuromuscular junctions, and muscle morphology in the SOD1 G93A transgenic mouse model of ALS. Furthermore, by analyzing the RNA-sequencing of muscle specimens from ALS-SOD1 patients, we demonstrated that the rescue effects of NSC-derived EVs might be linked to the p53 pathway. Compared to the PBS control treatment group, both TP53 and the p53 upregulated modulator of apoptosis (PUMA) were downregulated in the spinal cord of mice treated with NSC-derived EVs. These data provide additional knowledge for the promising use of NSC-derived EVs as a potential therapy for ALS.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Association of Neuropathologists, Inc. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Nicotinamide (NAM), a precursor for nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+), is widely used as a supplement during different cells culturing. Although its antioxidative and anti-apoptotic properties, the specific effects on bovine embryo quality and implantation potential remain partly explored. The current study aimed to investigate the impact of NAM on developmental competence and quality of bovine embryos, focusing on cell apoptosis, survival, and trophoblast invasion. NAM was treated during in vitro maturation (IVM) and late-stage embryo culture (IVC3; the morula stage embryo), the cleavage and blastocyst formation rates were evaluated on Days 4 and 8 post-fertilization, respectively. Underlying mechanisms affecting embryo quality and invasion potential were examined in developed blastocysts using RT-qPCR, immunofluorescence, reactive oxygen species (ROS) measurement, TUNEL and trophoblast invasion assays. Results showed that the cleavage and blastocyst formation rates were significantly increased in the NAM-treated group relative to controls (83.62 ± 1.38% vs. 80.08 ± 0.52%, and 37.54 ± 1.15% vs. 28.74 ± 0.70%, respectively). Additionally, the in vitro-developed embryos supplemented with NAM during IVM and IVC3 exhibited lower levels of ROS and mRNA of caspase-3, and higher mRNA levels of the survival genes SOD1 and SOD2. Similarly, the DNA fragmentation rate was lower, and the total cell counts and inner cell mass to trophectoderm (ICM:TE) ratios were higher in embryos supplemented with NAM compared to untreated embryos. Furthermore, the MMP2 and MMP9 protein expression and trophoblast invasion rate of blastocysts treated with NAM were enhanced. These findings highlight the potential role of NAM in improving bovine embryo quality and enhancing trophoblast invasive capacity, thereby suggesting an improved implantation potential.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560011 is a review article
Skeletal muscle atrophy in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) drives loss of muscle strength, function and quality of life in ALS patients. The endocannabinoid system (ECS) regulates muscle homeostasis via regenerative and metabolic processes, and although ECS alterations have been reported in ALS neural tissues, ECS remodelling within ALS skeletal muscle has never been studied. This study investigated temporal and muscle type-specific ECS changes in ALS.Female hSOD1G93A transgenic mice and nontransgenic littermates were studied at presymptomatic and symptomatic ages (56-138 days of age; n = 7-8/group). Endocannabinoids, N-acyl-ethanolamine congeners and inflammatory lipid mediators were quantified using targeted LC-MS/MS in the tibialis anterior (TA) and soleus (SOL) muscles. ECS-related enzymes and receptors were assessed by immunoblotting and integrated with transcriptomic analyses of skeletal muscle biopsies from ALS patients (n = 5/group; ~63 years). To evaluate therapeutic relevance, ALS mice were treated with the fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) inhibitor URB937 or vehicle (n = 10-11/group), and survival, body weight, welfare and motor function were assessed longitudinally.ALS caused severe atrophy in the predominantly fast-twitch TA muscle (-76.5%; p < 0.01), while the slow-twitch soleus was largely preserved (-14.4%; p < 0.01). Accordingly, the lipid perturbation due to ALS was more pronounced in the TA, reflected by extensive alterations in unsaturated fatty acids, hydroxy- and epoxy-fatty acids (TA: 63% and SOL: 22% of lipid mediators different between ALS vs. NTG) and marked ECS remodelling, including elevated anandamide (+37.3%; p = 0.03) and multiple N-acyl-ethanolamine congeners (+76-102%; p < 0.05), reduced 2-arachidonoylglycerol (-28%; p = 0.06), increased CB1 receptor expression (+93%; p < 0.01) and dynamic, age-dependent regulation of FAAH (presymptomatic: -68%; p = 0.04, symptomatic: +21%; p = 0.02). In contrast, the SOL showed modest or opposite changes, consistent with its relative resistance to atrophy. Notably, ECS remodelling in the TA was already evident at presymptomatic age (e.g., CB1: +76%; p = 0.01) and the same ECS enzymes were affected in human ALS skeletal muscle transcriptomes (e.g., twofold decrease in FAAH; pFDR = 0.010). Despite evidence for a therapeutic potential, chronic peripheral FAAH inhibition with URB937 did not improve weight loss, motor functions and survival of ALS mice (all p > 0.05).Muscle type-specific endocannabinoid system remodelling in ALS precedes overt neurological decline and might relate to degenerative features such as metabolic disturbance and inflammation. Although peripheral FAAH inhibition alone was insufficient to modify disease outcomes, these findings identify the endocannabinoid system as an integral component of ALS muscle pathology and support skeletal muscle lipid signalling as a potentially relevant early target for adjunctive therapeutic strategies.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cachexia, Sarcopenia and Muscle published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells evade apoptosis through antioxidant mechanisms. Paris saponin VII (PS VII), a steroidal saponin, exhibits antitumor activity in solid malignancies, but its role in AML remains unclear.This study investigated the antileukemic effects of PS VII on AML and the underlying mechanism, and evaluated its synergy with idarubicin (Ida).Using human SKM-1 and murine C1498 AML cell lines, we assessed antileukemic effects of PS VII in vitro. Subcutaneous and systemic leukemia mouse models were employed for in vivo validation. Mechanistic studies integrated DIA-based proteomics, co-immunoprecipitation, surface plasmon resonance, and ubiquitination assays to elucidate the molecular basis.PS VII bound to superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) and promoted its proteasomal degradation. This process was mediated by TRIP12-dependent K48-linked polyubiquitination at lysine residues 10 and 37. SOD1 degradation elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and induced mitochondrial dysfunction. High SOD1 expression was associated with poor prognosis in AML patients. PS VII and Ida synergistically induced ROS-dependent apoptosis in vitro and in vivo.PS VII functions as a natural compound SOD1 degrader that triggers ROS-dependent AML cell death through TRIP12-mediated ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation. Its synergy with Ida provides a potential combination strategy that increases cellular sensitivity to oxidative stress and cell death.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Melanoma is an aggressive form of skin cancer characterized by high metastatic potential and increasing incidence and mortality worldwide. Although significant advances have been achieved with immune checkpoint inhibitors and targeted therapies, effective preventive and long-term therapeutic strategies remain limited. Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG), widely used in bladder cancer immunotherapy, exhibits potent immunostimulatory properties and has emerged as a promising platform for recombinant cancer vaccines. Among the candidate antigens, Antigen 85A (Ag85A), derived from Mycobacterium bovis, is notable for its strong immunogenicity and ability to induce robust Th1-mediated cellular immune responses. In this study, recombinant BCG strains overexpressing efficacy was evaluated in melanoma models in vitro and in vivo. Gene expression analysis by RT-qPCR revealed that rBCG-Ag85A induced systemic immune activation, characterized by increased Il1B and Trl4 expression in splenocytes. In tumor tissues, rBCG-Ag85A significantly upregulated genes associated with apoptosis (Bax, Bcl2), oxidative stress (Sod1, Cat), inflammatory and immune signaling pathways (Tlr4, Nfkb, Il12, Il1b, Casp1), and modulation of pathways involved in cellular metabolism (Mtor) indicating enhanced modulation of the tumor microenvironment. Functionally, these molecular and immunological effects were associated with reduced tumor progression, slower tumor growth, and improved survival in B16F10 melanoma-bearing mice. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that rBCG-Ag85A promotes multifaceted antitumor activity through the modulation of apoptosis, inflammation and oxidative stress-related gene expression, highlighting its potential as a promising prophylactic vaccine strategy to prevent cutaneous malignant melanoma and supporting future studies aimed at elucidating the immune cell populations involved and optimizing combinatorial therapeutic approaches.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lead (Pb) is one of the most prevalent environmental toxicants and is of great concern due to its adverse effects. Despite lead's oxidative properties, studies on the transgenerational effects of paternal Pb exposure remain inadequate. This study aimed to evaluate these effects on oxidative stress and the expression of specific genes using the D. melanogaster model. Male fruit flies were fed a normal diet supplemented with lead acetate as the Pb source for 20 consecutive days. The Pb-exposed males were mated with unexposed females, producing F1 offspring. F1 flies were fed a normal diet, and then bred to produce F2; F3 was produced from F2. All F1-F3 generations were kept on a normal diet, with no Pb exposure. Antioxidant parameters, including vitamins A, C, and E; reduced glutathione (GSH); catalase; superoxide dismutase (SOD); malondialdehyde (MDA); and the expression of CAT and SOD1 mRNA, were evaluated. There was a significant (p < 0.05) decrease in antioxidant vitamin levels, GSH content, and catalase and SOD activities across F1-F3 due to exposure to the grandparent (F0). Similarly, a significant (p < 0.05) elevation in MDA levels was observed across the F1-F3 generations due to exposure of the F0 generation. Significant down-regulation of the antioxidant genes CAT and SOD1 was also detected. The findings indicate persistent transgenerational alterations in oxidative stress biomarkers and antioxidant gene expression resulting from paternal Pb exposure. This underscores the importance of studying multiple generations to assess the health and environmental risks posed by pollutants.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Dry eye disease (DED) is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the ocular surface; however, upstream immune mechanisms contributing to DED are complex and unclear. This study aimed to identify differentially expressed tear proteins in patients with DED and elucidate the underlying disease mechanism.Tear fluid from healthy controls (HC; n = 26), aqueous-deficient DED (ADDE; n = 29), and evaporative DED (EDE; n = 26) patients were collected using Schirmer strips. Proteomic profiling was performed using nano-ESI LC-MS/MS. Differential proteins were identified using LIMMA and MBQN with Gene Ontology pathway enrichment. Key candidates were validated by ELISA (IL-8, IL-18, histones), Western blotting for citrullinated H3, PicoGreen for extracellular DNA, and in vitro assays in human corneal epithelial cells.A total of 2596 tear proteins were identified across groups, of which 101 were significantly altered (P < 0.001) in both ADDE and EDE groups. Principal component analysis and heatmap analyses revealed differential protein abundance patterns between HC and disease groups, with increased inflammatory and oxidative stress proteins (MMP9, MAPK3, S100A8/A9, and SOD1) and decreased lactoferrin, lysozyme, lipocalin-1, and mucins in ADDE and EDE. Pathway enrichment indicated activation of neutrophil-mediated inflammation and extracellular chromatin release. Validation confirmed significant upregulation of NETosis-associated markers, including IL-8 (P < 0.01), IL-18 (P < 0.001), and histone proteins (H1, H2A/B, H3, H4) (P < 0.001) in disease groups, which was further confirmed by in vitro DED model.Our study shows that neutrophil-mediated inflammation and NETosis in DED may be associated with elevated IL-8, IL-18, and histone proteins in ADDE and EDE, which could be potential biomarkers or therapeutic targets.
To evaluate the effectiveness of Tofersen in patients with superoxide dismutase 1 gene (SOD1-ALS) patients in France in a real-world setting, using disease progression within patient comparisons and with a historical cohort.Patients with SOD1-ALS were included from across 19 French FILSLAN network centers. Baseline was defined as the treatment initiation date. Main endpoints were the ALSFRS-R progression rate and plasmatic neurofilament light chain (NfL) levels at baseline and 12 months after baseline.In the Tofersen Cohort (N=46), within-group comparisons showed that the mean ALS functional rating scale revised (ALSFRS-R) progression rate slowed from 0.53 ± 0.5 at baseline to 0.22 ± 0.3 point/month at 12 months (P=.006). NfL levels significantly decreased from 89.0 ± 9.0 pg/ml at baseline to 29.2 ± 19.5.5 at 12 months (P=.004). Exploratory comparisons with a propensity score (PS) matched historical cohort (39 matched pairs) using a mixed-effects model, ALSFRS-R progression rate at baseline, 6 months, and 12 months after baseline, showed no statistically significant differences between groups P=.30, whereas longitudinal ALSFRS-R scores differed significantly between groups (time-treatment interaction P=.006). The mean survival of the PS matched population was longer in the Tofersen Cohort (42.6 months) than the Historical Cohort (31.8 months) P=.004. Time-dependent adjusted cox analysis showed that Tofersen was associated with a reduction in mortality risk (adjusted HR=0.34; 95% CI, 0.12-0.91; P=.03).Tofersen seems to be associated with slower functional decline and reduced NfL levels. While limitations of retrospective design and ALSFRS-R sensitivity must be acknowledged, these findings provide real-world evidence suggesting a clinical benefit of Tofersen.© 2026 The Authors.
Post-ovulatory aging (POA) reduces oocyte quality, yet effective interventions remain limited. Here we demonstrate that early intervention with vitamin K2 (menaquinone-4 isoform, MK-4) alleviates POA by inhibiting iron-disorder-induced oxidative stress. Western blot revealed that the expressions of ferroptosis suppressor protein 1 (FSP1) and vitamin K epoxide reductase-like protein (VKORC1L1) were significantly decreased in mouse POA oocytes; however, MK-4 attenuated these changes. Further, MK-4 inhibited ferritinophagy by downregulating NCOA4 and LC3II, markedly restored ferritin level, reduced intracellular Fe2+ amount, thus attenuating oxidative stress. These results were characterized by reducing lipid peroxidation marker malondialdehyde (MDA) and acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 4 (ACSL4) expression, decreasing γ-H2AX and 8-Hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), and enhancing expression of the mitochondrial antioxidant enzyme superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1). Additionally, MK-4 suppressed mitophagy by downregulating PINK1 and Parkin, and upregulating Rab7 improving mitochondrial membrane potential. Consequently, abnormalities in chromosomes, spindles, and the cytoskeleton were significantly ameliorated in POA oocytes receiving early MK-4 intervention. Notably, in vitro-aging oocytes expressed higher FSP1 and VKORC1L1 but lower ACSL4 and MDA versus the in vivo counterparts, suggesting a milder lipid peroxidation in vitro. Collectively, our findings uncover a novel anti-aging mechanism triggered by MK-4, highlighting its potential to establish a preventive strategy for female reproductive aging.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Hemolysis is a recognized complication of mechanical circulatory support and may contribute to acute kidney injury in patients with cardiogenic shock. Early hemolysis during Impella support, particularly compared with intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP), remains incompletely characterized.We retrospectively analyzed a single-center registry of consecutive patients with cardiogenic shock treated with IABP or Impella between August 2022 and October 2024. Serum haptoglobin was measured at intensive care unit admission and every 12 hours during device support. Low haptoglobin was defined as <19 mg/dL.Among 91 patients (IABP, n=67; Impella CP, n=24), baseline haptoglobin levels were similar. Patients supported with Impella exhibited a significantly greater decline in haptoglobin beginning 12 hours after intensive care unit admission, particularly in the absence of concomitant venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. Low haptoglobin occurred more frequently with Impella than with IABP (67% versus 31%, P=0.004), whereas the incidence of overt clinical hemolysis was low and comparable between devices. Impella use (odds ratio, 2.82 [95% CI, 1.45-5.95]; P=0.001), concomitant venoarterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation support (odds ratio, 16.52 [95% CI, 4.65-174.56]; P<0.001), and lower mean arterial pressure at intensive care unit admission (OR, 0.95 [95% CI, 0.89-0.99]; P=0.006) were independently associated with low haptoglobin.In patients with cardiogenic shock, Impella CP support was associated with earlier and more frequent decline in serum haptoglobin compared with IABP, suggesting more frequent subclinical hemolysis. Although overt hemolysis was uncommon, early monitoring using serial serum haptoglobin measurements may help inform device management strategies.
While clinical data on anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy in relapsed/refractory (R/R) large B-cell lymphoma (LBCL) have been established, data specifically focusing on high-grade B-cell lymphoma (HGBCL) remain limited.To evaluate the efficacy of CAR T-cell therapy for HGBCL, we conducted a single-center retrospective study of patients with R/R HGBCL who received CAR T-cell therapy at our institution between March 2022 and October 2024.This study included 15 patients with R/R HGBCL treated with CAR T-cell therapy (10 with axicabtagene ciloleucel and 5 with lisocabtagene maraleucel). The median age at CAR T-cell infusion was 62 years (range, 39-76 years). Eleven patients (73.3%) were refractory to first-line therapy and 11 (73.3%) had MYC and BCL2 rearrangements. High-grade morphology was observed in nine patients (60.0%). Nine patients (60.0%) received CAR T-cell therapy as second-line treatment. The best overall response rate was 80.0%, with a complete response rate of 66.7%. At a median follow-up of 18.5 months (range, 1.3-26.0 months), the 1-year progression-free survival (PFS) rate was 40.0%. In univariate analysis, high-grade morphology was associated with inferior PFS (HR 5.09; 95% CI 1.46-17.73, p = 0.019), whereas high lactate dehydrogenase level and high metabolic tumor volume at lymphodepletion, number of prior lines of chemotherapy and MYC and BCL2 rearrangements were not significantly associated with PFS.The efficacy of CAR T-cell therapy in patients with R/R HGBCL remains suboptimal. High-grade morphology may help identify patients at particularly high risk of poor outcomes following CAR T-cell therapy.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Society of Clinical Oncology.
The incidence of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is increasing but clinical outcomes remain poor and new treatments are required. IGF2BP3 is an oncofetal m6A-reading RNA regulatory protein whose expression is commonly observed in PDAC and which may represent an important therapeutic target. IGF2BP3 protein is expressed in >95% of primary tumours whilst RNA expression ranges from 3 to 3000-fold above normal epithelium. siRNA knockdown reveals IGF2BP3 to strongly support expression of gene programs related to DNA replication, cell cycle and apoptosis, TNF signalling and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Direct sequencing of native RNA further reveals IGF2BP3-mediated enhancement of 863 RNA isoforms with suppression of 389 isoforms. m6A, m5C and pseudouridine (ψ) RNA modifications were seen in 97% of transcripts within the PDAC transcriptome and enriched within MYC gene targets. IGF2BP3 regulated the pattern of RNA modification with a substantial impact on m5C modifications of miRNA and scRNA, and genes associated with regulation of TNF signalling. Knockdown of IGF2BP3 expression in primary tumour organoid cultures suppressed proliferation and elicited apoptosis, indicating a critical requirement for IGF2BP3 within malignant stem cells. These data show that IGF2BP3 is expressed consistently in PDAC, plays a dominant role in regulation of RNA splicing and modification, and supports cancer stem cell proliferation and survival. IGF2BP3 therefore occupies a critical position within the RNA regulon of PDAC and represents an important therapeutic target in this tumour of unmet need.© 2026. The Author(s).
Data regarding the association between self-expandable transfemoral transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TF-TAVR) and pure native aortic regurgitation (PNAR) are limited. The authors described their initial experience with self-expandable TF-TAVR for the treatment of patients with PNAR from the NTCVR database in China.This was a national registry-based, multicentre, retrospective cohort study. Patients with PNAR were enrolled from the NTCVR in China between January 2017 and December 2023. The primary endpoint event was all-cause mortality at 30 days. Logistic regression analysis and machine learning techniques were used to identify the risk factors associated with 30-day all-cause mortality of TF-TAVR in patients with PNAR.Total 890 patients with PNAR (mean age 73.2 years; 56.3% men) from 72 centres in China were enrolled in this study. The in-hospital and 30-day all-cause mortality were 2.0% and 2.7%, respectively. By multivariate logistic regression analysis, the diameter of the ascending aorta (OR, 1.103 (95% CI 1.005 to 1.212); p=0.039) and renal insufficiency (OR, 4.602 (95% CI 1.455 to 14.553); p=0.009) were associated with the 30-day all-cause mortality. Moreover, Shapley Additive explanations analysis for the machine learning model XGBoost also highlighted the diameter of the ascending aorta as the key predictor; patients with an ascending aorta greater than 41.6 mm had a significantly higher 30-day all-cause mortality rate (OR, 5.027 (95% CI 2.042 to 12.696); p=0.0004). Moreover, the NYHA class III/IV and annulus long diameter were predictors of technical success in multivariate analysis.In this large national registry-based observational and exploratory study, we identified the ascending aorta as the key predictor for PNAR patients who underwent self-expandable TF-TAVR. Patients with ascending aortic diameters greater than 41.6 mm may have a significantly higher 30-day all-cause mortality rate.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is increasingly associated with early circuit dysfunction preceding cognitive decline, including neuronal hyperactivity and neuropsychiatric symptoms linked to mesolimbic pathways. The nucleus accumbens (NAc), a central regulator of reward and motivational processing, exhibits early alterations in excitation/inhibition balance in patients and experimental models, yet the synaptic mechanisms underlying its vulnerability remain unclear. Using a double transgenic APP/PS1 mice crossed with a Drd1a-tdTomato reporter line, we combined cell-type-specific electrophysiology, immunohistochemistry, ex vivo photometry, and behavioral assays. At a pre-plaque stage, intraneuronal Aβ accumulated in both dopamine D1 receptor-positive (D1R+) and D1R-negative medium spiny neurons (MSNs). Despite comparable Aβ levels, both high-frequency stimulation-induced long-term depression (LTD) and mGluR1/5-dependent LTD were selectively impaired in D1R+ MSNs. This vulnerability was accompanied by an increased contribution of calcium-permeable AMPA receptors (CP-AMPARs). Subsequent CP-AMPAR blockade reduced the residual evoked excitatory postsynaptic current that persisted after mGluR1/5 activation in APP/PS1 D1R+ MSNs. Because paired-pulse ratios remained unchanged, this residual response was consistent with a predominantly postsynaptic mechanism. These synaptic changes were accompanied by reduced evoked dopamine signaling, increased chocolate consumption, and altered baseline context preference, whereas standard pellet consumption, conditioned place preference, anxiety-like behavior, and social behavior were unchanged. These findings define a pre-plaque, cell-type-specific synaptic phenotype in male APP/PS1 mice in which impaired mGluR1/5-dependent plasticity and persistent CP-AMPAR signaling in D1R+ MSNs coincide with selective reward-related alterations.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Chemoresistance is a significant factor in the failure of cancer treatment. Although some chemotherapeutic combination regimens are linked to DNA damage repair processes, the therapeutic potential of TCM-derived small molecules that target these mechanisms is still underexplored. Alloimperatorin (Alloi) has demonstrated the ability to inhibit tumor growth; however, the efficacy and molecular mechanisms of its combination with chemotherapeutic agents are not yet fully understood. Here, we demonstrate that Alloi sensitizes multiple tumor cell lines to gemcitabine (GEM) both in vitro and in vivo. Using functional assays, we confirmed a potent synergistic inhibitory effect of the Alloi-GEM combination, which markedly suppressed pancreatic cancer progression in vivo with minimal adverse effects. By integrating transcriptome sequencing with network pharmacology, we identified downregulation of c-MYC and Nijmegen Breakage Syndrome 1 gene (NBS1) as a key mechanistic event, a finding subsequently validated through multiple assays. Mechanistically, the Alloi-GEM regimen induces sustained DNA damage via disruption of the c-MYC-NBS1 axis, thereby impairing the DNA damage response pathway. Collectively, our findings establish that Alloi enhances tumor sensitivity to GEM through modulation of the c-MYC/NBS1 axis and identify this combinatorial strategy as a promising approach for cancer treatment.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
This study aimed to assess the effects of branched-chain VFA (BCVFA) supplementation on milk and components yield and N emissions in dairy cows fed a low-protein diet, compared with a high-protein diet and a low-protein diet without BCVFA supplementation. In a 3 × 3 Latin square design, 48 Holstein-Friesian dairy cows (91 ± 15 DIM at the start of the experiment) were blocked in groups of 3 according to parity, lactation stage, and milk yield. Within each block, cows were randomly assigned to 1 of 3 barn units for independent emission measurements (16 animals per barn unit). The experiment lasted a total of 15 weeks, consisting of 3 treatment periods. Each treatment period lasted 5 weeks and included a 3-week adaptation period followed directly by a 2-week measurement period. The 3 dietary treatments were (1) a high-protein diet (HP) with a dietary CP content of 167 g/kg DM, (2) a low-protein diet (LP) with a dietary content of 154 g/kg DM, and (3) LP with Ca salts of BCVFA (LP+) targeting 253 and 109 mmol/cow/d of isobutyrate and 2-methylbutyrate, respectively. Both LP and LP+ resulted in a reduced NH3 emission by, on average, 21% compared with HP. Supplementation with BCVFA (LP+) did not improve milk and component yields or DMI, and did not affect CH4, CO2, NH3 and N2O emissions compared with LP. However, LP+ lowered DM and tended to lower OM excretion (21% and 23%, respectively) compared with HP. Decreasing dietary CP content (i.e., HP vs. LP or LP+) did not affect DMI but tended to decrease milk crude protein content and decreased milk urea content, and yields of milk, crude protein, and lactose. The emissions of CO2, CH4, and N2O were not affected by dietary CP content. Hence, it can be concluded that when the dietary CP content decreased from 167 to 154 g/kg DM, BCVFA supplementation did not counteract the negative effects of protein-limitation on milk and component yields. This may suggest that the low-protein diet may not have provided adequate rumen N to support increased microbial protein synthesis from BCVFA or that the effect of a lower metabolizable protein supply overruled any effect of supplemental BCVFA.© 2026, The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of the American Dairy Science Association®. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
The design and base-validation of a small-animal microwave&#xD;hyperthermia applicator for the adaptation of the clinically used BSD-500&#xD;hyperthermia device to function with mice.We iteratively designed and&#xD;tested a 3D-printable applicator, using mouse cadavers as well as the life sciences&#xD;simulation software Sim4life to optimise the applicator. The applicator uses an agarose&#xD;phantom to couple the antenna to the tissue, and we determined the dielectric and&#xD;thermal properties thereof. To monitor the temperatures in the cadavers during&#xD;the experiments, electromagnetically stable 4-wire sensors from the clinical device&#xD;were read out independently.The agarose coupling phantom was&#xD;characterised dielectrically and thermally and closely approximated muscle tissue&#xD;(ϵr = 51.91, σ = 0.99Sm-1 at 915MHz) and cp = (2592 ± 40)Jkg-1K-1. The&#xD;independent sensor readout achieved 3Hz data collection with a sensor standard&#xD;deviation from the reference thermometer smaller than 0.01◦C. In each of the&#xD;validation experiments visual positioning was by itself sufficient to ensure the tumour-&#xD;surrogate reached therapeutic temperatures (40 ◦C-43◦C) using only a control sensor&#xD;in the agarose gel in contact with the mouse body. Extrapolating from our data, the&#xD;highest temperature should occur in the gel at the antenna tip, reaching approximately&#xD;43◦C. The therapeutic zone extends to a depth of 9.3mm to 17.6mm (95% CI). The&#xD;electromagnetic simulation predicted the heating-rate distribution well and was robust&#xD;to changes in material properties and problem geometry. Perfusion-aware simulations&#xD;based on the Pennes bioheat equation predicted at most an ≈21% reduction in tumour&#xD;heating under physiological conditions, indicating that therapeutic temperatures&#xD;should remain achievable in vivo.This work substantially narrows&#xD;the gap towards an accessible, easy-to-use small-animal hyperthermia applicator and&#xD;provides the base-validation needed before progressing to in vivo experiments.Creative Commons Attribution license.
Interferons can trigger robust anti-tumor responses following immune checkpoint blockade (ICB). However, chronic interferon signaling can also reshape tumor cell phenotypes, selecting for immune evasion mechanisms that drive resistance. In a cohort of 108 metastatic melanoma samples collected prior to first-line ICB, immune infiltration and bulk interferon gamma (IFNG) expression correlate with initial but not durable responses. Using a regression-based approach to deconvolve cancer cell signals from bulk tumors, we find that tumors from patients who initially respond but later acquire resistance exhibit heightened cancer cell-dependent IFN signaling at baseline, accompanied by MYC downregulation, dedifferentiation, and impaired major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II induction. Genetically, acquired resistance also associates with reduced T cell interferon signaling, lower memory T cell activity, high tumor mutational burden, clonal diversification, and elevated subclonal neoantigen burden. These findings reveal baseline transcriptomic and genetic features distinguishing acquired resistance from durable ICB response, identifying candidate targets to prevent relapse and refine stratification.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Quantitative assessment of the pathologic response (pR) in the eyeball approach remains challenging. Few studies have clearly defined viable tumor cell regions (VTRs). We defined VTRs using AE1/AE3 (AE1/3) staining and examined the usefulness of computational pathology (CP) assessment of the pR after preoperative therapy (PT) in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).Among 50 NSCLC patients administered PT at our hospital between October 2002 and April 2021, we selected 31 cases that received PT and evaluated the correlations between AI-based and manual assessments of pR on a slide-by-slide in AE1/3 and hematoxylin and eosin (HE) stained slides. A total of 406 virtual slides (vs) were generated and divided into a training set (300 vs) and a test set (58 vs) without case duplication. pR was defined as the percent area of VTRs relative to the total tumor bed (TB) area. An experienced pathologist manually assessed the pR on HE slides and annotated TB regions, which were used to train a TB model. A VTR model was first developed on AE1/3 vs using an algorithm (AE1/3-trained VTR model), and the resulting labels were transferred to the HEvs to train a HE based VTR model (HE-trained VTR model).In the test set, AI assessed pR was strongly correlated with the manually assessed pR in the AE1/3 (Spearman's ρ, 0.87, 95%CI, 0.74-0.94) and HE vs. (ρ 0.71, 95%CI, 0.49-0.86).The AI-based CP platform appears to be feasible for quantitative evaluation of the pR following PT in cases of NSCLC.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Triptolide (TP), the principal bioactive component of Tripterygium wilfordii (T. wilfordii), exhibits potent pharmacological activities; however, its clinical application is limited by severe male reproductive toxicity, and effective interventions to mitigate reproductive toxicity remain limited. Although the relationship between ferroptosis and TP-induced male reproductive damage has garnered attention, it is still not fully understood whether intervening in ferroptosis can serve as a viable approach to ameliorate TP-induced testicular injury. Thus, this study aimed to characterize TP-induced ferroptosis in mouse testes and Sertoli cells and evaluate whether pharmacological inhibition of ferroptosis by liproxstatin-1 (Lip-1) could serve as a protective strategy against TP-induced testicular injury. In this study, we demonstrated that TP exposure caused significant testicular damage, characterized by pathological histological changes, disruption of the blood-testis barrier (BTB) integrity, a decrease in sperm count and motility, and an increase in sperm deformity. Mechanistically, TP downregulated key redox regulators (NRF2, HO-1, SLC7A11, and GPX4) and iron homeostasis proteins (FTH1, FTL, and FPN), implicating ferroptosis in male reproductive toxicity. Crucially, co-treatment with the Lip-1 effectively mitigated both BTB disruption and testicular damage induced by TP, both in vivo and in vitro. The protective effect was associated with the attenuation of lipid peroxidation and the restoration of the NRF2/HO-1/SLC7A11/GPX4 pathway. Collectively, our findings suggested that pharmacological inhibition of ferroptosis by Lip-1 represented a promising strategy against TP-induced BTB disruption and testicular injury.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Critical-sized bone defect repair remains a formidable challenge because conventional approaches cannot recapitulate the temporally coordinated cascade of endochondral ossification. Here, we report a biomimetic, temporally programmed cytokine delivery scaffold that integrates spatially defined nanofiber architecture with sequential biochemical activation to orchestrate orderly tissue regeneration. The scaffold comprises electrospun polycaprolactone nanofibers with an inner uniaxially aligned layer and an outer random layer. Interleukin-8 (IL-8), strategically loaded into the aligned fibers to reinstate early-stage chemotactic cues markedly diminished in adult bone defect repair, is released in a sustained manner during the initial 14 days, enhancing mesenchymal stem cell recruitment and initiating chondrogenic differentiation. At later stages, bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) encapsulated between the fiber layers is released on demand via near-infrared (NIR) stimulation, enabling temporally precise promotion of osteogenesis. In vivo, the staged delivery system led to a 72.1% greater bone volume fraction at 12 weeks compared to controls. IL-8-driven early cartilage formation and BMP-2-induced late-stage bone regeneration were consistent with upregulated expression of chondrogenic markers S100 (3.63-fold) and COL2 (1.57-fold) at 4 weeks and subsequently, osteogenic markers OCN (1.68-fold) and OPN (1.47-fold) at 12 weeks. By reinstating early molecular signals absent in conventional healing and coupling them with on-demand osteogenic stimulation, this programmable delivery strategy offers a potent and adaptable approach for regenerating critical-sized bone defects and potentially other complex tissues requiring staged repair.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Maternal obesity compromises placental development and fetal growth, yet the mechanisms remain unknown. Here, we investigated the impact of high-fat diet (HFD) on placental energy homeostasis in mice. Female C57BL/6 mice were fed a control diet or an HFD, with a subset receiving FerroTerminator-1 (FOT1) to modulate metabolic dysfunction. At embryonic day 18.5, maternal metabolic status, fetal growth, placental morphology, energy metabolism, and oxidative stress were assessed. HFD-fed dams developed dyslipidemia and insulin resistance, and exhibited placental lipid accumulation and impaired labyrinth zone development, resulting in reduced fetal weight and altered fetal liver lipid and glycogen contents. The placenta showed mitochondrial damage, accompanied by reduced ATP content, mitochondrial membrane potential, mitochondrial DNA copy number, and suppressed respiratory chain complex activities. Placental metabolomic profiling showed that HFD was associated with altered levels of metabolites in glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation pathways. These alterations coincided with placental iron-associated oxidative stress, evidenced by elevated non-heme iron, lipid peroxidation products, upregulation of transferrin receptor (TFRC) and lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 3 (LPCAT3), downregulation of ferritin heavy chain 1 (FTH1) and solute carrier family 40 member 1 (SLC40A1), a reduced glutathione to oxidized glutathione ratio, and impaired glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) expression and activity. Meanwhile, FOT1 administration attenuated placental oxidative stress, partially restored ATP production and mitochondrial function, and improved fetal growth in HFD-fed mice. Collectively, maternal obesity was associated with placental iron-associated oxidative stress and bioenergetic impairment, which may contribute to reduced placental efficiency and FGR.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Characterized as an idiopathic primary myocardial disorder, dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) predominantly affects children and elderly adults. However, a lack of specific clinical symptoms and reliable biomarkers impedes timely diagnosis and rational clinical management of DCM.Whole-genome expression profiles (GSE120895, GSE9800) were retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus database via the GEOquery R package. A series of bioinformatic methods were employed, including DEG, GSVA, WGCNA, GO/KEGG enrichment, PPI, and immune infiltration analysis. Key biomarkers were validated by qRT-PCR in a Doxorubicin (DOX)-induced DCM model.In total, 629 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened out between DCM and control groups. Combined analysis of DEGs and WGCNA outputs identified 13 hub genes overlapping with oxidative stress-associated gene modules. Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve analyses confirmed that these hub genes exhibit favorable diagnostic efficiency for DCM. Functional enrichment results showed that these genes are mainly enriched in transmembrane transport and nucleotide metabolism pathways. Immune infiltration analysis indicated significantly elevated infiltration levels of five immune cell subsets in DCM myocardial tissues. In vivo experiments verified the significant upregulation of five core hub genes in DOX-induced DCM mice. By screening hub genes with diagnostic potency based on public transcriptome datasets and validating their expression alterations in a DOX-induced DCM animal model, this study provides partial experimental evidence to support the above bioinformatic outcomes.Through integrative analysis of multiple datasets and molecular biology validation, this study provides robust evidence supporting the involvement of these hub genes in DCM pathogenesis. Although validation was limited to a single murine model, the findings lay the groundwork for future mechanistic studies and clinical exploration of these candidate genes.Hub genes including MVP, WISP1, FCN1, AMPD3, RARRES1, FTL, and KRT14 possess promising auxiliary diagnostic potential, which provides novel clues for subsequent clinical evaluation research on DCM.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
The current evidence suggests that the formation of pulp stones (PS) has a genetic background. Therefore, the present study aimed to evaluate the association between PS in orthodontically treated patients and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the mineralization-related genes (bone morphogenetic protein 2 [BMP2], BMP4, SMAD6, and runt-related transcription factor 2 [RUNX2]).This cross-sectional study analyzed genomic DNA and panoramic radiographs from patients with a history of orthodontic treatment. Panoramic radiographs were analyzed and PS were identified as well- or poorly defined radiopaque opacities located within the pulp chamber of the maxillary and mandibular first and second permanent molars. Genomic DNA obtained from all participants was analyzed. The genetic analysis focused on seven specific SNPs located in genes involved in mineralization pathways: BMP2 (rs235768 and rs1005464), BMP4 (rs17563), SMAD6 (rs3934908 and rs2119261), and RUNX2 (rs59983488 and rs1200425). Comparisons of allele and genotype (codominant, dominant, and recessive models) distributions between patients with and without PS were performed using the chi-square test. Logistic regression analyses were performed to control for potential confounders such as age and sex for the SNPs located in the RUNX2 gene. One-way ANOVA was applied to evaluate differences in the mean number of teeth with PS across genotypes. The significance level was established at α = 0.05.The final sample comprised 235 patients: 120 presented with PS, and 115 served as controls. For the SNP rs59983488 in RUNX2, a statistical association was observed for genotype distribution in the dominant model (p = 0.033) and for allele distribution (p = 0.022). For the SNP rs1200425 in RUNX2, a statistical association was observed for genotype distribution in the recessive model (p = 0.046; odds ratio [OR] = 2.0, confidence interval [CI] 95% 1.0-3.8). No statistically significant association was observed in the logistic regression analysis.Our study suggests that RUNX2 could have a small effect on the susceptibility of orthodontic patients to develop PS.Copyright © 2026 Daniel Hemming et al. International Journal of Dentistry published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Osteoporosis and osteosarcoma impose a substantial and rising global health burden, yet their transcriptomic landscapes have not been systematically compared. We performed a multiomics characterization integrating bulk transcriptomics, coexpression network analysis, immune deconvolution, single-cell RNA sequencing, and diagnostic classifier construction.Bulk transcriptomic profiling was performed using GSE56815 (circulating blood monocytes, n = 80; 40 low-BMD/40 high-BMD) and the TARGET-OS database (n = 88 osteosarcoma tumor samples; DNA methylation n = 86; copy number n = 81). Differential expression was assessed by Welch's t-test with Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Coexpression modules were identified by hierarchical clustering of the Top 2000 most variable probes with dynamic tree cutting. A logistic regression classifier was constructed from the Top 20 differentially expressed probes using fivefold-stratified cross-validation. Single-cell RNA sequencing of an osteosarcoma tumor specimen (GEO accession GSM9030790) was processed with SVD-based dimensionality reduction and K-means clustering (k = 8; n = 3658 cells passing QC). In vitro validation was conducted by qRT-PCR in MC3T3-E1 osteoblast precursor cells and RAW264.7 osteoclast precursor cells.Differential expression analysis identified 4347 probe sets at nominal p < 0.05, of which 604 remained significant after Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Eight coexpression modules were identified; module M0 showed a weak positive association with low-BMD status (r = 0.184), which did not reach statistical significance. Six hub genes-SP7/Osterix, RUNX2, BMP2, WNT5A, DKK1, and SOST-were examined by qRT-PCR: SP7, RUNX2, BMP2, and WNT5A showed significant downregulation (p < 0.01), whereas DKK1 showed significant upregulation (p < 0.01) and SOST showed a nonsignificant trend toward upregulation under osteoporosis-simulating conditions. The diagnostic classifier achieved a moderate AUC of 0.693 (fivefold CV range: 0.48-0.91), with the lower bound falling below the random classifier baseline (AUC = 0.5), indicating limited discriminative capacity in some data partitions. scRNA-seq resolved eight transcriptionally distinct cell clusters in the osteosarcoma specimen (3658 cells passing QC).This integrative multiomics study provides a comprehensive transcriptomic comparison of osteoporosis and osteosarcoma, identifies BMD-associated coexpression modules with experimentally validated hub genes, and establishes a reusable analytical framework for biomarker discovery in metabolic and malignant bone disease. However, the weak module-trait correlations, subthreshold classifier performance in some cross-validation folds, and the use of circulating blood monocytes to study bone-specific gene expression warrant cautious interpretation of the findings.Copyright © 2026 Dongming Fu et al. International Journal of Genomics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Acupuncture therapy shows promise for polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), but its molecular mechanisms remain unclear. This study investigates whether acupuncture alleviates PCOS by regulating granulosa cell (GC) ferroptosis via extracellular vesicles (EVs).Bioinformatic analysis of KGN cell transcriptome data identified heme oxygenase-1 (HMOX1) as a key candidate. Its role was validated in a PCOS rat model and GCs using RT-qPCR, western blot, and immunohistochemistry. Ferroptosis was assessed via malondialdehyde (MDA), glutathione (GSH), and ferroptosis-related proteins (GPX4, FTH1, SLC7A11, NCOA4). HMOX1 gain/loss-of-function, rescue experiments (ferrostatin-1), and transmission electron microscopy defined its function. PCOS rats received acupuncture for 4 weeks; ovarian function and ferroptosis markers were analyzed. EVs from follicular fluid were characterized, and miRNA candidates targeting HMOX1 were screened. The EV-miRNA mechanism was tested via co-culture and inhibition assays.HMOX1 was upregulated in PCOS. Its overexpression induced ferroptosis and impaired GC proliferation, reversible by ferrostatin-1. Acupuncture improved ovarian histology and oocyte maturation, concurrently normalizing HMOX1 and ferroptosis markers. It specifically enriched miR-873-5p in EVs. These EVs delivered miR-873-5p to GCs, downregulating HMOX1 and alleviating ferroptosis, an effect blocked by miR-873-5p inhibition.Acupuncture mitigates PCOS by promoting EV-mediated transfer of miR-873-5p, which targets HMOX1 to inhibit GC ferroptosis and restore ovarian function. This identifies a novel acupuncture-EV-miRNA-HMOX1-ferroptosis axis as a therapeutic mechanism for PCOS.Copyright © 2026 Wu, Li, Wang, Guo, Chen, Chen, Huang and Zhou.
Osteoporosis is a prevalent metabolic bone disease characterized by heterogeneous molecular mechanisms. Emerging evidence implicates that natural killer cells and immunomodulator-related genes (NIRGs) were involved in its pathogenesis; however, systematic exploration of NIRGs remains limited.To explore the role of natural killer (NK) cells and immunomodulator-related differentially expressed genes (NIRDEGs) in osteoporosis.Two osteoporosis datasets (GSE56815 and GSE7429) were integrated after batch effect correction and normalization. Natural killer cell-related genes (NRGs) and immunomodulator-related genes (IRGs) were curated from GeneCards. And NIRDEGs were identified by intersecting co-differentially expressed genes (Co-DEGs) across datasets. Functional enrichment (GO, KEGG, GSEA, GSVA) and immune infiltration analyses were performed. Then, diagnostic models were developed using random forest, support vector machine (SVM), and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression, validated by receiver operating characteristic curves (ROC), and nomograms. Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI) networks and regulatory networks were generated using bioinformatic tools.Twelve NIRDEGs were identified, and they were enriched in regulation of inflammatory response, myeloid cell homeostasis, negative regulation of DNA-binding transcription factor activity, homeostasis of number of cells, and I-κB kinase/NF-κB signaling. A diagnostic model comprising seven genes (IDO1, PTMA, RAB11FIP1, MYH14, HAMP, HMOX1, and ESR1) exhibited moderate accuracy (0.7 < AUC < 0.9). The protein-level expression of the six candidate genes was further validated in osteoporosis medol rats. Specifically, the IDO1 and PTMA was obviously elevated in the osteoporosis rat model, while the RAB11FIP1, MYH14, HAMP, and HMOX1 was markedly decreased. Immune infiltration analysis revealed distinct patterns of 20 immune cell types between high and low BMD groups, especially monocytes, macrophages, and eosinophils. The PPI network indicated that five key genes were interconnected (IDO1, PTMA, HAMP, HMOX1, and ESR1) and that there were 20 functionally related proteins. Regulatory networks highlighted interactions with 26 transcription factors (TFs), 28 miRNAs, 26 RBPs and 32 therapeutic compounds.This study establishes NIRDEGs as critical players in osteoporosis pathogenesis and provides a clinically translatable seven-gene diagnostic model for early osteoporosis detection. The integration of multi-omic analyses uncovered key pathways, immune dynamics, and regulatory networks. These findings provide novel insights into immune-mediated mechanisms and therapeutic targets for osteoporosis management.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Oxaliplatin resistance remains a major obstacle in the treatment of colorectal cancer (CRC). This study aimed to determine whether MYC contributes to oxaliplatin resistance by regulating ferroptosis and to clarify the downstream mechanisms involving FTH1 and GPX4.Parental CRC cell lines, including HCT116, HT-29 and SW480, together with oxaliplatin-resistant HCT116-R cells, were used. MYC expression was manipulated by knockdown or overexpression. Oxaliplatin sensitivity was evaluated using CCK-8 assays and IC50 analysis. Intracellular Fe2⁺ and reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels were measured to assess ferroptosis-associated changes. RT-qPCR and western blotting were performed to examine gene and protein expression. Chromatin immunoprecipitation-qPCR and dual-luciferase reporter assays were used to investigate the transcriptional regulation of FTH1 and GPX4 by MYC. Rescue experiments with FTH1 or GPX4 overexpression and sorafenib treatment were also conducted.MYC knockdown significantly increased oxaliplatin sensitivity in both parental and resistant CRC cells and elevated intracellular Fe2⁺ and ROS levels. MYC directly bound to the promoter regions of FTH1 and GPX4 and enhanced their transcriptional activity. Downregulation of MYC reduced FTH1 and GPX4 expression, whereas re-expression of either FTH1 or GPX4 partially restored oxaliplatin resistance. Sorafenib further enhanced oxaliplatin sensitivity in resistant cells.MYC promotes oxaliplatin resistance in CRC cells, at least in part, by transcriptionally upregulating FTH1 and GPX4 and suppressing ferroptosis-associated cell death. The MYC-FTH1/GPX4-ferroptosis axis may represent a potential therapeutic target for overcoming oxaliplatin resistance in CRC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cause of cancer mortality, and the mechanisms linking lead exposure to CRC remain unclear. In this study, we integrated population-level association (NHANES), transcriptomic analyses (bulk and single-cell RNA-seq), and genetic evidence to prioritize candidate genes potentially connecting lead exposure and CRC. In NHANES, higher blood lead levels were associated with increased odds of self-reported CRC in the crude and partially adjusted models, but this association was attenuated and no longer statistically significant after full adjustment. Database-driven prioritization combining network toxicology and machine-learning highlighted several candidate genes (HMOX1, IL1B, NLRP3, BCL2, MAPK3, and ALAD). Single-cell RNA-seq and CellChat analyses indicated that HMOX1 is enriched in monocytes/macrophages and may be involved in immune- and oxidative-stress-related signaling within the CRC microenvironment. Exploratory two-sample MR using whole-blood eQTL as an exposure proxy provided genetic evidence consistent with an association between genetically predicted HMOX1 expression and CRC risk. Molecular docking suggested a plausible binding pose of plumbagin within the HMOX1 pocket. Collectively, these results suggest that the crude epidemiologic association between blood lead and CRC prevalence is sensitive to covariate adjustment and generate testable hypotheses implicating HMOX1 for future experimental validation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Hepatomegaly in hemolytic disorders, including in thalassemia, is a common complication, primarily due to hemosiderosis and activation of extramedullary hematopoiesis. Globin chain imbalance leads to chronic hemolysis and ineffective erythropoiesis, which are associated with suppression of hepcidin expression. Reduced hepcidin levels may increase iron absorption and accumulation, contributing to oxidative stress and liver tissue damage. Iron chelation therapy, such as deferipron, is effective but has side effects, so safer alternatives are needed. Sappanwood (Caesalpinia sappan L.) contains the active compound brazilin, which chelates iron and exhibits antioxidant activity, potentially reducing oxidative stress, improving iron metabolism disorders, and reducing hepatomegaly. This study aims to evaluate the potential of sappanwood extract as a natural iron chelator and antioxidant.This experimental study used male Wistar rats (180-250 g) with a model of iron overload hemolytic anemia, which were divided into normal controls, negative controls (phenylhydrazine 40 mg/kg BW), positive controls (deferiprone 75 mg/kg BW), and sappanwood extract (SWE) treatment (50, 100, 200 mg/kg BW) for 14 days. The parameters measured included iron metabolism, hepatomegaly, liver function, hepcidin-related gene expression, and oxidative stress. Data were analyzed using ANOVA, with p < 0.05 considered significant.The results showed that administration of 100 mg/kg BW SWE provided optimal improvement (p < 0.05), including reductions in hepatomegaly, SGPT, hemosiderin, lipid peroxidation, bilirubin, extramedullary hematopoiesis, and modulation in iron-related gene expression, including Hamp, Bmp6, Epo, and Ftl.These findings confirm the potential of sappanwood as a potential therapeutic candidate for the management of iron overload in thalassemia.© 2026 The Author(s). Animal Models and Experimental Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Chinese Association for Laboratory Animal Sciences.
Recent clinical trials have shown that dual GLP-1R/GCGR agonists, including mazdutide and cotadutide, provide kidney benefits in patients with type 2 diabetes and CKD, suggesting a potential contribution of GCGR activation to these renal effects. However, whether GCGR directly confers renoprotection and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, using tubule-specific GCGR loss- and gain-of-function mouse models and human kidney samples, we show that tubular GCGR signaling exerts an important renoprotective role in DKD. Tubular GCGR expression is reduced in humans and mice with DKD and correlates with worse kidney function and increased renal injury. Genetic ablation of tubular GCGR markedly exacerbates DKD and induces pronounced phospholipid accumulation within enlarged lysosomes. Mechanistically, GCGR loss disrupts its association with the V-ATPase V1A subunit ATP6V1A, compromises V1-V0 assembly, and thereby impairs lysosomal acidification. This defect leads to impaired phospholipid hydrolysis and protease maturation, blockade of autophagic flux, and ultimately tubular cell injury. In vivo, ATP6V1A overexpression markedly reverses GCGR deficiency-induced lysosomal dysfunction and DKD progression. Consistently, re-expression of tubular GCGR via AAV9 restores lysosomal function, reduces phospholipid accumulation, and mitigates renal injury in DKD. Together, these findings provide genetic evidence for the renoprotective role of tubular GCGR in DKD, delineate a kidney-intrinsic GCGR-ATP6V1A-lysosome axis that protects tubular integrity, and extend prior GCGR-in-kidney observations into a more concrete GCGR-lysosome mechanism.
Ischemic tissue perfusion remains a major clinical challenge despite VEGF's central role in angiogenesis. Limited success of VEGF-based therapies underscores the need to understand endothelial heterogeneity, as distinct subsets exhibit differential responsiveness. This study explores conserved endothelial states that govern VEGF-driven angiogenesis across human organs and evaluates their functional significance.We performed single-cell and single-nucleus RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq/snRNA-seq) analysis of endothelial cells (ECs) from eight human tissues using GTEx data, validated findings in independent skin and heart datasets, and conducted CRISPR-mediated PLCγ2 knockout in cultured ECs followed by scRNA-seq.Analysis of 209,126 nuclei revealed a universal arterial-like endothelial subset (cluster 2) enriched across all organs, characterized by high expression of PLCγ2, a critical VEGF signaling effector. PLCγ2high cells exhibited robust angiogenic and lymphangiogenic programs, including upregulation of VEGFC, NOTCH4, and JAG1, and enrichment of pathways for vasculature development and endothelial differentiation. Cell-cell communication analysis demonstrated exclusive BMP6, IGF2, and CXCL12 signaling from PLCγ2high cells to fibroblasts, pericytes, and immune cells, positioning this subset as a central angiogenic hub. Functional validation showed that PLCγ2 knockout depleted PLCγ2high clusters, suppressed VEGF signaling, and diminished BMP6 ligand secretion, confirming its role in maintaining proangiogenic endothelial states.Ineffective targeting of the appropriate EC state may limit current therapeutic VEGF strategies, positioning PLCγ2high ECs as a clinically relevant target.We identify PLCγ2high arterial ECs as a conserved pan-organ population critical for VEGF responsiveness and vascular regeneration. These findings reimagine VEGF therapy by highlighting PLCγ2 as a critical regulator of a proangiogenic arterial-like endothelial state and a promising combinatorial target to overcome limitations of current angiogenic strategies.
Myelofibrosis (MF) splenomegaly reflects not only extramedullary hematopoiesis (EMH) but a compartmental organization of the splenic microenvironment into spatially distinct niches. Using Spatial whole transcriptome profiling on FFPE spleen tissue from three MF patients, we interrogated three anatomically defined compartments: Intravascular (IV), Perivascular (PV) and Red Pulp (RP). Differential expression was estimated through pairwise compartment contrasts with Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate correction (FDR < 0.05, |log2FC|≥1), and compartment "core signatures" were defined by directional concordance across the two contrasts relevant to each compartment. IV regions of interest (ROIs) showed an endothelial/adhesion and vascular stress program (e.g., PECAM1, VCAM1; antioxidant enzymes). PV ROIs were characterized by fibro-remodeling and immune-structured signals (COL1A1/COL3A1, LOXL1, MMP2/TIMP1; HLA‑DRA/CD74) including CXCL12, consistent with a PV niche coupling extracellular matrix remodeling to hematopoietic retention cues. RP ROIs captured an EMH-associated erythroid/heme program (ALAS2, FECH, BLVRB) with stress and inflammatory alarmins (S100A8/S100A9). Together, these findings support a compartmental "division of labor" in MF spleen, vascular interface activation, PV remodeling/chemokine niches, and RP EMH/redox stress, providing a spatial framework to interpret splenomegaly as structured niche dependencies and to prioritize candidate microenvironmental dependencies for follow‑up validation.© 2026. The Author(s).
The self-renewal and differentiation of stem cells are tightly controlled to maintain tissue homeostasis. Failure in stem cell maintenance results in stem cell depletion and precocious aging. However, how stem cells are maintained still remains not fully understood. Here, through a large-scale RNAi screen for maintenance and proliferation of adult Drosophila intestinal stem cells (ISCs), we identify several subunits of V-ATPase including Vha68-2/ATP6V1A, required for ISC proliferation, differentiation and tissue regeneration. Inactivation of Vha68-2 results in accumulation of plasma membrane (PM)-derived structures in autophagosomes and lysosomes through Atg16 and Rab5. Furthermore, Vha68-2-defective ISCs undergo direct differentiation due to ectopic Notch activation. Mechanistically, Vha68-2 facilitates Notch receptor internalization and subsequent degradation in autolysosomes to quench ectopic Notch activation, thereby maintaining ISC fate. Truncated Notch product devoid of its extracellular domain is accumulated in autolysosomes upon Vha68-2 deficiency. The Notch products accumulated in autolysosomes still require further cleavage to drive ISC differentiation. The functions of Vha68-2 in macroautophagy/autophagy and ISC maintenance are evolutionarily conserved. Our results provide new insights into the underlying mechanism of how autophagy is involved in stem cell maintenance under physiological conditions.Abbreviations: aph-1: anterior pharynx defective 1; ATP6V1A: ATPase H+ transporting V1 subunit A; CASM: conjugation of ATG8s to single membranes; EB: enteroblast; EC: absorptive enterocyte; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ISC: intestinal stem cell; kuz: kuzbanian; LTDR: LysoTracker Deep Red; LTR: LysoTracker Red; MARCM: mosaic analysis with a repressible cell marker; NECD: Notch extracellular domain; NICD: Notch intracellular domain; PM: plasma membrane; PAS: phagophore assembly site; SNARE: soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor-attachment protein receptor; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TM: tunicamycin.
Phytogenic feed additives encompass a broad category of plant-derived compounds that are used to improve animal health and production performance. Essential oils, as a volatile subclass of phytogenics extracted from plant materials, are recognized for their antimicrobial, antioxidant, and immunomodulatory properties and have been increasingly investigated as alternatives to antibiotic growth promoters in broiler nutrition. The study objective was to evaluate the effect of garlic and black seed oils on live broiler growth performance, immunity, and related gene expression. A total of 560 day-old Indian River broiler chicks were assigned randomly in a completely randomized design to one of four dietary groups, with each treatment consisting of 7 replicates (20 birds per replicate): control (CON; n = 140), garlic oil supplemented diet (200 mg/kg feed garlic oil, GO; n = 140), black seed oil supplemented diet (150 mg/kg feed black seed oil, BSO; n = 140), and the mixed oils group (200 mg/kg, 150 mg/kg for garlic and black seed oils, respectively, GO+BSO; n = 140). Supplementation with GO or BSO individually enhanced final body weight (p = 0.0356) and feed conversion ratio (p = 0.0407). White blood cell counts were lower in the treatment groups (p = 0.035). Serum triglycerides, VLDL, and AST levels were significantly reduced in the treatment groups (P < 0.05). Clostridium perfringens counts were lower in the treatment groups (p = 0.0006). Gene expression analysis revealed significant downregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-α) and AvBD9, alongside upregulation of LEAP-2 and SLC11A1 in liver and spleen tissues. Dietary supplementation with garlic oil or black seed oil significantly enhanced broiler growth performance, lipid metabolism, immune function, and gut microbiota balance. The combined treatment (GO+BSO) did not produce additive or synergistic effects, suggesting overlapping mechanisms of action. These findings support GO and BSO as effective multifunctional alternatives to antibiotic growth promoters in sustainable poultry production.Copyright © 2026 Obeidat, Khafajah and Riley.
Litter size is a key trait for evaluating reproductive performance of goats, which can directly influence the breeding efficiency and profitability of production cycles. However, a comprehensive understanding of its genetic architecture, including the causative mutations and their functional impacts, remains scarce, thus hindering its application in precision breed-ing.A total of 92 female Leizhou goats were genotyped through whole-genome se-quencing (WGS), and their litter size were measured for three consecutive births. Subsequently, based on the genotype and phenotype data, population genetic structure analysis, selection signature analysis, and genome-wide association study (GWAS) were performed.We identified a total of 20,802,514 SNPs in the 92 Leizhou goats. Analysis of genetic structure revealed that the high-litter-size group exhibited greater genetic diversity than the low-litter-size group, although no significant genetic differentiation was detected between them. We identified 340 putative selective regions and 346 candidate genes across the genome. A total of 37 candidate genes were identified as being closely associated with reproductive traits, including BMP6, MAPK8, RPTOR, etc. In GWAS results, we identified 63 quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for litter size at suggestive significance (P＜1×10-5). After, 207 candidate genes were annotated, and 4 of them were highlighted that have been previously reported to be associated with reproductive processes (e.g., TMEM100, PDGFD, NLRP9, and ARHGAP22). By integrating the results from both approaches, we identified MAPK8 as a potential candidate gene associated with litter size. Furthermore, our findings from motif recognition, transcrip-tion factor prediction, and previous studies lead us to propose that the BMP6-GATA4-MAPK8 signaling pathway may play a key role in regulating litter size in goats.Our findings identify several candidate genes and putative associated variants for litter size, providing valuable insights into the genetic basis of reproductive traits in goats.
SLC11A1 is a key gene involved in the regulation of innate immunity, and its expression level is closely associated with disease resistance in livestock and poultry, making it an important candidate gene for disease-resistant breeding. The functional characteristics of the promoter region are central to deciphering the transcriptional regulatory mechanisms of a gene. In this study, we focused on the chicken SLC11A1 gene and retrieved sequences flanking the transcription start site (TSS) from the NCBI database. By integrating bioinformatic analysis with a dual-luciferase reporter assay system, we systematically identified the core promoter region and functionally characterized the regulatory roles of cis-regulatory element and their associated transcription factor binding profiles. Results revealed a canonical TATA-box element located at -31 bp to -28 bp upstream of the TSS of the chicken SLC11A1 gene. Functional analysis using a series of truncated luciferase reporter constructs demonstrated that the region from -172 bp to +19 bp constitutes the core promoter of the chicken SLC11A1 gene, with the segment from -172 bp to -36 bp being essential for basal transcriptional activity, the TATA-box was shown to synergistically enhance transcriptional efficiency when combined with this region. Prediction of transcription factor binding sites indicated that Sp1 exhibited the highest binding frequency within the core promoter, followed by C/EBPalpha and other factors. These findings define the fundamental regulatory architecture of the chicken SLC11A1 promoter, providing essential insights for future studies on the transcriptional regulation and biological functions of SLC11A1.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
To investigate the role of early growth response 1 (EGR1) in the progression of endometrial cancer (EC) and to elucidate the molecular mechanism by which EGR1 regulates ferroptosis, with a focus on NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX4) as a downstream mediator.An EC xenograft model was established in nude mice. EGR1 was overexpressed in HEC-1B cells, and cell proliferation and migration were assessed using CCK-8, colony formation, and Transwell assays. Ferroptosis-related indicators (Fe2+, MDA, GSH, and lipid ROS) and related proteins (GPX4, SLC7A11, and IREB2) were measured. The ferroptosis inhibitor Fer-1 was used for rescue experiments. Gene and protein expression were analyzed via RT-qPCR, western blotting, and immunohistochemistry. The transcriptional regulation of NOX4 by EGR1 was validated using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and dual-luciferase reporter assays.EGR1 expression was downregulated in EC. Overexpression of EGR1 inhibited the proliferation and migration of HEC-1B cells and suppressed tumor growth in vivo. EGR1 overexpression induced ferroptosis, as evidenced by increased levels of Fe2+, MDA, and lipid ROS; decreased GSH levels; downregulation of GPX4 and SLC7A11; and upregulation of IREB2. These effects were reversed by Fer-1. Mechanistically, EGR1 directly bound to the NOX4 promoter and increased its transcription, leading to increased ROS production and thereby facilitating ferroptosis.EGR1 inhibits the progression of EC at least in part through transcriptionally activating NOX4, which promotes ROS accumulation and contributes to ferroptosis induction. This study provides a theoretical basis for targeting EGR1 as a potential therapeutic strategy for treating EC.©The Author(s) 2026. Open Access. This article is licensed under a Creative Commons CC-BY International License.
Epididymal epithelial cells are critical for sperm maturation. Although previous studies have determined the development of epididymal epithelial cells in rat epididymis, the postnatal developmental trajectories of distinct epithelial cell types in the mouse epididymis remain elusive. Here, we examined the developmental timeline of mouse epididymal epithelium differed from that of the rat by confocal immunostaining and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq). In mice, principal and basal cells appeared as early as postnatal day 7 (PD7) across all segments, labeled by AQP9 and KRT5, in contrast to the later emergence in rats (e.g., basal cells at PD14 in rat cauda). ATP6V1A-positive clear cells were detected at PD28 in caput, corpus, and cauda but not in the initial segment, while narrow cells were observed in all segments beginning at PD14. These contrasted with the rat, in which clear cells appeared at PD14. Notably, scRNA-seq and immunostaining identified a previously unrecognized KRT5⁺/ATP6V1A⁺ narrow-like basal cell subpopulation, enriched in lysosomes and mainly localized to the caput and corpus. These findings revealed an earlier epithelial maturation in mice compared to rats, underscoring the importance of choosing animal models. The newly identified basal subpopulation may contribute to luminal acidification and homeostasis, offering new insights into epididymal physiology and reproductive biology.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
The utilization of plant protein in aquafeeds to reduce dependence on fishmeal has become an important strategy for improving the sustainability of marine aquaculture. This study investigated the effects of low-fishmeal plant protein diets on growth performance and gut-liver molecular responses in large yellow croaker. A total of 2,048 fish were fed two diets for 206 days: a commercial-like control diet containing 280 g/kg fishmeal (C group) and a low-fishmeal diet containing 100 g/kg fishmeal with increased inclusion of plant protein sources (P group). Growth trials indicated that fish in the C group had significantly higher weight gain rate and specific growth rate than those in the P group (p < 0.001). Transcriptomic analysis identified 546 and 724 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the hindgut and liver, respectively. Hindgut DEGs were mainly enriched in pathways associated with lipid metabolism, immune responses, and signal transduction, whereas liver DEGs were primarily involved in lipid metabolism, immune regulation, and apoptosis. Several pathways, including fat digestion and absorption, complement and coagulation cascades, taurine and hypotaurine metabolism, antigen processing and presentation, and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, were enriched in both tissues, suggesting coordinated gut-liver regulation. Representative genes involved in lipid metabolism and immune regulation, including apob, scarb1, c3, b2m, and ccr9, exhibited tissue-specific and coordinated expression changes. PPI network analysis further identified c3, scarb1, vwf, and apob as key regulatory nodes potentially involved in coordinated metabolic and immune adaptation. Collectively, these findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying gut-liver adaptation to plant-based diets in marine fish.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Amino acid levels fluctuate across diverse pathological conditions. Whether such amino acid modulations directly shape pathophysiology by regulating host gene expression remains unknown. We found that extracellular arginine restriction, observed in cancer and infection, represses specific arginine tRNAs-directly suppressing translation of major histocompatibility complex I (MHC class I) and antigen presentation. Arginine regulation of MHC class I was codon-usage dependent, as synonymous codon mutations prevented MHC class I modulation. Dietary arginine restriction impaired anti-viral immunity against influenza and SARS-CoV-2 and increased colon tumorigenesis. Conversely, increasing arginine availability via dietary supplementation or myeloid-specific arginase 1 deletion enhanced MHC class I protein levels, suppressed colon tumorigenesis, and improved viral infection outcomes. These disease-modulating effects were abolished in β2-microglobulin (B2m)-deficient mice. Thus, dietary modulation of a single amino acid critically influences codon-biased translation and MHC class I-mediated immunity to respiratory viral infections and cancer, revealing an unexpected mechanism and disease hazard for arginine deficiency and highlighting potential for amino acid-based translation modulation therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is genetically heterogeneous. We aimed to define a compartment-aware driver mutation landscape of DLBCL by integrating tumor tissue and circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) sequencing, and to assess its biological and prognostic relevance.Somatic mutations were analyzed from targeted sequencing of tumor tissue or bone marrow and cfDNA from peripheral blood or cerebrospinal fluid, including paired tissue-liquid samples, together with whole-genome sequencing data from TCGA. Driver genes were identified using four complementary algorithms. Functional enrichment and protein-protein interaction analyses were performed. Prognostic relevance was evaluated using multigene expression-based modeling with Cox and LASSO regression in independent cohorts.Recurrent driver alterations converged on core pathogenic pathways, including B-cell receptor signaling, NF-κB activation, epigenetic regulation, and immune escape. Twenty-two high-confidence driver genes, including PIM1, KMT2D, CD79B, B2M, TP53, MYC, and EZH2, were consistently identified across clinical cohorts and supported by TCGA data. cfDNA profiling showed substantial concordance with tissue-derived drivers while revealing gene-specific differences in mutation burden and co-mutation patterns, indicating complementary capture of clinically relevant heterogeneity. Network analysis highlighted TP53, MYC, EP300, and CREBBP as central hubs. A four-gene expression-based model (MYC, PLCL1, IRF8, LNPEP) stratified patients by overall survival and modestly improved prognostic discrimination beyond the International Prognostic Index.Integrated analysis of tumor tissue and cfDNA sequencing defines a clinically relevant driver framework for DLBCL. cfDNA preserves core oncogenic signals while complementing tissue profiling, supporting refined genomic risk stratification.
Induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived immune cells show promise for allogeneic immunotherapies. However, their clinical efficacy can be limited by early rejection of grafted iPSC-derived cells by host T cells and natural killer (NK) cells due to HLA mismatching. In theory, disrupting HLA class I expression can prevent T cell-mediated rejection, but, in its place, NK cells can eliminate "missing-self" targets due to the absence of HLA-C and HLA-E. Therefore, we devised a strategy to extend the residence time of iPSC-derived invariant natural killer T (iPSC-derived iNKT) cells in humanized mice harboring allogeneic peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) by genetically modifying HLA class I expression. To this end, we disrupted HLA class I expression by deleting the β2-microglobulin (B2M) gene, and then recapitulated HLA-C and/or HLA-E expression in the iPSC-derived iNKT cells. Parental and modified iPSC-derived iNKT cells were assessed for their susceptibility to T- or NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity in vitro and for their residence time in allogeneic humanized mice. In vitro, dual co-expression of HLA-C and HLA-E facilitated escape from NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity, whereas single expression of either HLA-C or HLA-E provided inconsistent protection across NK cell donors. Since allogeneic HLA-C alleles can be recognized by T cells, we examined the impact of HLA-C mismatching on T cell-mediated cytotoxicity. T cell-mediated cytotoxicity against B2M-deficient iPSC-derived iNKT cells was restored when mismatched HLA-C was re-expressed. In vivo, B2M deficiency extended the residence time of iPSC-derived iNKT cells in allogeneic humanized mice. This effect was further enhanced by expression of HLA-C alleles matched to donor PBMCs, whereas expression of incompatible HLA-C reduced residence time. Taking into account the limitations of the humanized mouse model in recapitulating human NK cell function, these observations highlight the dominant role of T cell-mediated mechanisms in the rejection of allogeneic iPSC-derived iNKT cells in vivo. This study presents a promising approach for generating iPSC-derived iNKT cells tailored for a limited master cell bank, with the potential to develop universal off-the-shelf immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Chang, Aoki, Okoshi, Yamaguchi, Okura, Sasaki, Sasako, Kira, Yakushiji-Kaminatsui, Matsuda, Nakayama, Motohashi and Koseki.
Triazole fungicides are ubiquitous environmental contaminants. However, their specific effects on the male reproductive system remain unclear. We investigated the toxicological effects of hexaconazole (HEX) on testicular function and elucidated its underlying molecular mechanisms. Although 8 weeks of HEX administration in mice did not affect body weight or gross testicular morphology, it significantly reduced sperm motility and circulating testosterone levels. Correspondingly, HEX exposure markedly downregulated germ cell (DDX4) and meiotic markers (SYCP3) as well as key steroidogenic related gene, including 3β-HSD, Cyp11a1, and Star. HEX induced the excessive production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and elicited molecular and biochemical features consistent with ferroptosis, an iron-dependent form of regulated cell death, predominantly in interstitial Leydig cells. This process is characterized by increased intracellular labile iron accumulation, enhanced lipid peroxidation (BODIPY fluorescence), and pronounced dysregulation of ferroptosis-associated regulators, including the upregulation of Tfrc, Slc11a2, and Acsl4, concomitant with substantial depletion of Gpx4, an antioxidant related gene. Consistent with in vivo findings, in vitro experiments using primary Leydig cells demonstrated that HEX-induced oxidative stress directly compromised cell viability and steroidogenic function. Thus, Leydig cell ferroptosis is associated with underlying HEX-induced reproductive toxicity, linking endocrine disruption to impaired spermatogenesis. Furthermore, we identified the ferroptosis-mediated antioxidant defense system as a potential molecular target for mitigating reproductive risks associated with triazole fungicide exposure.
A deep learning model with an imbalanced mammography dataset can bias models toward common benign BI-RADS categories and reduce recognition of less frequent malignant or high-risk categories. To address this issue, we propose B2M (Benign Share Benefit to Malignant), a model-agnostic framework for imbalance-aware multi-class BI-RADS classification in C-View mammography. B2M uses a two-phase training strategy that combines dual sampling with feature-space mixing. In Phase I, the model is trained with dual sampling, integrating instance-based and class-balanced sampling to increase minority-class representation while preserving majority-class diversity. In Phase II, the model is fine-tuned with feature-space mixing using samples from the two sampling streams. A soft-target regularization objective supervises the mixed features using labels from both streams, encouraging smoother decision boundaries across BI-RADS categories. We evaluated B2M on an imbalanced mammography cohort from the C-View EMBED dataset using stratified 5-fold cross-validation across multiple CNN backbones. C-View is a synthesized 2D mammographic image generated from 3D digital breast tomosynthesis data, capturing DBT-derived structural information while requiring less memory and computation than processing the full 3D image volume. Among these experiments, ResNeXt-50 with B2M achieved the highest balanced accuracy and Macro-F1 scores compared with the evaluated oversampling and mixing-based methods. This improvement requires an offline training-time overhead of approximately 2.81×, but it does not increase inference cost. Overall, the results suggest that B2M may be useful for imbalanced multi-class BI-RADS classification in C-View mammography. However, the findings are based on the EMBED cohort, and further validation, including external and prospective evaluation, is needed before clinical use.
Neuron-specific enolase (NSE), S100 protein, and β2-microglobulin (B2M) are neurological biomarkers used to support early assessment of brain injury in neonatal and pediatric neurological disorders. Their clinical utility depends on pre-analytical conditions and may be affected by routine storage when immediate analysis or ultra-low temperature freezing is unavailable, potentially affecting interpretation.74 CSF and 70 serum samples from 36 pediatric patients were analyzed at baseline and after storage under room temperature, +4 °C, -20 °C, -80 °C, and mixed freezing conditions. Storage times ranged from 12 h to 10 days, with primary analyses focused on the first 72 h. Biomarker variation was expressed as percentage change and interpreted according to predefined maximum permissible error (MPE) thresholds. CSF and serum were analyzed separately to assess matrix-dependent effects.CSF NSE decreased progressively at +4 °C (-4.5% to -10.9% up to 72 h) and showed a reduction of -61.3% after 24 h at -20 °C. Serum NSE decreased at +4 °C (-4.75% to -12.3%) and showed limited variation after -20 °C storage (-5.4%). CSF S100 decreased at +4 °C (-3.1% to -8.6%) and more markedly at room temperature (up to -36.6% at 72 h), while serum S100 showed decreases at +4 °C (up to -12.3%) and no relevant instability under freezing conditions. B2M concentrations remained within predefined MPE thresholds in both CSF and serum under all storage conditions.Short-term storage conditions significantly influence neurological biomarker concentrations in a biomarker- and matrix-dependent manner. These findings support standardized pre-analytical handling in pediatric neurological biomarker assessment, as variability may affect clinical interpretation and patient management.Copyright © 2026 The Canadian Society of Clinical Chemists. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Introduction The discordance between cystatin C- and creatinine-based eGFR (eGFRdiff) predicts mortality in CKD, but what this index actually reflects remains unclear. We examined the relative contributions of several biomarkers, representing muscle mass, middle-molecule retention, cardiac injury, inflammation, and physical function, to the eGFRdiff-mortality association in a nationally representative US population. Materials and Methods We analyzed 1503 adults with CKD stages 1-4 from NHANES 1999-2004 with mortality follow-up through 2019. The exposure was percentage eGFRdiff. Survey-weighted Cox models estimated HRs for mortality. Attenuation analyses quantified the contribution of each candidate biomarker. Residualization analyses decomposed the B2M signal by adjusting for creatinine-based, cystatin C-based, and combined eGFR estimates separately. Results 911 all-cause and 313 cardiovascular deaths occurred. Each 1-SD more negative eGFRdiff was associated with higher all-cause (HR 1.29; 95%CI 1.15-1.46) and cardiovascular mortality (HR 1.46; 95%CI 1.23-1.72). DXA-derived muscle mass yielded negligible attenuation (1.3%), and physical limitation produced modest attenuation (11.2%). In contrast, B2M produced the largest attenuation (73.4%), followed by hs-cTnT (32.0%) and NT-proBNP (23.0%). Residualization on eGFRcr preserved the B2M attenuation (80.1%), whereas residualization on eGFRcys abolished it (-7.9%). B2M residualized on eGFRcr-cys retained 21.9% attenuation. Conclusions Middle-molecule retention (represented by B2M), not muscle mass, is the primary contributor to the prognostic value of eGFRdiff, with cardiac biomarkers contributing secondarily. Residualization patterns support a biological signal consistent with shrunken pore syndrome rather than a mathematical artifact of how eGFR is estimated. Calculable from routine assays, eGFRdiff may offer a practical indicator of middle-molecule burden and cardiac stress for CKD risk stratification.Copyright © 2026 The Canadian Society of Clinical Chemists. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Oral epithelial dysplasia (OED) is a precancerous oral lesion with variable risk of progression to oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). The molecular basis underlying this progression remains incompletely understood. To address this gap, this study applied spatial transcriptomics to characterize benign, OED and OSCC biopsies with a focus on the comparison between transforming and non-transforming OED.Spatial transcriptomic profiling was performed on 13 benign, 15 OED (8 transforming, 7 non-transforming), and 14 OSCC biopsies using the NanoString GeoMx Digital Spatial Profiler. Regions of interest were segmented into epithelial and immune-enriched compartments with morphological markers. Gene expression was measured using the GeoMx Cancer Transcriptome Atlas (~1, 800 genes) and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using linear mixed-effects modeling. Exploratory bioinformatic analyses were performed to provide biological context.Comparison of OED with and without transformation identified a limited set of 11 epithelial DEGs, including genes associated with antigen presentation and interferon signaling (e.g., B2M, STAT1, and CD74), while no significant DEGs were detected in immune-enriched regions. Pathway analyses indicated enrichment of immune- and interferon-related processes. Given the modest sample size and targeted gene panel, these findings should be considered exploratory in nature.This study provides spatially resolved, exploratory insights into molecular differences between OED lesions with distinct clinical outcomes. The results suggest altered epithelial-immune interactions in transforming lesions, though these findings require validation. Spatial transcriptomics may offer a useful framework for investigating early molecular changes in oral carcinogenesis.Copyright © 2026 Raja, Pathak, Mitra, Thomas, Wang, Gibson and Wang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42495623 is a review article
Pancreatic cancer (PC) is known to be a highly fatal malignancy, and elucidating new molecular mechanisms is of great importance. In this study, we investigated NECTIN4 (PVRL4), which is associated with poor prognosis, via bioinformatics approach. We used following tools and datasets: For differential gene expression analysis, TCGA TARGET GTEx study on UCSC Xena, GSE183795, GSE71729 and GSE196009 GEO datasets; for associations with clinicopathological and promoter methylation features, UALCAN; for correlations with overall survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS) gene chip database, and for correlations with OS and relapse-free survival (RFS) RNAseq database in the Kaplan-Meier (KM) plotter; for correlations with OS and Progression-Free Interval (PFI), DoSurvive; for immune infiltration correlations, TIMER3; for expression changes in hotspot mutations, GEPIA 3; for potentially related pathways, diseases, and processes, the Gscore online tool; for gene alterations detections, cBioPortal; and identifying potential targeting miRNAs, miRDB, TargetScanHuman 8.0, ENCORI, and DoSurvive. NECTIN4 (PVRL4) is upregulated in primary pancreatic adenocarcinoma in TCGA TARGET GTEx study (log2FC=2.015633, adj.P.Val=4.62E-21) and in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas in GSE183795 (log2FC=0.726, adj.P.Val=10-16.895) GSE196009 (log2FC=2.807, adj.P.Val=10-3.855) GSE71729 (log2FC= 1.227, adj.P.Val=10-10.318) datasets, and may be associated with unfavorable OS (p = 3.63E-02) and PFI (p = 8.09E-03) independent of age at diagnosis, sex, and stage in DoSurvive. In KM plotter RNA seq database, increased NECTIN4 (PVRL4) expression was statistically significantly associated only with shortened OS (p = 0.008). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) expressions are higher in the following traits than in others: In Asians compared to normals (p = 4.949700E-02) and Caucasian (p = 4.480000E-03); in chronic pancreatitis patients from normals (p=3.456300E-02); in grade 2 (p = 2.420600E-04) and grade 3 (p = 1.875500E-03) from grade 1; in TP53 mutants from nonmutants (p = 7.6379999999987E-05). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) correlates positively or negatively with many immune cell types, some of which are also associated with OS. NECTIN4 is upregulated in KRAS (log2FC=1.78, p = 1.05E-17), TP53 (log2FC=0.959, p = 1.22E-05), SMAD4 (log2FC=1.02, p = 0.000111), CDKN2A (log2FC=0.668, p = 0.0144), and RNF43 (log2FC=0.917, p = 0.0393) mutant samples. NECTIN4 (PVRL4) is associated with many pathways, processes, and diseases these may be related to PC. Six patients have amplification, and one patient has a splice mutation. hsa-miR-329-3p and hsa-miR-5586-5p may be potential negative regulatory miRNAs of NECTIN4 (PVRL4). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) may be associated with many pathways awaiting experimental illumination in PC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Motivated by the rising incidence of cancers at younger ages, this study compares tumor genomic alterations between adolescents and young adults (AYAs; 18-39 years) and non-AYAs (40 years and older) and explores the relationship with continuous age in patients with relapsed/refractory ovarian, breast, and colorectal cancers accrued to the NCI-MATCH trial.Tumor genomic profiles generated by a next-generation sequencing 143-gene panel (NCI-MATCH assay, v2) were analyzed for association with age (AYA/total: 21/455 ovarian, 27/576 breast, 43/759 colorectal cancers). For each gene, AYA and non-AYA DNA alteration proportions were compared (Fisher exact test) and alteration association with continuous age (logistic regression) was evaluated (false discovery rate‑adjusted P value <.1 statistically significant). For colorectal cancer, sex-stratified analysis was also performed.No significant AYA versus non-AYA differences were observed in the prevalence of gene mutations (single nucleotide variant [SNV]/indel). A significant association of gene amplification with AYAs (odds ratio [OR], 95% CI) was CCND1 (0.2, 0.1-0.4), favoring AYAs in breast cancer. Examining age as a continuous variable, significant associations of gene mutations (SNV/indel) with older age, expressed as 5-year OR (OR [95% CI]), were observed: TP53 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.4]), ovarian cancer; CDH1 (1.4 [1.2 to 1.6]) and PIK3CA (1.1 [1.1 to 1.2]), breast cancer; and BRAF (1.4 [1.2 to 1.7]), female colorectal cancer. Associations with younger age included SMAD4 (0.8 [0.7 to 0.9]), male colorectal cancer. Significant associations of gene amplification with age (continuous) were as follows: CCNE1 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.6]), older ovarian cancer, and CCND1 (0.8 [0.8 to 0.9]), younger breast cancer.Comparing AYAs with non-AYAs among patients having relapsed/refractory disease, no significant differences in SNV/indel prevalence were observed, but CCND1 amplifications were more prevalent in AYA breast cancer. For several genes, DNA alterations were associated with continuous age and may depend on sex in colorectal cancer.
Prokaryotic transmembrane receptors are built around a helical coiled-coil backbone, with sensory, modulatory, and effector domains arranged along its length. The modulatory HAMP domain forms a parallel four-helix coiled coil integrated into this backbone, typically connecting transmembrane segments with downstream cytosolic domains. In many systems, HAMP domains transduce signals through axial rotation of their helices; however, it is not clear how broadly applicable this mechanism is. Here, we describe two families of soluble chemoreceptors and sensory kinases that contain long arrays of concatenated HAMP domains, which we term poly-HAMP. Although these poly-HAMP arrays evolved independently, both families share sequence features consistent with convergence on a similar functional system. We determined the crystal structures of 4-HAMP and 6-HAMP segments from the poly-HAMP array of histidine kinase AskA of Myxococcus xanthus, revealing unusually close packing between adjacent domains and conformational patterns compatible with the rotational signaling model. To define the broader conformational landscape, we computed AlphaFold2 models for over 200 chemoreceptor- and kinase-associated arrays. The models were consistent with the AskA structures, yet revealed distinct preferences: chemoreceptor arrays were predicted to adopt stable conformations, whereas kinase arrays more frequently adopted potentially less favorable conformations. When modeled in isolation from neighboring domains, HAMP domains from kinase arrays adopted alternative conformations related to their array-embedded forms by axial helix rotation. Taken together, our results suggest that, despite their independent origins, HAMP-containing systems including poly-HAMP arrays and canonical single-HAMP receptors may share a conserved mode of conformational plasticity involving axial helix rotation.© 2026 The Author(s). Protein Science published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Protein Society.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42558047
To optimize the extraction-purification process of Dendrobium officinale polysaccharides (DOPs) and characterize the fine structures of two homogeneous fractions (DOP-1, DOP-2), as well as to evaluate their anti-photoaging activity on HFF cells.An integrated process including petroleum ether defatting, cellulase hydrolysis, water extraction-ethanol precipitation, trypsin-Sevag deproteinization, activated carbon decolorization, and dialysis was used. DOP-1 and DOP-2 were separated by DEAE-52 and Sephadex G-100 chromatography. Their structures were analyzed by FT-IR, methylation-GC/MS, NMR, and SEM. Anti-photoaging effects were assessed via CCK-8, SA-β-Gal staining, and qPCR of TGF-β/Smad pathway genes.The optimized process increased crude polysaccharide yield from 30.34% to 35.03% and polysaccharide content from 31.23% to 49.34%. DOP-1 (Mn 989 Da, PDI 1.15) was a linear oligosaccharide composed of →4)-β-D-Manp (72.32%) and →4)-β-D-Glcp (23.78%) in an alternating pattern. DOP-2 (Mn 2970 Da, PDI 1.67) was a branched polysaccharide with a backbone of →6)-α-D-Glcp (58.06%) and branches at →2,6)-Manp and →4,6)-Glcp. Both DOP-1 and DOP-2 (62.5 μg/mL) protected HFF cells from UVA-induced photoaging, upregulated TGF-β1, Smad3, Smad4, and Collagen I, and downregulated Smad7 and MMP-1, with DOP-2 showing dose-dependent effects.The optimized process enables efficient preparation of DOPs. DOP-1 and DOP-2 possess distinct structural features and exert anti-photoaging effects via regulation of the TGF-β/Smad signaling pathway.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Pediatric high-grade gliomas (HGGs) exhibit genetic profiles accompanied by anatomical specificities. These features suggest that specific anatomical niches favor the onset and/or progression of these diseases. However, such niche identities remain elusive as existing genetically engineered mouse models fail to recapitulate these anatomical specificities. Herein, we investigate the anatomical specificities of histone H3.1 lysine 27-to-methionine (H3.1K27M) and activating ACVR1 mutations for diffuse intrinsic pontine gliomas (DIPGs)-a major pons-specific pediatric HGG. We describe a murine model where expression of H3.1K27M and activating Acvr1 and Pik3ca mutations (which co-occur with H3.1K27M in human DIPGs) induces rapid gliomagenesis specifically in the pons. We show that gliomagenesis occurs predominantly at the trigeminal root entry zone (TREZ) and requires hyaluronan receptor (HMMR) signaling. Our data demonstrate that anatomical specificities of human HGGs can be accurately recapitulated in mice and identify the TREZ as an anatomical niche that plays a key role in DIPG pathogenesis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
SCF (Skp1-Cullin1-Fbox protein) is a multi-subunit RING-type E3 ligase and plays critical roles in various pivotal physiological and pathological processes by mediating the ubiquitination and degradation of key proteins. F-box proteins directly bind substrates, thereby determining their specificity, stability, and function. However, the regulatory mechanisms of FBXO21 degradation in human cancers remain largely elusive. In this study, we demonstrated that Neddylation-ROC1 E3 ligase regulates the protein level of FBXO21. Mechanistic studies revealed that Neddylation-ROC1 targeted FBXO21 for ubiquitination and degradation. Moreover, we found that FBXO21 depletion increased p53 protein stability by delaying its degradation, followed by increasing the transcriptional level of p21. Taken together, our ﬁndings reveal a previously unrecognized mechanism by which FBXO21 is regulated by Neddylation modification and regulates the p53-p21 signaling pathway.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Over the decades, shifts in human lifestyle have led to alterations in dietary habits. The consumption of diets low in fiber and high in fat and sugar results in the production of carcinogenic metabolites during digestion. The food we consume undergoes a complex series of processes involving digestion and excretion, engaging various internal organs within the human body. The DNA and MiRNA present in food are crucial for sustaining human health. Damage to human organs can lead to the development of cancer cells. Among various cancers, Colorectal Cancer (CRC) is the 3rd most common cancer that contributes to the increase in the mortality rate worldwide.One of the better ways for early CRC diagnosis is through Genomic Profiling. Frequent mutations in the genes APC, TP53, KRAS, PIK3CA, and SMAD4 are observed in the collected samples, contributing to CRC. An effort has been made in the proposed work to improve classification and prediction by using a deep ensemble learning approach based on a self-attention-based stacked bidirectional LSTM, optimized with the Parallel-Whale Optimization Algorithm (WOA) for global convergence, following a feature selection process. Furthermore, the survival analysis of CRC patients is performed using the DeepSurv technique to assess treatment effectiveness and patient care.The performance of the proposed model is evaluated using various metrics for stage-based colorectal cancer prediction, and a comparative analysis is conducted to validate against benchmarking techniques, resulting in improved classification and prediction accuracy.This study may help physicians detect CRC earlier and improve patient management.Copyright © 2026 Supriya and Anitha.
This study identifies and characterizes compound 24 (HA-218-6-31-80), a novel small-molecule NEDD8-activating enzyme (NAE) inhibitor. Discovered from a high-throughput screening, followed by structure-guided optimization, compound 24 possesses a distinct spirocyclic amide chemical core entirely different from the clinical-stage NAE inhibitor MLN4924. Biochemical assays confirm that compound 24 directly binds NAE and suppresses its catalytic activity, blocks the formation of E2-NEDD8 thioesters, and reduces the neddylation of CUL1 and CUL5 in purified protein systems. In human lung cancer cells, it potently suppresses neddylation of multiple CUL family members, leading to the accumulation of CRL substrates including p27 and NOXA. Functionally, it triggers G1-phase arrest and NOXA-dependent apoptosis, inhibiting lung cancer cell proliferation and survival. In A549 xenograft models, it significantly suppresses tumor growth without obvious systemic toxicity. Collectively, 24 (HA-218-6-31-80) represents a promising NAE inhibitor, offering a potential therapeutic candidate for lung cancer and a novel scaffold for neddylation targeted drug discovery.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Liver fibrosis represents a pivotal histopathological stage in the progression of chronic liver disease toward cirrhosis, threatening millions of patients worldwide while therapeutic options remain scarce. Morroniside, an iridoid glycoside derived from Cornus officinalis, has been shown potent hepatoprotective properties, but its potential to attenuate liver fibrogenesis remains largely unexplored.This study aims to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of morroniside against liver fibrosis and elucidate its underlying molecular mechanisms.Two distinct mouse models of liver fibrosis were established by carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced and Gubra Amylin NASH (GAN) diet-induced. Mice administered morroniside at doses of 10 or 20 mg/kg by gavage concurrently with model induction. Its efficacy in improving liver fibrosis was assessed through histological analysis and immunoblotting. TGF-β-induced LX-2 cells and primary hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) were used to validate the mechanism of morroniside in promoting ferritinophagy and ferroptosis. Finally, overexpressing ACYP1 and silencing NCOA4 were applied both in vitro and in vivo to confirm the critical molecular mechanisms of morroniside in ameliorating liver fibrosis.Morroniside alleviates liver fibrogenesis in both CCl4- and GAN diet-induced mouse models by targeting ACYP1, a phosphatase upregulated in fibrotic livers, thereby suppressing HSCs fibrogenic activation. Mechanistically, morroniside directly targeting ACYP1 to inhibit HERC2-mediated ubiquitination of NCOA4, thereby promoting ferritinophagy-mediated ferroptosis in HSCs. Notably, ACYP1 overexpression or NCOA4 silencing reversed the efficacy of morroniside in inducing ferritinophagy and ferroptosis in HSCs. These results establish the critical role of the ACYP1/HERC2/NCOA4 signaling axis in mediating ferritinophagy and ferroptosis, and demonstrate that targeting this pathway is a key mechanism by which morroniside suppresses liver fibrosis progression.This study provides compelling evidence that morroniside alleviates liver fibrosis in mice by directly targeting ACYP1 to inhibit HERC2-mediated ubiquitination of NCOA4, thereby promoting ferritinophagy and ferroptosis in HSCs. These results provide new mechanistic insights into the anti-fibrotic activity of morroniside and support its further development as a potential intervention for chronic liver diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury constitutes a major clinical challenge in ischemic heart disease, and ferroptosis has been recognized as a core driver of cardiomyocyte death during reperfusion. However, the upstream regulatory network governing myocardial ferroptosis remains incompletely defined. The mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (p38α, MAPK14) is a stress-activated kinase critically involved in cardiac pathophysiology, yet its role in I/R-induced ferroptosis remains unclear. Here, we report that p38α deficiency attenuates ferroptosis and protects against myocardial I/R injury by stabilizing c-Myc. Phosphorylated p38α (p-p38α) was significantly elevated in mouse hearts after I/R and in cardiomyocytes following oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R). Cardiomyocyte-specific p38α knockout markedly reduced ferroptosis, myocardial infarct size, and cardiac dysfunction. Mechanistically, p-p38α interacts with c-Myc under I/R stress via key residues Arg291, Arg300, and Lys304 of c-Myc and promotes the recruitment of the E3 ubiquitin ligase STUB1, thereby enhancing ubiquitination at Lys51 (K51) of c-Myc and its proteasomal degradation. Loss of p38α stabilizes c-Myc protein and reverses this process. Furthermore, c-Myc acts as a transcriptional repressor of NCOA4, a core mediator of ferroptosis. I/R-induced downregulation of c-Myc relieves NCOA4 suppression, triggering iron overload, lipid peroxidation, and ferroptosis. Overexpression of c-Myc or inhibition of STUB1 or NCOA4 abolished the pro-ferroptotic effect of I/R. Pretreatment with the p38α inhibitor VX-745 recapitulated the cardioprotective effects by restoring the p38α/c-Myc/NCOA4 axis in vivo. Collectively, our findings identify the p38α/c-Myc/NCOA4 signaling axis as a regulatory cascade governing myocardial I/R-induced ferroptosis. These findings nominate the p38α/c-Myc/NCOA4 axis as a potential therapeutic target in myocardial I/R injury.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42547642 is a review article
African swine fever (ASF) is an acute, hemorrhagic, and highly contagious disease caused by African swine fever virus (ASFV), which causes severe economic losses in the swine industry. ASFV has evolved multiple strategies to evade host antiviral immune responses. Here, we report that ASFV pMGF360-3 L promotes host mitophagy by manipulating chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), thereby inhibiting the production of type I interferon (IFNB/IFN-β). Mechanistically, pMGF360-3 L targets the SKP1 protein via its N-terminal ankyrin (ANK) repeat domain, promoting the degradation of SKP1 through the CMA pathway, which inhibits the proteasomal degradation of BNIP3 to increase its expression level in mitochondria. Subsequently, BNIP3 binds to MAP1LC3B/LC3B to induce mitophagy, a process that leads to the degradation of mitochondria. Notably, the CMA-mediated degradation of SKP1 depends on its K94 site, and the SKP1-BNIP3 axis is critical for pMGF360-3 L-mediated IFNB inhibition. In summary, our study reveals a mechanism through which ASFV pMGF360-3 L facilities CMA-dependent degradation of the E3 complex component SKP1. This stabilizes mitochondrial BNIP3 to initiate mitophagy and block IFNB production. This deepens our understanding of the immune evasion strategies of ASFV and provides potential drug targets for controlling viral infection.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ASFV: African swine fever virus; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; CHX: cycloheximide; CUL1: cullin 1; DAPI: 4', 6-diamidino-2'-phenylindole; EV: emptor vector; FBXL4: F-box and leucine rich repeat protein 4; hpi: hours post-infection; IFNB: interferon beta; ISGs: IFN-stimulated genes; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MG132: cbz-leu-leu-leucinal; MAVS: mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein; MOI: multiplicity of infection; PAMs: porcine alveolar macrophages; PPTC7: protein phosphatase targeting COQ7; RBX1: ring-box 1; RT-PCR: real-time polymerase chain reaction; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SKP1: S-phase kinase associated protein 1; TCID50: 50% tissue culture infectious doses; Ub: ubiquitin; WCL: whole-cell lysate; WT: wild-type.
Astragali Radix (Huangqi) and Salvia miltiorrhiza (Danshen) represent a frequently paired herbal combination in traditional Chinese medicine for tonifying Qi and promoting blood circulation. Previous pharmacological investigations have shown that phytochemicals derived from these herbs exhibit neuroprotective properties against cerebral ischemia-reperfusion (CI/R) injury. Nevertheless, the underlying principles governing the combined application of Huangqi and Danshen (QD) and the molecular pathways involved in their therapeutic efficacy remain unexplored in ischemic stroke management.This study sought to systematically investigate the bioactive components in the QD formulation and elucidate their mechanisms of action against cerebral ischemic injury.The therapeutic effects of QD were evaluated in a mouse model of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). UHPLCHRMS was used to identify QD-derived components in blood and brain tissues. An SSA-BP neural network was constructed to predict the optimal combination of active ingredients. 4D label-free proteomics, coupled with GO and KEGG enrichment analyses, was performed to identify key pathways. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations were used to validate candidate targets. Mitochondrial function and iron homeostasis were assessed by measuring ROS, mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨm), ATP, complex I activity, Fe2+, and the GSH/GSSG ratio. Western blotting and immunofluorescence were used to detect FUNDC1, Nrf2, SLC7A11, NCOA4, p62, FTH1, UQCRC2, and GPX4. The autophagy inhibitor 3-MA was used for mechanistic validation. For cellular studies, HT22 cells were subjected to oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R), and QD was added during reoxygenation. Cell viability and cytotoxicity were assessed using CCK-8 and LDH assays, respectively. ROS, ΔΨm, Fe2+, and GSH were measured using commercial kits. Western blotting was used to analyze FUNDC1, UQCRC2, LC3-II/I, p62, GPX4, SLC7A11, NCOA4, Nrf2, and FTH1. siFUNDC1 was transfected 48 h before OGD/R to assess FUNDC1 dependency.Among the tested ratios (1:1, 2:1, 3:1, 3:2, and 2:3), the 3:2 QD combination was the most effective, significantly improving neurological function, reducing infarct size, and alleviating neuronal damage in MCAO mice. UHPLCHRMS identified 21 compounds absorbed into the bloodstream, seven of which were detected in brain tissue. Astragaloside IV, astragaloside II, lithospermic acid, tanshinone IIA, and calycosin were identified as key active components. Their combination, predicted by the SSA-BP neural network, exerted significant neuroprotection in vivo. Proteomics revealed 124 differentially expressed proteins, with GO and KEGG enrichment analyses identifying mitophagy and ferroptosis as the primary therapeutic pathways. Molecular docking and dynamics analyses revealed high-affinity binding interactions between QD constituents and key targets, including FUNDC1, UQCRC2, GPX4, and SLC7A11. QD upregulated FUNDC1, UQCRC2, GPX4, SLC7A11, Nrf2, and FTH1 and downregulated p62 and NCOA4; these effects were partially reversed by 3-MA. In HT22 cells, QD improved cell viability, reduced LDH release, restored ΔΨm and GSH levels, and attenuated ROS and Fe²⁺ accumulation following OGD/R. The protein expression changes were consistent with those observed in vivo. Knockdown of FUNDC1 largely blocked the protective effects of QD, confirming that FUNDC1 is essential for QD-mediated neuroprotection.QD ameliorates MCAO-induced cerebral ischemic injury via mitophagy and ferroptosis pathways, offering a novel therapeutic perspective for treating ischemic stroke with traditional Chinese medicine that tonifies Qi and promotes blood circulation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Gastric cancer (GC) remains a major global health challenge, underscoring the urgent need for effective therapeutic strategies. Ferritinophagy-driven ferroptosis has recently emerged as a promising anticancer approach; however, potent pharmacological inducers and their modes of action remain largely unexplored.This study aimed to investigate whether Tanshinone I (Tan I), a bioactive diterpenoid quinone, exerts antitumor effects against GC via ferritinophagy-dependent ferroptosis and to elucidate its underlying molecular mechanism.Ferroptosis induction was evaluated using pharmacological rescue assays, flow cytometry, confocal microscopy, and transmission electron microscopy. Mechanistic investigations were conducted through quantitative proteomics, immunofluorescence staining, immunoblotting, and analyses of protein stability and ubiquitination. Target identification and validation were employed using limited proteolysis-mass spectrometry, cellular thermal shift assay, drug affinity responsive target stability, computational modeling, co-immunoprecipitation, and genetic manipulation. The antitumor efficacy of Tan I was further evaluated in orthotopic and patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models.Tan I was identified as a potent inducer of ferroptosis and ferritinophagy in GC cells, as demonstrated by increased labile ferrous iron and lipid reactive oxygen species, characteristic mitochondrial abnormalities, and partial reversal of Tan I-induced cytotoxicity by ferroptosis inhibitors. Mechanistically, Tan I disrupted the interaction between the E3 ubiquitin ligase HUWE1 and the ferritinophagy cargo receptor NCOA4, thereby attenuating HUWE1-mediated ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of NCOA4. Stabilization of NCOA4 enhanced ferritin turnover, resulting in iron overload, lipid peroxidation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and ultimately ferroptotic cell death. Notably, HUWE1 knockdown mimicked the key ferroptotic phenotypes induced by Tan I, whereas HUWE1 overexpression or NCOA4 knockdown mitigated these effects. Importantly, Tan I significantly suppressed tumor growth in both orthotopic and PDX models at well-tolerated doses while concomitantly activating ferritinophagy- and ferroptosis-associated markers in vivo.By targeting the HUWE1-NCOA4 axis, Tan I induced ferritinophagy-dependent ferroptosis and exerted potent antitumor activity against GC, highlighting its potential as a lead compound for ferroptosis-based cancer therapies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Acute lung injury (ALI) lacks effective pharmacological treatments. Ferroptosis and stimulator of interferon genes (STING)-dependent immune activation contribute to ALI, but whether the heat shock protein 90 (HSP90)-STING interface can be modulated to limit ferroptotic injury remains unclear. This study investigated whether Mito-TEMPO protects against lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced ALI in relation to the HSP90-STING-ferroptosis axis.LPS-induced ALI was established in wild-type and STING-deficient (STING-/-) mice with intratracheal Mito-TEMPO pretreatment. Lung injury, vascular permeability, inflammation, and ferroptosis were evaluated by histology, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) analysis, ELISA, qRT-PCR, Western blotting, immunohistochemistry, and immunofluorescence. LPS-stimulated BEAS-2B cells were used for in vitro validation, and additional A549 cells with STING overexpression were employed to further validate STING-dependent signaling and ferroptosis-related mechanisms. Network pharmacology, molecular docking, co-immunoprecipitation, and colocalization analyses were performed to examine HSP90-STING signaling.Mito-TEMPO alleviated LPS-induced pulmonary edema, inflammatory infiltration, tissue injury, BALF protein accumulation, BALF cellularity, and IL-6, IL-1β, and TNF-α expression. It also reversed ferroptosis-associated changes by restoring GPX4 and FTH1 while reducing NCOA4, PTGS2, and 4-HNE, with decreased lipid peroxidation in SFTPC+ alveolar type II (AT2) cells. Similar anti-inflammatory and anti-ferroptotic effects were observed in BEAS-2B cells. Network pharmacology and docking analyses suggested HSP90 as a potential Mito-TEMPO-associated target. Co-immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence analyses showed reduced HSP90-STING interaction after Mito-TEMPO treatment, accompanied by decreased levels of phosphorylated TBK1 and IRF3. In STING-deficient mice, LPS-induced injury was attenuated and the additional protective effects of Mito-TEMPO were diminished. In A549 cells, STING overexpression aggravated LPS-induced inflammatory and ferroptosis-related changes and partially attenuated the protective effects of Mito-TEMPO.Mito-TEMPO attenuates LPS-induced experimental ALI in association with reduced inflammation, ferroptosis-related molecular alterations, reduced HSP90-STING interaction, and attenuated downstream STING-TBK1-IRF3 signaling. These findings suggest that the HSP90-STING-ferroptosis axis may represent a mechanistically relevant pathway warranting further investigation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Iron-sulfur (Fe-S) clusters are essential cofactors required for the activity of numerous proteins involved in fundamental cellular processes, including DNA replication, metabolism and mitochondrial respiration. In eukaryotes, Fe-S cluster biogenesis is initiated in mitochondria by the ISC machinery, which assembles iron and sulfur, delivered by a cysteine desulfurase, onto the scaffold protein ISCU. Frataxin (FXN), a key regulator of this pathway, enhances Fe-S production by accelerating persulfide transfer to ISCU. FXN is essential in eukaryotes, and its loss results in a "petite" phenotype in yeast, senescence in dividing mammalian cells and embryonic lethality in mice. Interestingly, in yeast, a methionine to isoleucine substitution at position 141 of the scaffold protein Isu1 can bypass the requirement of FXN. To test whether this bypass mechanism is conserved in mammals, we introduced the equivalent M141I substitution into the endogenous Iscu gene in murine fibroblasts carrying a conditional Fxn allele using CRISPR-Cas9. We show that the ISCU M141I variant enables cell survival in the absence of FXN, preventing cell cycle arrest and decreasing baseline DNA damage. However, these FXN-null survivor clones exhibit slower proliferation, persistent mitochondrial dysfunction and defective mitochondrial Fe-S cluster proteins. In contrast, nuclear and cytosolic Fe-S proteins are preserved, as is cellular iron homeostasis. Importantly, the ISCU M141I variant delays, but does not fully rescue, embryonic lethality in Fxn-deficient mice. Altogether, our results reveal a previously unrecognized compartment-specific rescue of Fe-S cluster dependent processes by the ISCU M141I variant in mammalian cells, raising for the first time the possibility of compartmental regulation of Fe-S cluster biogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42561706
Multi-response superhydrophobic coating of the textile electrodes show great promise for anti-icing and deicing applications; however, multi-response and mechanical abrasion often compromise their long-term hydrophobic stability and durability. Herein, we fabricate a superhydrophobic textile electrode (SMP-HFe-C@APT) by integrating conductive MWCNT/MXene network (C) onto an etched polyester fabric (APT), followed by spraying Fe3O4 nanoparticles modified with hydrolyzed octadecyltrimethoxysilane (OTMS, denoted as HFe), and then by coating with a shape memory polymer (SMP). The resulting electrode exhibits excellent superhydrophobicity (WCA = 162.3 ± 0.5°), prolonged icing delay (1241 ± 10 s), and rapid deicing (82 s) under synergistic dual electrothermal and magnetothermal response. Covalent bonding between HFe nanoparticles and the SMP matrix reduces the glass transition temperature to 15.8 ± 0.5 °C, establishing a modulus mismatch between the softened SMP coating and the rigid ice droplets, and accelerating ice detachment. Additionally, the combination of highly absorptive inner layers (C and HFe) and a reflective SMP outer layer gives rise to an internal thermal cycling, which enhances heat confinement and utilization during deicing. The thermal effect simultaneously induces EP (epoxy resin) and PDMS (polydimethylsiloxane) molecular rearrangement in the SMP coating, enabling recovery of nano-material microstructure and low surface energy. This work provides a new strategy for fabricating durable anti-icing and deicing coatings that integrate interfacial thermal management and dynamic self-healing.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559859 is a review article
How genes are desilenced without erasure of repressive chromatin is a poorly understood phenomenon. A dominant mode of repression occurs through methylation of lysine 9 of histone H3 (H3K9me3), a mark that engages heterochromatin protein 1 (HP1) to drive chromatin compaction and transcriptional silencing. The erasure and replacement of this repressive mark with acetyl/acyl groups recruits positive factors such as BRD4/BET to elicit gene transcription. Here we report that, in Friedreich's ataxia, a synthetic gene regulator (SynGR1/SynTEF1) licenses transcription across repressive chromatin without removal or replacement of H3K9me3 or HP1. By recruiting BRD4/BET into repressive GAA repeats in frataxin (FXN), SynGR1 creates a paradoxical state wherein gene transcription and repressive chromatin coexist. Contrary to convention, we find that BRD4 partitions into phase separated HP1 condensates in vitro and into HP1 puncta in patient-derived cells, thus offering a mechanistic explanation for desilencing transcription without the dispersal of mesoscale repressive chromatin. More broadly, our study highlights the dynamic nature of repressive chromatin and the context dependence of epigenetic marks in regulating gene expression.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Mitochondrial dysfunction is linked to urolithiasis, but causal genetic drivers remain unclear. We integrated multi-omics data using Mendelian randomization to identify mitochondrial-related genes causally associated with urolithiasis.We obtained mitochondrial methylation (mQTL), gene expression (eQTL), and protein abundance (pQTL) from respective quantitative trait locus (QTL) studies along with GWAS summary data for nephrolithiasis, ureterolithiasis and bladder calculus from the Million Veteran Program (discovery), with replication in FinnGen and UK Biobank. Summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) and colocalization were applied to infer causality.Integrated analysis identified FXN as the leading candidate for nephrolithiasis. Genetically elevated circulating FXN protein was inversely associated with nephrolithiasis risk (OR 0.69, 95% CI 0.56-0.84). This protective effect was supported at the epigenetic level: FXN methylation at cg14656297 and cg13974534 correlated with lower nephrolithiasis risk. For ureterolithiasis, higher GRHPR protein levels were protective (OR 0.81, 95% CI 0.71-0.91). In a mouse kidney stone model, Fxn expression and frataxin protein levels were decreased, providing correlative in vivo support consistent with human genetic findings.This multi-omics MR study links mitochondrial genes, particularly FXN, to urolithiasis risk. Although colocalization evidence was weak (PP.H4 = 0.0239) and replication in independent cohorts was not statistically significant, the multi-omics consistency across methylation, expression, and protein levels prioritizes FXN as a hypothesis-generating candidate for further investigation. Because all QTL data are blood- or plasma-derived, this study provides blood/plasma QTL-based genetic prioritization rather than kidney-specific causal inference.Copyright © 2026 Wu, Ye, Li, Wu, Guo, Bian, Sheng and Lai.
Medical waste management is a central pillar of the Green Hospital approach, yet evidence on effective strategies and system-level barriers remains fragmented. This systematic review synthesises direct medical-waste-management evidence together with healthcare-sustainability and transferable waste-system evidence relevant to the Green Hospital framework.We conducted a systematic review in accordance with PRISMA 2020. The review protocol was registered in PROSPERO (CRD420251168204). Six bibliographic databases and one grey-literature source were searched for original empirical, intervention, case-study, modelling, and optimisation studies published online between 1 January 2020 and 27 August 2025 that examined medical waste management or provided clearly relevant healthcare-sustainability or transferable waste-system evidence. Two reviewers independently screened records, extracted data, and appraised methodological quality using design-appropriate criteria: the Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool for empirical studies and an adapted model-appraisal framework for modelling, optimisation, framework-development, and technology-evaluation studies.Of the 21 included studies, 15 provided direct medical-waste-management evidence, five provided healthcare-sustainability or planetary-health contextual evidence, and one provided transferable waste-system evidence. Behavioural compliance, education, or segregation was addressed in 11 studies (52%); workflow or operational optimisation in four studies (19%); digital or decision-support systems in five studies (24%); environmental or economic assessment, modelling, circularity, or resource recovery in 10 studies (48%); and systemic or organisational barriers in seven studies (33%). Studies could contribute to more than one synthesis theme; therefore, these categories were not mutually exclusive.Sustainable medical waste management within the Green Hospital framework requires an integrated socio-technical strategy combining behavioural reinforcement, operational improvement, decision-support technologies, environmental and economic assessment, and enabling governance. These findings can be interpreted through a Human Factors and Ergonomics lens, although formal HFE interventions were not consistently evaluated in the included studies.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of International Society for Quality in Health Care.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42542254
Despite advances in therapy, pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) remains progressive with poor survival. Although dysregulation of Bone Morphogenetic Protein (BMP) signaling is central to PAH, key modulators of this pathway remain incompletely defined.To identify the role of BMP3 in pulmonary vascular homeostasis and PAH.BMP3 expression was assessed in experimental pulmonary hypertension (PH) and in pulmonary vascular cells and plasma from PAH patients. In vitro studies were performed in human pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (hPASMCs) and endothelial cells (hPAECs). Global and SMC-specific Bmp3-deficient mice were generated. Recombinant BMP3 and adeno-associated viruses (AAV) were used to overexpress BMP3 in animal models of PAH.BMP3 is predominantly expressed in PASMCs and is consistently downregulated in experimental and human PAH. Secreted BMP3 from PAH-PASMCs and circulating BMP3 levels in PAH patients were significantly reduced. Functionally, PASMC-derived BMP3 inhibited the migration and proliferation of PAH-diseased PAEC. In both global and SMC-specific Bmp3-deficient mice, induction of PAH led to significantly exacerbated disease in middle-aged mice. A recombinant BMP3 prevented and reversed PAH in mice. Furthermore, lung-targeted overexpression of BMP3, via AAV1-BMP3, reversed pulmonary vascular remodeling and ameliorated cardiac function in both mice and rats. Mechanistically, BMP3 restored the balance between BMP/SMAD1,5,8 and TGF-β/SMAD2,3 signaling, and decreased the expression of cell cycle genes in PAECs.BMP3 acts as a paracrine regulator of pulmonary vascular homeostasis and may contribute to the modulation of TGF-β/BMP signaling in PAH, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target.Copyright ©The authors 2026.
A 14-year-old female with type 1 diabetes for over six years presented with abdominal pain for two days and vomiting for three hours. Her regimen includes NovoRapid before meals and glargine at bedtime, but she has irregular meal patterns, inconsistent blood glucose monitoring, and poor insulin adherence. She has a history of recurrent diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) and related hospitalizations.The patient is alert but mildly weak, with adequate responsiveness. Breathing is slightly increased, deep, and regular. Extremities are cool. Radial pulses are strong, but dorsalis pedis pulses are diminished bilaterally. There is scattered right abdominal tenderness. The liver is palpable 5 cm below the costal margin, with medium texture and blunt borders, and percussion tenderness is positive.Venous blood glucose was 21.86 mmol/L, and HbA1c was 10%. Arterial blood gas showed pH 6.933, pCO2 31.4 mmHg, and BEb -25.3 mmol/L. Insulin was below 1.39 pmol/L, and C-peptide below 0.003 pmol/L. Urinalysis revealed glucose 4+ and ketones 1+, leading to a diagnosis of type 1 DKA. Liver function was abnormal, with hepatomegaly and blood lactate at 9.85 mmol/L. Metabolic, infectious, and immune causes were excluded. Liver biopsy confirmed glycogenic hepatopathy, establishing a diagnosis of Mauriac syndrome with lactic acidosis. Serum uric acid ranged from 434 to 545 mmol/L, indicating hyperuricemia. Whole-exome sequencing identified a homozygous HFE mutation, suggesting hereditary hemochromatosis, though ferritin was normal and no iron deposition was seen on pathology.Continuous intravenous insulin therapy was initiated, along with diabetes education, dietary guidance, exercise, glucose monitoring, and symptomatic care. An insulin pump was subsequently used for continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (with Gansulin R before meals). Later, the pump was discontinued and switched to a four-injection subcutaneous regimen, consisting of NovoRapid before meals and insulin glargine at bedtime. Bicyclol Tablets was given for hepatoprotection.The patient was hospitalized for 13 days, remained afebrile, and reported no discomfort. Blood glucose ranged from 3.1 to 15.2 mmol/L. Liver size slightly decreased, but tenderness persisted. Liver function and lipids were mostly normal at discharge. Two months later, she was readmitted for DKA; liver function was normal, but hepatomegaly with tenderness persisted.Copyright © 2026 Fu, Yang, Guo, Huang, Li and Zhang.
Complex I (CI) is the largest and most disease-associated component of the mitochondrial electron transport chain. While many diseases are linked to defects in specific CI subunits, the extent to which non-mitochondrial proteins contribute to CI function or disease is less clear. Here, we perform genome-wide CRISPR screens to identify regulators of CI abundance across its N, Q, and P modules, which mediate NADH oxidation, quinone reduction, and proton pumping, respectively. These screens identify THAP12 as a previously unrecognized transcriptional regulator of CI biogenesis. THAP12 loss selectively destabilizes CI and impairs oxidative ATP production. Mechanistically, THAP12 functions in the nucleus as a DNA-binding factor that directly activates genes required for CI assembly and iron-sulfur cluster maintenance, including NDUFAF3, NDUFAF4 and BOLA3. Patient-derived fibroblasts carrying THAP12 mutations exhibit conserved transcriptional defects and profound CI deficiency, establishing THAP12-associated neurodevelopmental disorder as a secondary mitochondrial CI disease. Finally, hypoxia rescues growth defects in THAP12-deficient cells, nominating low-oxygen therapy as a potential treatment strategy. Together, these findings identify THAP12 as a dedicated regulator of CI assembly and expand the genetic landscape of CI disease.
Hemophilic joint disease, or blood-induced joint disease (BIJD), a rises from recurrent or even subclinical hemarthroses that initiate a cascade of iron-driven synovial and cartilage pathology. When blood enters the joint, iron deposition triggers oxidative stress, generating IL-1β and TNF-α-mediated inflammation, synovial hyperplasia, and persistent angiogenesis. Foundational studies show that iron exposure activates oncogene-like programs in synovial fibroblasts, including c-MYC and MDM2, promoting proliferative and anti-apoptotic behavior that contributes to villous hypertrophy. Contemporary single-cell analyses reveal heterogeneous fibroblast, endothelial, and mast cell populations that orchestrate iron handling, inflammation, and vascular remodeling. Notably, endothelial cells exposed to repeated bleeding exhibit ferroptosis signatures, increased permeability, and signaling through ferritin light chain (FTL) to SCARA5-positive fibroblasts, forming an iron-responsive stromal circuit that may predispose joints to rebleeding. Macrophages propagate osteochondral injury through iRhom2/ADAM17-dependent TNF-α shedding, linking hemarthrosis to bone loss. Cartilage injury occurs rapidly: even short exposures to low concentrations of blood induce irreversible chondrocyte apoptosis, reduced proteoglycan synthesis, and matrix degradation driven by ROS and iron. Recent discoveries identify TNXB-AKT signaling as a critical cartilage-protective pathway lost in hemophilic arthropathy. Despite advances in systemic and non-factor therapies, joint bleeding and arthropathy persist, highlighting the need for mechanism-based interventions beyond hemostasis. Potential targets include iron/ROS modulation, endothelial ferroptosis inhibition, mast-cell stabilization, TNF-α pathway blockade, fibroblast state reprogramming, and activation of AKT-mediated cartilage survival pathways. An integrated model positions hemarthrosis as the initiating event and iron-centered inflammatory amplification as the driver of chronic joint degeneration, underscoring opportunities for joint-directed therapeutic innovation.
Histone deacetylases (HDACs) correlate closely with tumor prognosis and serve as therapeutic targets for malignancies. This study aimed to explore esophageal carcinoma (ESCA) therapeutic strategies via identifying histone deacetylation-related prognostic genes. We analyzed The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA)-ESCA and GSE53622 datasets, along with 17 histone deacetylation-related genes (HDRGs). Differentially expressed genes (DEGs1) between tumor and normal TCGA-ESCA samples were identified; DEGs2 linked to HDRGs were screened via unsupervised clustering of TCGA-ESCA tumors. Candidate genes were defined as the intersection of DEGs1 and DEGs2, followed by functional enrichment analysis and regression analyses. TCGA-ESCA samples were stratified into high-/low-risk groups, with model validation. Independent prognostic analysis, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), immune/gene mutation/drug sensitivity analyses, regulatory network construction, and RT-qPCR validation were performed. The intersection of 3556 DEGs1 and 1622 DEGs2 generated 694 candidates, yielding 7 prognostic genes (UNC13C, MAP7D2, SCARA5 downregulated; SLC35D3, HSPA6, IL31RA, CXCL8 upregulated in tumors). Risk score and pathologic M were independent prognostic factors for nomogram construction, with favorable predictive value. GSEA showed enrichment in pathways like ECM receptor interaction and oxidative phosphorylation; immune correlation, drug sensitivity (e.g., WH.4.023), and RT-qPCR validation of gene expression were confirmed. This study established and verified a novel HDRG-related ESCA prognostic model. The model may serve as a potential tool for risk stratification in ESCA patients and offer new perspectives for exploring the role of histone deacetylation modifications in ESCA progression. However, its clinical translational value, including guiding immunotherapy or targeted drug selection, requires further validation in large-scale prospective studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lung cancer remains the leading cause of cancer-related mortality globally. While N-glycosylation has been found to be a critical post-translational modification in multiple malignancies, the role of N-glycosylation-associated proteins in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) remains poorly defined. In this study, steroid 5α-reductase 3 (SRD5A3), a key regulator of N-glycosylation metabolism, was identified as a highly expressed molecule in LUAD, with its upregulation correlating with unfavourable patient outcomes. Functional assays demonstrated that SRD5A3 depletion markedly suppressed the proliferation, invasion, and migration of A549 and H1299 cells, thereby restraining tumour progression by triggering ferroptosis. Mechanistically, loss of SRD5A3 caused aberrant hyper-N-glycosylation of the SCARA5 protein, which impaired its interaction with ferritin light chain (FTL) and promoted FTL degradation. This process released free Fe²⁺, induced lipid peroxidation via the Fenton reaction, and ultimately, triggered ferroptosis. The glycosylation inhibitor tunicamycin reversed the ferroptosis sensitivity induced by SRD5A3 knockdown, confirming N-glycosylation as the core regulatory node. Further, site-directed mutagenesis assays revealed that the N397Q mutation of SCARA5 abolished its pro-ferroptotic effect. Collectively, these findings establish a "glycosylation-ferroptosis axis" regulatory model, uncovering a novel mechanism by which SRD5A3 modulates ferroptosis by mediating SCARA5 glycosylation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
The rapid expansion of plasma proteomic data and protein quantitative trait loci (pQTLs) provides an opportunity to identify genes that confer disease risk through their effect on plasma protein abundance. We conducted an Alzheimer's disease (AD) proteome-wide association study (PWAS) integrating publicly available plasma cis-pQTL data (1348 European American and 1385 African American genetically determined protein models) with AD dementia GWAS summary statistics. Whereas the African American PWAS identified one candidate [apolipoprotein E (APOE)] and multiple suggestive genes, the European American PWAS identified 18 genes with putative causal relationships with AD through cis regulation of plasma protein abundance. Thirteen of these candidate genes were additionally supported by colocalization and complementary causal-inference analyses such as summary data-based Mendelian randomization. Four of these proteins were not previously detected in AD GWAS [complement decay-accelerating factor (CD55), leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B1 (LILRB1), scavenger receptor class A member 5 (SCARA5), and signal regulatory protein alpha (SIRPA)]. A subset of candidate gene-associated proteins was associated with 8- and 20-year dementia risk, markers of AD pathology, and a CSF proteomic signature enriched for immune and metabolic processes. Putative causal proteins were enriched for adaptive (lymphocyte-mediated) immunity and, compared with GWAS candidates, showed less enrichment for synaptic and amyloid regulatory processes. LILRB1 and SIRPA, two immunoregulatory proteins not previously implicated in AD GWAS, showed the strongest mechanistic link to AD in the European American PWAS. These results shed additional light on AD etiology and enable the prioritization of potential AD therapeutic targets in peripheral circulation.
Primary aldosteronism (PA) causes oxidative stress, myocardial injury, and increases hemoglobin, whereas aldosterone antagonists mitigate myocardial injury and lower hemoglobin. Whether these phenomena involve altered iron and oxygen metabolism is unknown. To investigate this, we leveraged human physiology studies that characterized the spectrum of PA, from subclinical to clinically overt renin-independent aldosteronism. The plasma proteome was measured to conduct aldosterone dose-response analyses to identify iron and oxygen metabolism related pathways. CYBRD1, a mediator of iron reduction and absorption, was the most abundant protein in people with overt PA, and Reactome enrichment identified 16 iron and heme-related pathways involving erythrocyte oxygen handling, heme biosynthesis, and mitochondrial respiratory electron transport. Across the continuum of PA, there were progressive decreases in mitochondrial electron transport proteins, and increases in hemoglobin subunits, heme-related proteins, and erythrocyte oxygen-handling enzymes. These proteomic changes were validated by demonstrating aldosterone dose-dependent increases in circulating hemoglobin in this cohort and an independent population-based cohort. Collectively, PA is characterized by progressive decreases in mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, and increases in iron absorption, heme synthesis, and oxygen-delivery, possibly reflecting a compensatory response to cellular pseudohypoxia. These findings provide a mechanistic basis for aldosterone-mediated myocardial injury and the benefits of aldosterone-directed therapy.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a biologically aggressive subtype of breast cancer marked by high heterogeneity and poor prognosis. Copper metabolism has been implicated in TNBC progression, but its functional contributions remain insufficiently defined. In this study, we analyzed transcriptomic data from 229 TNBC and adjacent normal samples from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) to identify 26 differentially expressed copper metabolism-related genes (DEGs-CM). A nine-gene Cox model (HEPHL1, COX7A1, COX4I2, JUN, MAPT, MT1A, AOC3, DCT, AOC2) demonstrated robust prognostic value, with time-dependent AUCs of 0.88, 0.84, and 0.80 at 1, 3, and 5 years. Functional enrichment analyses revealed epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and angiogenesis pathways enriched in high-risk groups. Four genes (AOC3, COX4I2, COX7A1, JUN) were further identified as copper metabolism-related metastasis genes (CMMRGs) through correlation with metastasis-associated programs. Based on these genes, machine learning classifiers were developed to predict TNBC presence and lymph node metastasis. Classifiers trained on the full dataset achieved consistently high performance, with most models showing AUCs greater than 0.97 (random forest, XGBoost, and AdaBoost classifier) even when using reduced gene panels (26-, 9-, and 4-gene sets), demonstrating stable classification across gene panels. In contrast, performance declined notably in metastasis-specific classification, largely due to the limited number of labeled metastatic samples. Among these, the 9-gene panel yielded the highest test AUCs across most models (gradient boosting machine AUC 0.64), suggesting that it may provide an optimal balance between model complexity and discriminative power, while also highlighting a key limitation related to the restricted sample size and incomplete clinical annotations in the metastasis-specific dataset. Single-cell RNA sequencing confirmed fibroblast-specific enrichment of CMMRGs and associated EMT signatures, suggesting a mechanistic link between copper metabolism, stromal remodeling, and metastasis. These results establish a copper-centered molecular framework for TNBC diagnosis and metastasis prediction, supporting the translational potential of copper metabolism-related genes in clinical applications.© 2026. International Association of Scientists in the Interdisciplinary Areas.
Recent advances in transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) fine-mapping have enabled the joint modeling of multiple genes to improve causal gene prioritization. However, existing methods have been developed primarily for quantitative traits and most of them rely on gene expression data from a single tissue. Here, we present mFABIO, a multi-tissue TWAS fine-mapping method specifically designed for binary traits. mFABIO employs a probit model to directly link genetically regulated expression (GReX) of genes within a locus across multiple tissues to a binary outcome, while accounting for correlations in GReX across genes and tissues. As a result, mFABIO offers substantial power gains for binary traits, while maintaining robust control of false discovery rates (FDR). We evaluated mFABIO through extensive simulations and applied it to an in-depth analysis of six binary disease traits (asthma, breast cancer, gout, hypertension, prostate cancer, and rheumatoid arthritis) in the UK Biobank, using expression data spanning 38 Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) tissues. mFABIO identified an average of 42 likely causal genes and 65 tissue-gene pairs per disease (FDR < 0.05). Notably, 60.9% of the genes and 77.2% of the gene-tissue pairs were supported by existing TWAS or GWAS evidence. This represented at least a 14.9% increase in evidence-supported genes and a 14.8% increase in evidence-supported gene-tissue pairs, compared to existing approaches. Additionally, mFABIO was also able to narrow down the list of potentially causal candidates by at least 51.3% for genes, and 50.8% for gene-tissue pairs, compared to single-tissue approaches. Leveraging its improved power, mFABIO successfully prioritized multiple potentially causal gene-tissue pairs associated with these diseases, with biological support. Notable examples include D2HGDH in lung tissue for asthma, CYBRD1 in breast mammary tissue for breast cancer, and CCR6 in spleen tissue for rheumatoid arthritis. Overall, mFABIO serves as an effective tool for multi-tissue TWAS fine-mapping of binary traits.Copyright: © 2026 Zhang et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Neutrophils, which are polymorphonuclear leukocytes of the phagocytic system, serve as critical mediators of inflammation-induced injury and are implicated in various diseases. However, the role of neutrophils in primary Sjögren's syndrome (pSS) remains underexplored.Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was used to construct a map of neutrophil subsets and cell interactions in pSS, and to explore the roles and mechanisms of each subset in the development and progression of pSS, thereby providing new theoretical support for the pathogenesis of pSS and clinical drug development.Include newly diagnosed patients with pSS who presented to the Rheumatology and Immunology Department of Ningxia Medical University General Hospital between December 2022 and January 2025. Peripheral blood neutrophils were obtained from pSS and healthy control (HC) subjects. Following quality control, dimensionality reduction, clustering, and cell annotation, we analyzed compositional and distributional differences in neutrophil subsets between the pSS and HC groups. Significantly differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in neutrophils underwent Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis, along with molecular interaction and pseudo-time analysis between cells. The DEGs LY6E and CLEC12A were further verified by RT-qPCR. Statistical analysis was performed using the non-paired two-tailed Wilcoxon rank-sum test, Mann-Whitney U test, and non-paired two-tailed Student's t-test. Visualization was conducted using Monocle and CellphoneDB software.Neutrophil counts were significantly lower in the pSS group compared to the HC group. Neutrophils were further clustered into six subsets (Neutrophil 1, Neutrophil 2, Neutrophil 3, Neutrophil 4, Neutrophil 5, and Neutrophil 6), with Neutrophil 2 exhibiting distinct characteristics. The DEGs in neutrophils were primarily involved in biological processes such as viral response and defense, type I interferon signaling pathways, and were enriched in signaling pathways including interferon-α response and inflammatory response. Neutrophils interact with natural killer (NK) cells and plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) via CCL5-CCR1, LGALS9-HAVCR2, FTH1-SCARA5, and FTL-SCARA5. Pseudo-time analysis revealed that neutrophils first differentiate into the Neutrophil 2 subset and ultimately into the Neutrophil 4 subset. This progression is characterized by progressively enhanced cellular signaling and behavioral regulation capabilities, while concurrently diminishing immune defense responses and neutrophil-mediated immune functions.Each subset of neutrophils is involved in the occurrence and development of pSS disease at different stages. In particular, LY6E and CLEC12A among the DEGs specifically upregulated by pSS neutrophils may be biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets for pSS.Copyright © 2026 Gao, Zheng, Ma, Han, Wang, Fang, Zhu and Zhang.
Decidualization denotes the inflammatory reprogramming of endometrial stromal cells (EnSC) into progesterone-dependent decidual cells (DC), a process essential for embryo implantation and placenta formation. Decidualization also gives rise to progesterone-resistant decidual-like senescent cells (dSC), involved in extracellular matrix (ECM) remodelling and menstruation. Cannabigerol (CBG) is a non-psychotropic phytocannabinoid present in cannabis-derived products, whose impact on endometrial function remains poorly understood. The effects of CBG on decidualization were studied using an immortalized human endometrial stromal cell line (St-T1b) and primary EnSC. Cell viability was assessed following exposure to CBG (1-10 µM) during decidualization induction. CBG (2 µM) was used to evaluate its impact on decidual marker genes expression, IL-6 secretion, and transcriptomic changes (RNA-Seq). CBG inhibited the induction of the canonical decidual marker genes PRL and IGFBP1 in differentiating St-T1b cells, while this repression was not observed in decidualizing primary EnSC. Also, in these cells, CBG did not affect progesterone-dependent regulation of SCARA5 or DIO2, nor the expression of IL1RL1 and CLU, marker genes of anti-inflammatory DC and pro-inflammatory dSC, respectively. However, IL-6 secretion was reduced during the initial pro-inflammatory phase of decidualization, suggesting alterations in the cellular reprogramming of EnSC. RNA-Seq analysis identified 34 differentially expressed genes mostly associated with mitochondrial activity, lipid biosynthesis, inflammatory response and ECM remodelling. Although CBG did not disrupt canonical decidual markers in primary cells, the modulation of DC metabolism, ECM remodelling, and inflammatory response may constitute a significant risk factor for adverse pregnancy outcome.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is a major cause of chronic lung disease in both preterm infants and adults, but its etiology remains incompletely understood. In this study, F0 generation mice were exposed to polystyrene nanoplastics (PS-NPs), and F1 to F3 generations were obtained by breeding. Multi-omics sequencing including whole genome methylation sequencing, single cell transcriptome sequencing and transcriptome sequencing was performed on the lungs of offspring. The levels of Fe2+, lipid peroxidation products and key gene expression were determined. Male mice exposed to PS-NPs at environmentally relevant doses produced offspring (F1 and F2) that exhibited a typical BPD-like phenotype. Meanwhile, the F0 males showed diminished sperm motility, demonstrating that paternal PS-NPs exposure constituted an etiological factor for BPD in descendants. Mechanistic studies showed that PS-NPs exposure upregulated the expression of DNA methyltransferase Dnmt3a, leading to global hypermethylation of the sperm genome. Importantly, the hypermethylated promoter signature of the mitochondrial ferritin (FtMt) gene partially resisted epigenetic reprogramming and was transmitted to the lungs of offspring, resulting in persistently low FtMt expression in F1 and F2 lungs. This led to increased intracellular Fe2+ levels, subsequently triggered ferroptosis in alveolar epithelial cells, and ultimately impaired alveolarization. Knockdown of FtMt confirmed that FtMt deficiency was sufficient to induce ferroptosis and BPD-like lung injury both in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, using in vitro fertilization of F0 sperm combined with Dnmt3a siRNA microinjection, we directly demonstrated that Dnmt3a is a key driver for FtMt to escape reprogramming and maintain its hypermethylation. In summary, this study reveals for the first time that paternal PS-NPs exposure causes BPD through a Dnmt3a-FtMt hypermethylation intergenerational and transgenerational axis, providing an epigenetic basis for understanding paternal derived chronic lung disease and potential targets for early intervention.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42540599
This study aimed to screen and validate such biomarkers to clarify the role of vascular endothelial injury (VEI) in the pathogenesis of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) and provide clues for future diagnostic and mechanistic studies.VEI scores were calculated using a published VEI-related gene set. VEI-correlated gene modules were classified by weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), with module genes subjected to GO/KEGG enrichment analysis and intersected with differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from the GSE70493 dataset. Core genes were filtered using three machine learning algorithms, including random forest, LASSO regression, and SVM-RFE, followed by analyses of diagnostic performance, hallmark pathway correlations, and immune infiltration associations.DEGs were enriched in endoplasmic reticulum protein localization, oxidative stress, and mitochondrial pathways and overlapped with the yellow gene module. Machine learning identified COX7B, GLRX5, and OR52H1 as the candidate biomarkers for GDM. These genes showed favorable diagnostic performance and distinct correlations with hallmark pathways and immune infiltration features, suggesting their potential involvement in VEI-related molecular changes in GDM.This study identified VEI-related hub genes in GDM but is limited by its reliance on a single dataset, a small validation sample, and the lack of experimental validation, warranting further confirmation.COX7B, GLRX5, and OR52H1 were identified as VEI-associated diagnostic biomarkers in GDM. These findings support the involvement of VEI-related molecular alterations in GDM but should be regarded as hypothesis-generating, requiring further validation in larger clinical cohorts and experimental models.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509741 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate whether activating the Nrf2/TFAM pathway boosts mitochondrial biogenesis, reduces ferroptosis in ischemic stroke (IS), and evaluates Naotaifang (NTF) formula's therapeutic potential.Ferroptosis and mitochondrial biogenesis indicators were measured at various time points following MCAO. Various methods, including transmission electron microscopy, immunofluorescence assay, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, Western blotting assays, and real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), were employed to evaluate the impact of NTF on mitochondrial biogenesis and ferroptosis in vivo and in vitro.IS significantly inhibits mitochondrial biogenesis and increases neuronal ferroptosis, with brain damage worsening over time. MCAO groups showed reduced expression of Nrf2, TFAM, ATP, CISD2, FPN, GPX4, SOD, and HO-1, alongside elevated Fe²⁺, ROS, and LPO (P < 0.05) compared to the control group. Both sulforaphane and NTF treatment reversed these effects; NTF treatment effectively increased the expression of Nrf2, TFAM, FtMt, CISD1, CISD2, FPN, and GPX4 while inhibiting the levels of Fe2+, ROS, and LPO. (P < 0.05).This finding clarifies mitochondrial biogenesis's crucial role, proposes a new "pathway + molecule" strategy for IS treatment, and supports NTF's clinical potential, though larger animal models and long-term safety studies are needed.In the context of IS, reduced mitochondrial biogenesis plays an important role in ferroptosis. Targeting the Nrf2/TFAM signaling pathway may improve mitochondrial biogenesis in IS. Furthermore, NTF can mitigate ferroptosis by promoting mitochondrial biogenesis through the Nrf2/TFAM signaling pathway.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
β-thalassemia and iron refractory iron deficiency anemia (IRIDA) are distinct hereditary causes of microcytic anemia. Their co-occurrence in the same individual is extremely rare and complicates diagnosis and management. This case series emphasizes on the importance of performing molecular analysis to define personalized therapeutic strategies. We report an Omani family with high level of interfamily marriages presenting with persistent microcytic hypochromic anemia, low ferritin levels, and partial transient response to intravenous iron therapy. Initial investigations suggested non-transfusion-dependent β-thalassemia due to persistently elevated HbF and a homozygous HBB promoter variant (NM_000518.5 (HBB):c.-121 C > T). Whole-exome sequencing subsequently identified a novel homozygous TMPRSS6 missense variant (NM_001374504.1(TMPRSS6):c.1070G > C, p.Cys357Ser), classified as likely pathogenic for IRIDA. Extensive family history revealed multiple relatives with unexplained iron deficiency requiring intravenous iron therapy and two cousins unnecessarily treated as transfusion-dependent thalassemia. After molecular confirmation, transfusions were discontinued, and the affected siblings were successfully managed with periodic IV iron therapy. This case series highlights the importance of comprehensive genomic evaluation in complex anemia presentations, particularly in consanguineous populations. The coexistence of β-thalassemia and IRIDA can obscure the clinical picture, delay appropriate therapy, and result in suboptimal therapies. Early integration of genomics is crucial for accurate diagnosis and optimal patient management.© 2026. The Author(s).
Intramuscular fat (IMF) content is one of the key factors affecting pork quality, and its deposition results from the differentiation and lipid accumulation of preadipocytes. However, the regulatory mechanisms underlying IMF deposition in pigs remain poorly understood. As epigenetic regulators, long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) play a crucial role in IMF deposition. In this study, we identified a candidate lncRNA, lncPRPD, which may be involved in IMF deposition in pigs. It shows elevated expression in pigs with high IMF content and promotes the differentiation of porcine preadipocytes. In vivo experiments in mice further confirmed its role in enhancing adipogenesis. Mechanistically, lncPRPD binds to glutaredoxin 5 (GLRX5), inhibits its ubiquitination to enhance the protein's stability, which consequently suppresses the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) pathway and promotes adipocyte differentiation. In summary, our study identifies a novel lncRNA that regulates porcine preadipocyte differentiation and elucidates its molecular mechanism, providing potential candidate genetic targets for improving pork quality.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42454756
The sinoatrial node pacemaker channel HCN4 plays a central role in cardiac automaticity, and disease-associated variants can predispose to atrial arrhythmias. Here, we investigated the functional interplay between the HCN4 variant P883R and the potassium channel β-subunit KCNE1, focusing on the common atrial fibrillation-associated KCNE1 variant G38S and its regulation by the iron-induced serine protease TMPRSS6. Electrophysiological analyses revealed that HCN4-P883R decreases net HCN4 currents If, consistent with impaired automaticity. Co-expression of KCNE1, either wild-type or polymorphic KCNE1-G38S, restored functional properties of the mutant channel, indicating that KCNE1 is a key modulator of HCN4 activity. Importantly, TMPRSS6-mediated proteolytic processing of KCNE1 reduced HCN4 currents, whereas HCN4 expressed alone was insensitive to TMPRSS6, identifying KCNE1 as the direct regulatory target. Notably, KCNE1-G38S altered the HCN4-KCNE1 complex to TMPRSS6-dependent downregulation, resulting in a reduced suppression of HCN4-P883R-mediated currents compared with wild-type KCNE1. Mechanistically, differential TMPRSS6 cleavage depended on the membrane positioning of the KCNE1-32RRSPRSS38 motif. These findings reveal a protease-dependent buffering mechanism that counteracts HCN4 loss-of-function and establish TMPRSS6 as a molecular switch controlling pacemaker activity in a KCNE1 genotype-dependent manner. This dynamic regulatory framework may contribute to the phenotypic variability of sinoatrial node dysfunction and atrial fibrillation.© 2026 The Author(s). Archiv der Pharmazie published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH on behalf of Deutsche Pharmazeutische Gesellschaft.
Cetaceans face the risk of thromboembolism due to diving and decompression responses. However, cetaceans maintain normal blood circulation. This study explores the molecular mechanisms cetaceans use to mitigate diving-associated hemostatic challenges during diving. Forty-six species were analyzed, including 18 cetaceans, 9 artiodactyls, and 19 other terrestrial mammals. Thirty-nine anticoagulant genes and proteins were examined, identifying 6 genes (ANXA2, ANXA5, FGA, FGB, PLAUR, and PLG) with conserved evolution, 4 genes (ANXA2, PDGFB, SH2B3, THBS1) with positive selection, and 12 proteins (APOH, FGA, FGB, FGG, GP1BA, PLAU, PRKCD, PRKG1, SERPINF2, SERPING1, TMPRSS6, and TMX1) with specific amino acid sites in cetaceans. Ancestral state reconstruction revealed independent evolution of deep diving behavior in different cetacean lineages, particularly within Odontoceti. Correlation analysis linked the evolution of the APOE gene with diving depth, suggesting its role in diving adaptation. These analyses suggest that cetaceans may help reduce the risk of thrombosis during diving by lowering platelet activity, enhancing fibrinolysis, and modulating the coagulation cascade. These analyses suggest that cetaceans may mitigate diving-associated thrombotic risk by modulating platelet activity, fibrinolysis, and the coagulation cascade. Overall, this study identifies candidate anticoagulant-related genes and amino acid substitutions for future functional validation of hemostatic adaptation in cetaceans.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Diabetic wounds often result in non-healing chronic ulcers due to prolonged inflammation, oxidative stress and impaired tissue regeneration. Current hydrophilic wound dressings primarily function as absorption dressings and have limited tissue regeneration capabilities, leading to extended healing periods. Peptides have been identified as therapeutic macromolecules with several cellular modulatory functions. They possess cell adhesion, matrix formation, cell proliferation, angiogenesis and tissue regenerative properties that are essential for wound healing. Therefore, a novel fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl-substituted arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (FRGD) oligopeptide was co-incorporated with mesoporous silica into poloxamer 407/PEG 8000 hydrogel base in five formulations (F0-F4) intended to modulate the impaired regenerative microenvironment of diabetic wounds. Formulations were characterised for pH, texture, rheology, morphology, DSC and FT-IR, and the formulations were evaluated in streptozotocin-nicotinamide-induced diabetic Sprague Dawley rats with full-thickness dorsal excisional wounds using daily topical application for 15 days. Healing outcomes were assessed by wound closure measurements, histology, immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, qRT-PCR and ELISA. The hydrogels exhibited a near-physiological pH (7.26-7.33), suitable hardness (18.0-32.3 g) and a thermoreversible sol-gel transition, with apparent viscosity at low shear rising from ≈ 33.2 kPa·s at 25 °C to ≈ 47.0 kPa·s at 32 °C, indicating in situ gelation at skin temperature. In vivo, F4 formulation with FRGD oligopeptide significantly accelerated wound closure from day 6 onwards (p < 0.01), achieving near-complete re-epithelialisation by day 15 compared to the positive control. Histologically, F4 formulation-treated wounds showed continuous stratified epidermis, organised collagen alignment, hair-follicle regeneration and reduced inflammation. At the molecular level, F4 formulation significantly reduced Tgfb1 and Smad5, normalised Smad2 and reactivated the Wnt/β-catenin pathway (Wnt10a, Ctnnb1). Angiogenic (Vegfa, Pecam1, Hif1a) and ECM remodelling markers were restored, with enhanced COL1A1 deposition and CD31-positive neovascularisation. F4 formulation also suppressed pro-inflammatory mediators (Tnf, Il1b, Il6, Nfkb1) and elevated IL-10 at both gene and protein levels, indicating a reparative immune environment. Collectively, these findings indicate that the FRGD/mesoporous silica hydrogel can modulate the TGF-β/Smad and Wnt/β-catenin pathways and support tissue repair in a diabetic wound model. Long-term remodelling and scar-quantification studies are required to confirm accelerated healing.© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Congenital heart disease (CHD), which represents the most common type of human birth defect affecting approximately 1% of all live births globally, is a leading cause of substantial infant mortality and morbidity worldwide. Although aggregating evidence has convincingly suggested a strong genetic basis underpinning CHD, the inherited components underlying CHD in most cases remain indefinite. Hence, the current investigation aimed to identify and characterize novel genetic variations underlying CHD. A five-generation pedigree with patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) and another group of 174 index patients with CHD were enrolled. In addition, 218 unrelated non-CHD people were employed as controls. Clinical assessments, along with exome-sequencing and Sanger-sequencing examinations, were performed in the study participants. The functional effects of the detected variations in the SMAD5 gene, which encodes a transcription factor required for proper cardiovascular morphogenesis, were measured by dual-luciferase reporter assays. Two new SMAD5 variants, NM_005903.7: c.244 A > T; p.(Lys82*) and NM_005903.7: c.209G > T; p.(Arg70Ile), were detected in a heterozygous status in the PDA pedigree and one PDA case out of the 174 index patients affected with CHD, respectively. Neither of the two SMAD5 variations was observed in the 436 control chromosomes. Quantitative biochemical assays using dual-reporter genes revealed that the Lys82*- or Arg70Ile-mutant SMAD5 possessed diminished transactivation of NKX2.5, an established CHD-causative gene. Furthermore, the Lys82* or Arg70Ile variation nullified or significantly reduced the synergistic transactivation of ID2 between SMAD5 and BMP4, and both ID2 and BMP4 had been causally implicated in the pathogenesis underpinning CHD. The present findings indicate that SMAD5 haplo-insufficient variants contribute to PDA in humans, which sheds more light on the genetic architecture of PDA and implies a potential target for genetic counseling and individualized medicine of PDA in a subgroup of patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
Aortic dissection (AD) is a life-threatening cardiovascular emergency characterized by acute aortic wall injury and high mortality, yet effective pharmacological therapies remain limited. Macrophage infiltration and vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) phenotypic switching from contractile to synthetic states are central to AD pathogenesis, but the mechanisms mediating intercellular communication between macrophages and VSMCs are incompletely understood. Emerging evidence suggests that exosomes can transfer bioactive miRNAs between cells; however, whether M1 macrophage-derived exosomes promote AD progression through specific miRNA delivery and whether they can be engineered for therapeutic intervention have not been clearly defined. In this study, we demonstrate that M1 macrophage-derived exosomes deliver miR-155-5p to VSMCs, where it targets and suppresses SMAD5, activates the RHOA/ROCK pathway, and drives contractile-to-synthetic phenotypic switching, thereby accelerating AD progression. Through comprehensive physicochemical characterization, including TEM, NTA, Zeta potential, and stability assays, we show that M0 macrophage-derived exosomes can be successfully engineered to load Antago-miR-155-5p via electroporation with favorable encapsulation efficiency and colloidal stability. In a BAPN-induced mouse model of AD, intravenous administration of Antago-miR-155-5p-loaded M0-Exos significantly improved survival, reduced AD incidence and aortic dilation, and restored VSMC contractile markers. Biodistribution studies using DiR and CY5 labeling confirmed efficient accumulation of these engineered exosomes in the injured aorta, while macrophage depletion and rescue experiments validated the pathogenic role of M1-derived exosomes. These findings identify a novel M1 exosome-miR-155-5p-SMAD5/RHOA/ROCK signaling axis in AD and establish engineered M0 macrophage-derived exosomes as a promising bioactive material platform for targeted miRNA therapy in aortic dissection.© 2026 The Authors.
Vasculogenic mimicry (VM) in breast cancer is recognized as an important non-endothelium-dependent vascular mechanism that promotes tumor invasiveness, survival, and metastatic potential; however, effective and specific intervention strategies remain limited. In this study, we innovatively constructed a nanodelivery system based on hybrid membranes derived from bacterial outer membrane vesicles and breast cancer cell membranes, termed mTOMV, and loaded it with the natural flavonoid isoliquiritigenin (ISL) to enhance targeted antitumor activity. ISL@mTOMV nanoparticles exhibited a uniform spherical morphology, favorable stability, and good biocompatibility. In vitro experiments demonstrated that ISL@mTOMV significantly inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7 breast cancer cells, while promoting tumor cell apoptosis. Mechanistically, ISL@mTOMV markedly reduced the expression of ACLY, H3K27ac, and SMAD5 and suppressed the activity of the TGF-β/SMAD signaling pathway. In vivo experiments further confirmed that ISL@mTOMV inhibited ACLY-mediated H3K27 acetylation, attenuated SMAD5 transcriptional activation, and blocked TGF-β/SMAD signaling, thereby significantly suppressing VM formation in breast cancer. Collectively, this study proposes a highly biocompatible and tumor-targeted nanotherapeutic strategy, providing a new technical approach and potential translational value for VM intervention in breast cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
BackgroundThe main aim of this study is to identify prognostic biomarkers through integrating bioinformatics analysis in gastric cancer, which is a significant global health challenge.MethodsGene expression datasets related to blood, tissue, and saliva in gastric cancer were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and analyzed. The bioinformatics approaches included the identification of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and enrichment analysis, as well as Kaplan-Meier Plotter survival analysis. The DEGs were also validated through The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Additionally, DEGs-associated lncRNAs and microRNAs were identified. Subsequently, Tumor and Immune System Interaction Database (TISIDB) was utilized to examine the correlation of the genes of interest with immune and molecular subtypes.ResultsTwenty-six common DEGs were identified across blood, tissue, and saliva samples. Among them, 17 genes showed significant expression based on TCGA data. RAB23, LOX, ELL2, ELK3, CENPF, CD44, ANP32E, AKR1C2, and SMAD5 displayed significant association with patient survival. Particularly, ELL2 exhibit decreased expression in all specimens. The results indicated that ELL2 has a significant correlation with the immune system. The ELL2 gene regulates immune cell functions in gastric cancer, potentially influencing cancer immune responses, and tumor progression.ConclusionELL2 downregulated expression and its correlation with survival across blood, tissue, and saliva samples using bioinformatics analysis underscores the necessity of more investigation to fully comprehend its function in cancer immunology.
Breast cancer remains one of the most prevalent malignancies among women, with doxorubicin resistance posing a significant challenge that undermines treatment success and survival outcomes. Aberrant alternative splicing (AS), driven by dysregulation or mutations in splicing factors (SFs), is implicated in cancer initiation, progression, and drug resistance. This study aims to investigate the association of the epithelial cell-specific splicing factor ESRP1 with doxorubicin resistance in breast cancer, focusing on how ESRP1 deficiency correlates with AS changes that promote chemoresistance.We analyzed RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) data from doxorubicin-resistant (MCF7-DR) and parental (MCF7) breast cancer cell lines to identify enhanced alternative splicing events (ASEs) and changes in ESRP1 expression; we further leveraged The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA)-BRCA cohort to construct an SF-RASE correlation network for screening core SFs (including ESRP1). An integrative analysis combining crosslinking immunoprecipitation (CLIP-seq) data and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database was performed to validate ESRP1 binding targets and assess the association between ESRP1-related splicing and cytoskeleton organization.We observed extensive AS changes and significantly downregulated ESRP1 expression in MCF7-DR cells. Integrative analysis identified 61 high-confidence ASEs that correlate with ESRP1 expression. Further bioinformatic integration suggests that ESRP1 expression is associated with the splicing patterns of SPTBN1, MAP2K7, FGFR3, and CYB561A3-four genes involved in cytoskeleton organization-though direct experimental verification to confirm a causal regulatory relationship between ESRP1 and the splicing of these genes is still pending.Our findings suggest that ESRP1 expression is closely associated with doxorubicin resistance in breast cancer cells, with concomitant alterations in key ASEs linked to cytoskeletal remodeling that correlate with ESRP1. Exploring the ESRP1-related splicing network may offer new strategies to overcome chemoresistance and improve patient outcomes. However, the small cell line sample size (n = 2 per group) constrains the robustness of ASE and SF-ASE correlation findings, and these results should be interpreted with caution and require further validation with larger sample cohorts.© 2026. The Author(s).
Identifying the origin of tumor-initiating ability is critical for targeted therapies. While early primordial germ cells (PGCs) inherently possess this ability, our previous study indicated that soma-to-PGC-like conversion (SPLC) facilitates its acquisition in mouse breast tumor cells. This study reports evidence of SPLC activation in the human hepatic tumor cell line HL7721, where tumor cells spontaneously exhibit sequential developmental stages, progressing from somatic tumor cells through intermediate stages to PGC-like and late germ cell-like stages. Knocking out PGC specification inducers (ACVR1, SMAD5, PRDM1, or SOX17) or fate-maintaining genes (NANOG or DDX4) suppressed both SPLC and tumor initiation. Collectively, our findings suggest that SPLC might be activated in human tumor cells, serving as a potential pathway for gaining tumor-initiating ability that involves human PGC-related pathways. These results demonstrate that the acquisition of PGC-like fate in somatic cells drives tumor malignant progression, providing a potential paradigm for targeted cancer therapy.© 2026 The Author(s).
Corneal neovascularization (CNV) and corneal lymphangiogenesis (CL) disrupt corneal immune privilege after injury and drive transplant rejection. This study investigated how the bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4)-Smad pathway regulates both vascular arms of the corneal wound response. Bioinformatic analysis of a rat corneal suture-injury dataset showed that sustained injury induced a coordinated inflammatory, angiogenic, lymphangiogenic, and BMP/TGFβ-Smad transcriptional program, with predicted SMAD5-binding motifs in vascular- and lymphatic-related gene promoters. In vitro, BMP4 inhibited the proliferation and migration of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) and human lymphatic endothelial cells (HLEC) and downregulated CD31, VEGFA, LYVE-1, and VEGFC, whereas the BMP antagonist Noggin reversed these effects. BMP4 increased phosphorylated Smad1/5/8 (p-Smad1/5/8) and promoted its nuclear translocation, confirming canonical pathway activation. In a rat corneal suture model, BMP4 reduced inflammatory-cell infiltration and suppressed CNV and CL, as demonstrated by slit-lamp examination, lineage-resolved CD31/CD45 and LYVE-1/Prox1 co-staining, transmission electron microscopy, and molecular assays; Noggin antagonized each effect. BMP4 further activated corneal p-Smad1/5/8 signaling and induced endogenous BMP4 expression in a Noggin-sensitive manner, suggesting a self-amplifying loop. Together, these findings indicate that BMP4 coordinately restrains the vascular and lymphatic arms of the corneal immune response through canonical BMP4-Smad1/5/8 signaling and may help preserve corneal immune privilege during injury repair.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory vascular disease characterized by lipid deposition, endothelial dysfunction, and cellular senescence, posing a significant threat to the cardiovascular system. As demonstrated in previous studies, phlorizin has been shown to have anti-atherosclerotic effects. However, the precise molecular mechanisms by which this occurs remain to be elucidated. This study aimed to investigate the preventive effect of phlorizin on atherosclerosis and elucidate the molecular network mediated by bone morphogenetic protein 10 (BMP10). A total of 40 eight-week-old Apoe-/- mice were randomly divided into four groups (n = 10): control, model, phlorizin, and phlorizin+sh-BMP10 groups. Following a 12-week period of observation, phlorizin was found to have a significant impact on lipid metabolism disorders, whilst concomitantly inhibiting the formation of aortic sinus plaque. Furthermore, phlorizin was found to inhibit vascular endothelial cell senescence and inflammatory responses, whilst concomitantly modulating oxidative stress levels in mice. Transcriptome sequencing revealed that after phlorizin intervention, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in mouse aortic tissue were significantly enriched in cellular senescence, cell-cell adhesion, and p53 signaling pathways. Among the phlorizin-regulated DEGs involved in atherosclerosis and cellular senescence, BMP10 emerged as a target for further investigation. Dual-luciferase reporter assay confirmed that phlorizin upregulates BMP10 by activating its promoter at the transcriptional level. In vitro experiments confirmed that phlorizin upregulates BMP10 expression, alleviates oxidative LDL-induced cellular senescence and lipid deposition, and enhances cellular angiogenic capacity and migratory function. The anti-AS effect of phlorizin depends on the Smad5 signaling pathway downstream of BMP10. Endothelial-specific BMP10 knockdown verified that the protective effect was specifically mediated by vascular endothelial cells. The efficacy of this approach was further validated through the use of sh-AAV-BMP10, which successfully induced BMP10 knockdown in mice. The knockdown efficiency of BMP10 at mRNA and protein levels was verified in aortic tissue. In addition, the in vitro interference of BMP10 expression in vascular endothelial cells using si-BMP10 further corroborated the anti-atherosclerotic effects of phlorizin, thereby confirming that BMP10 deficiency was entirely sufficient to reverse these effects. The results of molecular docking indicated stable interactions between phlorizin and both human and mouse BMP10. Mechanistically, phlorizin transcriptionally activates BMP10 and functions through the BMP10-Smad5 signaling axis to inhibit endothelial senescence, inflammation, and oxidative stress.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is a hormone-dependent tumor and one of the most prevalent cancers in men worldwide. PCa progression is influenced by its interaction with the surrounding tumor microenvironment, highlighting the role of periprostatic adipose tissue (PPAT), which modulates PCa behavior through the secretion of bioactive molecules (e.g., adipokines). However, the influence of this complex cell communication, particularly under altered metabolic conditions, remains to be fully elucidated.We performed multiomic/bioinformatic approaches integrating transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic data from PPATs and their secretome and circulating/urinary of lipocalin-2 (LCN2) levels using a well-characterized cohort [75 PCa-patients vs. 22 control subjects with benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH)]. Different prostate cell models [normal-like (PNT2) and PCa cells (DU145/LNCaP/22Rv1/PC-3)] were used to test the role of the LCN2/SLC22A17 axis in PCa cell via multiple functional (proliferation/apoptosis/migration/invasion/colony-formation/tumorsphere assays), molecular (transcriptomic/phospho-proteomic/targeted inflammatory proteomics), and preclinical (in vivo xenograft) analyses. External validation was performed using TCGA, Grasso, and Taylor cohorts, alongside longitudinal proteomic data from patient-derived xenograft models.A signature of significantly dysregulated adipokines was identified in PPAT of PCa vs. BPH patients. Unsupervised clustering analyses revealed two distinct molecular phenotypes (T1/T2) with unique adipokine fingerprints associated with differential obesity-related comorbidities (BMI/diabetes/dyslipidemia), being LCN2 the only adipokine showing consistent dysregulation at the transcriptomic/proteomic levels. Functional experiments demonstrated that LCN2 and its receptor SLC22A17 exert context- and transformation state-dependent effects [i.e., in vitro LCN2 and SLC22A17 overexpression promoting migration capacity in normal-like cells, while suppressing aggressive phenotypes (proliferation/invasion/stemness) in malignant models; these findings being also confirmed on in vivo xenograft models]. SLC22A17 expression was progressively lost during PCa progression and associated with significantly poorer survival across multiple independent cohorts. Mechanistically, LCN2 modulated critical oncogenic and inflammatory pathways, including NF-κB, TGF-β, JAK/STAT, and inflammasome-related signaling, and showed obesity-specific associations with arachidonic acid and complement components in the PPAT secretome.These results demonstrate a profound dysregulation of the PPAT-derived adipokine profile in PCa associated with obesity-related comorbidities, and reveal a paradoxical, stage- and context-dependent dual role of the LCN2/SLC22A17 axis as a key modulator of PPAT-PCa microenvironment interactions, with potential implications for inflammation, metabolic signaling, and tumor progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42516068
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42503878
ZIP8, encoded by SLC39A8, mediates cellular uptake of divalent metal ions, including manganese (Mn). Mutations in SLC39A8 cause a congenital disorder of glycosylation (CDG) associated with Mn deficiency (SLC39A8-CDG). Here, we report a novel case of SLC39A8-CDG harboring a previously unreported mutation (p.F206I) in the transmembrane domain 3 (TMD3). The patient showed markedly low serum Mn levels and abnormal glycosylation. To evaluate the functional consequences of this variant, we generated cells expressing hZIP8-F206I. Mn, cadmium, and zinc uptake levels in cells expressing hZIP8-F206I were approximately half of those in cells expressing wild-type hZIP8. The mutant hZIP8 also showed reduced plasma membrane localization. These findings suggest that this previously unreported mutation in TMD3 significantly impairs ZIP8-mediated metal transport, leading to CDG.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Mammals native to hypoxic niches thrive in hypoxic environments, unlike humans and non-adapted species which suffer metabolic dysfunction and disease. Despite progress in understanding hypoxic signaling, the evolutionary strategies enabling niche-specific hypoxia adaptation remain unclear. To address this, we analyzed 21 species representing three hypoxic niches (aquatic deep-diving, terrestrial high-altitude, terrestrial burrowing) and non-hypoxic controls based on identified 25 HIF1A pathway-related core genes. In the coding region, selection pressure analysis initially identified key genes: aquatic deep-diving: CREBBP; terrestrial high-altitude: EGLN1, EGLN2, ELOC and TP53; terrestrial burrowing: EGLN3. Convergent amino acid substitution analysis at the protein level validated these findings and further refined the selection to the most representative key genes for each niche (aquatic deep-diving: CREBBP; terrestrial high-altitude: EGLN1; terrestrial burrowing: EGLN3). Subsequently, non-coding region analysis revealed the specific regulatory patterns of the key genes across the three hypoxic niches: aquatic deep-diving corresponds to acute transient hypoxia adaptation, terrestrial high-altitude exhibits chronic fluctuating hypoxia adaptation, and terrestrial burrowing demonstrates long-term stable hypoxia adaptation. In addition, hypoxia adaptation analysis of the solid tumor in several cancers showed that domain mutations in the core gene CREBBP in the HIF1A signaling pathway contribute to the malignant behavior of cancers. This indicates that distinct hypoxic niches and their key genes have evolved unique regulatory mechanisms for adaptation. The study suggests mammals exploit diverse strategies by modulating key HIF1A pathway gene expression, providing novel insights into hypoxic signaling in evolutionary adaptation to oxygen deprivation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is driven by maladaptive endothelial remodeling, but the transcriptional regulators that couple proliferative stress to arterialized endothelial states remain incompletely defined. E2F transcription factor 1 (E2F1) is classically viewed as a cell-cycle regulator; whether E2F1 functions as a disease-driving node that promotes endothelial arterial programming in PAH remains unknown.We integrated human PAH lung transcriptomic analyses, deconvolution-based endothelial-state scoring, and complementary mouse and rat PH models with bulk RNA-seq, single-cell RNA-seq, pseudotime analysis, and CellChat inference. E2F1 function was tested using adenoviral E2F1 overexpression, pharmacological pan-E2F inhibition with HLM006474, and genetic E2f1 loss on a tamoxifen-inducible endothelial Egln1-deletion background.In PAH lungs, E2F1 was increased and arterial endothelial cell (AEC) fraction and expanded arterial program scores were elevated. Similarly, Egln1 Tie2Cre lungs showed increased E2F1, induction of arterial remodeling genes, and activation of an E2F target program. Genetic loss of E2f1 reduced right ventricle systolic pressure, right ventricle hypertrophy, vascular remodeling, and distal muscularization in Egln1-driven PH mice model. Bulk RNA-seq showed suppression of E2F, mitotic, epithelial mesenchymal transition, and extracellular matrix-remodeling programs. Single-cell RNA-seq showed reduced AEC accumulation, normalized CAP1/CAP2 distribution, and reduced progression along the CAP1-AEC trajectory. CellChat analysis identified loss of an arterial communication hub, including reduced ECM, VEGF, and Notch signaling when E2F1 is loss. Conversely, E2F1 overexpression in human lung microvascular ECs increased proliferation, activated E2F/cell-cycle and Notch/arterial programs. Pharmacological inhibition of E2F via HLM006474 suppressed endothelial proliferation and attenuated Egln1-driven and MCT-induced PH, including reversal of established MCT-PH.E2F1 acts as a disease-relevant transcriptional factor linking endothelial cell-cycle activation to arterial programming, matrix and angiogenic communication programs, and pulmonary vascular remodeling. Genetic or pharmacological E2F inhibition mitigates experimental PH, supporting E2F1 as a therapeutic target in PAH.
Coordination between innate immune signaling and glucose metabolism is fundamental to organismal homeostasis, yet despite decades of study linking immunity and metabolism, the mechanisms by which metabolic cells restrain antiviral innate signaling while preserving glycolytic competence during overnutrition remain poorly defined. Here we identify Tetherin (BST2) as a unique cell-intrinsic immunometabolic checkpoint that couples restraint of type I interferon (IFN-I) signaling to preservation of glycolytic capacity in adipocytes. Tetherin localizes to endoplasmic reticulum and organizes an interactome enriched for antiviral sensing regulators and glycolytic control nodes in adipocytes. Mechanistically, Tetherin directly engages the ubiquitin-dependent degradation machinery NDFIP1 and RNF128 to terminate IRF3 activation, thereby limiting pro-inflammatory, anti-glycolytic signaling and protecting adipocytes from metabolic dysfunction. In parallel, multiomics integration reveals that Tetherin also acts as a scaffold that binds and spatially organizes and activates PFKFB3 to increase glycolytic capacity and restrain MAVS-IRF3 innate immune signalling. In vivo, adipocyte-specific loss of Tetherin amplifies high sucrose diet and high-fat-diet-induced glucose intolerance and liver steatosis, whereas overexpression of human Tetherin in adipocyte suppresses obesity-driven interferon signaling, restores glycolytic pathway, and improves metabolic homeostasis. Orthogonal perturbations in cancer and insulinoma cells further confirm an immunometabolic role for Tetherin. Together, these findings define Tetherin as a dual node immunometabolic checkpoint that couples restraint of antiviral innate inflammatory signaling to maintenance of glycolytic competence, thereby safeguarding adipocyte metabolic homeostasis.
The prognosis for colorectal cancer (CRC) is poor, and the disease is marked by high rates of morbidity and death, highlighting the need for reliable biomarkers. RNA methylation modifications play important roles in cancer biology. However, the integrated role of m6A/m5C/m1A/m7G modifications in CRC has not been fully characterized and requires further investigation.Data from The Cancer Genome Atlas colon adenocarcinoma cohort (TCGA-- COAD) were used as the training set, and GSE17536 served as the validation cohort. We further investigated the probable biological processes and prognostic significance of methylation modifications-related genes in CRC using immune infiltration analysis, enrichment analysis, consistent clustering, Kaplan-Meier (KM) survival analysis, TIMER database exploration, and differential expression analysis. To evaluate the association between risk grade and survival prognosis, medication sensitivity, and immune infiltration, we created the Methylation Modifications Risk Model (MMRM) and confirmed its validity using immunohistochemical (IHC) and immunofluorescence (IF) staining.Using information from 45 methylation modifications-related genes, consensus clustering to identify 3 categories of patients. There were variations across the three groups in terms of immune cell infiltration, survival, and immunological scores. Then, using LASSO (Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator) regression analysis, we constructed MMRM that could distinguish between high- and low-risk populations utilizing BCL10, LEPROTL1, DPP7, P4HA1, SLC39A8, and AC008735.2. Using the validation set, KM survival analysis, TIMER database exploration, and IHC and IF staining, its accuracy was further supported. These findings suggest that m6A/m5C/m1A/m7G are associated with the immunological milieu of CRC tumors, and that MMRM is an excellent predictor of CRC patient survival.This study shows that the integrated analysis of multiple RNA methylation modifications provides a more comprehensive view of epitranscriptomic heterogeneity in CRC than single-modification approaches. The association between the MMRM, immune landscape, and immune checkpoint expression suggests the potential mechanistic link between RNA methylation regulation and tumor immune evasion. These findings suggest that multi-modification-based models may improve prognostic accuracy and help identify CRC patients who may benefit from immunotherapy.In this work, we emphasized the correlation between alterations in the CRC immunotumor microenvironment and the m6A/m5C/m1A/m7G subtypes. We developed and validated MMRM, which is useful for predicting treatment sensitivity, immune infiltration, and survival in patients with colorectal cancer. This contributes to the understanding of m6A/m5C/m1A/m7G methylation and may offer potential approaches to the treatment of colorectal cancer.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Hereditary hypotrichosis comprises a group of nonsyndromic hair growth disorders for which molecularly characterized forms have been predominantly attributed to autosomal inheritance. Here, we identified three unrelated families with X-linked hypotrichosis simplex (XLHS), characterized by normal hair at birth followed by progressive scalp hair sparsity that emerges in childhood or adolescence. Affected males showed more severe and diffuse involvement, whereas affected females exhibited milder, patchy thinning, consistent with X-linked inheritance. Genomic analyses revealed partially overlapping duplications at Xq13.3 in all affected individuals, defining a shared critical interval encompassing TAB3, FTHL17, and part of DMD. Among these genes, FTHL17 is mainly expressed in the testicular system, and DMD is classically associated with muscular dystrophy, whereas neither FTHL17 nor DMD showed detectable differences in protein abundance between affected individuals and healthy control subjects in scalp tissue. In contrast, TAB3 showed increased accumulation in scalp tissue from affected individuals compared with healthy control subjects, supporting TAB3 as the most likely dosage-sensitive candidate gene. Functionally, both an inducible keratinocyte-specific Tab3-overexpressing mouse model and TAB3-overexpressing HaCaT keratinocyte models demonstrated impaired TAK1-dependent canonical NF-κB signaling. In mice, Tab3 overexpression recapitulated the human hypotrichosis phenotype and induced early pathological changes on postnatal day 31, including hyperkeratosis, thickening of the stratum corneum, and inflammatory cell infiltration. Anti-inflammatory treatment improved hair density in mice, and clinical observations in affected individuals suggested potential benefit. Together, these findings define a previously unrecognized XLHS, implicate an increase in TAB3 dosage as its genetic driver, and identify dysregulated TAK1-NF-κB signaling as a candidate pathogenic mechanism.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Human Genetics. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To develop and validate a machine learning(ML)-based integrated predictive model combining genetic, epigenetic, and clinical factors for predicting leflunomide (LEF) treatment response in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients.A total of 357 RA patients (231 in the model development cohort [MDC], 126 in the external validation cohort [EVC]) were recruited from multiple centers in China. Whole-exome sequencing(WES), genome-wide DNA methylation profiling, and comprehensive clinical data were integrated for model development. Feature selection was performed via univariate analysis, Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator(LASSO) regression, and clinical feasibility filtering. Ten ML algorithms were tested, with SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) for interpretability, and external validation to assess generalizability.The final integrated model included 3 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs: ESR1-rs2813563, ABCC2-rs4148396, LMO4-rs983332), 7 differentially methylated positions (DMPs: cg13568171-MECR, cg07694252-ANGPT1, cg13401893-RNF39, cg19814518-UHMK1, cg26370237-HSF5, cg11136343-intergenic, cg15961042-intergenic), and 3 clinical variables (IgG, course of disease, baseline Disease Activity Score 28(DAS28)). The Random Forest (RF) algorithm achieved the highest performance among the ten ML algorithms, with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.84 (95% CI: 0.73-0.94) in the MDC and 0.70 (95% CI: 0.60-0.80) in the EVC-outperforming SNPs-only (AUC: 0.77/0.70) and DMPs-only (AUC:0.80/0.70) models. SHAP analysis identified cg13568171-MECR as the most important predictive feature, and its hypermethylation was associated with an improved response to LEF. Functional enrichment revealed three interconnected biological modules (lipid metabolism, drug transport, endocrine signaling) regulating LEF efficacy. A covariate-adjusted interaction between cg07694252-ANGPT1 and ESR1-rs2813563 was observed in the MDC (P = 0.02).The integrated clinical-genetic/epigenetic RF model enables reliable prediction of LEF response in RA. Multi-omics integration showed superior performance in the MDC, while maintaining robust and non-inferior performance in EVC. The methylation-dependent interaction between cg07694252-ANGPT1 and ESR1-rs2813563 implies a novel context-dependent transcriptional crosstalk mechanism, highlighting the value of multi-omics integration in advancing precision rheumatology.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Liu, Jin, Feng, Dai, Wang, Wang, Chen, Yi, Jia, Dong, Zhang, Fan, Li, Zhao, Jia, Wang, Liu, Xu and Fu.
In aquatic environments, natural and anthropogenic factors commonly reduce dissolved oxygen (DO) and trigger hypoxia, which threatens the health and survival of aquatic organisms. As an important economic fish species in China, pikeperch (Sander lucioperca) is extremely sensitive to hypoxia. However, there are relatively few reports on how hypoxia and reoxygenation affect its intestinal physiology and microbial community. Three treatment groups were set for pikeperch: normoxia (DO = 8.5 ± 0.5 mg/L), 48 h hypoxia (DO = 2.5 ± 0.1 mg/L), and reoxygenation (48 h hypoxia followed by 6 h reoxygenation at normal DO), to evaluate alterations in intestinal histopathology, tight junction gene expression, oxidative stress, hypoxia signaling molecules and intestinal microbiota composition. The results showed that hypoxia significantly decreased muscularis thickness by approximately 32.5% and reduced the expression of tight junction genes (Occludin, Claudin2, and ZO-2). Moreover, hypoxia significantly increased oxidative stress index levels (GSH-Px, CAT, and MDA), markedly upregulated the expression of Bax, Caspase3, and HIF-1α, while significantly downregulating the expression of Bcl-2, Egln1, and Egln2. Notably, reoxygenation elicited partial compensatory effects against these hypoxia-induced changes. 16S rRNA sequencing analysis revealed that hypoxic stress altered the intestinal microbial community composition of pikeperch and increased its diversity. In the hypoxia group, the abundance of the phylum Bacillota, along with the genera Halomonas and Acinetobacter, was significantly elevated, whereas in the reoxygenation group, the genus Lactobacillus increased approximately 180-fold. The results indicated that hypoxia caused intestinal oxidative damage, cell apoptosis, and intestinal microbiota dysbiosis in pikeperch, while short-term reoxygenation achieved partial recovery from these hypoxia-triggered intestinal injuries. The present research provides valuable references for in-depth exploration of the molecular mechanisms behind the response of pikeperch to acute hypoxia and reoxygenation stress, while also offering a novel perspective to understand the mechanism by which hypoxia impacts intestinal health in fish.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Osteosarcoma (OS) is a malignant bone tumor that predominantly affects adolescents. Due to its early metastatic tendency and chemoresistance, long-term survival rates in patients have not shown significant improvement over time, highlighting the urgent need for novel molecular targets and therapeutic strategies. Ferroptosis, a form of programmed cell death driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, offers a promising avenue for overcoming drug-resistant tumors. ATP-binding cassette subfamily B member 6 (ABCB6) belongs to the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily and is mainly localised to the outer mitochondrial membrane, where it participates in haem synthesis and intracellular iron transport. Recent studies have indicated that ABCB6 is aberrantly expressed in various malignancies and regulates tumor progression, yet its role and mechanism in OS remain unexplored. The present study aims to systematically characterise the expression pattern, clinical prognostic significance, and biological functions of ABCB6 in OS, and to dissect the molecular mechanism by which ABCB6 governs ferroptosis in OS cells, thereby providing a theoretical foundation for ABCB6-targeted therapy.Human OS cell lines (HOS and 143B) and human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) were used as research subjects. Stable ABCB6-knockdown OS cell lines were established via lentivirus-mediated RNA interference, and rescue experiments were performed using lentiviral overexpression of hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF1A). Cell proliferation was assessed by cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and colony formation assays; migration was evaluated by Transwell and scratch wound-healing assays; apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry. Ferroptosis-related phenotypic assays were employed to determine the impact of ABCB6 expression on ferroptosis. Transcriptome sequencing was conducted to analyse differentially expressed genes and enriched pathways; chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and dual-luciferase reporter assays were applied to verify the direct binding of HIF1A to the promoter of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and its transcriptional regulation. Iron chelator and proteasome inhibitor interventions were used to validate the regulation of HIF1A protein stability by Fe2+. In vivo, ABCB6-knockdown and control 143B cells were injected subcutaneously into nude mice to establish a xenograft tumor model, and tumor growth was monitored.Both messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein levels of ABCB6 were significantly higher in OS cell lines than in BMSCs (both P<0.05), and analysis of the Therapeutically Applicable Research to Generate Effective Treatments (TARGET)-OS cohort revealed that patients with high ABCB6 expression had markedly worse overall survival than those with low expression [hazard ratio (HR)=2.94, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.36 to 6.36, P<0.05]. ABCB6 knockdown significantly suppressed OS cell proliferation and colony formation, reduced migratory capacity, and increased the apoptosis rate, accompanied by downregulation of N-cadherin and upregulation of E-cadherin and cleaved caspase-3 (all P<0.05). ABCB6 silencing markedly elevated the proportion of Liperfluo-positive cells and dihydroethidium (DHE) oxidation levels, increased intracellular Fe2+ concentration, decreased the glutathione (GSH)/oxidized glutathione (GSSG) ratio, reduced mitochondrial membrane potential, and induced typical ferroptotic mitochondrial morphological changes (shrinkage and cristae reduction) as observed by transmission electron microscope (all P<0.05); these oxidative alterations were reversed by the ferroptosis inhibitors. ABCB6 knockdown downregulated GPX4 at both protein and mRNA levels, whereas solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) expression remained unchanged (P>0.05). Transcriptome sequencing and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis showed significant enrichment of the HIF-1 signalling pathway in the control group (P<0.001); ABCB6 knockdown decreased HIF1A protein expression, and treatment with an iron chelator or a proteasome inhibitor reversed this degradation through Fe2+ chelation or inhibition of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, respectively (all P<0.05). Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (ChIP-qPCR) and dual-luciferase reporter assays confirmed that HIF1A directly binds to the GPX4 promoter and activates its transcription. Overexpression of HIF1A in ABCB6-knockdown cells restored GPX4 expression and significantly rescued the proliferation inhibition, migration impairment, and apoptosis increase caused by ABCB6 silencing, while also restoring mitochondrial membrane potential (all P<0.05). In the xenograft model, tumors from the ABCB6-knockdown group exhibited significantly reduced volume and weight compared with the control group (all P<0.05); immunohistochemistry confirmed downregulation of HIF1A and GPX4, reduced Ki-67 and N-cadherin positivity, and increased cleaved caspase-3 and E-cadherin positivity in the knockdown group (all P<0.05).This study systematically uncovers, for the first time, the oncogenic role and prognostic value of ABCB6 in OS, and delineates the complete "ABCB6/Fe2+/HIF1A/GPX4" axis that governs ferroptosis in OS cells. These findings not only provide a novel biomarker for molecular subtyping and prognostic evaluation of OS, but also establish a theoretical basis for therapeutic strategies that target the ABCB6/HIF1A/GPX4 axis to induce ferroptosis. Future investigations may explore the upstream regulators of ABCB6 and its potential utility in reversing chemoresistance in OS.
To investigate the clinical phenotype and molecular pathogenesis of a hereditary hemochromatosis family with double-site mutations in SLC40A1 .High-throughput exome sequencing was performed to screen for gene mutations, and Sanger sequencing was used to validate the suspected mutations in SLC40A1 . The pathogenicity of the variants was predicted using bioinformatics tools including PROVEAN, FATHMM, and MutPred2. The amino acid conservation was analyzed using Mega software, and the mutated protein models were simulated with PyMol software.The proband and his two twin daughters had significantly elevated serum ferritin levels, while his wife was normal. Genetic testing revealed that the proband and his two twin daughters had heterozygous missense mutations c.94C>T (p.His32Tyr) in exon 2 and c.431A>C (p.Asn144Thr) in exon 5 of SLC40A1 . The wife did not carry any mutations in the SLC40A1 gene. Bioinformatics analysis suggested that p.His32Tyr and p.Asn144Thr were pathogenic mutations, and the related amino acid sites were highly conserved across seven species. Protein modeling showed that the His32Tyr substitution caused the loss of the hydrogen bond between His32 and Asp181 and the formation of an additional hydrogen bond with Gln155, significantly affecting the protein's spatial conformation. The p.Asn144Thr mutation did not cause significant structural abnormalities in the protein.The missense mutations c.94C>T (p.His32Tyr) and c.431A>C (p.Asn144Thr) in SLC40A1 are likely responsible for the iron overload in the proband and may represent the genetic cause of primary hemochromatosis.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42535151 is a review article
Familial pseudohyperkalemia (FP) is an asymptomatic condition characterized by an increased rate of potassium leak from red blood cells (RBC) on refrigeration. The effect of washing on FP RBC was investigated.Ten FP and 20 non-FP individuals were identified from the National Institute for Health and Care Research BioResource. Whole blood was collected and held overnight at 20-24°C, leucocyte-depleted, and processed into red cell concentrates (RCC) in Saline Adenine Glucose Mannitol before cold storage at 4 ± 2°C. On Day 1, RCC were split into six red cell splits (RCS). Two RCS remained non-washed, two were washed on Day 2, and two were washed on Day 14. RBC were tested for quality parameters over storage.Non-washed FP RCS had significantly higher supernatant potassium levels than non-FP throughout 28 days of storage (p < .001). When washed early, FP RCS released significantly higher potassium concentrations at Days 3 and 16 compared with non-FP; while when washed late, FP RCS released similar concentrations of potassium to control by Day 28. No other parameters studied showed a significant difference between FP and non-FP.All refrigerated RBC leak potassium; however, FP RBC leak potassium and reach equilibrium more rapidly than non-FP. RBC washed on Day 2 still contained a high concentration of potassium and the differential rate of potassium loss between FP and non-FP RBC post-wash was as expected. By Day 14, FP RBC lost most of their intracellular potassium and the rate of potassium loss post-wash was reduced.© 2026 AABB.
Immunotherapy offers promising prospects for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC), a highly fatal malignant tumor. Given the association between manganese metabolism and tumor immunity, this study explored the prognostic value and role of manganese-metabolism-related genes (MMRGs) in the ESCC immune microenvironment to uncover their clinical potential.Transcriptomic and clinical data of ESCC were retrieved from TCGA and the GEO as training and validation cohorts, respectively. Patients were clustered and subtyped based on MMRGs, with survival compared. A prognostic risk model was constructed using differential analysis, PPI network, and Cox regression; its relationship with immune characteristics, immunotherapy response, and drug sensitivity was evaluated. SLC40A1 was knocked down in vitro, and its effects on cellular function and drug sensitivity were assessed via qRT-PCR, Western blot, colony formation, Transwell, and CCK-8 assays.ESCC patients were stratified into two MMRG-defined subtypes. Cluster 2 showed significantly worse overall survival (OS) than Cluster 1. An 8-gene prognostic model was established and patients were assigned to RiskScorehigh and RiskScorelow groups. The high-risk group, characterized by worse OS, displayed an immunosuppressive microenvironment with abundant M2 macrophages and high immune-checkpoint expression (PDCD1, CTLA4, TIGIT), along with a lower TIDE score, suggesting potentially greater benefit from immune-checkpoint blockade. The RiskScorehigh group was more sensitive to Gemcitabine and Oxaliplatin, whereas the RiskScorelow group responded better to BI-2536 and NU7441. Cellular functional assays confirmed high expression of SLC40A1 in ESCC cells. SLC40A1 knockdown significantly inhibited cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Additionally, cells exhibited greater sensitivity to Gemcitabine than to BI-2536.MMRG-based subtyping and the reliable prognostic risk score model provide novel insights for predicting prognosis and developing personalized therapy in ESCC.Copyright © 2026 Pan-Arab Association of Gastroenterology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Neddylation regulates diverse cellular processes, yet its role in osteoclast-mediated bone resorption is poorly understood. Here, we identify NAE1 (NEDD8 activating enzyme E1 subunit 1)-mediated neddylation as a critical regulator of postmenopausal osteoporosis and osteoclast differentiation through two distinct regulatory mechanisms. Pharmacological inhibition of Nae1 or myeloid-specific genetic ablation of Nae1 attenuated osteoclastogenesis in vitro and ameliorated ovariectomy (OVX)-induced osteoporosis in vivo without impairing osteoblast function. Mechanistically, Nae1 depletion disrupted intracellular iron metabolism, thereby suppressing ferritinophagy initiation in osteoclast precursors. Concurrently, integrated transcriptomics and affinity purification-mass spectrometry revealed ACSL3 as a direct neddylation substrate. Nae1-mediated neddylation modulates monounsaturated fatty acid (MUFA) biosynthesis, regulating the sensitivity of bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) to ferroptosis. This dual regulatory mechanism coordinately governs ferritinophagy initiation in iron metabolism and the sensitivity to ferroptosis mediated by ACSL3 neddylation, thereby critically influencing osteoclastogenesis. Clinically, serum MUFA levels positively correlated with bone mineral density (r = 0.329, p < 0.05). These findings support MLN4924, a clinical-stage NAE inhibitor, as a potential therapeutic strategy for osteoporosis and define an Nae1-ACSL3-MUFA-ferroptosis axis regulating osteoclast metabolism.Abbreviations: 4-HNE: 4-hydroxynonenal; ACP5/TRAP: acid phosphatase, tartrate resistant; ACSL3: acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 3; ACSL4: acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 4; BGLAP/OCN: bone gamma-carboxyglutamate protein; BMD: bone mineral density; BMDMs: bone marrow-derived macrophages; BV/TV: bone volume per total volume; CHX: cycloheximide; cKO: conditional knockout; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CTSK: cathepsin K; DFO: deferoxamine; MDS: myelodysplastic syndrome; MUFA: monounsaturated fatty acid; NAE1: NEDD8 activating enzyme E1 subunit 1; NCOA4: nuclear receptor coactivator 4; NEDD8: NEDD8 ubiquitin like modifier; NFE2L2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; NFATC1: nuclear factor of activated T cells 1; OC: osteoclast; OVX: ovariectomy; PUFA: polyunsaturated fatty acid; ROS: reactive oxygen species; RUNX2: RUNX family transcription factor 2; SLC40A1: solute carrier family 40 member 1; SLC7A11: solute carrier family 7 member 11; Tb.N: trabecular number; Tb.Sp: trabecular separation; Tb.Th: trabecular thickness; TFRC: transferrin receptor; TNFSF11/RANKL: TNF superfamily member 11; UBE2M: ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 M.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42490122
Emerging evidence suggests that peripheral organs, particularly the liver, may influence brain homeostasis and neurodegenerative diseases. This study investigates the differential expression of Parkinson's disease (PD)-related, oxidative stress, and inflammatory genes in the liver and brain of six-week-old male albino Wistar rats (250-300 g) subchronically exposed to rotenone (ROT, 1.3 mg/kg/day, 35 days, b.w.), a pesticide commonly used to model PD. Relative expression levels were measured using quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) and western blot. Genes involved in mitophagy (Parkin (PARK2), p = 0.0039), oxidative stress response (Parkinson's disease protein (DJ-1), p = 0.0209), lysosomal function (Low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein-1 (LRP1), p = 0.0418; ATPase cation transporting 13a2 (ATP13a2), p = 0.0308), and inflammation (Tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), p = 0.0171) were found upregulated in the brain of ROT-induced rats as compared to control rats, and were also significantly higher than in the liver (p < 0.05). In contrast, significantly higher phosphatase and tensin homolog-induced kinase 1 (PINK1) expression was found in the liver as compared to the brain (p = 0.0198). Notably, these inter-organ differences and transcriptional shifts were absent in the controls. Moreover, the liver exhibited distinct molecular responses, including significant downregulation of ATP13a2 and SNCA (Encoding alpha-synuclein) and overexpression of NFe2-like basic leucine zipper transcription factor 2 (NFe2l2), compared to control rats (p < 0.05). Nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB), and interferon gamma (IFN-γ) showed no significant changes in either tissue (p > 0.05). These findings demonstrate that distinct molecular alterations in the liver and brain following ROT treatment, including differences in the regulation of genes associated with mitophagy, oxidative stress, proteostasis, and inflammation. Our findings demonstrate tissue-specific molecular associations in the liver and brain within the ROT-induced PD model, providing new insights into the pathophysiology of neurodegeneration and identifying potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets for future studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Nanomaterials have been explored for acute kidney injury (AKI) therapy because of their ability to scavenge reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reduce oxidative stress. Black phosphorus nanosheets (BPNSs) show renoprotective potential, but spontaneous surface oxidation may weaken their redox activity and therapeutic efficacy. It remains unclear whether surface engineering can improve the biological activity of BPNSs and modulate ferroptosis and immune activation during AKI.Surface-cleaned BPNSs (sc-BPNSs) were prepared by hydrogen reduction and characterized. Fluorescence-labeled sc-BPNSs were used to examine biodistribution, and therapeutic efficacy was evaluated in mice with AKI. In vitro, mouse renal tubular epithelial cells (mRTECs) were subjected to hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R). Ferroptosis and iron homeostasis were assessed using biochemical, histological, and imaging assays. RNA sequencing was performed in mRTECs and macrophages to identify pathways affected by sc-BPNSs. A tubular epithelial cell-macrophage co-culture model was used to examine intercellular crosstalk after injury.Hydrogen reduction produced sc-BPNSs with reduced surface oxidation, stronger antioxidant activity, and improved renal accumulation. After intravenous administration, sc-BPNSs preferentially accumulated in injured kidneys, reduced ROS accumulation and lipid peroxidation, alleviated tubular injury, and improved renal function. Transcriptomic analysis showed that sc-BPNSs affected pathways related to oxidative stress, iron metabolism, and immune regulation. Mechanistically, sc-BPNSs restored iron homeostasis by sequestering labile iron and regulating transferrin receptor 1/2 (TFR1/TFR2) and ferroportin (FPN1), thereby suppressing ferroptosis in vitro and in vivo. sc-BPNSs also inhibited Ras-MAPK signaling, reduced M1 macrophage activation, and increased M2-associated marker expression. In the co-culture model, sc-BPNSs attenuated the ferroptotic and inflammatory crosstalk between injured tubular epithelial cells and macrophages.sc-BPNSs protect against AKI by reducing oxidative stress, restoring iron homeostasis, suppressing ferroptosis, and modulating macrophage activation. These findings suggest that surface-cleaned BPNSs may provide a therapeutic approach for AKI by targeting both tubular ferroptosis and inflammatory amplification.© The author(s).
To investigate the mitochondrial dysfunction-related genes and their regulatory mechanisms involved in primary open angle glaucoma (POAG), which is characterized by retinal ganglion cell loss.Multi-omic summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) integrating methylation quantitative trait loci (mQTL), expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL), and protein quantitative trait loci (pQTL) were performed for mitochondrial genes with genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of POAG and related traits [intraocular pressure (IOP), macular retinal nerve fiber layer thickness (mRNFL), and macular ganglion cell-inner plexiform layer thickness (mGCIPL)]. Bayesian colocalization was used to support shared causal variants and to define evidence tiers across omics. SPATA20 expression was assessed in a mouse glaucoma model by immunofluorescence and Western blot.SMR identified 64 mitochondrial genes associated with at least one outcome, including ALDH18A1 for POAG and MRPL55 for mRNFL. eQTL analysis revealed 212 associations, prioritizing MRPL20, SLC25A26, ALAS1, and GLYCTK for POAG, ACAD10 for IOP, ALDH6A1, GRPEL2, and YARS2 for mRNFL, and ALDH6A1, TIMM21, TIMM29, LARS2, and METAP1D for mGCIPL. The pQTL layer implicated 21 proteins, including BOLA1 for POAG. Cross-omic synthesis supported 18 genes by ≥2 omics layers. SPATA20 was supported by all three layers, showed a consistent negative association with mRNFL, and in mice was transiently upregulated in retina, with expression in the ganglion cell layer.Multi-omic SMR with colocalization highlights mitochondrial genes for POAG and related traits and nominates SPATA20 as a leading cross-omics signal for mRNFL.International Journal of Ophthalmology Press.
Research into regeneration in sea cucumbers makes a significant contribution to understanding the fundamental mechanisms of this process. However, these studies focus only on the regenerating organs-the intestine and aquapharyngeal bulb. The source of cells for regeneration remains out of sight. The cells of the body wall, under the influence of various activating molecules (growth factors), dedifferentiate, determine the direction of migration, and move toward the injury. Therefore, the aim of this study was to identify the most active growth factor genes in the body wall during the regenerative process in the sea cucumber Eupentacta fraudatrix. We searched for and identified genes of the TGF-β, FGF, Neurotrophin, VEGF families. The sea cucumber Eupentacta fraudatrix possesses a set of growth factor genes characteristic of all echinoderms, with the exception of three orthologs of gdf2 genes. A significant increase in the expression of gdf2, bmp2/4, neurotrophin, and wnt5 genes was detected in the body wall as early as the first day of the regenerative process. A second increase in growth factor gene expression occurred on day 7, during the onset of the proliferation and growth phase. The results of this study identify the most promising genes for further investigation of their role in the signal transduction that triggers regeneration.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Primary knee osteoarthritis (PKOA) is a common degenerative joint disease lacking effective disease-modifying therapies. Identifying circulating proteins associated with PKOA may provide clues for therapeutic target discovery.A two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) study was conducted using protein quantitative trait locus data from deCODE Genetics, including 4,907 plasma proteins measured in 35,559 individuals, and PKOA genetic association data from the FinnGen study, comprising 18,563 cases and 363,345 controls. Single nucleotide polymorphisms were selected as instrumental variables, and sensitivity analyses were performed to assess the validity and robustness of the MR estimates. Bonferroni correction and the Benjamini- Hochberg procedure were applied for multiple testing correction. Protein-protein interaction, drug-gene interaction, and functional enrichment analyses were performed for prioritized proteins. Western blotting and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay were used to provide preliminary biological support for MR-prioritized proteins.Two plasma proteins showed genetic associations with PKOA susceptibility. Genetically predicted higher levels of thioredoxin domain-containing protein 12 (TXNDC12) were associated with an increased risk of PKOA (OR = 1.38, 95%CI: 1.27-1.50, P = 9.33 × 10-15), whereas growth/differentiation factor 2 (GDF2) was associated with a reduced risk (OR = 0.93, 95%: CI; 0.89-0.98, P = 4.17 × 10-2). After multiple testing correction, TXNDC12 remained significant after Bonferroni and false discovery rate (FDR) correction, while GDF2 met the FDR threshold only and should therefore be considered a hypothesis-generating finding requiring further validation. Network analyses identified 21 functionally related genes, including GSTA3, GSTM4, ACVRL1, and BMPR2. Preliminary experimental analyses showed increased TXNDC12 expression and decreased GDF2 expression in PKOA model mice compared with sham controls, consistent with the MR results.Our study identifies TXNDC12 as a genetically supported PKOA-associated plasma protein, while GDF2 remains a hypothesis-generating candidate requiring further validation. These findings provide preliminary associative evidence linking both proteins to PKOA and warrant further mechanistic investigation.Copyright © 2026 Hu, Rao, Luo, Tao, Wu, Sun and Li.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42468617
Macrophagic myofasciitis (MMF) is a rare inflammatory muscle disease linked to the long-term persistence of aluminum-based adjuvants in macrophages. Its clinical spectrum includes fatigue, myalgia, and cognitive impairment, and genetic susceptibility has been suggested. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case suggesting an association between MMF, mild yet clinically relevant iron dysregulation, and variants in key iron regulatory genes, including transferrin receptor 2 (TFR2) and solute carrier family 40 member 1 (SLC40A1), also known as ferroportin.We report the case of a 55-year-old white French woman of Breton maternal origin and predominantly Northwestern European/Celtic ancestry, presenting with chronic fatigue, musculoskeletal pain, and cognitive impairment. Muscle biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of MMF with aluminum deposition in macrophages. Iron indices had remained within the normal range for many years. After menopause, she gradually developed increasing ferritin levels, intermittent elevations in liver enzymes, and transferrin saturation values occasionally approaching or exceeding the upper normal limit, despite regular voluntary blood donations. These episodes showed a recurrent temporal pattern, with increases in ferritin and transferrin saturation coinciding with elevations in hepatic enzymes and clinical worsening. Both biological parameters and symptoms improved following blood donations and later after dietary iron restriction. Direct-to-consumer ancestry genetic testing with secondary raw data analysis identified homozygous variants in TFR2 and heterozygous variants in SLC40A1. Repeated blood donations led to a marked decrease in ferritin and transferrin saturation, normalization of liver enzymes, and transient improvement in several symptoms, but were poorly tolerated, causing prolonged fatigue and episodic dyspnea. After discontinuation of blood donations, progressive dietary iron restriction reduced transferrin saturation and normalized liver enzymes without further phlebotomy, while ferritin gradually increased toward the upper reference range.This case highlights a possible contribution of genetic susceptibility to MMF, involving variants affecting iron regulation and macrophage function. It raises the hypothesis of a gene-environment interaction in which altered iron handling could contribute to both an enhanced hepatic response to modest iron loading and prolonged persistence of aluminum adjuvants within macrophages. Further studies are needed to better define the potential role of iron-related genes, particularly TFR2 and SLC40A1, in MMF susceptibility and to explore whether individualized preventive approaches might be relevant in genetically predisposed individuals.© 2026. The Author(s).
Osteosarcoma (OS) is the most common primary malignant bone tumor in adolescents. Despite standard treatments, including surgery and chemotherapy, the 5-year survival rate for metastatic OS remains <20%, underscoring the need for novel therapeutic targets. F-box and leucine-rich repeat protein 5 (FBXL5) is an E3 ubiquitin ligase that regulates iron homeostasis and exhibits complex functions across different tumors; however, its role in OS is still unclear. The present study employed the MG63 and 143B OS cell lines to investigate the oncogenic potential of FBXL5 through in vitro and in vivo experiments. Lentivirus-mediated FBXL5 knockdown significantly suppressed cell proliferation, migration and invasion, while promoting apoptosis. RNA sequencing analysis after FBXL5 silencing revealed significant alterations in the mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathway, particularly affecting the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MEK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) axis. Consequently, FBXL5 depletion reduced the expression and phosphorylation of Ras, Raf, MEK and ERK. In a mouse xenograft tumor model, FBXL5 knockdown inhibited tumor growth and reduced tumor volume. These findings suggest that FBXL5 promotes OS progression via regulation of the MEK/ERK signaling pathway, suggesting that it may be a useful therapeutic target and potential prognostic indicator; further validation in larger clinical cohorts is warranted.Copyright: © 2026 Ma et al.
Epidemiological and clinical observations linking schizophrenia (SCZ) to increased dementia risk, together with the occurrence of psychosis in Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD), suggest that shared genetic liabilities may contribute to their co-occurrence. Leveraging large-scale genome-wide association study summary statistics for SCZ (53,386 cases and 77,258 controls) and ADRD (111,326 cases and 677,663 controls), we systematically investigated their shared genetic architecture and potential biological mechanisms. We identified three significant local genetic correlations (P < 2.0 × 10⁻⁵) and cross-trait polygenic enrichment between SCZ and ADRD, with 39 genomic loci jointly associated at conjunctional false discovery rate (conjFDR) < 0.05. Fifteen high-confidence genes (CNIH4, CD302, PCGF3, TFR2, EPHX2, SNX32, EFEMP2, CTSW, ASPHD1, TAOK2, INO80E, DOC2A, MAPK3, KANSL1, and XPNPEP3) were consistently prioritized across positional, expression quantitative trait locus, and chromatin-interaction mapping. Tissue- and cell-type enrichment analyses highlighted cerebellar tissues and ependymal-cell-related signals, while pathway analyses implicated synaptic signaling, axonal growth, and presynaptic structural organization. At the locus level, colocalization and transcriptome-wide association analyses converged on 16p11.2, prioritizing INO80E, YPEL3, SLX1B, and TMEM219. Developmental trajectory modeling further revealed region- and stage-specific expression divergence of prioritized 16p11.2 genes, with prominent differences spanning childhood and adulthood. Brain-wide association analysis linked the 16p11.2 lead variant rs9932702 to cortical gray-white contrast (β = -0.062, P = 7.5 × 10⁻¹⁵), a neuroimaging phenotype related to gray-white boundary microstructure and myelination. Finally, bidirectional Mendelian randomization supported a modest directional association between genetic liability to SCZ and increased ADRD risk, but not the reverse direction. Collectively, these findings provide convergent genetic, regulatory, transcriptomic, developmental, and imaging evidence for partial shared liability between SCZ and ADRD, highlighting 16p11.2 and biological processes related to neurodevelopment, synaptic and axonal organization, myelination-related microstructure, and later-life brain vulnerability.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42353577 is a review article
Biallelic FLVCR1 variants have been linked to a phenotypic spectrum ranging from isolated autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa (RP) to syndromic posterior column ataxia with retinitis pigmentosa (PCARP), yet detailed phenotypic characterization remains limited, particularly in Chinese patients.To delineate the ocular and extraocular phenotype of FLVCR1-associated disease and to expand its mutational spectrum.We retrospectively reviewed five affected individuals with biallelic FLVCR1 variants confirmed by whole-exome sequencing (WES) and Sanger segregation analysis, and performed comprehensive ophthalmic assessments, including colour fundus photography, fundus autofluorescence (FAF), optical coherence tomography (OCT), perimetry, and full-field electroretinography (ffERG).FLVCR1-associated disease presented as early-onset severe retinal degeneration with heterogeneous neurological involvement. OCT consistently demonstrated outer retinal thinning with ellipsoid-zone attenuation, and FAF revealed characteristic abnormalities. Cone and rod function on ffERG could be severely impaired within the first decade of life, and high myopia was a recurrent accompanying feature. Neurological manifestations could be subtle or absent at initial presentation, with gait instability and neuropathic features emerging during longitudinal follow-up. We identified two previously unreported FLVCR1 variants, c.734A > G (p.Asn245Ser) and c.1024 + 1G > T.FLVCR1-associated disease can present as early-onset severe retinal degeneration (EOSRD), together with neurological involvement that may evolve over time. These findings refine phenotypic delineation, support multidisciplinary surveillance involving ophthalmology and neurology, and expand the known mutational spectrum of this rare disorder.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDG) are a group of inherited metabolic diseases rapidly growing due to the discovery of new subtypes. As with many genetic conditions, their diagnosis can be challenging, impairing proper patient care and causing additional suffering to patients and their families. We have developed an N-glycomics strategy that can provide insightful information towards diagnosing CDG type II (CDG-II). N-glycans released from the plasma of healthy individuals were labeled with deuterated iodomethane, mixed with samples from known or suspected CDG-II individuals, which were derivatized with standard iodomethane, and analyzed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. After identification, relative quantification of 65 glycans was performed, revealing considerable alterations in the N-glycome of several patients. Notably, reduced fucosylation was observed in patients with FUT8-CDG and SLC35C1-CDG. Additionally, individuals with mutations in the MAN1B1 gene exhibited increased amounts of hybrid and oligomannosidic structures, whereas patients with the Golgi homeostasis disorders COG1-CDG and ATP6V0A2-CDG presented marked increases in hypogalactosylated and hyposialylated structures. Multivariate statistical analysis indicated two undiagnosed patients with alterations similar to ATP6V0A2-CDG patients and another two with a profile similar to MAN1B1-CDG patients. Genetic sequencing (targeted gene panel or whole exome sequencing) of these undiagnosed patients revealed variants in the corresponding genes, confirming the diagnosis obtained from the N-glycomics analysis. Our results demonstrate how the analysis of total plasma N-glycans can be used to identify metabolic disorders and diagnose conditions based on their molecular effects on the glycoproteome.
Metallothionein 1 A (MT1a) is involved in many pathological conditions associated with antioxidant defense and detoxification, including cancer. The aim of this study was to investigate the possible association of MT1A rs11640851, rs8052394, and rs11076161 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with the risk of breast cancer (BC) and clinicopathological features. The study included 100 patients with BC and 100 healthy controls. We genotyped the MT1A SNPs using the polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) and amplification refractory mutation system PCR (ARMS-PCR) techniques. The genotypic and allelic associations of MT1A SNPs with susceptibility to BC were assessed using logistic regression analysis under co-dominant, dominant, and recessive inheritance models. The combined effect of MT1A SNPs on the BC risk was determined using the haplotype analysis. In silico analysis was performed using the Polyphen-2 and RNAsnp online servers. The rs11640851 was found to be associated with a reduced risk of BC in all three inheritance models (P < 0.05). We also found that rs11640851 A allele has a protective effect against BC (OR: 4.81; 95% CI: 2.65-8.72; P < 0.0001). For rs8052394/rs11076161, carriers of AG/AA combined genotype had a 3.84-fold increased risk for developing BC. Also, the haplotypes CAC and CGA (rs1164085, rs8052394, rs11076161) were significantly associated with BC susceptibility. The rs11640851 was predicted to be detrimental using Polyphen-2 server. This study provides the first evidence that rs11640851 is significantly associated with a reduced risk of BC suggesting its protective role in the development of BC. Two haplotypes CAC and CGA were also identified as risk factors for BC.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12291-025-01323-2.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Association of Clinical Biochemists of India 2025. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Breast cancer (BC) is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide and has a high recurrence rate. This study aimed to evaluate the expression levels of three biomarkers: DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1), histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1), and metallothionein 1E (MT1E) in BC patients.Peripheral blood and tissue samples from 95 female BC patients and 50 age-matched (±5 years) healthy female controls were analyzed using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Diagnostic potential was assessed through receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. In silico analyses identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs), Gene Ontology (GO) terms, pathway enrichment, correlation analysis, miRNA-mRNA interactions, and drug-gene networks.Both experimental and computational results revealed significantly higher levels of DNMT1 and HDAC1 but lower levels of MT1E in BC patients compared to controls (p-value < 0.0001). Furthermore, tumor expression of these genes correlated with molecular subtypes, showing distinct expression patterns in triple-negative BC (TNBC). Advanced-stage tumors also exhibited increased HDAC1 and DNMT1 expression. GO enrichment analysis indicated that these DEGs are involved in cell division, differentiation, and nuclear functions. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis linked DNMT1 to the p53 pathway, HDAC1 to mismatch repair, and MT1E to cytokine receptor interactions. The strongest gene correlations were DNMT1-ILF3, HDAC1-RBBP4, and MT1E-MT2A. Additionally, miRNA-mRNA interaction analysis revealed that DNMT1, HDAC1, and MT1E are targeted by multiple miRNAs, with the top interacting miRNAs being hsa-miR-103a-3p for DNMT1, hsa-miR-34a-5p for HDAC1, and hsa-miR-126-3p for MT1E. DNMT1 showed the highest number of miRNA interactions among the three genes. Moreover, 98 drugs were found to interact with these three genes. ROC analysis demonstrated promising diagnostic performance, with areas under the curve (AUC) of 0.916 for DNMT1, 0.792 for HDAC1, and 0.683 for MT1E (95% confidence interval [CI]).These findings suggest that DNMT1, HDAC1, and MT1E show potential as complementary biomarkers in BC diagnosis. However, further validation in larger cohorts and functional studies are warranted.Copyright © 2026 Sedigheh Akhtartavan et al. Analytical Cellular Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Understanding which genes are involved in mutagenesis is essential for developing cancer prevention and treatment strategies; establishing protectors of the genome has revolutionized cancer biology. Here, we describe metallothionein (MT) proteins as previously uncharacterized protectors against mutagenesis. MT is a heavy metal binding protein essential for zinc homeostasis and protection against heavy metal cytotoxicity. Because zinc binds approximately 10-15% of the proteome and is critical for processes such as DNA repair and mitochondrial health, MT loss is expected to disrupt these processes. We hypothesized that MT loss induces genomic instability by impairing DNA repair and mitochondrial function. In this study, the consequences of MT deficiency in high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSC) were investigated by knockdown of the most highly expressed MT, MT2A. Loss of MT2A resulted in the impaired DNA repair pathway base excision repair (BER), leading to increased mutagenesis. MT2A deficiency produced mitochondrial dysfunction, characterized by a decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential, glycolysis, oxidative phosphorylation, amino acids, and an imbalance of nucleobases. Together, these defects reflect cellular states associated with increased cancer aggressiveness. These findings identify MT as a fundamental hub maintaining genomic and metabolic integrity.
A study was conducted to determine the effects of the level and source of copper (Cu) on Cu concentrations and the mRNA expression of Cu regulatory proteins in the small intestine of pigs. Thirty weanling castrated male pigs, approximately 21 days of age, were stratified by weight and assigned to dietary treatments consisting of control (6.7 mg Cu/kg from feed ingredients; no supplemental Cu) or 225 mg supplemental Cu from either Cu sulfate (CuSO4) or tribasic Cu chloride (TBCC). Pigs were harvested on days 35 or 36. The soluble Cu and mucosal Cu concentrations in the duodenum, proximal jejunum, and ileum were higher (p < 0.001) in Cu-supplemented pigs versus controls. Duodenal soluble and mucosal Cu concentrations were higher in (p < 0.05) CuSO4 versus TBCC-supplemented pigs. However, proximal jejunum and ileum mucosal Cu were higher (p < 0.05) in TBCC versus CuSO4 pigs. The intestinal copper transporter 1 (CTR1) expression was lower (p < 0.05) in Cu-supplemented pigs compared to control pigs but was not affected by the intestinal section or treatment x section. The duodenal mRNA expression of metallothionein1a (MT1a) was greater (p < 0.05) in Cu-supplemented pigs and was greater in CuSO4 than TBCC-fed pigs. These data demonstrate that both the Cu level and source affect the Cu uptake and mRNA expression of Cu regulatory proteins throughout the small intestine of weanling pigs.
Clear cell Renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) represents the most common malignant tumor of the kidney. Metallothionein 2A (MT2A) is abnormally expressed in various cancers, but its functional role and underlying mechanism in RCC remain to be elucidated.The expression of MT2A in RCC and its adjacent tissues was analyzed using the public TCGA and GEO databases. The effects of MT2A on cell proliferation, migration and invasion were investigated by using CCK-8, Transwell, and wound healing assays. Potential downstream targets and pathways were screened by transcriptomic and metabolomic sequencing. The regulatory mechanisms were further validated via qRT-PCR, Western blotting, ChIP, immunohistochemistry, luciferase reporter assays, and CUT&Tag. Moreover, the in vivo function of MT2A was investigated using a nude mouse xenograft tumor model.MT2A was significantly upregulated in ccRCC and correlated with clinical stage and overall survival. MT2A enhanced ccRCC metastatic potential and epithelial-mesenchymal transition, with a moderate, late-onset effect on cell proliferation, via the TFAP2A/YAP axis. MT2A was shown to enhance lactic acid accumulation and H3K18 lactylation. Further studies confirmed that MT2A contributed to TFAP2A transcription via HBO1-mediated H3K18 lactylation. Consistently, MT2A knockdown in vivo enhanced the tumor-suppressing effect of sorafenib.MT2A could promote the malignant progression of ccRCC through the TFAP2A/YAP axis, which is controlled by HBO1-mediated H3K18 lactylation. Targeting MT2A effectively inhibits tumor growth and enhances the efficacy of sorafenib, providing a novel potential therapeutic target for ccRCC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Aluminum (Al³⁺) is a widespread environmental metal with potential effects on the intestinal epithelium. In this study, we evaluated the impact of dietary concentrations of aluminum on barrier integrity, histological organization, and gene expression in a 3D human intestinal tissue model. Tissues were exposed to increasing concentrations of aluminum (0, 5, 20, and 50 ppm) for 12 days to mimic environmental chronic exposure through ingestion. Transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER) measurements revealed a significant decrease only at the highest dose (50 ppm) on day 12, indicating a damage to the epithelial permeability. This was supported by a marked downregulation of OCLN and CLDN-5 expression, key genes involved in tight junction integrity. Aluminum permeation across the tissue was confirmed via Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectroscopy (ICP-AES), indicating dose-dependent penetration. Furthermore, gene expression analysis showed significant upregulation of MT-1E and MT-2 A (markers of cellular response to metal exposure) while MT-1 A remained unchanged. The present data demonstrate that repeated exposure to 50 ppm of Al3+ impacts intestinal barrier function and alters the tissue organization in the human intestinal epithelium.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42412256 is a review article
We hypothesized that acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and sepsis share hypoxia-related transcriptional signatures that reflect overlapping immunopathogenic mechanisms. This study aimed to identify shared hypoxia-related genes and associated regulatory features using bioinformatic analyses. Gene expression datasets GSE28750 and GSE76293 were analyzed separately after within-dataset normalization. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were defined using |logFC| > 1 and adjusted P < .05. Hypoxia-related genes were compiled from GeneCards, PubMed-curated studies, and molecular signatures database, harmonized by official gene symbols, and intersected with common DEGs from both datasets to identify hypoxia-related DEGs (HRDEGs). Gene ontology enrichment, gene set enrichment analysis, interaction network analysis, immune infiltration analysis, and protein-protein interaction analysis using STRING with a minimum interaction score of 0.400 were subsequently performed. Eleven HRDEGs were identified: capping actin protein, gelsolin-like, CKS2, CLU, FLVCR1, FUNDC1, HPSE, LCN2, MAPK14, PFKFB3, PLAC8, and TDRD9. Gene ontology enrichment suggested involvement in cellular iron ion homeostasis- and iron ion transport-related processes. Gene set enrichment analysisindicated enrichment of hypoxia- and inflammation-related pathways. Under the stricter STRING threshold (score ≥ 0.400), the protein-protein interaction network showed a limited but biologically plausible interaction pattern among the HRDEGs. Predicted miRNA, ribonucleic acid-binding protein, transcription factor, drug, and immune infiltration analyses further suggested that these genes may participate in inflammatory and immune regulatory processes relevant to ARDS and sepsis. This bioinformatic study identified shared hypoxia-associated genes in ARDS and sepsis and generated testable hypotheses regarding their possible regulatory and immunologic relevance. These findings should be interpreted as exploratory and warrant experimental validation in future studies.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Peri-implant soft tissue dehiscence deficiencies (PSTDs) are common esthetic complications in the anterior maxilla, yet the parameters that protect the peri-implant soft tissue margin (STM) over time remain unclear. Previous studies have identified several risk indicators, but longitudinal thresholds capable of predicting stable STM have not been established. This study aimed to evaluate 5-year STM behavior and identify clinically meaningful predictors of long-term stability.This prospective longitudinal study included patients with anterior single implants with or without PSTD. Clinical and ultrasonographic examinations were performed at baseline (T0) and 5 years (T5), and included STM stability (primary outcome), PSTD incidence, mucosal thickness at 1 and 3 mm from the STM (MT1 and MT3), keratinized mucosa (KM) width, buccal bone thickness (BBT), and buccal bone dehiscence (BBD). Logistic regression, receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) analysis, stratified subgroup analysis, and correlation testing were performed.A total of 133 implants in 124 patients were evaluated. PSTD prevalence increased from 51.1% at T0 to 74.4% at T5, (incidence 47.7%). MT3 was the dominant predictor of STM stability (AUC = 0.998). The optimal statistical threshold was 2.01 mm, while a clinical stability threshold of 2.23 mm yielded 100% stability in this dataset. Other predictors (MT1, KM, BBT) were significant only in univariate models. In implants without PSTD at T0, MT3 alone predicted stability, whereas in implants with PSTD at T0, multiple variables influenced STM outcomes.MT3 is the critical determinant of 5-year STM stability at anterior implants. In our cohort, achieving a MT3 ≥ 2.23 mm was found to be associated with a long-term stable peri-implant soft tissue.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Periodontology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Academy of Periodontology.
Osteosarcoma is the most common malignant bone disease. The current clinical treatment is difficult to deal with the high heterogeneity within tumors and the cellular dynamic remodeling during the metastasis process of osteosarcoma.Cell annotation was performed using the SingleR algorithm in combination with specific marker genes. Further subcluster analysis was conducted on osteoblasts, myeloid cells, fibroblasts, malignant cells and T/NK cells. Cell differentiation trajectories were constructed using Monocle2 and scTour for pseudotime analysis. The spatial transcriptome data was deconvolved using the CARD algorithm to verify the spatial distribution of cells.Compared with primary tumors, the microenvironment of metastatic tumors undergoes significant remodeling, manifested as a significant increase in the proportions of fibroblasts, mast cells and T/NK cells, while the proportions of osteoblasts and myeloid cells decrease. Spatial bifurcation pattern revealed a divergent evolutionary path from subtype 2 to other subtypes as the metastatic state. It identified YY1 in subtype2 as a spatial regulator of IER5L in the osteosarcoma microenvironment. The study also observed the reprogramming of immune cells and stromal cells in metastatic foci. In particular, the differentiation trajectory of TAMs (SLC40A1 → MT1G → CXCL10) suggests that macrophages undergo functional transformation during tumor progression under an immunosuppressive microenvironment.It is the most forward time for the large-scale integration of multi-center single-cell data and spatial transcriptomics profiles covering the primary, recurrent and metastatic stages, systematically depicting the dynamic changes in cell composition during the progression of osteosarcoma.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Chronic liver diseases caused by metabolic, viral, and mixed etiologies frequently converge on fibrosis and cirrhosis; however, the extent to which fibrogenic mechanisms are shared across etiologies versus disease-specific remains incompletely defined.Four GEO datasets were analyzed: GSE135251 (NAFLD-related fibrosis), GSE84044 (HBV-related fibrosis), GSE197112 (mixed-etiology fibrosis), and GSE14323 (cirrhosis versus normal). Differential expression analysis was performed separately within each dataset using DESeq2 for RNA-seq and limma for microarray data. Shared genes were identified by cross-dataset intersection. For downstream network and ordination analyses, gene-level matrices were harmonized across platforms and batch-adjusted using ComBat, with PCA before and after correction provided in the supporting information. WGCNA and random forest were then applied to the integrated matrix, and the final seven hub genes were defined as genes supported by recurrent differential expression, co-expression prioritization, and random forest feature importance. The final seven-gene hub panel was further used for exploratory age-stratified visualization and regression analysis. Functional enrichment, miRNA-mRNA mapping, PPI analysis, PCoA, UMAP, RT-qPCR, and western blotting were performed.Across the four cohorts, 434-787 differentially expressed genes were identified per dataset, and 26 genes were consistently upregulated across all etiologies. Enrichment analyses converged on extracellular matrix organization, TGF-β, PI3K-Akt, MAPK, and Wnt-related signaling. The final seven hub genes were MAOA, LOC102724200, SLC16A3, GPM6B, CST7, MT3, and ZNF142. Exploratory age analyses in the age-annotated GSE84044 cohort suggested that a subset of the final seven hub genes varied with age; however, these findings should be interpreted cautiously because age metadata were not uniformly available across all public cohorts. RT-qPCR in 10 fibrotic and 10 nonfibrotic liver tissues confirmed upregulation of the seven hub genes, and western blotting supported increased protein abundance of CST7, MT3, SLC16A3, and MAOA.This integrative analysis identifies both shared and etiology-associated transcriptional programs in liver fibrosis and defines a multistep strategy for prioritizing conserved hub genes. The seven validated hub genes represent candidate biomarkers for fibrotic liver injury, whereas the exploratory age-related findings based on this seven-gene panel remain hypothesis-generating. This workflow may support future cross-platform transcriptomic studies of hepatic fibrosis.Copyright © 2026 Wenyan Yang et al. Canadian Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The development of high-performance covalent organic framework (COF)-based photocatalysts is hindered by their dense layer stacking, lack of intrinsic active sites, and limited light absorption. Herein, we report a "functionalization-assisted exfoliation" strategy that simultaneously addresses these challenges by integrating plasmonic Ni-Co-Mo sulfide nanocavities (NCMS) into a COF matrix. The in situ formation of interfacial CoN and MoN bonds acts as "molecular wedges" to exfoliate the bulk TP-BD covalent organic framework into ultrathin nanosheets (∼1.4 nm) while concurrently establishing covalent "electron highways" for rapid charge transport. The plasmonic NCMS core serves a dual role: it drives the structural transformation and provides dual-pathway plasmonic enhancement via intense photothermal heating (raising the local temperature to ∼99 °C) and hot-carrier generation, which collectively boost light harvesting, optimize reaction kinetics, and elevate the electron reservoir density. The optimized hybrid, denoted MT-3, exhibits exceptional photocatalytic hydrogen evolution rates of 95.6 and 56.4 mmol g-1 h-1 under full-spectrum and visible-light irradiation, respectively, with an apparent quantum yield of 25.6% at 420 nm. This performance represents a 956-fold enhancement over the pristine COF and surpasses that of the benchmark Pt-loaded COF by a factor of 18. Comprehensive spectroscopic and microscopic studies elucidate the synergistic interplay of morphological engineering, plasmonic energy conversion, and interfacial electronic coupling. This work provides a versatile design principle for converting inert organic semiconductors into efficient, stable photocatalysts for solar-to-fuel conversion.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Mutations in CTNNB1 are recognized oncogenic drivers of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); however, the downstream effector molecules and their prognostic significance remain incompletely defined. In this study, we developed a mutant CTNNB1 gene signature (MCGS) to predict CTNNB1 mutation status and to evaluate the prognostic relevance of the constituent genes.Hydrodynamic tail vein injection mouse models of HCC were generated by co-expressing Sleeping Beauty transposon/transposase and mutant CTNNB1 with either AKT-c-Myc or AKT-NRASG12V, followed by RNA sequencing of tumor tissues. Cross-species differential expression analyses were performed by integrating data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC). Machine-learning models were trained to identify MCGS. The prognostic value of signature genes was validated using public transcriptomic datasets and immunohistochemistry on an institutional tissue microarray (TMA) cohort.Mutant CTNNB1 markedly accelerated hepatocarcinogenesis in mice, leading to earlier tumor development and reduced survival. Transcriptomic profiling revealed enrichment of the Hippo and MAPK signaling pathways in CTNNB1-mutant HCCs. We established a 15-gene MCGS using a Categorical Boosting algorithm, which accurately predicted CTNNB1 mutation status (AUC = 0.957 in TCGA; 0.893 in ICGC). Among these genes, metallothionein-3 (MT3) emerged as a prognostic marker, with high expression independently associated with poorer overall survival in public datasets. Consistently, elevated MT3 protein expression on the TMA was also independently associated with worse overall and recurrence-free survival in our institutional cohort.We identified a robust mutant CTNNB1 gene signature capable of accurately predicting CTNNB1 mutation status, and uncovered MT3 as a novel, clinically relevant prognostic biomarker in HCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Isoginkgetin (IGG) is a natural bioflavonoid isolated initially from leaf extracts of Gingko biloba trees used in traditional Chinese medicine. We previously reported that IGG strongly inhibits nascent protein synthesis by activating the shared ATF4-dependent branches of the integrated stress response (ISR) and the unfolded protein response (UPR). Here we sought to characterize an ATF4-independent response to IGG that leads to increased expression of mRNAs encoding metallothionines (MTs) and a zinc transporter (ZnT1). We confirm that IGG induces MT1F, MT1X, MT2A and ZnT1 mRNAs in several independent cell lines. We also find that siRNA-mediated knockdown of the metal regulatory transcription factor 1 (MTF-1) reduced basal and IGG-induced levels of these mRNAs. Curiously, we did not detect increased expression of these proteins following exposure to IGG. To study the dissociation between transcription and translation of metal responsive mRNAs, we created a stable cell line expressing a luciferase reporter gene under control of five metal response elements. Our positive control (ZnSO4) increased luciferase activity as expected but IGG reduced luciferase activity. Importantly, IGG, and other inhibitors of translation, prevented the increase in luciferase activity when combined with ZnSO4 without affecting the ZnSO4-induced increase in luciferase mRNA levels. We propose that IGG activates ATF4- and MTF-1-dependent transcriptional responses but that IGG simultaneously impairs nascent protein synthesis and masks the metal response at the protein level.Copyright: © 2026 Peneycad et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Aortic dissection (AD) is a life-threatening vascular emergency characterized by medial degeneration and vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) loss. Although disruption of zinc homeostasis has been reported in patients with AD, how zinc ions and their regulatory proteins influence VSMC survival and disease progression remains unknown. In this study, single-cell analyses revealed that ferroptosis and zinc-related pathways were significantly enriched in VSMCs from patients with AD, showing a strong correlation between the two processes, and zinc levels were markedly elevated in dissected aortas. Furthermore, zinc exposure promoted ferroptosis in cultured primary human aortic smooth muscle cells (HASMCs). By integrating transcriptomic data from AD tissues and VSMC ferroptosis models, metallothionein-3 (MT3), a zinc-binding protein, was identified as a candidate regulator. Functional studies demonstrated that MT3 overexpression markedly attenuated lipid peroxidation, reduced reactive oxygen species accumulation, and protected VSMCs from ferroptotic cell death, whereas MT3 knockdown increased oxidative stress and exacerbated ferroptotic injury. Mechanistically, MT3 directly interacted with glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), enhanced its protein stability, without altering its transcriptional expression, and promoted glutathione synthesis, thereby activating the glutathione-GPX4 antioxidant defense pathway and mitigating oxidative injury. Notably, restoration of GPX4 effectively rescued the pro-ferroptotic effects of MT3 deficiency on HASMCs. These findings establish a previously unrecognized zinc-MT3-GPX4 axis as a critical determinant of VSMC ferroptosis in AD, linking zinc dysregulation to medial degeneration, and highlighting MT3 as a potential mechanistic candidate target to preserve vascular integrity and limit disease progression. KEY MESSAGES: Impaired zinc homeostasis is implicated in the development of aortic dissection (AD). Zinc-binding protein metallothionein 3 (MT3) mitigates lipid peroxidation and protects vascular smooth muscle cells from ferroptosis. MT3 directly interacts with glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) to prevent its lysosomal degradation, thereby enhancing the glutathione-GPX4 antioxidant defense pathway. MT3 is a potential mechanistic candidate target for preserving vascular integrity and limiting AD progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Nanobody-based therapeutics that incorporate multifunctional drug molecules into nanobodies (nanobody-drug conjugates, NDCs) have gained substantial attention as promising therapeutic strategies in biomedicine due to their unique ability to precisely target specific cancer cells. However, the efficacy of NDCs depends on efficient internalization of the antibody-antigen complex to facilitate intracellular drug release in the lysosome, and not all surface antigens suffer from internalization upon antibody binding, posing a significant limitation to the effectiveness of NDCs. To address this gap, we rationally designed and constructed MT3 and anti-PD-L1 nanobody (Nb-PD-L1:KN035) fusion protein that enabled self-assembly into nanoparticles during the expression process. The MT3 domain of MT3-KN035 fusion protein nanoparticles did not interrupt the binding affinity between KN035 and PD-L1. In addition, MT3-KN035 protein nanoparticles not only migrated from the PD-L1-positive cell surface to intracellular lysosomes in vitro but also hold a huge targeting potential for tumor regions in vivo. Meanwhile, MT3-KN035 conjugated multiple aldoxorubicin (hereafter, these conjugates are referred to as MT3-KN035-DOX) via an acidic cleavable linker; MT3-KN035-DOXHigh induced tumor apoptosis and exhibited significant antitumor efficacy via facilitating immune cell infiltrations. This work provides a novel therapeutic strategy via nanobody-mediated target engagement and internalization that achieves synergistic therapeutic efficacy between chemotherapy and immune checkpoint blockade therapy.
Membrane type 5-matrix metalloproteinase (MT5-MMP, MMP-24), an η-secretase involved in amyloid precursor protein processing, is a promising but unexplored target in Alzheimer's disease. We report here the identification of a first nonpeptidic hit for MT5-MMP through a structure-guided approach. A homology model of the MT5-MMP catalytic domain was built from the MT3-MMP/batimastat structure and validated by both docking and experimental inhibition data obtained with batimastat (IC50 = 3 nM). To account for binding-site plasticity, especially that of the S1' pocket, molecular dynamics and ensemble docking were applied to a zinc-binding group (ZBG)-focused library of 3851 compounds. Although the initial screening campaign yielded only weakly active candidates, analysis of docking poses identified a relevant scaffold for optimization. Replacement of a carboxylic acid ZBG by a hydroxamic acid led to compound 17, which inhibited MT5-MMP with an IC50 of 6 μM and established a first nonpeptidic hit for future optimization.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Do variants in YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein C2 (YTHDC2) cause male infertility in humans, and what is the underlying pathogenic mechanism?Biallelic pathogenic missense variants in YTHDC2 disrupt the mitotic-to-meiotic transition, causing meiotic arrest and non-obstructive azoospermia (NOA) or severe oligozoospermia in humans.YTHDC2 is a male germ cell-specifically expressed RNA helicase essential for meiotic progression. In mice, loss of Ythdc2 leads to meiotic arrest at the early prophase. However, clinical evidence linking YTHDC2 variants to human male infertility and the underlying mechanisms involved remains to be established.This study utilized a large cohort comprising 56 consanguineous families and 89 sporadic infertile men diagnosed with NOA or severe oligozoospermia. Through extensive genetic screening, we specifically identified five infertile men from three unrelated families who harbored candidate pathogenic variants in the YTHDC2 gene. The overall study design encompassed genetic screening followed by in vivo functional validation using a knock-in mouse model.Whole-exome sequencing (WES) and bioinformatic analyses were performed on the patient cohort to screen for candidate pathogenic variants. Human meiotic defects were characterized via histological analyses and immunofluorescence staining of testicular sections. To validate the pathogenicity of the identified variant, a knock-in mouse model harboring the equivalent variant found in patients was generated by CRISPR/Cas9 technology, and analyzed for spermatogenesis and meiosis using spermatocyte spreading and immunofluorescence staining, quantitative real-time PCR, and western blotting.Two homozygous missense variants in YTHDC2 were identified in four NOA patients from two unrelated consanguineous families (MT1: c.3491A>T, p. E1164V; MT2: c.2639G>A, p. R880H), and compound-heterozygous missense variants were identified in a sporadic patient with severe oligozoospermia (MT3: c.1145A>G, p. D382G; MT4: c.292A>G, p. R98G). The MT1 variant (p.E1164V) is not located in any annotated domains, the other three variants reside within known functional domains of YTHDC2 protein. The knock-in mouse model carrying the MT1 variant recapitulated the patient's phenotype, with both exhibiting meiotic prophase arrest during spermatogenesis. Mechanistically, significantly decreased levels of MEIOC and RBM46, two YTHDC2-interacting proteins required for meiotic transcriptome reprogramming, were observed in the patient's testes. Concurrently, mitotic cell cycle regulators such as CCNA2, CCND1, and WEE1 were aberrantly upregulated in the patient's testicular cells expressing meiosis markers, indicating a failure to silence the mitotic program upon meiotic entry.This study is limited by the small sample size of patients with pathogenic YTHDC2 variants. While the MT1 variant was functionally validated in vivo, the specific pathogenic mechanisms of the other variants identified require further investigation.Our findings provide direct clinical evidence establishing the pathogenicity of YTHDC2 variants in human NOA. The study reveals a conserved role for YTHDC2 in safeguarding the mitotic-to-meiotic transition by suppressing mitotic gene expression while maintaining the meiotic program. These findings expand the genetic spectrum of male infertility and suggest YTHDC2 screening as a promising approach for the genetic diagnosis of male infertility.This work was supported by the National Key Research and Developmental Program of China (2022YFA0806303 to H.Z., and 2024YFC2706801 to H.J.); the National Natural Science Foundation of China (32470898 to H.Z., W2412028 and 32330032 to Q.S., 32470915 to B.S.); the State Key Laboratory of Reproductive Medicine and Offspring Health, Nanjing Medical University (SKLRM-K202405); and the Open Research Project of Fuyang Normal University (FYKFKT24023). The authors declare no competing interests.N/A.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Metallothionein 4 (MT4) is a low-molecular-weight, cysteine-rich metal-binding protein belonging to the metallothionein family. It exhibits unique skin developmental and differentiation inhibitory activity when functionally impaired and regulates skin cell growth and disease through multiple mechanisms. However, its exact role in cell fate determination remains unknown. Here, we utilized the CRISPR/Cas9 system to generate a homozygous Mt4 knockout (Mt4-/-) mouse embryonic stem cell (mESC) line. This cell line maintains normal morphology, pluripotency, and the ability to differentiate into all three germ layers. It provides a valuable resource for investigating the mechanisms underlying skin diseases caused by MT4 gene mutations.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Zinc transporters, including ZIP6 (SLC39A6, also known as LIV-1) and ZIP10 (SLC39A10), are reportedly involved in breast cancer progression and metastasis. We aimed to clarify the association of the expression of zinc transporters with clinicopathological features and prognosis in breast cancer. We retrospectively included 200 patients who underwent surgery for invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast (invasive diameter ≥ 10 mm) at our institution between January 1, 2010 and June 30, 2023. Immunohistochemical staining for ZIP6 and ZIP10 was performed, and their expression levels were evaluated. Survival analyses were performed by stratifying patients into four groups based on combined ZIP6 and ZIP10 expression (high/low). We found that the expression levels of ZIP6 and ZIP10 showed a statistically significant positive correlation. Low ZIP6 expression was associated with aggressive clinicopathological features, including a higher Ki-67 labeling index, higher histological grade, and larger tumor size. Although survival differences did not reach statistical significance, combined evaluation of ZIP6 and ZIP10 expression revealed distinct survival tendencies among the expression groups. These findings suggest that combined assessment of ZIP6 and ZIP10 expression may provide additional prognostic information beyond ZIP6 expression alone. Future studies with larger cohorts and longer follow-up are warranted to validate these findings.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Japanese Society for Clinical Molecular Morphology.
Ion fluxes, regulated by membrane potential (Vm), are vital to white fat adipocyte (WFA) function and adipogenesis. These processes present a novel target to intervene in obesity. To explore this possibility we applied transcriptomics, immunohistochemistry, electrophysiology and adipogenesis assays alongside siRNA and pharmacological tools to identify the chloride-permeable channel(s) that determine Vm of WFA and to test whether those channels: specifically SWELL1 (Lrrc8 family), TTYH2/3 and EAAT1 regulate adipocyte differentiation and adipogenesis. RNA sequencing and qPCR indicated confirmed the existence of Lrrc8a, Lrrc8b, Lrrc8c, Lrrc8d, Ttyh2, Ttyh3, Slc1a1 and Ano1 transcripts across different primary fat depots of rats, mouse, as well as a subset within 3T3-L1 adipocytes. The corresponding protein products: SWELL1 (Lrrc8x), TTYH2/3 (Ttyh2/3) and, EAAT1 (Slc1a1) were found in both the plasma-membrane and cytoplasm of primary and differentiated 3T3-L1 adipocytes whereas TMEM16A protein was only in primary adipocytes and undifferentiated 3T3-L1 pre-adipocytes. Functional studies showed that although siRNA knockdown or pharmacological blockade of SWELL1, TTYH2/3, or EAAT1 proteins did not affect Vm or electrophysiological characteristics, SWELL1 and TTYH2/3 knockdown significantly suppressed adipocyte differentiation and adipogenesis. Together, these findings reveal a role for SWELL1, TTYH2/3, and EAAT1 in adipogenesis and highlight their potential as targets for therapeutic strategies in obesity management. Although the precise chloride permeability responsible for adipocyte Vm remains to be defined, this work advances our understanding of adipocyte biology.© the author(s).
Febrile seizures (FS), the most common early-childhood neurological emergency, have a poorly understood impact on the maturing glutamatergic system. We present a detailed spatiotemporal analysis of transcriptional dynamics of key glutamatergic components during a critical postnatal window. Using a hyperthermia-induced FS model in rats at postnatal day 10, we measured mRNA levels of ionotropic (NMDA, AMPA) subunits, metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) groups I-III, glutamate transporters (Slc1a1-3), and glutamine synthetase (Glul) across the dorsal/ventral hippocampus, temporal and medial prefrontal cortices at P14, P21, and P50. For selected targets (GluN2A/2B, GluA1/2, EAAT2), protein abundance was analyzed by Western blotting to test how closely transcriptional changes are reflected at the protein level. We identified robust region- and age-specific developmental trajectories for all targets, including the expected maturational shift in NMDA receptor subunits. FS disrupted these programs, causing widespread downregulation of NMDA and AMPA receptor subunits, mGluRs, and astrocytic transporters in the dorsal hippocampus and temporal cortex at P14. Importantly, FS prevented the normal developmental increase in the Grin2a/Grin2b mRNA ratio in the dorsal hippocampus at P21. Notably, protein abundance for selected targets did not mirror transcriptional changes at the examined time points, suggesting post-transcriptional buffering or delayed translation. This mismatch suggests that transcriptional changes may precede detectable proteomic alterations during circuit maturation, although alternative explanations, such as delayed translation or post-translational regulation, cannot be excluded. Our findings identify candidate transcriptional correlates that may contribute to long-term neurocognitive vulnerability, and highlight the potential importance of timing when targeting glutamatergic pathways for neuroprotection.Copyright © 2026 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Icaritin (ICT) is a natural isoprenylated flavonoid compound extracted from the traditional Chinese herbal medicine Epimedii Folium. Metallothioneins (MTs) are a group of low-molecular-weight, cysteine-rich proteins that play crucial roles in oxidative stress, metal homeostasis, and cancer drug resistance. The anticancer effect and detailed regulatory mechanism of ICT in breast cancer remain to be fully clarified. This study aims to investigate the anti-tumor activity of ICT in breast cancer and explore its underlying molecular mechanism.In vitro assays were performed in breast cancer cell lines to evaluate cell viability, intracellular Fe2+ levels, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, and protein expression of the ferroptosis-associated antioxidant molecules SLC7A11 and GPX4 following ICT treatment. A ferroptosis inhibitor was employed to confirm the causal role of ferroptosis in ICT's efficacy. Key target genes regulated by ICT were screened via transcriptome sequencing, and functional validation was conducted through MT1X overexpression to assess its impacts on NF-κB pathway activation, cell cycle distribution, and the SLC7A11/GPX4 axis. A breast cancer xenograft mouse model was established to verify the in vivo anti-tumor effect and mechanism of ICT.ICT induced ferroptosis and suppressed viability in breast cancer cells, as evidenced by intracellular Fe2+ accumulation, elevated ROS levels, and downregulated SLC7A11 and GPX4. This anti-tumor effect was reversed by a ferroptosis inhibitor, confirming ferroptosis as the key mechanism of ICT. Transcriptomic analysis and functional validation showed that ICT markedly upregulated MT1X. MT1X overexpression inhibited NF-κB signaling via reducing IκBα and p65 phosphorylation, induced G1 cell cycle arrest, and suppressed the SLC7A11/GPX4 antioxidant axis, synergistically enhancing ICT's anti-proliferative activity. In vivo, ICT-mediated MT1X upregulation promoted ferroptosis and inhibited tumor growth.This study elucidates that ICT exerts anti-breast cancer effects by activating MT1X to induce ferroptosis and cooperatively inhibit the NF-κB signaling pathway. Our findings reveal a novel molecular mechanism of ICT against breast cancer, and provide a new therapeutic target and experimental basis for breast cancer treatment.Copyright © 2026 Zhan, Qiu, Wang and Sun.
Cadmium, a ubiquitous environmental toxicant, poses significant risks to human health, including ocular surface damage. This study investigates the link between cadmium exposure and pterygium, a common ocular fibrovascular proliferative disorder, using human conjunctival fibroblasts (HconFs) as an in vitro model. We demonstrated that low-dose cadmium chloride (CdCl2, 1 μmol/L) significantly enhanced HconFs proliferation and disrupted cell cycle progression by reducing the G₀/G₁ phase population and increasing G₂/M phase entry. Transcriptome analysis identified 724 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), predominantly enriched in metal ion response, detoxification, and mineral absorption pathways. Bioinformatic screening and validation revealed significant upregulation of FGF18, PTPRC, NDP, and MT1X, alongside downregulation of MX1. Critically, FGF18 and MT1X were consistently upregulated in clinical pterygium tissues, suggesting their pivotal role in linking cadmium toxicity to disease pathogenesis. Furthermore, calcium chloride (CaCl₂, 3 mmol/L) co-treatment effectively mitigated cadmium-induced proliferation, supporting a protective role of calcium via competitive inhibition. These findings indicate that cadmium promotes HconFs proliferation by disrupting intracellular metal homeostasis and activating proliferative and fibrotic gene programs, including MT1X and FGF18, via pathways potentially involving ERK/MAPK and Wnt/β-catenin signaling, thereby contributing to pterygium development. This study provides novel insights into environmental etiologies of pterygium and proposes calcium supplementation as a potential preventive strategy against cadmium-related ocular surface disorders.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Polo-like protein kinase 1 (PLK1) is aberrantly overexpressed in colorectal cancer (CRC) and promotes malignant progression. However, whether PLK1 contributes to redox adaptation remains unclear. Here, we identify PLK1 as a critical hub that integrates glutathione (GSH) metabolism with mitochondrial dynamics to sustain redox homeostasis in CRC cells. Mechanistically, PLK1 drives STAT3-dependent SLC1A1 transcription to fuel GSH synthesis, thereby keeping reactive oxygen species (ROS) at a non-toxic level. When PLK1 is inhibited, GSH depletion triggers a burst of ROS, which acts as a signaling switch to disrupt mitochondrial homeostasis. Accumulated ROS drive two parallel pathways: (i) ROS promote proteasomal degradation of DUSP6, leading to sustained DRP1-Ser616 phosphorylation and excessive mitochondrial fission; (ii) ROS activate JNK, which translocates to mitochondria, binds MFN2, and promotes its ubiquitin-dependent degradation, thereby blocking mitochondrial fusion. This ROS-dependent collapse of mitochondrial dynamics results in cytochrome c release and intrinsic apoptosis. Our findings reveal that PLK1 sustains CRC survival by coupling GSH metabolism with redox-sensitive control of mitochondrial dynamics. These findings identify the ROS-mediated metabolic-mitochondrial axis as a potential therapeutic vulnerability in CRC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The escalating prevalence of HIV-1 drug-resistant variants and the toxicity limitations of conventional antiretroviral therapies necessitate therapeutic strategies with novel mechanisms of action. This study focuses on HIV-1 capsid (CA), an essential replication-related viral protein. We developed CA-targeted proteolysis-targeting chimera (PROTAC) degraders by conjugating PF74-derived CA ligand IIA-4 with VHL E3 ligase ligand. Among these, VHL-3 exhibited potent anti-HIV-1 activity in MT-4 cells (EC50 = 3.0 ± 1.5 nM), a 300-fold improvement over PF74. Mechanistic studies confirmed VHL-3 dose- and time-dependently reduced CA levels in HEK293T cells (early stage, DC50 = 812 nM; late stage, DC50 = 252 nM) via a proteasome-driven pathway. Notably, it effectively degraded clinically relevant CA-resistant mutants (N74D, K70R). This work pioneers the development of CA-targeted degraders, providing a framework for next-generation anti-HIV therapies with high potency and resistance barriers.
Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is an autoimmune disease characterized by progressive β-cell destruction, yet current risk stratification tools, which rely mainly on genetic susceptibility and autoantibody profiles, remain insufficient for accurately predicting disease progression. We aimed to characterize macrophage-related inflammatory transcriptional activity in T1D and to develop peripheral blood-based biomarkers for diagnosis and risk stratification.We integrated bulk RNA-seq, single-cell RNA-seq, and spatial transcriptomic data from human islets with public and in-house peripheral blood transcriptomic datasets. Macrophage heterogeneity and remodeling trajectories were analyzed in the islet microenvironment, and machine learning was used to derive tissue- and blood-based proinflammatory macrophage-related genes (PMRG). Diagnostic and prognostic models were then constructed and validated in peripheral blood cohorts, including a longitudinal islet autoimmunity (IA) cohort. SHAP analysis was applied to improve model interpretability. Independent PBMC RT-qPCR and mouse pancreatic immunofluorescence were performed to validate selected PMRG-related genes.T1D islets showed marked immune remodeling with myeloid enrichment and five distinct macrophage subtypes. Pseudotime analysis identified a pro-inflammatory macrophage trajectory and 265 PMRGs, from which a 9-gene islet-derived PMRG (iPMRG) was obtained. Spatial transcriptomics supported the association of iPMRG-high macrophage signals with disrupted β-cell regions, and CellChat analysis inferred altered inflammatory communication programs. In peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), the iPMRG-based diagnostic classifier distinguished T1D from healthy controls with an optimism-corrected AUC of 0.736. For prognosis, a 15-gene prognostic PMRGs was used to construct a risk score that, when integrated with clinical variables, predicted progression from IA to clinical T1D with time-dependent AUCs of 0.825, 0.814, and 0.860 at 12, 36, and 60 months, respectively. SHAP analysis identified the PMRG risk score as the dominant predictor and highlighted six core driver genes (PID1, TFPI2, SERPINB2, SOX4, DUSP2, and MT1X). The computational findings were further supported by independent validation in PBMCs and mouse pancreatic tissues.Our study highlights the heterogeneous and dynamic nature of macrophage remodeling in the T1D islet microenvironment, which is translated into accessible peripheral blood signatures. The resulting diagnostic and prognostic models provide an interpretable framework for T1D risk stratification and may support future strategies for earlier detection and precision prevention.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Zhou, Li, Chen, Liu, Yang, Zhao, Su, Bian, Chen, Shen, Qin, Chen, Xu, Shi, Zhang, Yang and Gu.
Solute carrier family 1 member 1 (SLC1A1, also known as excitatory amino acid transporter 3) is a member of the EAAT family of sodium-dependent glutamate carriers. Ferroptosis is a nonapoptotic cell death that is caused by phospholipid peroxidation promoted by radical reactions involving iron. Here, we identify SLC1A1 as a driver of ferroptosis resistance in PDAC cells and delineate the cause of its upregulation. SLC1A1 was overexpressed in PDAC tumors and correlated with poorer prognosis. Knockdown of SLC1A1 reduced cystine uptake by inhibiting glutamate transport, leading to decreased cysteine, GSH, and glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) content, and the production of ROS and lipid peroxidation. Knockdown of SLC1A1 enhanced the ferroptosis sensitivity of PDAC cells and promoted ferroptosis inducer RSL3-induced ferroptosis and tumor suppression. Long noncoding RNA RASSF1-AS1 bound to CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) protein, thereby inhibiting CTCF-mediated SLC1A1 transcription. Overexpression of RASSF1-AS1 enhanced the ferroptosis sensitivity of PDAC by blocking glutamate transport in vitro and in vivo, which was reversed by restoring CTCF/SLC1A1 signaling. Taken together, RASSF1-AS1 enhances the ferroptosis sensitivity of PDAC by inhibiting the CTCF/SLC1A1 axis-mediated intracellular transport of glutamate.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Sepsis and acute kidney injury (AKI) are life-threatening conditions often coexisting as sepsis-associated AKI (S-AKI). However, their shared molecular mechanisms and immune heterogeneity remain unclear. This study aims to identify robust diagnostic biomarkers applicable to both conditions and to elucidate their diverse immune microenvironments using integrated transcriptomic approaches.Transcriptomic datasets for sepsis and AKI were analyzed, with multiple cohorts used for training and external validation. Differential gene expression and WGCNA identified key modules, while LASSO and Random Forest algorithms screened shared hub genes. A diagnostic nomogram was constructed and evaluated using ROC and decision curve analyses. Single-cell RNA sequencing data were further analyzed to determine cellular localization, functional pathways, and intercellular communication.Four hub genes (FBXO21, FLOT1, TMC6, and KLRB1) were identified as robust diagnostic biomarkers for both sepsis and AKI, demonstrating strong predictive performance across validation cohorts. Single-cell analysis revealed that these genes were enriched in specific immune cell populations and injured renal cells, and were closely associated with T-cell activation and immune signaling pathways. Cell-cell communication analysis further inferred distinct ligand-receptor interactions that may underlie immune crosstalk in both conditions.We identified a reliable four-gene diagnostic signature shared by sepsis and AKI and characterized their shared immune heterogeneity and inferred intercellular communication networks. These findings provide potential targets for early diagnosis and therapeutic intervention in sepsis-associated renal injury.Copyright © 2026 Huang, Fei, Huang, Huang and Lu.
The commercial pork production sector prioritizes genetic improvements in lean meat percentage to enhance profitability and meet consumer preferences. The Pietrain pig, a premier terminal sire breed renowned for its exceptional muscularity and leanness, serves as an ideal model to decipher the genetic underpinnings of these traits. This study investigated two key measures of leanness, backfat thickness and loin muscle depth, in two distinct Pietrain populations to elucidate the genetic architecture underlying these traits. We estimated genetic parameters and performed a meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies, identifying ABCD4, LTBP2, NUMB, and SLC30A9 as candidate genes. To further investigate these associations, we integrated information on molecular quantitative trait loci from the PigGTEx project and single-cell transcriptomic resources. This integrative approach prioritized ABCD4 as a key candidate gene regulating backfat thickness. Functional validation in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes revealed a novel dual regulatory role for ABCD4: its knockdown suppressed cell proliferation while simultaneously stimulating adipogenic differentiation, as demonstrated by the upregulation of key markers. Our findings positioned ABCD4 as a critical modulator of fat deposition, likely through its influence on the core adipogenic transcriptional network. By establishing an analytical framework that integrates large-scale sequencing data from Pietrain pigs with functional validation, our study addresses a key gap in understanding the genetic basis of leanness and provides novel insights for precision breeding.© 2026 Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.
Fragile X-associated Tremor/Ataxia Syndrome (FXTAS) is a late-onset neurodegenerative disorder caused by FMR1 premutation CGG repeat expansions (55-200 repeats). The epigenetic landscape of the FXTAS brain remains uncharacterized. We performed genome-wide DNA methylation profiling of postmortem prefrontal cortex tissue to identify differentially methylated positions (DMPs) and candidate genes, and sought protein-level support for a neuroinflammatory signal.DNA methylation was profiled in postmortem prefrontal cortex (Brodmann area 9) from 27 male FXTAS cases and 29 male controls using the Illumina MethylationEPIC array (EPICv1 and EPICv2 platforms), merging 721,802 common probes. Surrogate variable analysis (SVA) controlled for confounders. DMPs were defined by |Δβ| > 0.10 and FDR < 0.05; exploratory Reactome 2024 pathway analysis was performed on the DMP-associated gene list. Targeted proteomic profiling was performed in the same brain region using the Olink (proximity extension assay) Inflammation panel in 9 FXTAS cases and 12 controls, with SVA-adjusted differential abundance analysis, and concordance assessment against a prior mass spectrometry dataset.We identified 108 significant cg-type DMPs mapping to 80 genes (50 hypermethylated, 58 hypomethylated in FXTAS). The strongest signal was CYP2E1 (7 concordant hypomethylated DMPs, mean Δβ = -0.143), an oxidative stress gene also implicated in Parkinson's disease. FTCD , a one-carbon cycle enzyme, carried 5 hypermethylated DMPs (mean Δβ = +0.210). A cluster of DMP-associated genes with established roles in innate immune and NF-κB signaling, TRAF3 (the single most significant DMP among the inflammation genes, hypermethylated), BATF, RCOR1 , and MSI2 ; they pointed toward neuroinflammatory dysregulation. Additional genes included LINGO1 (myelination inhibitor), SYT3 (synaptic vesicle), and SLC39A4 (zinc transporter). Exploratory Reactome enrichment using the DMP-associated gene set nominated themes including neuroinflammation resolution, axonal growth inhibition, zinc homeostasis, and CYP2E1 metabolism at nominal significance (p<0.05); however, the gene-to-pathway mapping rate was low and no pathway survived correction for multiple testing. Olink proteomic analysis independently identified 60 significantly altered inflammation proteins (59 downregulated), including CXCL8, CXCL10, IL6, IL15, IL18, TLR3, IRAK1/4, and complement C1QA, which were directionally concordant with prior mass spectrometry data.This integrated study reveals a genome-wide epigenetic signature in the FXTAS prefrontal cortex implicating oxidative stress, myelination failure, zinc dysregulation, one-carbon cycle disruption, and most notably a coordinated set of epigenetically altered genes governing innate immune and NF-κB signaling. Convergence of TRAF3 hypermethylation with independent downregulation of TLR3 and NF-κB-pathway proteins at the protein level supports a coherent, cross-platform model of dysregulated neuroinflammatory signaling in FXTAS, identified here through individual gene- and protein-level convergence rather than formal pathway enrichment. FTCD hypermethylation proposes a self-reinforcing epigenetic loop via SAM depletion. These multi-omic findings establish FXTAS as a disorder of pervasive epigenetic reprogramming and nominate candidate genes for future mechanistic and therapeutic investigation.
Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) is the most common type of primary endocrine malignancy. The tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) and genetic alterations play crucial roles in the progression of PTC. With the advance in research, there has been a heightened focus on re-evaluating molecular targeted therapies and identifying novel targets through molecular biology-based approaches. This study aimed to identify robust prognostic biomarkers and to construct a reliable risk model for patients with PTC by integrating multiomics data.RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) data from six Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets and genome-wide association study (GWAS) data were integrated to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and facilitate Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis for causal inference. The CIBERSORT algorithm was employed to evaluate immune cell infiltration. A prognostic risk model was constructed via least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) Cox regression and validated in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and GEO cohorts. Functional experiments, including Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), transwell, and wound-healing assays, were conducted to investigate the role of the key gene ALOX15B in PTC cells.We identified seven PTC-associated genes (ALOX15B, TIAM1, TMC6, GPX3, RAP1GAP, JUN, and PAPSS2) through expression quantitative trait loci and MR analysis. A robust three-gene risk model (ALOX15B, RAP1GAP, and JUN) was established. Patients in the high-risk group exhibited significantly poorer progression-free survival (PFS), which was confirmed to be an independent prognostic factor by multivariate analysis [hazard ratio =1.355, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.052-1.746; P=0.02]. The high-risk group was characterized by an immunosuppressive TIME-including decreased CD8+ T-cell and increased regulatory T-cell abundance-higher tumor mutational burden, and a higher frequency of BRAF mutations. Conversely, the low-risk group showed a higher prevalence of NRAS mutations. In addition, functional assays in vitro revealed that ALOX15B markedly enhanced the proliferative, migratory, and invasive capacities of PTC cells.A novel three-gene signature was developed and was demonstrated to be an independent prognostic indicator for patients with PTC. This model effectively reflects the intrinsic characteristics of the TIME and genomic instability and can inform risk stratification and therapeutic targeting. Due to its oncogenic activity, ALOX15B may represent a viable therapeutic target in PTC.© AME Publishing Company.
To investigate the role of mitochondrial zinc (Zn) homeostasis in chemoresistance of osteosarcoma.Zinc levels were measured in osteosarcoma cells treated with methotrexate (MTX). The expression of SLC30A9 was analyzed in chemoresistant cells. SLC30A9 knockdown and overexpression osteosarcoma cell lines were constructed for functional studies, assessing mitochondrial zinc levels, mitochondrial function, and MTX sensitivity. Subcellular localization of SLC30A9 and its zinc efflux function were determined by immunofluorescence staining and mitochondrial zinc detection. The opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP), release of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), activation of the cGAS-STING pathway, NF-κB signaling, and NDRG1 transcription were analyzed. Xenograft mouse models were established to evaluate the effect of SLC30A9 knockdown combined with a STING agonist.MTX treatment elevated mitochondrial zinc levels, leading to mitochondrial dysfunction. SLC30A9 was highly expressed in chemoresistant osteosarcoma cells. Knockdown of SLC30A9 caused abnormal mitochondrial zinc accumulation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and reversed MTX resistance. SLC30A9 was localized to mitochondria and mediated zinc efflux; its loss triggered mtDNA release into the cytosol via mPTP, activating the cGAS-STING pathway, which in turn promoted NF-κB-driven transcription of the pro-apoptotic molecule NDRG1. In vivo, SLC30A9 knockdown combined with STING-agonist3 enhanced the chemotherapeutic effect of MTX.SLC30A9 maintains a low-zinc environment and mitochondrial integrity, thereby inhibiting mtDNA-mediated cGAS-STING pathway activation. Targeting SLC30A9 to disrupt this protective mechanism provides a novel therapeutic strategy for overcoming chemoresistance in osteosarcoma.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42303625 is a review article
Manganese is an essential trace element required for various biological functions but in excess is neurotoxic and leads to significant health concerns. The mechanisms underlying manganese neurotoxicity remain poorly understood. Neuropathological studies of affected brain regions reveal astrogliosis, neuronal loss, and neuroinflammation. Here, we present a novel manganese-dependent mechanism linking mitochondrial dysfunction to neuroinflammation. We found that manganese disruption of the mitochondrial transcriptome processing results in the accumulation of double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). This dsRNA is released into the cytoplasm, where it activates the cytosolic sensor MDA5, triggering type I interferon responses and inflammatory cytokine production. This mechanism is evident in 100 d human cerebral organoids, where manganese increased mitochondrial dsRNA and induced inflammatory responses in mature astrocytes. Similarly, we observed an increase in mitochondrial dsRNA content, the activation of an inflammatory transcriptome and the production of cytokines in female and male mouse brains carrying mutations in the Slc30a10 gene, a model for human hypermanganesemia with dystonia 1 disorder. These findings highlight the previously unrecognized role of mitochondrial dsRNA in manganese-induced neuroinflammation and provide insights into the molecular pathogenesis of manganism. We propose that this mitochondrial dsRNA-induced inflammatory pathway could be active in other neurological diseases caused by environmental or genetic factors.Copyright © 2026 the authors.
Zinc oxide nanoparticles (ZnO NPs) have been recognized as emerging contaminants, and their increasing environmental release has been verified to be associated with multiple adverse developmental consequences. However, data on the childhood stunting and the underlying mechanisms of ZnO NPs remain largely unclear. In this study, we employed Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans), a valuable animal model with high genetic similarity to humans, to explore the effects of ZnO NPs on larval development and reveal the subcellular mechanisms. Our findings showed that ZnO NPs significantly induced developmental delay, characterized by reduced body length/width and fertilized egg numbers (p < 0.05). Subcellular studies indicated that ZnO NPs markedly disturbed mitochondrial function, triggered excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, activated ferritinophagy, and promoted ferroptosis. With the help of ferroptosis inhibitor ferrostatin-1, iron chelator deferoxamine, autophagy inhibitor chloroquine, and ROS scavenger catalase, we found that mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC)-derived ROS triggered ferritinophagy-mediated ferroptotic cascade, leading to developmental delay when exposed to ZnO NPs. Notably, through RNAi-mediated silencing of slc-30a9 and the use of zinc chelator TPEN, the data further indicated that ZnO NPs downregulated the mitochondrial zinc exporter SLC-30A9, which served as the key initiating event in ROS accumulation. Overall, our results identify the SLC-30A9-mediated ferritinophagy-ferroptosis axis as a key mechanism driving ZnO NP-induced developmental delay, providing potential therapeutic targets for nanoparticle-related health disorders.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Manganese (Mn) is an essential trace element whose intracellular homeostasis is tightly controlled by specialized membrane transporters. Dysregulation of Mn transport leads to pathological Mn accumulation and severe human disease; however, efficient and quantitative cell-based methods for assessing Mn2+ transporter activity remain limited. Here, we present an optimized cellular Fura-2 manganese extraction assay (CFMEA) that enables robust quantification of cellular Mn content and provides a normalized framework for assessing relative Mn2+ transport activity in a high-throughput format. This protocol integrates Fura-2-based fluorescence detection of Mn2+ at the Ca2+ isosbestic excitation wavelength with dsDNA quantification to normalize dsDNA levels in cell extracts and immunoblotting to account for transporter protein expression levels. Cells expressing Mn2+ transporters are exposed to MnCl2 in 96-well plates, washed to remove extracellular Mn2+, and lysed in a Fura-2-containing extraction buffer. Fluorescence quenched by Mn2+ is quantified and converted to cellular Mn content using a cell-free Mn-Fura-2 standard curve and then normalized to dsDNA content and protein abundance to determine relative transporter activity. This workflow provides a relatively sensitive, reproducible, and low-cost approach for comparative analysis of Mn2+ transporters and their variants across multiple cell types. The protocol is demonstrated using the Mn2+ efflux transporter SLC30A10 in HEK293T cells and is readily adaptable for studying other Mn2+ transport pathways. Key features • High-throughput, cell-based assay for quantifying cellular manganese content and assessing relative Mn2+ transporter function. • Enhanced accuracy and reproducibility by integrating double-stranded DNA quantification and protein normalization into the cellular Fura-2 manganese extraction assay (CFMEA) workflow. • Workflow compatible with diverse cell types and Mn2+ transporters, including systems overexpressing SLC30A10 in HEK293Tcells.©Copyright : © 2026 The Authors; This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC license.
Gastric cancer (GC) continues to be a major contributor to global cancer mortality, underscoring the need to elucidate its molecular mechanisms to develop effective therapies. Cuproptosis, a copper-dependent form of cell death, exhibits tumor-suppressive effects in GC. Clinical specimens revealed elevated expression of solute carrier family 39 member 4 (SLC39A4) in GC tissues, correlating with poor prognosis. However, the role of SLC39A4 in GC remains unclear. Using lentiviral transduction in AGS and MKN-45 cell lines, we established stable monoclonal strains with SLC39A4 overexpression and knockdown for functional studies. SLC39A4 promotes GC cell proliferation both in vitro and in vivo. CuCl2 and elesclomol treatment induced cuproptosis, which was attenuated by SLC39A4 overexpression but potentiated by SLC39A4 knockdown, as confirmed through proliferation assays and cuproptosis marker analyses in cell cultures and xenograft models. Mechanistically, the m6A reader protein YTHDF1, frequently overexpressed in GC patients and known to inhibit elesclomol-induced cuproptosis, bound to SLC39A4 mRNA and stabilized its transcripts. Dual-luciferase assays demonstrated that mutation of the m6A site within SLC39A4's coding sequence abolished YTHDF1-mediated regulation. These findings establish SLC39A4 as a promoter of GC progression through cuproptosis suppression, modulated by YTHDF1 via m6A-dependent mRNA stabilization, revealing potential therapeutic targets for GC treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
We conducted a two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) study including only European men to test for a causal relationship between serum urate (SU), gout, and prostate cancer. Using genome-wide association (GWAS) data, we generated instrumental variables (IVs) associated with gout and urate. These included 20 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with gout but not urate (non-hyperuricemia compartment of gout) and four SNPs from loci containing urate transporter genes for an IV representing urate levels. MR methods included the inverse-variance weighted (IVW) method, MR-Egger regression, and the weighted median method. The non-hyperuricemia compartment of gout IV showed a causal effect of gout on prostate cancer (weighted median: p = 0.01). In contrast, the SU IV showed no evidence of a causal effect of SU on prostate cancer (IVW: p = 0.83; weighted median: p = 0.97). MR-Egger showed no evidence of horizontal pleiotropy (gout: p = 0.33; urate: p = 0.80). Loci contributing most strongly to the non-hyperuricemia causal effect included three genes: IL1R1, IL1RN, and SLC30A5. There was no evidence of a causal relationship between prostate cancer and gout or SU. In conclusion, MR analysis in a European male population found evidence of a causal relationship between the non-hyperuricemia compartment of gout and prostate cancer. Implication of the IL1R1 and IL1RN genes directly implicates the gouty inflammation pathway in prostate cancer.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42521219 is a review article
Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD) and Lewy body dementia (LBD) overlap clinically, pathologically and genetically, complicating interpretation of cross-disorder genome-wide association study (GWAS) signals.We analysed 322,963 UK Biobank participants with bidirectional time-varying Cox models, one-year and two-year lag analyses, and competing-risk sensitivity models to quantify AD-PD clinical co-occurrence. We then analysed European-ancestry AD, PD and LBD GWAS summary statistics using linkage disequilibrium score regression (LDSC), GCTA-mtCOJO/GSMR, MAGMA, stratified LDSC, brain eQTL/mQTL SMR with HEIDI filtering, and Bayesian colocalization for selected methylation probes. Conditional loci were compared with original GWAS loci to separate shared liability from retained disorder-predominant associations.PD was associated with subsequent AD (fully adjusted HR 2.27, 95% CI 1.94-2.65; P = 6.40E-25), and AD was associated with subsequent PD (HR 3.14, 95% CI 2.56-3.85; P = 2.10E-28). Lag and competing-risk sensitivity analyses remained concordant. LDSC estimated positive genetic correlations for AD-PD (rg = 0.20; P = 0.0086) and PD-LBD (rg = 0.61; P = 0.0005). Conditioning reduced genome-wide significant loci from 14 to 9 for AD, from 24 to 21 for PD and from 5 to 2 for LBD. Retained loci included AD signals near CR1, BIN1, CLU, SPI1, MS4A, PICALM, ABCA7 and APOE; PD signals near GBA, NUCKS1, TMEM163, STK39, GAK/TMEM175, BST1, SNCA, LRRK2, MAPT and RIT2; and LBD signals near SNCA/MMRN1 and APOE. MAGMA and S-LDSC highlighted amyloid, lipid, immune, synaptic-vesicle and brain-tissue enrichment patterns. Brain QTL analyses prioritized retained eQTL and mQTL signals, and colocalization supported shared PD-GWAS/mQTL signals at HLA-DRB5, ARHGAP27, CRHR1, MAPT and KANSL1.AD and PD show bidirectional clinical co-occurrence, whereas conditional genetic analyses retain a smaller set of disease-predominant loci and regulatory signals across AD, PD and LBD. These findings refine cross-disorder interpretation and nominate loci for independent genetic and functional validation.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Zhang, Qiu and Hu.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42459212 is a review article
Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is a highly heritable, polygenic disease with over 600 loci identified through genome-wide association studies (GWAS). However, despite possessing unique genetic variation shaped by demographic history and admixture, Latin American populations remain markedly underrepresented in global genomic research. To address this gap, we conducted genome- and exome-wide analyses of 19,431 T2D cases and 105,611 controls from the Mexico City Prospective Study (MCPS). We identified 86 independent GWAS associations, including 21 novel signals, 15 of which replicated in external cohorts. Risk alleles at novel loci were enriched in individuals with Indigenous American ancestry. Exome analyses revealed rare and ultra-rare missense variants with substantial risk effects at HNF1A and GCK , as well as a protein-damaging variant in SLC30A8 that reduced T2D risk by 45% in carriers. Integrative analyses indicate that T2D genetic architecture in Mexico is predominantly driven by common regulatory variation acting in the endocrine pancreas. Polygenic risk scores strongly stratified T2D risk and transferred to Indigenous Mexican populations. These findings demonstrate the power of large-scale genetic discovery in diverse populations to refine disease architecture and identify loci with potential therapeutic relevance.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified numerous loci associated with Type 2 Diabetes (T2D), yet translating statistical signals into experimentally testable hypotheses remains a central challenge in post-GWAS biology. The predominance of non-coding regulatory variants complicates target gene assignment and raises uncertainty regarding optimal clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR) perturbation strategy. Here, we present a structured CRISPR Actionability Framework that integrates genomic context, pancreatic islet enhancer overlap, tissue-specific expression validation, and locus clarity into a quantitative CRISPR Actionability Score (CAS). We applied this framework to ten genome-wide significant T2D loci and assigned modality-aware CRISPR strategies (knockout versus CRISPR interference). CAS values ranged from 4 to 10, enabling tiered prioritization into high, moderate, and lower experimental priority classes. High-priority loci included SLC30A8, TCF7L2, and KCNJ11, which demonstrated strong regulatory or coding evidence combined with islet expression support. By explicitly linking genomic architecture to perturbation modality, this framework provides a transparent and reproducible bridge between statistical genetics and functional genome editing. This approach establishes a scalable template for rational CRISPR target selection in complex disease research.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
The ubiquitous presence of organic ultraviolet filters (UVFs) in environmental and human, driven by their heavy usage in personal care formulations, has raised significant concern. Despite this, the transmembrane transport mechanisms of UVFs-key to understanding cutaneous absorption and organ-specific toxicity-remain poorly defined. To bridge this gap, this study coupled molecular docking with molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to systematically screen the interactions between various UVFs and solute carrier (SLC) transporters. Through the analysis of 23,970 complex pairs, we identified distinct binding behaviors. Specifically, Tris-biphenyl triazine (TBPT) and Diethylhexyl butamido triazone (DBT) formed highly stable complexes with SLC22A31 and SLC29A4, respectively, exhibiting strong binding affinities (- 10.8 and - 9.8 kcal/mol). Over 200 ns simulations, these complexes maintained ligand Root Mean Square Deviation (RMSD) values below 5 Å. Crucially, per-residue interaction profiling revealed that this persistent stability is governed by high-occupancy (> 80%) hydrophobic anchors, which form rigid "hydrophobic traps" around the lipophilic UVFs. Conversely, the Pentyl 4-(dimethylamino) benzoate (APABA) and TMEM163 complex demonstrated weak interaction (- 3.9 kcal/mol) with significant structural instability, indicated by progressive ligand escape and RMSD values exceeding 15 Å. These findings elucidate how specific UVF-SLC interactions, driven by local hydrophobic complementarity, may facilitate localized toxicological effects, offering a novel computational framework for assessing the transmembrane health risks associated with organic UVFs exposure.© 2026. The Author(s).
Zinc ions (Zn2+) are crucial for cellular homeostasis, with their intracellular concentrations tightly regulated by multiple zinc transporters located at the plasma and organelle membranes. Zinc dysregulation has been implicated in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC), yet the oncogenic roles of zinc transporters remain poorly understood. We herein identify SLC30A7 as a zinc transporter markedly elevated in ESCC and associated with poor prognosis. Genetic deletion of Slc30a7 significantly suppressed 4NQO-induced esophageal tumorigenesis, whereas SLC30A7 knockdown inhibited ESCC cell proliferation, migration, and tumor progression. Mechanistically, ERK1 specifically binds SLC30A7 and phosphorylates SLC30A7 at T297 site, driving the redistribution of zinc (Zn2+) from the cytosol into the Golgi lumen. SLC30A7 cooperates with the zinc metallochaperone ZNG1 to mobilize Golgi-resident zinc toward matrix metalloproteinases MMP2/3/9 activation, leading to E-cadherin degradation, β-catenin nuclear translocation, and MYC transcription. In ESCC PDX models, a tumor-targeted biomimetic ERK inhibitor nanoplatform (Q3ME@PBA-NPs) significantly restrained tumor growth and disrupted the ERK1-SLC30A7-MMP2/3/9-β-catenin-c-Myc axis. These findings reveal a previously unrecognized zinc-dependent oncogenic pathway in ESCC and highlight SLC30A7 as a valuable therapeutic target in cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Prostate cancer is the predominant malignancy in males, with bone metastasis representing a defining characteristic of its progression. Bone tissue involvement significantly deteriorates patient quality of life and incurs substantial healthcare expenditure. Emerging evidence suggests a potential link between cuproptosis and tumor biology, thereby identifying cuproptosis-related genes (CRGs) as promising biomarkers for bone metastatic prostate cancer (BMPC). Consequently, this bioinformatics study aimed to identify specific biomarkers and establish a robust diagnostic model.To conduct this study, we downloaded publicly available datasets on prostate cancer bone metastasis from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and integrated them after a rigorous standardization process to address batch effects. Following differential expression analysis to identify the upregulated and downregulated genes, comprehensive functional annotation was performed using Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), gene set variation analysis (GSVA), and immune infiltration profile analyses were performed. Multidimensional analysis identified 24 cuproptosis-related differentially expressed genes (CRDEGs). Based on 23 of these CRDEGs, a support vector machine (SVM) diagnostic model was created and further optimized using the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression, ultimately focusing on 13 key genes. The predictive accuracy of the model was validated using a receiver operating characteristic curve analysis. To elucidate the molecular interactions, protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks and GeneMANIA prediction results were analyzed, along with regulatory network analysis to identify potential therapeutic targets.In total, 3,401 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) (1,744 upregulated and 1,657 downregulated genes) were identified. Among them, 24 CRDEGs were closely linked to copper metabolism and likely influenced tumor cell survival and migration, including Metallothionein 1M (MT1M), Heat Shock Protein Family D (Hsp60) Member 1 (HSPD1), and Glutathione Peroxidase 4 (GPX4). GO and KEGG enrichment highlighted processes, such as "response to copper ion" and "copper ion detoxification", implicating these genes in prostate cancer bone metastasis. The diagnostic model, constructed via SVM using 13 key genes selected by LASSO regression, exhibited excellent discriminatory ability, with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.97. PPI analysis revealed dense interactions among the key genes, which was corroborated by GeneMANIA predictions. Exploration of the regulatory network revealed upstream transcription factors (TFs) and downstream pathways that may serve as therapeutic targets for BMPC.This bioinformatics study identified cuproptosis-related biomarkers and established a high-performance diagnostic model specifically targeting BMPC, despite limitations in sample size and experimental validation. These findings suggested potential molecular mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of bone metastases in prostate cancer and provided a computational foundation for the development of early detection strategies and targeted therapeutic interventions. Future research should focus on increasing cohort sizes and integrating in vitro and in vivo experiments to further confirm the potential clinical implications of the identified biomarkers.© AME Publishing Company.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) remains a major challenge in type 2 diabetes (T2DM) management. The solute carrier family 30 member 8 (SLC30A8) gene is a known T2DM susceptibility locus. However,the relationship between SLC30A8 promoter methylation and renal function in DKD remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate this association.In this cross-sectional study, 351 hospitalized patients with T2DM (181 with DKD, 170 without) were enrolled. Peripheral blood DNA methylation at six CpG sites in the SLC30A8 promoter was quantified by pyrosequencing. Multivariate linear/logistic regression, smooth curve fitting, and subgroup analyses were used to evaluate the independent association between SLC30A8 methylation and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR).SLC30A8 methylation was significantly lower in the DKD group (73.6% ± 6.4%) than in the T2DM-only group (88.7% ± 7.1%, P < 0.001), and progressively decreased across categories of declining eGFR and increasing albuminuria (all P for trend < 0.05). In a multivariate linear regression model adjusted for age, sex, BMI, systolic blood pressure, UACR, uric acid, lipids, fasting glucose, and diabetes duration, each 1% increase in methylation was independently associated with a 2.336 mL/min/1.73 m2 higher eGFR (95% CI: 1.780-2.891, P < 0.001). A nonlinear threshold was identified at 70.9% methylation. Below this, the association with eGFR was nonsignificant; above it, each 1% increase correlated with a 4.471 mL/min/1.73 m2 increase in eGFR (95% CI: 3.961-4.981, P < 0.001). This stable association was consistent across all clinical subgroups (P for interaction >0.05).SLC30A8 promoter hypomethylation is independently associated with impaired renal function in T2DM, exhibiting a dose-response relationship where lower methylation levels correlated with more severe kidney damage, and a distinct threshold effect at approximately 70.9% methylation, below which the association with eGFR was significantly stronger. These exploratory findings suggest that SLC30A8 promoter methylation may represent a promising epigenetic biomarker for DKD risk stratification, warranting further validation in prospective studies.© 2026 Guo et al.
Growing evidence links lysosomal dysfunction to parkinsonism. TRPML1, a lysosomal cation channel encoded by the MCOLN1 gene, is essential for lysosomal function. Biallelic loss-of-function variants in MCOLN1 cause mucolipidosis type IV. However, the role of heterozygous MCOLN1 variants remains unclear.Two patients with α-synucleinopathies underwent clinical evaluation and whole-genome sequencing. The functional effects of TRPML1 variants were assessed using immunofluorescence, lysosomal patch-clamp recording, and autophagic flux assay.Two heterozygous MCOLN1 variants were identified: p.E376K in a patient with multiple system atrophy and p.L315del in a patient with early-onset Parkinson's disease. Functional analyses showed that p.L315del disrupted lysosomal localization, and both variants significantly reduced lysosomal currents upon TRPML1 agonist stimulation, with a trend toward impaired autophagic flux, indicating loss of function.These findings demonstrate that both variants impair TRPML1 function in vitro, identifying MCOLN1 as a candidate gene for α-synucleinopathies that warrants further investigation in larger cohorts. © 2026 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.© 2026 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
Differentiating oligodendrocytes undergo dramatic morphologic alterations to transition from progenitors to mature oligodendrocytes that synthesize myelin, the lipid-rich membrane coating axons which strengthens saltatory conduction and provides metabolic support. Actin dynamics, which are often regulated by membrane bound nucleators associated with organelles, underpin the morphologic shifts in oligodendrocyte maturation; however, the origin of such regulation during oligodendrocyte differentiation remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that the lysosomal non-selective cation channel, transient potential mucolipin 1 (TRPML1), is a critical regulator of oligodendrocyte morphology during differentiation and initial myelination. Lysosomes move into oligodendrocyte processes during differentiation. While manipulation of TRPML1 did not change the expression of oligodendrocyte lineage markers, activation of TRPML1 resulted in altered oligodendrocyte morphology and an increase in actin filament content driven by the small GTPase Rac1 and subsequent disinhibition of PAK1 via phosphorylation. Actin associated changes in morphology are accompanied by the presence of lysosomal-derived calcium transients in nascent oligodendrocyte processes, potentially revealing a link between localized calcium signaling and actin polymerization. Lastly, adolescent mice (Mcoln1 -/-), in which TRPML1 had been deleted, had significantly impaired myelination and decreased numbers of mature oligodendrocyte, which was associated with a reduction in staining for the phosphorylated form of the actin regulator, PAK1, in the motor cortex and corpus callosum as evidence of decreased TRPML1/Rac1/PAK1 signaling. Together, our work reveals lysosomal TRPML1 activity as a central regulator of oligodendrocyte morphology independent of myelin protein expression and may provide mechanistic insight into the distinct but coordinated pathways that lead to oligodendrocyte differentiation and how lysosomal dysfunction impacts these processes in diseased states.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42361527 is a review article
Sensitive skin is characterized by hypersensitivity to normal stimuli, and objective diagnostic tools and treatments are still limited. Currently, cosmetics for sensitive skin are developed through the exclusion of known irritants rather than investigation into the underlying mechanisms of sensitivity. In this study, we developed an integrated pipeline combining transcriptome analysis via microneedle-based skin sampling (MISSM), bioinformatics, in vitro validation, and clinical assessment to identify sensitive skin-associated inflammatory biomarkers and cosmetic ingredients that regulate them. Candidate biomarkers and matched cosmetic ingredients were identified from transcriptomic data and validated in lactic acid-stimulated HaCaT and human dermal fibroblasts via qRT-PCR. A prototype emulsion was developed and evaluated in a 4-week open-label pilot clinical trial with longitudinal molecular monitoring via MISSM. After lactic acid stimulation, sensitive skin-associated biomarkers (MCOLN1, CYR61, PMAIP1, PTGS2, and HMGB2) were significantly upregulated in both cell types, and cosmetic ingredients that regulate these biomarkers were confirmed in vitro. The emulsion prototype demonstrated hypoallergenicity in a primary irritation test. In the pilot clinical trial, target biomarker expression was significantly reduced in MISSM-derived samples, with improvements in skin hydration, barrier function, redness, and sensory reactivity also observed. This integrated pipeline will enable the discovery of inflammatory biomarker-regulating cosmetic ingredients, with potential applicability to various inflammatory skin conditions.
Background: Zinc homeostasis regulated by ZIP transporters is critical for tumor glycolytic reprogramming and progression, yet the role of specific ZIP family members in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) remains unclear. This study aimed to identify the key ZIP transporter in LUAD and elucidate its molecular mechanisms and therapeutic value. Methods: siRNA-based functional screening of the ZIP family was performed in A549 and PC9 cells. A combination of in vitro cellular assays, in vivo animal models, clinical sample analysis and bioinformatics was used to validate the function of ZIP7 and explore its regulatory mechanisms. Results: ZIP7 (SLC39A7) was identified as a critical driver of glycolysis and proliferation in LUAD. It was significantly upregulated in LUAD tissues and cell lines. Mechanistically, ZIP7 increased inhibitory phosphorylation of GSK3β at Ser9 to stabilize NRF2, maintained low intracellular ROS levels, and sustained mTOR signaling to promote glycolytic flux. ZIP7-induced lactate secretion also drove M2-like macrophage polarization and PD-L1 upregulation to establish an immunosuppressive microenvironment. Notably, genetic or pharmacological inhibition of ZIP7 markedly enhanced the antitumor efficacy of anti-PD-1 therapy in vivo. Conclusions: ZIP7 is a pivotal oncogenic zinc transporter in LUAD that drives tumor progression via metabolic reprogramming and immune remodeling. Targeting ZIP7 represents a promising strategy to improve the efficacy of anti-PD-1 immunotherapy for LUAD.
Background: ASD is a class of neurodevelopmental disorders with onset in early childhood, whereas AD is a common chronic inflammatory skin disease. An increasing number of studies suggest that immune dysregulation and inflammatory responses play important roles in the onset and progression of both conditions; however, their shared molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Methods: First, ASD-related and AD-related datasets were obtained from the GEO database. After removal of batch effects, the common DEGs between the two diseases were identified. Subsequently, 107 machine learning-based model configurations were employed to screen for key genes. Functional enrichment analyses and PPI network construction were performed to systematically explore their potential functions. Finally, the CIBERSORT was applied to analyze immune cell infiltration and to assess the correlation between hub gene expression and immune cell infiltration. Results: 164 common genes between ASD and AD were identified. GO and KEGG enrichment analyses revealed that these shared differentially expressed genes were mainly enriched in pathways related to immune regulation and inflammatory responses, suggesting that immuno-inflammatory processes may constitute an important biological basis linking ASD and AD. Further screening and validation using machine learning identified BEX4, BIN2, BNIP3L, CCNO, JAK2, SLC39A7, and WASF3 as hub genes serving as common potential biomarkers for both diseases. Among them, BIN2, SLC39A7, and JAK2 may represent key shared genes and demonstrated good diagnostic value in ROC curve and nomogram analyses. In addition, immune infiltration analysis indicated that these key genes were significantly correlated with the infiltration levels of multiple immune cell types, further supporting their potential roles in immune regulation. Conclusions: This study reveals potential shared immuno-inflammatory molecular mechanisms between ASD and AD. Genes screened based on 107 machine learning models were verified as potential diagnostic biomarkers for both diseases after integrated analysis, providing a theoretical basis for further investigation of their immune-related pathogenesis and early clinical diagnosis.
Zinc transport plays a critical role in cellular signaling, but its function in the tumor microenvironment remains poorly understood. We aimed to investigate the role of zinc transporters in cancer-associated fibroblasts in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Single-cell RNA sequencing data were analyzed to evaluate zinc transporter expression across tumor cell populations, and bulk RNA sequencing of primary fibroblast cultures was used for validation. Clinical relevance was assessed using transcriptomic and survival data from a large patient cohort. We found that zinc transporter expression, particularly SLC39A13, was enriched in fibroblasts and strongly associated with myofibroblastic activation signatures, including extracellular matrix remodeling and TGFβ signaling. Fibroblasts with high SLC39A13 expression were linked to immunosuppressive tumor environments characterized by reduced cytotoxic T-cell infiltration and increased immunosuppressive cells. Clinically, SLC39A13 expression was associated with poor progression-free survival and remained an independent prognostic factor. These findings suggest that zinc transporter-mediated pathways play a key role in stromal activation and immune regulation, highlighting SLC39A13 as a potential therapeutic target in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.
Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP) is a pregnancy-specific liver disorder characterized by elevated total bile acid (TBA) levels, leading to adverse maternal and fetal outcomes. While genetic factors contribute to ICP and bile acid metabolism, the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood, particularly in East Asian populations. We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) in 13,357 pregnant women from a Chinese cohort to investigate genetic determinants of TBA levels and ICP. Meta-analysis was performed by combining our data with the Shenzhen cohort. Post-GWAS analyses included pathway enrichment, integrative analysis with liver single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data, and Mendelian randomization (MR). We identified genome-wide significant associations at CYP7A1 (rs4738680, p = 1.08 × 10-10) and SLC39A9 (rs17107007, p = 3.46 × 10-28) for TBA, and at SLC39A9 (rs17107007, p = 3.34 × 10-16) for ICP. Pathway analysis highlighted bile acid synthesis and metabolism pathways for TBA and immune-related pathways for ICP. Integrative scRNA-seq analysis revealed enrichment of TBA-associated genes in hepatocytes and ICP-associated genes in neutrophils. MR analysis suggested a potential causal effect of estrone on TBA levels. Our findings provide novel insights into the genetic architecture of TBA and ICP, emphasizing the roles of bile acid metabolism in hepatocytes and immune dysregulation in ICP pathogenesis. The identified genetic loci and pathways may inform future research on risk prediction and targeted therapies for ICP.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Mucolipidosis type IV (MLIV) is a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder caused by pathogenic variants in the MCOLN1 gene on chromosome 19. It is characterized by neurodevelopmental delay, progressive visual impairment, and gastrointestinal abnormalities. Here, we report a 10-year-old boy from Bahrain with MLIV who presented with global developmental delay, spastic quadriparesis, severe visual impairment, gastrointestinal manifestations, and persistent elevation of creatine kinase (CK). Serial brain MRI demonstrated delayed myelination, corpus callosum thinning, and periventricular leukomalacia. Diagnosis was confirmed by whole-exome sequencing, identifying a homozygous MCOLN1 variant. Management was supportive, including nutritional optimization, iron supplementation, intermittent blood transfusions, and multidisciplinary follow-up. This case expands the phenotypic spectrum of MLIV by highlighting persistent hyperCKemia, supporting possible secondary myopathic involvement, and emphasizing that elevated CK does not exclude MLIV in non-Ashkenazi populations.Copyright © 2026, Alsahlawi et al.
Niemann-Pick type C disease (NPCD) is a rare and fatal lysosomal storage disorder. There are limited therapies for NPCD, although multiple small-molecule compounds have shown therapeutic potential for NPCD. Curcumin (CUR), a polyphenolic compound enriched in turmeric, has cholesterol-lowering effects via regulating intestinal cholesterol absorption and liver cholesterol synthesis. CUR normalises sphingolipid trafficking and stimulates exosome/microvesicle release, increases cytosolic Ca2+ levels, and enhances lysosomal activation via mTOR suppression and TFEB activation. How CUR specifically targets lysosomal cholesterol has not been fully clarified.Effects of curcumin on lysosomal cholesterol accumulation were evaluated in NPC1 cell models. Filipin staining, immunofluorescence, surface LAMP1 and NAGase activity and Cathepsin B activity were investigated to evaluate lysosomal cholesterol, TFEB translocation, lysosomal exocytosis and hydrolytic activity. Lysosomal acidification was determined by Lysotracker Red, Oregon Green, and sfGFP/mCherry transfection. CRISPR/Cas9 and siRNA interference were used to investigate the role of TFEB/TFE3 and TRPML1 in curcumin-induced cholesterol reduction.CUR alleviates lysosomal cholesterol accumulation in NPC1 cells in a TFEB- and TFE3-dependent manner. CUR enhanced lysosomal acidity and promoted calcium-dependent lysosomal exocytosis, which contributed to CUR-mediated lysosomal cholesterol clearance. The combination of CUR with specific agonists (ML-SAs) of MCOLN1/TRPML1, a lysosomal cation channel required for lysosomal exocytosis, improved lysosomal cholesterol clearance.CUR reduces lysosomal cholesterol accumulation in NPC1 cells by activating TFEB/TFE3 pathways and promoting Ca2+- and TRPML1-dependent lysosomal exocytosis. These findings support curcumin and its analogues as potential therapeutics for NPCD and other diseases of lysosomal storage.© 2026 British Pharmacological Society.
Cantharidin (CTD), an anhydride-containing natural product from blister beetles, exhibits potent pharmacological activities in the treatment of molluscum contagiosum and tumors. However, CTD exposure induces multi-organ damage, among which CTD-triggered myocardial cell necrosis and electrophysiological abnormalities represent severe adverse reactions and are the primary causes of fatality. Our recent work revealed that the anhydride moiety of CTD possesses reactivity and can covalently modify proteins via lysine residues. This study investigated the mechanistic role of this covalent modification in CTD-induced cardiotoxicity. Single-dose CTD administration in mice caused acute cardiotoxicity manifested as bradycardia, arrhythmias, myocardial edema, and Na+/K+-ATPase (NKA) inhibition. Fourteen-day CTD exposure aggravated cardiac dysfunction and induced myocardial necrosis. In vitro studies identified 13 lysine residues on recombinant ATP1A1 protein (the NKA α1 subunit) that were covalently modified by CTD. Cardiac tissue exhibited the most abundant protein adduction by CTD. High-resolution mass spectrometric analysis further confirmed covalent modifications of cardiac ATP1A1 at lysine residues 476, 494, 508, and 629. In contrast to CTD, its anhydride ring-opened derivative cantharidic acid, which lacks reactivity, failed to modify cardiac ATP1A1 and did not produce cardiotoxic effects. The level of CTD-modified ATP1A1 was positively associated with the degree of cardiotoxic effects of CTD, thereby establishing the critical role of anhydride-mediated covalent modification in CTD-induced cardiac injury. This study provides novel mechanistic evidence that links CTD-induced cardiotoxicity to anhydride-dependent target engagement, particularly via ATP1A1 inactivation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Many primary aldosteronism (PA) patients harbor concomitant mild autonomous cortisol secretion (MACS), termed "Connshing syndrome." The prevalence and cardiometabolic impact of this co-secretion have not been quantitatively synthesized.To determine the pooled prevalence of MACS in PA and evaluate its association with cardiovascular (CV) events, type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), and obesity.PubMed, Embase, Cochrane, Web of Science, and Scopus through January 2026.Following PRISMA 2020 and MOOSE guidelines (PROSPERO: CRD420261334965), studies reporting MACS prevalence [post-1 mg dexamethasone suppression test (DST) cortisol ≥1.8 μg/dl] in PA were included. Prevalence was pooled using random-effects models. Odds ratios (ORs) were calculated for cardiometabolic outcomes. Certainty was evaluated using GRADE.Fourteen studies (2356 patients) were included. Pooled MACS prevalence was 26.2% [95% confidence interval (CI): 24.1-28.4; I2 = 24.2%; prediction interval: 21.6-31.4%], consistent across European (27.0%) and East Asian (25.2%) cohorts (P = 0.62). MACS + PA patients had higher odds of CV events (OR 1.60; 95% CI: 1.07-2.38; P = 0.021) and T2DM (OR 1.37; 95% CI: 1.00-1.86; P = 0.048), but not obesity (OR 1.10; P = 0.411). Sensitivity analyses confirmed robustness. GRADE certainty was moderate for prevalence and low for CV events.Approximately one in four PA patients has MACS, associated with a 60% higher CV event risk. These findings support routine DST screening in PA and have implications for perioperative management and cardiometabolic risk stratification.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42545319 is a review article
Early-life sex identification technologies are making sex-specific management increasingly feasible in broiler production, yet limited information exists on how males and females differ in the development of their gut ecosystem. While sex-related variation in growth rate and endocrine physiology is well established, much less is known about potential differences in gut morphology, barrier function, microbiota assembly, and intestinal gene expression during the starter period, where early performance divergence between males and females begins to emerge. A clearer understanding of these early-life processes is essential to refine sex-specific nutrition and management strategies. Therefore, this study investigated sex-related differences in gut morphology, intestinal permeability, microbiota composition and predicted functionality, as well as ileal gene expression related to nutrient transport, barrier function, immune response, and metabolic signaling in broilers at 7, 14, and 21 days of age.Body weight followed a typical early-life pattern and differed between sexes only at d 21, when males were heavier. Gut morphology matured similarly in both sexes, whereas gut permeability declined with age and was lower in males at d 20, suggesting a slightly tighter intestinal barrier. Microbiota structure was predominantly shaped by age, but sex-related divergence emerged with maturation from d 14 onward, especially in the cecum: males were enriched in strict anaerobic fermenters and carbohydrate-degradation/short-chain fatty acid (SCFA)-related pathways, while females showed higher abundance of Romboutsia, Flavonifractor, and other taxa linked to proteolytic metabolism and the degradation of aromatic amino acid-derived compounds. Gene expression was mainly driven by age, yet consistent sex-specific transcriptional signatures were revealed. Males were more associated with nutrient transport (e.g., SLC15A1, SLC30A1, SLC5A1) and epithelial functional maturation profiles (e.g., CDX) over time, whereas females were more associated with tight-junction integrity (e.g., OCLN) and amino-acid sensing/transport markers (e.g., T1R1, SLC3A1). Cecal SCFA concentrations were measured at d 21, yet no differences were found.Overall, gut development was largely age-driven, but sex-specific differences in barrier function, microbiota composition and function, and epithelial gene expression emerged with maturation, without differences in gut morphology or luminal SCFA concentrations.© 2026. The Author(s).
Thiamine-responsive megaloblastic anemia (TRMA) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by biallelic loss of function variants in the SLC19A2 gene. It typically presents with a triad of megaloblastic anemia, diabetes mellitus, and sensorineural deafness. In this work, we analyzed ten children with suspected TRMA: nine exhibited the full triad and one, a younger sibling of a patient with full triad, did not develop hearing loss by the age of 18 months. All patients became transfusion-independent on high-dose thiamine therapy. Whole-genome sequencing identified homozygosity for the canonical splice variant SLC19A2 c.1223+1G>A in eight patients. One patient was homozygous for a known SLC19A2 c.196G>T variant, and the other was compound heterozygous for two novel variants, c.120C>G and c.584T>C. All patients with the SLC19A2 c.1223+1G>A variant were ethnic Ingush. In the reference Ingush cohort, 9/328 unrelated adults were c.1223+1G>A carriers (heterozygous carrier frequency 2.7%; carrier frequency ≈ 1/36), and shared a 2.3 Mb ATP1B1-FMO2 haplotype on chromosome 1, demonstrating a strong founder effect. These findings identify Ingushetia as a new TRMA-endemic region and support targeted SLC19A2 screening and early thiamine therapy in patients with macrocytic anemia and diabetes of unclear origin in this population.
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is the predominant histological subtype of kidney cancer, characterized by a paucity of therapeutic targets and a dismal prognosis in advanced stages. Although family with sequence similarity 49 member B (FAM49B) has been implicated in tumor progression with context-dependent roles, its function in ccRCC remains undefined. Herein, we elucidated the expression profile and regulatory mechanisms of FAM49B by utilizing integrated bioinformatics, molecular biology, and proteomic approaches. Analysis of TCGA and CPTAC data sets revealed a significantly upregulated FAM49B protein in ccRCC tissues that positively correlated with pathological grade, while the mRNA level was unchanged. Mechanistically, FAM49B undergoes proteasomal degradation, whereas the deubiquitinating enzyme USP9X directly binds to and stabilizes FAM49B. Pharmacological inhibition or knockdown of USP9X notably reduces FAM49B protein abundance without altering its transcription. Quantitative proteomic and affinity mass spectrometry identified ATP1B1 as a critical downstream effector of FAM49B. Western blotting (WB) analysis verified that silencing FAM49B downregulated ATP1B1 in ccRCC cells, while coimmunoprecipitation assays established their direct physical interaction. Consistent with FAM49B expression profiles, ATP1B1 protein levels were elevated in high-grade ccRCC specimens. Collectively, these findings delineate a USP9X-FAM49B-ATP1B1 signaling axis that drives ccRCC progression, representing a promising diagnostic biomarker and potential therapeutic target.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
To expand the clinical and mechanistic understanding of the +57C>T seed-region mutation in miR-184 causing EDICT (endothelial dystrophy, iris hypoplasia, congenital cataract, and stromal thinning) syndrome.Cross-sectional analysis and laboratory confirmation.18 members of a four-generation family with known +57C>T miR-184 status.We used optical biometry, corneal topography, and medical history to characterize the clinical phenotype. Carrier effects on ocular biometric measurements were estimated using polygenic linear mixed models incorporating a pedigree-derived kinship matrix, adjusted for age and sex. Patient-derived and control induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) were generated and differentiated into corneal endothelial cells (CECs).Axial length, keratometry (in diopters), white-to-white corneal diameter, topography mapping, central and peripheral corneal thickness, and history of retinal detachment or corneal transplant were compared between mutation carriers and noncarriers, adjusting for age and sex. Cellular analysis was conducted with immunostaining (ZO-1, ATP1A1), morphometric quantification, qRT-PCR of endothelial markers, and transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER).10 of 18 family members were heterozygous for +57C>T, with retinal detachment occurring in 5/10 affected individuals compared to 0/8 unaffected individuals (p=0.04). Affected eyes had 2.2 mm shorter axial length (p=0.02), 9.3 D steeper mean keratometry (p=0.004), 1.6 mm smaller horizontal corneal diameter (p=0.0001), and 139-μm thinner central corneas (p=0.003). Mutant iPSC-derived CECs were associated with irregular borders, increased cell and nucleus area, widened intercellular gaps, disrupted ATP1A1 membrane localization, and reduced barrier function on TEER (all p<0.05). Gene expression analysis showed downregulation of COL4A1, COL4A3, and AQP1 with upregulation of COL8A1.The miR-184 +57C>T mutation produces a broad ocular phenotype that includes smaller, thinner corneas and microphthalmia. Mechanistically, it disrupts CEC junctional integrity, extracellular matrix and pump-related genes, supporting a role for miR-184 in coordinated anterior-posterior eye morphogenesis.
Various dominant disease phenotypes are caused by germline variants of ATP1A1, the gene for the ubiquitously expressed Na+,K+-ATPase (NKA) α1 subunit. What characteristics link specific variants to a particular disease phenotype remains unclear. We used heterologous expression in mammalian cells and Xenopus oocytes to evaluate the characteristics of α1 variants causing hypomagnesemia with treatment-resistant seizures: L302R, G303R, M859R, and W931R. Cell survival in the presence of micromolar ouabain was reduced in cells expressing ouabain-resistant versions of these variants, indicating defective function of the variants relative to WT. Fluorescently tagged WT-α1 expressed in HEK293 cells showed plasmalemma localization, while all variants displayed increased cytosolic signal. In variant-expressing oocytes under voltage clamp, each variant showed passive "leak" currents, which were unaffected by ouabain in L302R and M859R, partially inhibited by ouabain in G303R and enhanced by ouabain in W931R. Na+ and Cl‒ permeate through G303R and W931R. M859R and W931R presented small K+-activated ouabain-inhibitable NKA currents that were absent in L302R and G303R. Growth of cells in ouabain and enzymatic studies demonstrated Na+/K+-dependent active transport for W931R, albeit with reduced Na+ affinity. We solved the cryo-EM structure of W931R-α1β1 with bound ouabain at 3 Å resolution. The structure showed a distorted transmembrane segment M9, which causes a concavity in the detergent micelle, suggesting that similar distortions may provide a leak pathway at the protein-lipid interface. Our results demonstrate that besides a loss of NKA function, all four variants carry an aberrant leak current that probably underlies the seizures and the hypomagnesemia characterizing this phenotype.© 2026 Colmano et al.
The ruminant colon plays a critical role in intestinal homeostasis but is highly susceptible to dysfunction induced by high-concentrate diets during the finishing period. This study investigated the efficacy of alkaline mineral complex (AMC) against such colonic disturbances in finishing cattle.Fifty-four Simmental crossbred cattle were randomly allocated into the Ctrl group (n = 27) and AMC supplementation group (n = 27) over a 142-day feeding trial. Fecal consistency was recorded twice daily on 2 days per week in 10 randomly selected cattle per group, and on day 142, samples of blood, colonic tissue, mucosa, and contents were collected for serum biochemistry, histology, 16S rRNA gene sequencing, metabolomics, and proteomics.AMC supplementation significantly improved fecal consistency, markedly reducing watery feces (P = 0.0082) while increasing normal feces (P = 0.0051). Serum biochemistry showed that AMC supplementation was associated with higher serum concentrations of Na+ (P = 0.0058), K+ (P = 0.0141), and total Ca (P = 0.0076), along with reduced diamine oxidase (DAO) activity (P < 0.0001) compared to the Ctrl group (n = 10 per group). Histological analysis showed that AMC supplementation reduced inflammation and increased goblet cells (P = 0.0013) (n = 3 per group). 16S rRNA gene sequencing demonstrated that AMC supplementation increased gut microbial α-diversity and reduced abundance of potentially pathogenic bacteria (n = 5 per group). Metabolomic analysis showed that AMC supplementation was associated with lower levels of Sph(d18:0) and ornithine, and with distinct alterations in sphingolipid metabolism and branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) degradation pathways (n = 5 per group). Proteomic profiling highlighted the enrichment of aldosterone-regulated sodium reabsorption and tight junction pathways (Ctrl, n = 4; AMC, n = 5). Using ELISA and spectrophotometric assays, we found that AMC supplementation significantly downregulated the levels of TNF-α (P = 0.0401) and IL-6 (P = 0.0104), while elevating GSH-Px activity (P = 0.0097) (n = 10 per group). The qPCR results indicated that AMC supplementation upregulated the mRNA expression of key intestinal barrier components MUC2 (P = 0.0186), ZO-1 (P = 0.0382), and transporters AQP3 (P = 0.0156), NBCe1 (P < 0.0001), and ATP1A1 (P < 0.0001) (n = 3 per group).Collectively, AMC supplementation improved fecal consistency and markers of colonic health. These benefits were accompanied by coordinated shifts in the gut microbiota, metabolic, and proteome, reduced inflammation, and enhanced expression of barrier and transport genes, suggesting a potential interplay between the microbiota, metabolome, and host mucosa.Copyright © 2026 Li, Liu, Gu, Liu, Wang, Guo, Gou, Qi and Zuo.
Esophageal cancer is a highly aggressive malignancy with poor prognosis and limited molecular markers for effective risk stratification and therapeutic guidance. Mitochondrial stress-related pathways are increasingly recognized as important regulators of tumor progression and immune modulation; however, their clinical relevance in esophageal cancer remains insufficiently characterized.Transcriptomic and clinical data of esophageal cancer were obtained from public databases. A predefined mitochondrial stress-related gene set was analyzed using LASSO Cox regression to construct a prognostic model. Survival analysis, functional enrichment, immune regulatory profiling, and immune cell infiltration analyses were subsequently performed. Single-cell RNA sequencing data from the GSE160269 cohort were used to localize gene expression within the tumor microenvironment. In addition, pan-cancer drug sensitivity analyses were conducted using pharmacogenomic datasets.ATP1A1 was identified as the only LASSO-selected gene demonstrating consistent prognostic significance, with higher expression associated with improved survival outcomes. Functional analyses indicated that ATP1A1 expression was mainly associated with metabolic pathways and negatively correlated with epithelial-mesenchymal transition, invasion, and quiescence states. Immune analyses showed that ATP1A1 expression was associated with heterogeneous immunomodulatory patterns, differences in immune cell infiltration, and reduced activity across several steps of the cancer immunity cycle. Single-cell analysis demonstrated that ATP1A1 expression was not only preferentially enriched in malignant epithelial cells but also detectable in stromal and immune cell populations. Drug sensitivity analyses suggested that ATP1A1 expression was associated with differential responses to multiple therapeutic agents. Experimental validation further showed that ATP1A1 knockdown altered tumor cell behavior and increased inflammatory gene expression in esophageal cancer cells.ATP1A1 represents a prognostically relevant factor linked to tumor biological characteristics, immune microenvironment features, and therapeutic response heterogeneity in esophageal cancer.Copyright © 2026 Huishen Yan and Liang He. International Journal of Genomics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The natural history of the most common ATP1A3-related disease, alternating hemiplegia of childhood (AHC), has not been determined. We investigated three hypotheses: (1) AHC worsens over time; (2) several novel factors correlate with long-term outcomes; and (3) AHC manifests high mortality.In a large cross-sectional study with a nested period of prospective 1-3-year follow-up, 115 patients (0.3-46.0 years old, 9 centers/5 countries) were evaluated using across-center-standardized protocol and validated scales. Univariable and multivariable linear-mixed-effects models with random intercepts and random slopes for age, adjusted for confounding variables, allowed for the determination of the effect of age throughout the total age range of patients studied.Course: We identified a distinction between two periods, namely the period of early childhood (age 1-5 years) and the period of later childhood to mid-adulthood. Intellectual and non-paroxysmal disability indexes (IDS, NPDI) scores as well as the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Composite and its subscales worsened during early childhood, but not in the period after that. The extent of motor skills impairment did not differ with age in either period. Within the PDI (paroxysmal disability index) scores, dystonia severity scores did not differ with age in either period; however, plegia severity scores did improve with age after 5 years of age. Prognostic variables included the following: (1) Epilepsy was associated with worse NPDI, intellectual, and fine and gross motor skills. (2) Worse early life PDI and NPDI scores were significantly associated with worse respective scores at the latest follow-up. (3) Worse early life NPDI scores were also associated with worse IDS and fine and gross motor scores at the latest follow-up. (4) D801N mutation was associated with worse PDI. (4) E815K mutation was associated with worse IDS. Mortality was 1.12 deaths/100 patient-years and 6.5 sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) deaths/1000 patient-years.AHC is a progressive disease, and early childhood is the vulnerable period. We identified several novel prognostic indicators and a mortality rate, which provide critical information not only regarding prognostication, counseling, and underlying pathophysiology but also for planning therapeutic studies.© 2025 The Author(s). Annals of the Child Neurology Society published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of the Child Neurology Society.
Pesticides are major environmental pollutants, and the swim bladder is highly sensitive to chemical stressors. However, the effects of spirodiclofen on swim bladder and the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood despite its widespread environmental detection. In this study, zebrafish embroys were exposed to spirodiclofen to evaluate its impacts on the swim bladder. At 120 hpf, complete failure of swim bladder inflation was observed in the 0.146 mg/L and 0.300 mg/L treatment groups. Swim bladder area decreased by 40.3% and 52.8% (p < 0.01), and locomotor activity was markedly impaired, with total distance reduced by 87.4% and 95.5%, respectively (p < 0.01). RT-qPCR analysis revealed downregulate genes in Hedgehog and Wnt signaling pathways, as well as key developmental markers of swim bladder formation. Spirodiclofen also disrupted the prolactin pathway and significantly reduce Na⁺/K⁺-ATPase activity (p < 0.05), suggesting impaired ion regulation during inflation. Integrative GGE biplot analysis, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations identified Wnt5b, Atp1b2, and Elovl1a as potential toxicity targets. Environmental monitoring further revealed that the risk quotients (RQ)> 1 at most sampling sites, underscoring the ecological relevance of these findings. Overall, this study provides mechanistic evidence for spirodiclofen-induced swim bladder toxicity and supports ecological risk assessment and the design of safer alternatives.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hematological malignancies are highly heterogeneous diseases characterized by dysregulated signaling pathways and limited durable therapeutic responses. Calcium homeostasis has emerged as a critical regulator of cancer cell fate, yet the role of the sodium/calcium exchanger 1 (NCX1/SLC8A1) in leukemogenesis remains poorly defined. In this study, we comprehensively investigated the biological significance and therapeutic potential of NCX1 across major hematological malignancies by integrating transcriptomic analyses, protein-protein interaction networks, experimental validation, and in silico drug repurposing strategies. NCX1 was highly expressed in HL-60, K-562, and Jurkat cells compared to HaCaT controls. Network analyses revealed that NCX1 interacts with key regulators of calcium signaling, immune response, and signal transduction. In AML and CML patient datasets, a strong positive correlation was observed between NCX1 expression and immune-related pathways, while a negative correlation was observed with translation-related processes. Molecular docking analyses demonstrated that several clinically approved compounds, particularly imatinib and nilotinib, interact with NCX1. Molecular dynamics simulation was performed to evaluate the binding stability and safety of imatinib. Remarkably, the comprehensive analysis showed that imatinib exhibited a stable molecular dynamics profile. All these findings have demonstrated NCX1 as a biologically informative marker of myeloid differentiation and a promising therapeutic weak point within calcium signaling networks in hematological malignancies, providing a rationale for future functional and single-cell validation studies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is the most common form of chronic focal epilepsy in adults and is often associated with pharmacoresistance and cognitive impairment. Accumulating evidence suggests that neuroinflammation and glial cell dysfunction play pivotal roles in TLE pathogenesis. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying astrocyte-mediated inflammation remain poorly defined.A mouse model of TLE was established using kainic acid-induced seizures. circSLC8A1 expression and cell distribution were assessed in the hippocampus by RT-qPCR, in situ hybridization, and immunostaining. Primary astrocytes were manipulated to overexpress or knock down circSLC8A1, and inflammatory and pyroptotic responses were evaluated. RNA pull-down and RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) assays were performed to identify RNA-binding partners. mRNA stability assays and dual-luciferase reporter experiments were used to validate the circSLC8A1/PTBP1/CEBPB regulatory axis.circSLC8A1 was significantly upregulated in the hippocampus of TLE mice and predominantly localized in astrocytes. Gain- and loss-of-function studies demonstrated a promotive role of circSLC8A1 in astrocytic inflammation and pyroptosis. Mechanistically, circSLC8A1 directly interacted with the RNA-binding protein PTBP1, protecting it from ubiquitin/proteasome-dependent degradation. The circSLC8A1/PTBP1 complex enhanced the stability of CEBPB mRNA. CEBPB subsequently promoted NLRP3 inflammasome activation, contributing to pyroptosis in astrocytes.Our findings identify a novel circSLC8A1/PTBP1/CEBPB signaling axis that mediates astrocytic inflammation and pyroptosis in TLE. Targeting circSLC8A1 may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for epilepsy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Early postnatal growth is a critical determinant of meat production efficiency and long-term genetic improvement in goats; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying individual variation in growth performance remain poorly understood. In this study, a total of 123 Hechuan white goats were included. First, a genome-wide association study (GWAS) for average daily gain (ADG) was performed using all 123 individuals. Subsequently, based on the coefficient of variation of ADG (CV = 65.6%), an extreme phenotype sampling (EPS) strategy was applied to select 39 individuals with extreme growth phenotypes for subsequent metabolomic, microbiome, and integrated mGWAS analyses.The results showed that ADG approximately followed a normal distribution across the 123 goats. GWAS identified 22 loci significantly associated with ADG, mapping to genes including DLK1, NCAPG2, LCORL, CNTNAP2, and SLC8A1, which are involved in pathways related to skeletal muscle development, cell cycle regulation, ion transport, and immune function. Metabolomic profiling detected 1,589 putative metabolites, revealing differential enrichment of lipid, amino acid, and bile acid metabolic pathways between fast- and slow-growing goats. Gut microbiome analysis demonstrated that Christensenellaceae_R-7_group and Monoglobus were significantly enriched in fast-growing individuals, whereas Desulfovibrio was more abundant in slow-growing goats.Integrated mGWAS analysis further revealed extensive effects of host genetic variation on gut microbiota and fecal metabolites. Specifically, 11 bacterial genera were significantly associated with host genomic variants, among which Desulfovibrio exhibited the highest number of associated loci. Integration of multiple variant types consistently linked Desulfovibrio, Eubacterium_hallii_group, and Candidatus_Saccharimonas with genes such as ARHGAP24 and IGF2BP2. In addition, 14 metabolites were significantly associated with host genetic variants, with Lysopc(14:1(9Z)/0:0) and glycocholic acid showing the strongest associations. Notably, the peak signal for Lysopc was located within HMGA2.Collectively, these findings define a coordinated host genome-gut microbiota-metabolite network underlying early growth variation in goats and provide a mechanistic foundation for precision breeding and targeted nutritional strategies in goat production systems.© 2026. The Author(s).
Early separation of atypical Parkinsonian syndromes (APS) from idiopathic Parkinson's disease (iPD) remains challenging. Given that many brain-biased circular RNAs (circRNAs) are stable and expressed in blood cells, peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) circRNAs were profiled in 140 individuals (iPD 43, MSA 35, PSP 19, healthy controls 43) using RT-qPCR across 46 a priori candidates. Group differences were analyzed using the Kruskal-Wallis test with FDR correction; clinical associations were examined using Bonferroni-corrected Spearman correlations with a bootstrap stability assessment; and discrimination was assessed using logistic regression with nested repeated cross-validation, calibration analysis, and ROC analysis. Six circRNAs differed across groups after FDR adjustment (SLC8A1_circ_0000994, MAPK9_circ_0001566, MGA_circ_0000591, AGTPBP1_circ_0007162, SFMBT2_circ_0000211, HIPK3_circ_0000284), with median levels lowest in iPD and highest in PSP. Internally cross-validated multi-marker panels achieved AUCs of 0.88 for PSP versus controls, 0.78 for PSP versus iPD, and 0.67 for MSA versus iPD. Several circRNAs, including non-differential ones, showed bootstrap-stable associations with cognitive, mood, working-memory, and praxis measures. ENCORI- and CircInteractome-based analyses placed the differentially expressed circRNAs within a shared RBP interaction landscape and identified modest but significant miRNA-target overlap. Findings indicate that PBMC circRNA patterns aid APS-iPD differentiation and align with clinical impairment within this cohort; external validation, longitudinal assessment, and mechanistic studies are needed to establish diagnostic performance and biological relevance.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Neurochemistry published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of International Society for Neurochemistry.
To explore the clinical phenotype, genetic characteristics and etiology of a child with Relapsing encephalopathy with cerebellar ataxia (RECA).A child diagnosed with RECA due to variant of ATP1A3 gene at the Affiliated Women and Children's Hospital of Ningbo University in March 2022 was selected as study subject. Cubital vein blood samples were collected from the child and his parents. Following extraction of genomic DNA, whole exome sequencing (WES) was carried out. Candidate variant was verified by Sanger sequencing. Pathogenicity was classified based on guidelines from the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG). This study was approved by the Medical Ethics Committee of the hospital (Ethics No.: EC2020-048).The proband, a 4-year-and-1-month-old boy, had the onset of RECA at 2 years and 8 months. His clinical manifestations included altered consciousness, weakness, nystagmus, ataxia and dysarthria following a febrile illness. There was no specific laboratory and neuroimaging findings. Video electroencephalogram (VEEG) showed an abnormal childhood EEG with generalized discharge. WES revealed that the child has harbored a heterozygous c.2267G>A (p.Arg756His) variant of the ATP1A3 gene, which was confirmed by Sanger sequencing to be de novo in origin. Based on the ACMG guidelines, the variant was classified as pathogenic (PS2_VeryStrong+PS4+PM5_Strong+PM2_Supporting+PP1_Moderate+PP2+PP3_Moderate). Using the literature search strategy established in this study, 18 eligible articles were retrieved, involving a total of 44 patients with RECA. Together with the proband from this study, a total of 45 cases of ATP1A3 gene-related RECA were analyzed. The patients included 19 males and 26 females. The age at first onset ranged from 4 months to 5 years and 6 months, and all episodes were triggered by febrile illnesses. The most common clinical manifestations were hypotonia and ataxia, followed by disturbance of consciousness, dysarthria, abnormal eye movements, and choreoathetosis. Genetic testing showed c.2267G>A of the ATP1A3 gene to be the most common variant.The c.2267G>A (p.Arg756His) variant of the ATP1A3 gene probably underlay the pathogenesis of RECA in this proband. Above finding has enriched the variant spectrum of the ATP1A3 gene and the clinical phenotype spectrum of patients with ATP1A3 gene-associated RECA.
The significant temperature variations across northern and southern China have driven the adaptive evolution of Chinese native cattle breeds, allowing them to thrive in diverse and extreme bioclimate environments. Understanding how these breeds have adapted to varying temperatures is essential for identifying genetic factors that contribute to their survival in such conditions.In this study, using whole-genome sequence data of 336 individuals (with an average sequencing depth of 30.12 ×) from 21 cattle breeds, including 8 breeds from cold regions, 3 from warm regions, and 10 from hot regions, clear genetic differentiation among the three groups of breeds was revealed. Using whole-genome SNP, InDel, and SV data, a series of selective genomic regions, genes, and variants/SVs associated with cold or hot temperature adaptability were identified. Key genes, including KLB, HSPA4, ECSCR, DNAJC18 and SLC9A1 are speculated to be responsible for cold/hot adaptability based on the extreme difference in allele frequency of the selective variants/SVs harbored by these genes, their known biological functions, protein-protein interaction network, findings from previous studies on their relation to environmental adaptation, and their tissue specificities.By integrating SNP, InDel, and SV data, this study provides a comprehensive genetic framework for understanding selective environmental adaptation. These findings enhance our understanding of the mechanisms underlying temperature adaptation in cattle and offer a molecular foundation for the development of new breeds.© 2026. The Author(s).
The Na+,K+-ATPase (NKA) is essential for neuronal excitability. The neuron-specific α3 isoform differs from the ubiquitous α1 isoform by its low affinity for intracellular Na+, weak voltage dependence, and slightly reduced ATP sensitivity, yet the functional relevance of these features remains unclear. Using biophysically detailed models of stretch receptor neurons, we examined how isoform-specific pump kinetics influence firing behavior. Substitution of α1 for α3 NKA abolished sustained spike trains and reduced high-frequency entrainment. In contrast, modifying α3 NKA to exhibit α1-like voltage or ATP dependence did not affect neuronal excitability. These results indicate that Na+ affinity, rather than voltage or ATP dependence, is the critical determinant of α3 NKA specialization. Our findings provide a mechanistic explanation for the selective expression of α3 NKA in muscle spindle afferents and other high-frequency neurons, highlighting that NKA isoform properties are tuned to the discharge demands of distinct neuronal populations.Copyright © 2026 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The Ring of Fire is a region in the James Bay Lowlands of northern Ontario that houses a rich deposit of chromite and is slated for mining development. The goals of this study were to better understand the relative effects of Cr(VI) to Cr(III) in rainbow trout, identify potential protein biomarkers to distinguish between Cr(VI) and Cr(III) exposure, and determine potential biomarkers for chromium exposure at concentrations below observable effect levels. Proteomic analysis on the fish plasma showed no difference in Cr(VI) and Cr(III) exposure across all concentrations and between chromium species. Proteins associated with hepatocellular carcinoma and cardiomyopathy (Trim21, Slc8a1, Myh4 and Myh6) all decreased in abundance in response to Cr(VI) and Cr(III) exposure, and decreases in these proteins are associated with adverse outcomes. Proteomic analysis of the trout livers also showed no difference in Cr(VI) and Cr(III) exposure for all concentrations and between chromium species. Again, all proteins decreased in abundance, with Gys2 being associated with hepatocellular carcinoma and it was the only protein with a notable adverse outcome. We hope that this study will advance knowledge on chromium toxicity in fish and protect all that inhabit the Ring of Fire region of Canada.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1 (PHA1) is a rare hereditary disorder characterised by aldosterone resistance leading to salt wasting, hyperkalaemia, and metabolic acidosis. Two forms are recognised: a milder renal form (PHA1A) due to NR3C2 mutations and a severe systemic form (PHA1B) caused by biallelic mutations in epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) subunit genes. Data on Indian patients are scarce. This study describes the clinical, biochemical, and molecular characteristics and treatment outcomes of children with PHA1 from South India.This multicentric retrospective series included nine children diagnosed with PHA1 across six tertiary care centres between 2022 and 2025. Clinical and biochemical data were extracted from hospital records. Plasma renin, aldosterone, cortisol, and 17-hydroxyprogesterone were measured at presentation. Genetic testing was performed using clinical exome sequencing, and variants were classified according to American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) guidelines.All nine patients had the systemic form (PHA1B). The median age at presentation was 14 days (interquartile range 5.5-42.5), and parental consanguinity was present in seven (78%). All presented with hyponatraemia and hyperkalaemia (median serum sodium 124 mEq/L; potassium 8.0 mEq/L). Eight (pathogenic/likely-pathogenic: 4, supporting: 4) homozygous variants were identified in SCNN1A (n = 2), SCNN1B (n = 3), and SCNN1G (n = 3); all were novel. Six patients (67%) died, mainly due to sepsis (n = 2) or treatment discontinuation (n = 4), while three remain stable on oral sodium supplementation.This first multicentric South Indian series highlights exclusive reporting of PHA1B, high early mortality, and major treatment challenges. Eight novel ENaC variants expand the genetic spectrum of PHA1B in India.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
HECW2 (HECT, C2, and WW domain-containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 2, also known as NEDL2) has been implicated in numerous tumors, whereas its effect in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains unknown. This study aimed to investigate the role of HECW2 in NSCLC and its underlying mechanisms. The mRNA profiles GSE27262, GSE43458, GSE19804, and GSE19188 were collected from the Gene Expression Omnibus database, and the E3 ubiquitin ligases were obtained from the Ubibrowse database. Moreover, we investigated the expressions and clinical prognosis of HECW2 using the online databases. To assess the effect of HECW2 on the phenotype of NSCLC, we performed both in vitro and in vivo functional experiments. Co-Immunoprecipitation, GST pull-down, and Western blot assays were used to verify the regulation of SCNN1A by HECW2. The relationship between SCNN1A and AKT/mTOR pathway was further verified using MK2206 and SC79. HECW2 was downregulated in NSCLC and the HECW2-low expression was associated with the poor prognosis of lung cancer. HECW2 overexpression inhibited cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in H1975 cells and restricted tumor growth in tumor-bearing mice, whereas an opposite effect was observed in the HECW2-knockdown PC9 cells. SCNN1A overexpression and AKT inhibition reversed the inhibiting proliferation and migration abilities of HECW2 overexpression and the promotion effect of SCNN1A overexpression, respectively. HECW2 binds to SCNN1A and promoted SCNN1A ubiquitination with the K48-linked manner and proteasomal degradation. In conclusion, HECW2 inhibited the development of NSCLC via mediating SCNN1A ubiquitination by inactivating the AKT/mTOR pathway and could be a potential target in NSCLC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background: Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) is a critical cause of brain injury and intracranial hypertension. However, its underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood, limiting the development of targeted therapies. This study aims to systematically identify key molecular targets and signaling pathways involved in CVST-induced brain lesions using multi-omics approaches in a modified rat model of CVST. Methods: An optimized rat CVST model was established. Cortical tissues were collected from Sham-operated, 2-day post-CVST, and 7-day post-CVST groups for transcriptomic, proteomic, and single-cell transcriptomic sequencing. Bioinformatics analyses were performed to identify differentially expressed genes/proteins, followed by functional enrichment, protein-protein interaction network construction, and hub-gene screening. Further investigations included drug enrichment analysis, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics, as well as the prediction of competing endogenous RNA networks, transcription factor analysis, and expression profiling of potential edema-related therapeutic targets. Results: Multi-omics analyses revealed dynamic changes in gene and protein expression in the brain after CVST, along with associated pathways involved in immune inflammatory responses and tissue repair. Integrative analysis identified 12 core genes (Cd44, Cd40, Sdc1, Myd88, Icam1, Stat3, Jak2, Ptgs2, Aldh1a1, Hspb1, Pxdn, and Casp3). Single-cell RNA sequencing validated their expression and delineated cell-type specificity. Molecular docking hinted at the high binding potential of glucocorticoids such as dexamethasone and methylprednisolone to several core targets (JAK2, PTGS2, and CD44), with all docked complexes showing binding energies below -8.2 kcal/mol. Further molecular dynamics simulations indicated that methylprednisolone forms a stable complex with CD44, driven primarily by van der Waals and electrostatic interactions. Additionally, dynamic levels of several potential edema-related targets (Kcnn4, Piezo1, Trpv4, and Atp1a2) were observed. Conclusions: In summary, by applying integrated multi-omics profiling to a modified rat model, this study systematically mapped the molecular landscape of CVST-induced brain injury. A number of candidate targets and signaling pathways emerged from our analysis, along with several compounds of potential therapeutic interest. Collectively, these results provide a basis for further investigation into the mechanisms underlying CVST and for the design of novel treatment approaches.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a genetically complex neurodevelopmental condition with a high heritability. However, genomic studies of ASD have been underrepresented in East Asian populations, and the molecular yield in ASD cohorts remains modest. Here, we present a whole-genome sequencing analysis of 3109 samples across 1033 Chinese ASD families. By examining a wide spectrum of genetic variation, we identified rare ASD-associated variants in 19.2% of affected individuals, providing a population-specific view of the genetic architecture of ASD. We identify significant enrichment of de novo variants in probands, nominate or strengthen candidate risk genes (e.g., NCL, SPPL3, ADGRB1, SLC9A3, KIF1B) through mutational burden, evolutionary constraint, recurrent missense site, and functional assays, and implicate convergent pathways including protein palmitoylation. By integrating over 40,000 ASD cases across unpublished and published global cohorts, we identify 245 ASD risk genes, including 45 with limited prior evidence and 32 with no prior association. Single-cell transcriptomic profiling of the developing human cortex reveals that ASD risk genes exhibit widespread yet heterogeneous expression across all major cell types, with peak expression in excitatory neurons, particularly intratelencephalic neurons, and enriched expression in microglia (e.g., C1QC, CARD11, SNX13, MEF2C, FOXP2, TCF12, MED13L), suggesting convergent involvement of both synaptic and neuroimmune mechanisms. Together, our findings expand the ASD genetic landscape and suggest convergent pathogenic axes involving transcriptional regulation, synaptic signaling and plasticity, and neuroimmune interactions. This work supports the development of inclusive diagnostic strategies and provides a foundation for mechanistic and intervention exploration in ASD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Liddle syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant form of monogenic hypertension caused by gain-of-function mutations in genes encoding the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC). The disease is characterized by early-onset hypertension, hypokalemia, metabolic alkalosis, and suppression of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS). Early diagnosis is essential because targeted therapy with ENaC inhibitors can effectively control blood pressure and prevent end-organ damage, whereas mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists are ineffective.We report a 15-year-old Chinese male who presented with severe hypertension (196/143 mmHg) and profound hypokalemia (1.73 mmol/L) with a history of hypertension since the age of 10 years. Laboratory evaluation revealed suppressed plasma renin concentration (3.157 pg/mL), relatively normal aldosterone (61.784 pg/mL), and an aldosterone-to-renin ratio of 19.57. Arterial blood gas analysis demonstrated metabolic alkalosis (pH 7.48, HCO₃⁻ 28 mmol/L). A 24-hour urinary potassium excretion of 81.65 mmol/day confirmed renal potassium wasting. Serum cortisol and ACTH were within normal limits. Although definitive biochemical exclusion of apparent mineralocorticoid excess (AME) and glucocorticoid-remediable aldosteronism (GRA) was not performed, no pathogenic variants were identified in HSD11B2, CYP11B1, or CYP11B2 on the comprehensive genetic panel, providing molecular-level exclusion of these conditions. Echocardiography demonstrated ventricular wall thickening with mild valvular regurgitation. Brain MRI revealed bilateral basal ganglia and left corona radiata encephalomalacia with white-matter hyperintensity (Fazekas grade 1), indicating chronic hypertensive brain injury. Next-generation sequencing identified a heterozygous SCNN1B variant (NM_000336.3: c.1853 C > G; p.Pro618Arg; absent from gnomAD), classified as Likely Pathogenic per ACMG/AMP guidelines (criteria: PM1, PM2, PP3, PP4), confirming the diagnosis of Liddle syndrome. Treatment with compound amiloride tablets and potassium supplementation normalized serum potassium within 48 h and significantly improved blood pressure. At one-month follow-up, blood pressure was well controlled at 130/80 mmHg. Long-term follow-up is ongoing to assess sustained blood pressure control and end-organ recovery.Although SCNN1B p.Pro618Arg is a recognized pathogenic hotspot variant, this case highlights the severe phenotypic consequences of delayed diagnosis in adolescents, and demonstrates that early genetic diagnosis and targeted ENaC inhibitor therapy are achievable even in resource-limited rural clinical settings. Early recognition and targeted therapy with ENaC inhibitors are critical to prevent serious cardiovascular and cerebrovascular complications. Genetic testing is essential for definitive diagnosis, particularly in resource-limited settings where misdiagnosis as primary aldosteronism (PA) may lead to ineffective treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Biological age (BA) has emerged as a promising integrative indicator of physiological state and welfare, but its use within aquaculture remains underdeveloped. Previous genome-wide analysis in gilthead sea bream revealed skeletal muscle markers with inverse age-related expression and methylation patterns. Specifically, psmd2, ramp1, sirt1 and smad1 were up-regulated and hypomethylated with age, while atp1a2, bmp1, calcrl, col5a1, spred2 and thrb exhibited down-regulation coupled with hypermethylation. Here we assessed the responsiveness of this gene set across multiple aquaculture-relevant challenges using a real-time PCR array. Environmental stressors (e.g. increased temperature and high stocking density with low O2 concentration) induced transcriptional profiles resembling muscle gene-expression patterns of older individuals. Conversely, cold exposure and nutritional interventions, including restricted feeding and feed supplementation with bioactive protein hydrolysates, microalgae meal with a PUFA-rich lipid source, or fat emulsifiers promoted signatures aligned with those observed in younger animals. Although the direct reversal of stress-induced aging signatures was not tested, results indicate that dietary interventions elicit opposing transcriptional patterns, highlighting potential strategies to mitigate environmentally mediated aquaculture stress through targeted nutrition. These findings provide preliminary evidence of a potential relationship between BA and aquaculture stressors in farmed fish, underpinning a genomics-based framework for welfare assessment and adaptive management.© 2026. The Author(s).
Post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 (PASC) occurs in subsets of individuals, including those with pre-existing lung disease. To investigate PASC pathogenesis and therapeutics in a chronic bronchitis mouse model (Scnn1b-Tg), Scnn1b-Tg and WT mice were inoculated with a mouse adapted SARS-CoV-2 virus (SARS-CoV-2MA10) and followed for 60 days. Viral titer, histology, immunohistochemistry (IHC), single-cell RNA sequencing, RNA in situ hybridization, and spatial transcriptomic profiling characterized disease pathologies. Scnn1b-Tg mice inoculated with SARS-CoV-2MA10 exhibited lower viral titers and less weight loss than WT mice. Airway epithelia of Scnn1b-Tg mice were less infected than epithelia of WT mice, reflecting increased airway mucus and enhanced epithelial antiviral activities in Scnn1b-Tg mice. However, Scnn1b-Tg mice subsequently exhibited heterogeneous airway and parenchymal disease with elevated Il33 expression characteristic of human eosinophilic pneumonia. Cohorts of infected mice were administered a monoclonal antibody targeting the IL-33 receptor (ST2) or enteral prednisone. Administration of an anti-ST2 monoclonal antibody mitigated development of eosinophilic pneumonia while enteral prednisone suppressed IL33 expression and disease. The eosinophilic pneumonia in Scnn1b-Tg mice after SARS-CoV-2MA10 infection mimics reports of eosinophilic pneumonia in humans post-SARS-CoV-2, suggesting targeting of IL-33 may be beneficial in treating post-viral eosinophilic pneumonia in humans.
Sepsis triggers acute kidney injury (AKI) through inflammatory, oxidative, apoptotic, and microvascular mechanisms. This study investigated the renoprotective effects of ranolazine (RAN) in a lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced AKI model. Thirty-two male Wistar albino rats were allocated to four groups: Control, LPS (5 mg/kg, intraperitoneal), LPS + RAN (100 mg/kg orally, twice daily for three days), and RAN. Six hours after LPS administration, kidney tissues were collected for histopathological and immunohistochemical analysis of nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), and caspase 3 (Cas-3). Biochemical assessments included total antioxidant status (TAS), total oxidative status (TOS), oxidative stress index (OSI), and serum blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine levels. Gene expression of interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β), sirtuin 1 (SIRT-1), heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF-1α), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), fms-related tyrosine kinase-1 (FLT-1), and aquaporin 2 (AQP-2), sodium channel epithelial 1 alpha subunit (SCNN1A), neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL), and kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM1) was analyzed. LPS induced renal injury, evidenced by increased NF-κB, TNF-α, Cas-3, TOS, OSI, BUN, creatinine, and FLT-1, SCNN1A, NGAL, and KIM1 expression, together with decreased TAS, SIRT-1, HO-1, HIF-1α, VEGF, and AQP-2. RAN treatment significantly attenuated these alterations, reducing inflammation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis, tubular injury and tubular transport-related signaling while partially restoring vascular and hypoxia-related signaling. Prophylactic RAN attenuated inflammation, oxidative stress, and tubular injury while preserving renal function and modulating vascular and tubular pathways in sepsis-associated AKI, supporting its potential as an adjunctive therapeutic strategy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Liddle's syndrome is a rare inherited disorder associated with early-onset and resistant hypertension due to hyperactivity of epithelial sodium channels (ENaCs). The condition is caused by mutations in the genes SCNN1A, SCNN1B, and SCNN1G. Liddle's syndrome leads to hypertension, hypokalemia, and metabolic alkalosis.A previously healthy 21-year-old male patient complained of severe central chest pain radiating to both arms and had a hypertensive emergency with a BP reading of 267/170 mmHg. The patient had marked elevation in troponin I (13.9 ng/mL), hypokalemia (2.8 mmol/L), and metabolic alkalosis. The electrocardiogram showed left ventricular hypertrophy with a strain pattern and QTc prolongation due to hypokalemia. Coronary angiography ruled out the possibility of primary acute coronary syndrome by revealing normal coronary arteries. Echocardiogram showed concentric left ventricular hypertrophy with normal ejection fraction and no wall motion abnormalities. In search of the secondary cause of hypertension, renal Doppler ultrasonography and aldosterone-to-renin ratio were normal, thus ruling out primary hyperaldosteronism. About the typical clinical and biochemical presentation, a clinical diagnosis of Liddle syndrome was highly likely. Genetic tests were not performed owing to financial constraints. However, treatment with amiloride brought about remarkable improvement in the control of hypertension and normalization of potassium levels.Liddle's syndrome should be suspected in cases where there are young individuals who have severe hypertension, hypokalaemia, and an aldosterone-to-renin ratio that is normal or low. The diagnosis must be made promptly because delay may lead to complications. In instances where molecular testing is impractical, treatment with ENaC inhibition using amiloride is diagnostic and potentially life-saving.Copyright © 2026 Abbas Khan et al. Case Reports in Nephrology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Background/Objectives: Prostate cancer (PCa) remains a prevalent malignancy among men, often complicated by recurrence and unfavorable clinical outcomes. Consequently, precise risk stratification and timely clinical intervention are paramount. Initially, we delineated distinct expression profiles of histone modification regulators via unsupervised clustering, identifying PCa subtypes with divergent survival probabilities and biological phenotypes. Subsequently, we sought to develop a prognostic gene signature, derived from the transcriptomic variations among these regulator-defined subtypes, to predict outcomes in PCa patients following radical prostatectomy (RP). Methods: Clinical and transcriptomic data from PCa cohorts were retrieved from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) repositories for comprehensive analysis. Subtypes driven by histone modification regulators were established using unsupervised consensus clustering, followed by in-depth characterization of their molecular features and associated pathways. A risk-scoring model was then developed to evaluate its prognostic efficacy in this patient population. Results: Stratification based on histone modification regulators yielded four distinct PCa subtypes exhibiting heterogeneous survival outcomes, functional pathways, and genomic mutational landscapes. Following rigorous feature selection, a 21-gene risk signature (HIS_score)-comprising MXD3, CCDC28B, COL11A2, SLC39A5, GPT, DNASE1L2, PIF1, KRTAP5-9, TTLL10, KRTAP5-1, KRTAP5-10, HAGHL, MSLNL, AMH, NKAIN4, CCDC114, SLC9A3, SULT1E1, ALB, SLC6A14, and RPE65-was constructed. Survival analyses demonstrated that patients assigned to the high HIS_score cohort experienced significantly worse clinical outcomes compared to their low-score counterparts. Furthermore, we integrated this signature into a novel clinical nomogram to facilitate individualized prognostic assessments. Conclusions: Derived from transcriptomic disparities between extreme epigenetic subtypes, the HIS_score and its associated nomogram serve as robust prognostic instruments. These tools effectively encapsulate the downstream transcriptional sequelae of histone modification dysregulation, offering clinicians a valuable framework to accurately predict post-RP outcomes and expedite the formulation of personalized therapeutic strategies.
Hypertension is a common comorbidity and risk factor for clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), yet the molecular mechanisms linking these two diseases remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate hypertension-related molecular signatures in ccRCC using integrated multi-transcriptomic analyses.Hypertension-related differentially expressed genes (DEHRGs) in ccRCC were identified by integrating transcriptomic data from the TCGA-KIRC cohort with the GeneCards database. Functional enrichment, WGCNA, machine learning, GSVA, survival analysis, and Mendelian randomization were performed to identify and characterize hub genes. Spatial and single-cell transcriptomic analyses were used to investigate tumor heterogeneity and predict candidate therapeutic compounds, which were subsequently evaluated in vitro.Four hypertension-related hub genes-SCNN1G, CASR, KCNJ1, and WNK4-were identified and were mainly involved in ion transport, electrolyte homeostasis, and blood pressure regulation. Diagnostic models based on these genes showed good discriminatory performance between tumor and normal tissues, and the nomogram showed good calibration and potential clinical benefit. Higher hypertension-related transcriptional activity was associated with significantly poorer overall survival, while MR analysis suggested a genetic association with ccRCC risk. Spatial transcriptomics revealed pronounced spatial heterogeneity of SCNN1G, CASR, KCNJ1, and WNK4, with these hub genes predominantly enriched in stromal and immune regions. Single-cell-based drug screening identified candidate compounds predicted to have antitumor activity, among which epicatechin gallate (ECG) and pseudoginsenoside-F11 showed favorable tumor selectivity.This study systematically characterized hypertension-related molecular signatures in ccRCC and identified SCNN1G, CASR, KCNJ1, and WNK4 as key hub genes. These genes may contribute to the molecular association between hypertension and ccRCC. They also represent promising candidate biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Integrated spatial and single-cell analyses further identified pseudoginsenoside-F11 and ECG as potential therapeutic compounds and supporting a potential molecular association between hypertension and ccRCC.
Cervical cancer (CC) is a main malignancy affecting women globally, with a high mortality rate. Chemoradiotherapy resistance is a significant factor in determining treatment outcomes, and prognostic biomarkers are essential for the appropriate selection of therapeutic strategies. This study aimed to identify gene expression signatures that may allow for follow-up treatment response in CC patients.Samples of non-stem CC cells selected by Fluorescence-activated Cell Sorting from 21 Responders and 10 Non-responder patients, who attended the Mario Penna Institute (Belo Horizonte-Brazil) from August 2017 to May 2018, and submitted to Next-generation RNA sequencing, were analyzed to evaluate differential gene expression profiles between both groups. Machine Learning and statistical analyses were performed to identify a signature related to clinical outcomes.2670 Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) with log2FoldChange ≤ -1 or ≥ 1 and adjusted p-value ≤ 0.05 were found. Of these, 1591 were protein-coding, but only 8 were considered relevant based on machine-learning and statistical analyses for classifying treatment response. However, only PNMA3 and ZIK1 were markedly upregulated in non-responder patients. Among the genes upregulated in Responder patients, only ATF4 and ATP1B3 were identified by machine-learning analysis. On the other hand, only ATF4, PNMA3, and ZIK1 were associated in network interactions, more specifically to apoptosis pathways, and the differential expression of ATF4 and PNMA3 occurred exclusively in cervical cancer non-stem cells, in the presence of ZIK1.We propose that upregulation of PNMA3 and downregulation of ATF4, specifically in cervical cancer non-stem cells, is associated with upregulation of ZIK1 and with resistance to apoptosis and chemoradiotherapy. Therefore, suggesting that these genes may serve as potential signatures for CC prognosis.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Venous thromboembolism (VTE) includes deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), which often originate from DVT and can be fatal.Identifying causal genetic factors that alter risk of PE among those with a presumed DVT.Using a case-only design of VTE, we conducted meta-analyses of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in the INVENT Consortium. Among participants diagnosed with VTE, each study identified those who had a clinically reported PE, with or without a clinically reported DVT; those remaining had isolated DVT. Logistic regression models (PE as outcome compared with isolated DVT) were used for variant discovery and replication analyses. A polygenic risk score (PRS) was created from the GWAS findings. Transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) analyses were conducted using the GWAS discovery estimates.Our discovery and replication analyses included 126,316 individuals with a VTE across 29 studies: 54,389 who had a PE and the remaining 71,927 who had an isolated DVT. Five variants reached genome-wide significance (p<5x10-8) in discovery, 4 of which replicated: F5 rs6025 (FV Leiden), odds ratio (OR) 0.66; FGG rs2066864, OR 1.08; F11 rs4253417, OR 1.07; and SLC12A2-DT rs3749748, OR 0.92. Each standard deviation increase in the PRS was associated with risk (OR 1.05; 95% CI: 1.003-1.094). TWAS identified genetic associations with FGG, SLC12A2-DT, and CDHR4 transcripts.Although the overall risk for VTE is strongly heritable, our findings support the hypothesis that PE in the setting of a presumed DVT is regulated by genetics, although the overall effect appears modest.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42412512
Maternal recognition of pregnancy (MRP) in the mare requires coordinated adaptations of both the conceptus and the endometrium during the peri-recognition interval; however, integrated transcriptomic analyses of both compartments within the same biological window remain limited. Here, we analyzed conceptus RNA-seq data across embryonic age (Days 8 and 12 post ovulation) and endometrial RNA-seq data across pregnancy status (pregnant versus non-pregnant mares sampled between Days 8 and 12 post ovulation). In pregnant mares, conceptus recovery and endometrial biopsy collection were performed within the same gestation, allowing biological integration of embryo and maternal transcriptomes while preserving tissue-specific statistical contrasts.RNA-seq analysis followed by TMM normalization and voom-limma modeling identified differential expression in both compartments. Differential expression was defined by an adjusted P-value (FDR threshold <0.001). The B-statistic (log-odds of differential expression) was used to prioritize high-confidence candidates for interpretation and downstream modeling, considering genes with a Bayesian posterior probability >1. Gene-level interpretation was restricted to transcripts with a Bayesian posterior probability of differential expression (B > 1). In the conceptus, high-confidence upregulated genes from day 8 to 12 included steroidogenic enzymes (CYP19A1, CYP17A1), extracellular matrix components (COL4A1, COL4A2, COL4A5, SPON1, DSG2), protease regulators (SERPINE1, TMPRSS2, LGMN), and selective transporters (AQP5, SLC2A5, ATP1B3). In the endometrium, downregulated genes in pregnant mares included immediate-early transcriptional regulators (EGR1, FOS, DUSP1) and oxidative stress-associated genes (GSTA4), while upregulated genes in pregnant mares included signaling and regulatory components (HRAS, PUM3, U2AF1L4, COPS6), complement regulator C4BPA, and mitochondrial sulfide metabolism gene SQOR. Functional enrichment analysis supported coordinated extracellular matrix organization and signaling modulation without enrichment of inflammatory pathways.Matched transcriptomic profiling reveals coordinated but compartment-specific gene regulation at the onset of early equine pregnancy. The conceptus exhibits endocrine and interface specialization, whereas the endometrium demonstrates attenuation of immediate-early transcriptional programs and selective signaling recalibration. These data define a high-confidence systems-level framework for early embryo-maternal communication that precedes the classical maternal recognition phase and is consistent with early embryo-maternal communication associated with the transition toward maternal recognition.Copyright © 2026 Da Silva Álvarez, Ortiz-Rodríguez, Martín-Cano, Álvarez-Barrientos, Becerro-Rey, Gil, Redondo, Masot, Aparicio, Peña and Ortega-Ferrusola.
The mammalian tracheal epithelium is composed of different cell types distributed along the proximal-distal axis. Nevertheless, variations in expression and function of ion channels and transporters participating in fluid absorption and secretion have never been studied separately in proximal and distal mouse trachea. This work aims to characterize basal and stimulated absorption and secretion of fluid obtained from proximal and distal trachea from the same animal.Ussing chamber was performed using a custom-made tissue slider allowing small tracheal sections mounting, where response to agonists and blockers was recorded. The role of NKCC1 co-transporter was studied using the Slc12a2-/- mouse. A genetically tomato-induced mouse model was used to assess co-expression of NKCC1 and ASCL3 by immunofluorescence. Animals were instilled with interleukins (ILs) to determine changes in absorption, secretion, and mucus properties.Proximal trachea didn't participate in sodium absorption but exhibited higher cAMP- and succinate-induced anion secretion than the distal section. NBCe1-dependent bicarbonate and TMEM16A-driven chloride secretion were significantly higher in distal trachea. NKCC1+ cells were found in the submucosal glands (SMGs) and abundant patches of NKCC1+ cells in the distal region. Isolated NKCC1+ cells co-expressing ASCL3 were also detected. ILs treatment changed the electrophysiological properties of the distal trachea exclusively.Our experiments determined that the mouse trachea organizes its functions differentially in proximal and distal regions, based on the functional distribution of channels, transporters, and receptors. While the distal trachea changed its responses to agonists inducing anion secretion, the proximal trachea was unperturbed by ILs addition.© 2026 Scandinavian Physiological Society. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Enhancement of the production of eggs with good-quality eggshells is of serious interest to ensure food security as eggs are assessed mostly by their eggshell quality. A high rate of cracked eggs has been reported to cause economic loss, increasing the risk of bacterial infections leading to low egg production. Hence, the study was conducted to determine the genetic variation of the Sodium Channel Epithelial 1 Subunit Gamma (SCNN1G) gene in improving eggshell thickness of the Potchefstroom Koekoek chicken breed. The study was conducted at the University of Limpopo with 100 Potchefstroom Koekoek point-of-lay chickens raised intensively. A total of 350 eggs were randomly collected at the 31st to 39th weeks for the collection of internal, external, and eggshell quality traits, and tissues (shell gland, magnum, and isthmus) and blood samples were collected for molecular analysis. Statistical Analysis System Version 9.4 (SAS, 2020) software was used for data analysis. DNA sequencing, general linear model (GLM), and quantitative reverse transcription PCR (RT-qPCR) were used to achieve the objective. DNA sequence analysis revealed two SNPs (A > T at position 2587 and C > T at position 1013 in the coding region). Marker-trait association showed shell thickness (ST) having a significant association (P < 0.05) with all the genotypes where genotype AA was associated with thicker ST than genotype AT; then, genotype CC was associated with thicker ST than genotype CT. The RT-qPCR results demonstrated significant difference (P < 0.05) in SCNN1G mRNA expression levels where the highest expression level was observed in magnum, followed by isthmus and shell gland, respectively. The findings of the study could give evidence on the relevance of genetic markers, mRNA expression analysis, and other molecular biology tools that could be used during genetic selection programs aimed at improving egg production traits specifically eggshell quality.Copyright © 2026 Kagisho Madikadike Molabe et al. Veterinary Medicine International published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Abdominal pain is a hallmark symptom of both inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and substantially impairs patients' quality of life. Relaxation response-based mind-body intervention (RR-MBI) has been reported to improve disease-specific outcomes and pain catastrophizing in both disorders, accompanied by whole-blood transcriptomic changes. However, the transcriptional features potentially relevant to abdominal pain before and after RR-MBI in IBS and IBD remain insufficiently explored. In this context, this study aimed to analyze these transcriptional changes and prioritize putative abdominal pain-relevant candidate genes from exploratory differentially expressed gene (DEG) sets.Gene expression data (GSE66824) were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). Whole-blood gene expression profiles were analyzed from 14 IBS and 19 IBD patients, with samples collected before and after a 9-week RR-MBI. Exploratory DEG sets were identified using GEO2R outputs with nominal P < 0.05 and absolute fold-change magnitude (AFC) ≥ 1.2. Functional enrichment analyses were performed using DAVID. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks were constructed using STRING and visualized in Cytoscape. Putative abdominal pain-relevant candidate genes were prioritized from exploratory DEG sets within PPI/MCODE modules based on network position, matching module genes to the DisGeNET disease entry "pain", and targeted pain-related literature annotation.(1) In IBD post-MBI, 649 exploratory DEGs were identified, with enrichment of neurotrophin and TGF-β signaling pathways; MAP3K7, SLC12A2, and FKBP5 were prioritized as candidate genes. (2) In IBS post-MBI, 175 exploratory DEGs were identified, with enrichment of glutamatergic synapse and calcium signaling pathways; network analysis highlighted NTRK2, FKBP5, and AR as candidate genes. (3) At baseline, 836 exploratory DEGs were identified, with enrichment in pathways including p53 signaling and NOD-like receptor signaling; notable prioritized candidate genes included TRAF6 and TNFSF11.Prioritized genes after RR-MBI and in the baseline comparison may represent putative abdominal pain-relevant candidate transcriptional signals in IBS and IBD. These exploratory findings require validation in independent cohorts with matched individual-level pain-related outcomes and functional studies.© 2026 Lin et al.
Male infertility, often caused by structural and functional sperm defects, remains genetically unexplained in a substantial proportion of cases. ATP1A4 encodes a testis-specific isoform of the Na+, K+-ATPase, a membrane enzyme crucial for maintaining cellular ionic homeostasis. Previous studies on Atp1a4 knockout mice have demonstrated severe defects in sperm motility and flagellar architecture; however, the contribution of ATP1A4 variants to human male reproduction remains to be elucidated. In this study, we identified compound biallelic variants in ATP1A4, a missense variant (c.2578 T>A, p.Tyr860Asn) and a frameshift variant (c.2582del, p.Gly861Aspfs*5), in a patient presenting with severe oligoasthenoteratozoospermia. Both variants markedly affected ATP1A4 protein expression. Morphological analyses revealed coiled and folded flagella, disrupted mitochondrial sheaths, and irregular head morphology in the patient's spermatozoa. Expression profiling revealed that ATP1A4 was highly enriched in post-meiotic spermatids and localized along the entire flagellum of mature sperm in both humans and mice, indicating a critical role in flagellar assembly and structural integrity. Notably, intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) in this patient resulted in low fertilization efficiency and failed implantation, suggesting a potential adverse impact of ATP1A4 deficiency on sperm functional competence beyond motility. These findings broaden the genetic spectrum of oligoasthenoteratozoospermia and highlight ATP1A4 as a potential gene associated with human male infertility.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is one of the most lethal malignancies worldwide, and diabetes mellitus has been recognized as both a risk factor for and a potential consequence of PDAC. However, the epidemiological trends and shared molecular mechanisms underlying this association are not completely understood.We conducted an integrative analysis combining population-level epidemiological data and transcriptomic datasets. Global trends in PDAC incidence, PDAC-related mortality, and diabetes incidence from 2013 to 2023 were obtained from the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) database. A meta-analysis was performed to quantify the association between diabetes and PDAC risk. In addition, gene expression datasets focusing on PDAC (GSE15471) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM; GSE20966) were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus database, differentially expressed genes were identified, and upregulated genes associated with both PDAC and T2DM were examined using heatmaps.Continuous increases in global PDAC incidence, mortality due to PDAC, and the incidence of diabetes were identified in the GBD data. The meta-analysis of eight studies demonstrated that diabetes was significantly associated with an increased risk of PDAC (pooled relative risk = 1.94, 95% CI: 1.78-2.11). Transcriptomic analyses identified five genes-FXYD3, LAMC1, MDFIC, SOCS3, and TREM2-that were consistently upregulated in both PDAC and T2DM-affected tissues.This integrative epidemiological and transcriptomic analysis demonstrates that diabetes and PDAC share not only similar global disease trends but also a significant epidemiological association and common molecular alterations. The identified shared genes may represent molecular links between diabetes and PDAC, providing new insights applicable to risk stratification and mechanistic studies.© The author(s).
Cancer continues to be a major health burden, with millions of new cases and deaths reported annually, and metastasis remains the leading cause of cancer-related mortality. Disruption of transmembrane proteins is a major regulator of tumor development and progression. This review highlights FXYD3, a single-transmembrane protein that regulates Na+ /K+ -ATPase activity and functions in maintaining ion balance, redox homeostasis, and proliferative signaling in both cancer stem cells and bulk tumor populations. Its expression varies across various cancers, such as breast, pancreatic, lung, colorectal, gastric, and endometrial cancer, where it is linked with tumor development, therapy resistance, and immune modulation. Its involvement in pathways such as PI3K-AKT and cGMP-PKG contributes to malignancy. It protects cells from oxidative stress, thereby promoting cell survival and inhibiting apoptosis. Accumulating evidence highlights the potential role of FXYD3 as an emerging biomarker with relevance to diagnosis, prognosis, and therapeutics. This review provides an overview of FXYD3's role in cancer biology from translational relevance to its potential as a diagnostic, prognostic, and therapeutic target.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease marked by immune imbalance and monocyte dysfunction. IFITM3, a palmitoylation-related immune protein, may play a role in this process, but its involvement in CD remains unclear. This study aimed to explore the causal role of IFITM3 and related proteins in CD using Mendelian randomization, multi-omics analysis, and machine learning, to identify potential diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets.We performed Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis using pQTL data to identify causal associations between monocyte palmitoylation-related proteins and CD. Multi-omics data were integrated to construct a diagnostic model. A total of 12 machine learning algorithms across 110 combinations-including Enet, GBM, glmBoost, Lasso, LDA, NaiveBayes, plsRglm, RF, Ridge, Stepglm, SVM, and XGBoost-were evaluated. Models were ranked by area under the curve (AUC), and the top-performing model (random forest) was selected. SHAP analysis was applied to interpret feature contributions. Single-cell transcriptomics further explored monocyte communication in CD tissues.MR analysis provided genetic evidence consistent with a causal role for IFITM3 in CD, suggesting its potential role in driving monocyte-related immune dysregulation. Additionally, four CCL chemokines-CCL3, CCL7, CCL20, and CCL26-were found to be causally associated with CD pathogenesis.The seven core genes (C2, IFITM3, FXYD3, LAX1, CD63, CKAP4, and SPPL2A) identified by Lasso regression achieved a minimum single-gene diagnostic AUC of ≥ 0.79 in the training cohort, showing robust diagnostic and predictive performance. The final random forest model incorporating these seven genes demonstrated strong predictive performance in three independent external validation cohorts (GSE75214, GSE16879, and GSE24287), with AUCs of 0.980, 0.961, and 0.902, respectively. SHAP analysis revealed that C2 had the highest predictive contribution in the model, whereas IFITM3-despite showing moderate predictive importance-had a significant causal association with CD, underscoring its biological relevance. Finally,single-cell transcriptomic analysis suggested enhanced monocyte communication in CD tissues, particularly through the CCL3-CCR5 axis, providing a computational inference that this pathway may contribute to chronic inflammation and disease progression.Our findings highlight IFITM3 as a key immune-related macromolecule contributing to CD via monocyte-driven inflammation. The identified CCL chemokines and the CCL3-CCR5 axis further elucidate the inflammatory landscape in CD. The diagnostic gene model presents potential for clinical translation, and IFITM3 may serve as a candidate biomarker and a putative therapeutic target for CD, although experimental and prospective validation are required before clinical application.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Mutations of LDLR, APOB and PCSK9 have been well-established to cause hypercholesterolemia while the pathogenic effects of LPL has been confirmed by cohorts and functional studies in hypertriglyceridemia. However, these mutations do not fully account for all dyslipidemia, and it remains unexplained why some patients with dyslipidemia develop coronary heart disease (CHD) while others do not.We enrolled 108 patients with lipid disturbances (67 with hypercholesterolemia and 41 with hypertriglyceridemia) and 414 controls from Tongji Hospital, Wuhan, China. Whole exome sequencing (WES) was performed, and candidate genes were assessed using the optimal sequence kernel association test (SKAT-O). Subgroup analysis compared genetic profiles between CHD and non-CHD patients.We identified 13 pathogenic or likely pathogenic (PP/LPP) variants in LDLR in hypercholesterolemia patients and four in LPL as well as two in APOA5 in hypertriglyceridemia patients. With exclusion of patients with PP/LPP variants, SKAT-O identified 192 and 184 additional genes associated with hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia, respectively. In subgroup analysis, 119 genes showed relevance to CHD by comparison of patients with and without CHD in hypercholesterolemia cohort. Further enrichment analysis identified COL5A1, COL24A1, COL6A6, COL6A2, SLC3A1, ATP1A4 and SLC7A9 as candidate causal genes of CHD.This study described the genetic landscape of dyslipidemia in Chinese Han population, and revealed novel susceptibility genes beyond canonical lipid pathways. Genes implicated in CHD suggests extracellular matrix remodeling may mediate atherosclerotic progression in hypercholesterolemia. These findings provide novel mechanistic insights into CHD development and highlight promising targets for functional validation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hearing loss (HL) is genetically heterozygous, making its genetic diagnosis challenging. Identification of novel HL-associated genes and variants will enhance our understanding of the molecular mechanisms and improve genetic diagnosis. TMPRSS3, encoding a transmembrane serine protease, is implicated in autosomal recessive nonsyndromic hearing loss (ARNSHL), designated as DFNB8 (postlingual onset) or DFNB10 (prelingual onset). Although over 100 pathogenic TMPRSS3 variants have been reported, only seven splice-site variants have been documented to date.This study investigates the molecular etiology of ARNSHL in three Chinese family and functionally characterizes five novel TMPRSS3 variants, including one non-canonical splice-site variant, two canonical splice-site variants, and two missense variants.Whole-exome sequencing and gene panel sequencing identified candidate variants, followed by validation with Sanger sequencing. Functional analyses included minigene splicing assays to evaluate the variants' effect on mRNA splicing and a yeast-based functional assay to assess their impacts on protease activity.Three families carrying compound heterozygous TMPRSS3 variants were identified. The proband with c.205 + 5G>C/c.923T>C (p.Met308Thr) presented with progressive, postlingual, high-frequency-predominant, nonsyndromic sensorineural hearing loss, consistent with DFNB8. Probands with c.572 + 1G>A/c.967G>A (p.Val323Met) and c.1348-2A>G/c.271C>T (p.Arg91Ter) exhibited prelingual, nonsyndromic sensorineural hearing loss. Functional studies revealed that all five novel variants (c.205 + 5G>C, c.923T>C, c.572 + 1G>A, c.967G>A, and c.1348-2A>G) led to reduced protease activity. Notably, the splice-site variants caused exon skipping and resulted in a more pronounced loss of activity compared to the missense variants.This study expands the spectrum of TMPRSS3 variants and provides mechanistic insights into their pathogenicity. Intriguingly, splice-site variants led to a more severe impairment of enzymatic activity compared to missense variants, providing molecular evidence for the considerable genotype-phenotype heterogeneity observed in TMPRSS3-associated hearing loss.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Wang, Huang, Wang, Hu, Liu, Wang, Wang, Xu, Yuan and Gao.
Despite the remarkable success of immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy in solid tumors, immune-related adverse events (irAEs) have posed great challenges in the whole-course management of ICI immunotherapy. Reliable biomarkers helping to predict irAEs are still limited and lacking.Cancer patients receiving PD-1/PD-L1 blockade were enrolled without limiting tumor type, immunotherapy drugs, or affected organs. Blood samples were collected for PBMC isolation. Whole transcriptomic RNA sequencing was used to discover biomarkers in PBMCs of irAEs patients, validated by RT-PCR in the test set. IrAEs-free survival analysis and subgroup analysis were performed. LASSO regression prediction classifiers were conducted.One hundred and two patients were enrolled, with 42 in the training set and 60 in the testing set. The transcriptomic profile of PBMCs distinguished irAEs patients of different grades from non-irAEs patients. Five candidate biomarkers were identified: FXYD7, SPSB2, SLC35E2A, C2, and SERPING1. Lower expression of FXYD7, SPSB2, and SLC35E2A was associated with shorter irAEs-free survival [FXYD7, HR = 3.67, p = 0.0004; SLC35E2A, HR = 3.12, p = 0.0001; SPSB2, HR = 3.41, p = 0.0110]. Higher expression of C2 and SERPING1 was associated with shorter irAEs-free survival in severe cases [C2, HR = 0.30, p = 0.0011; SERPING1, HR = 0.39, p = 0.0082]. Classifiers based on these biomarkers predicted irAEs of all grades (AUC = 0.91) and severe irAEs (AUC = 0.94), with FXYD7, C2, and SERPING1 as key variables.Together, we revealed crucial circulating immunological determinants in irAEs and provided promising biomarkers to help predict irAEs, which will enlighten future precise management and targeted treatment strategies for irAEs.© 2026 The Author(s). Thoracic Cancer published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Nonsyndromic hearing loss (NSHL) is a highly prevalent, genetically heterogeneous condition, yet its molecular basis in the Singaporean population remains underexplored. We performed whole-exome sequencing and integrative bioinformatics analysis in 115 patients with NSHL to define population-specific genetic biomarkers. A molecular diagnosis was achieved in 57% of cases, with 76% of identified variants classified as pathogenic or likely pathogenic and 24% exhibiting high pathogenic potential. Common East Asian NSHL genes, including GJB2, SLC26A4, and OTOF, were frequently detected alongside less prevalent genes such as ACTG1, CEACAM16, COL11A2, DIAPH1, KCQN4, MYH14, MYO6, MYO7A, MYO15A, SLC17A8, SMPX, STRC, TJP2, TMC1, TMPRSS3, highlighting extensive genetic heterogeneity. Notably, multiple novel variants, including MYO6 c.554-2A>G, and TNC p.N750Y, were identified, expanding the known mutational spectrum of NSHL. Genotype-phenotype correlations revealed that GJB2 variants were primarily associated with mild to moderate hearing loss, whereas SLC26A4 variants correlated with severe to profound phenotypes in the Singaporean populations. Collectively, our study provides important insights into the genetic architecture of NSHL in Singapore's population. In addition, it supports improved molecular diagnosis yield and informed clinical management decisions as well as the advancement of precision medicine approaches aimed at reducing the burden of hearing loss in the region.
Pork is a major source of animal protein for humans, and as living standards have improved, consumer demand has shifted from quantity to quality. Amino acid and fatty acid compositions determine the nutritional value and flavor of pork. However, the genetic mechanisms underlying variation in these parameters have not been fully elucidated. In this study, we quantified 17 amino acids and 42 fatty acids in the longissimus dorsi muscle from three crossbred pig populations, namely Yorkshire × Tibetan (YT), Yorkshire × Neijiang (YN), and Duroc × Tibetan (DT). YT and YN pigs exhibited higher amino acid concentrations, while DT pigs showed elevated fatty acid levels. Subsequently, whole-genome resequencing of 73 pigs identified 24,125,658 high-quality SNPs, among which 146 were significantly associated with fatty acid traits, leading to the identification of 19 candidate genes linked to palmitic acid (i.e., GALNT2, RET, RHOU, PHYHIPL, FAM13C, BICC1, and TAF5L), oleic acid (i.e., ABCB10, LRP1B, ZNF37A, RHOBTB1, HNRNPF, TMEM26, URB2, FXYD4, PGBD5, LOC110256649, and LOC110256821), and total fatty acids (i.e., UBE2E2). Functional annotation revealed that these candidate genes participate primarily in pathways related to lipid metabolism, glucose homeostasis, and energy balance. The identified SNPs and candidate genes provide valuable insights into the genetic architecture of the fatty acid composition in pork and may serve as molecular targets for improving meat quality through breeding.Copyright © 2026 Tang, Liang, An, Luo, Tao, Liu and Gu.
Spinal cord injury often causes permanent disability because the body's own repair mechanisms are limited, and the molecules that control damage and healing are not fully understood. One such molecule, FK506-binding protein 5 (FKBP5), is known to rise sharply after injury, but whether it only drives harmful inflammation or also participates in later recovery has been unclear. In this study, we investigated how FKBP5 affects microglia-the brain's immune cells-at different stages after spinal cord injury in mice. We found that FKBP5 plays a dual role. In the first few days, it works together with another protein, GPR84, to boost the production of an inflammatory signal called interleukin-1β. This signal pushes microglia into a destructive state and triggers a coordinated form of neuronal cell death that involves multiple death pathways. However, as FKBP5 levels continue to rise over time, it switches its function. It binds to and modifies an enzyme called LDHA, changing how microglia process lactate. This lactate then acts as a signal to add chemical tags (lactylation) onto histones, which turns on a protective gene, Fxyd5, and its partner Lgals1. These changes convert microglia from a harmful to a healing state, reduce neuronal death, and improve the local environment for tissue repair. Our results reveal that FKBP5 is a double-edged sword-first worsening damage, then promoting repair. This discovery suggests that precisely timing therapies that target FKBP5 could offer a new way to improve recovery after spinal cord injury.Copyright © 2026 Haotian Li et al.
The Orthobunyavirus genus within the Peribunyaviridae family of enveloped arthropod-borne negative-sense RNA viruses includes species associated with serious or fatal disease in both animals and humans such as Schmallenberg, La Crosse and Oropouche viruses. Orthobunyaviruses (OBVs) are internalised into cells by endocytosis and release their genomes following fusion with late endosomal (LE) membranes, triggered by low pH of the luminal milieu. There is mounting evidence to suggest OBV endosomal escape is also influenced by potassium ions (K+), which increase in concentration as endosomes mature. Endosomal K+ flux is controlled by cellular K+ channels, and we previously showed that K+ channel blockade using broad spectrum pharmacological inhibition abrogates OBV infection, with virions trapped within the endosomes. However, the K+ channels regulating this process are unknown. Herein, to identify the K+ channels involved, we studied Bunyamwera virus (BUNV), the prototypical OBV, and screened a siRNA library targeting 342 human ion channels. We identified 19 K+ channels whose knockdown inhibited BUNV gene expression by over 50%, with at least seven channels affecting BUNV at the entry stage, suggesting they exert a combinatorial influence. Of these seven channels, we used both pharmacological inhibition and genetic channel manipulation to show that OBV escape from CD63- and Rab7-positive LEs is controlled by KCNJ2 (KIR2.1), KCNJ13 (KIR7.1) and KCNMA1 (BKCa). These studies add to the understanding of host factors influencing OBV entry, regulation of endosomal ion flux, and could aid in the design or repurposing of therapeutics for the treatment of OBV-associated disease.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Given the need to achieve the Global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), water and wastewater treatment, alongside waste valorization, are recognized as some of the most critical objectives. Thus, wastewater treatment via sustainable and environmentally friendly adsorbents is imperative. Herein, compressible hierarchical shrimp-shell-derived chitin (Ch)/polyethyleneimine (PEI) hybrid aerogels (denoted as ChP) were developed. The prepared hybrid bio-based aerogel exhibited excellent reversible compressibility with abundant water-transport pathways to accelerate Cr(VI) and Congo red adsorption. The Langmuir monolayer maximum adsorption capacities of ChP1@1 at 298 K were found to be 329.97 mg/g for Cr(VI) at pH 3 and 1495.31 mg/g for CR at pH 5. Interestingly, the incorporation of PEI not only enhanced the adsorption capacity but also tailored the network of the aerogels. Kinetic and thermodynamic studies revealed that the process followed the pseudo-second-order and Elovich kinetic models, with a spontaneous and endothermic adsorption behavior. Additionally, the fabricated aerogel demonstrated exceptional selectivity and removal efficiency even in the presence of various interfering elements, with stable performance of up to 5 cycles. Mechanistic insights elucidated by FTIR and XPS demonstrate that Cr(VI) initially adsorbed through electrostatic interaction followed by partial reduction, whereas CR is mainly captured by electrostatic interaction and hydrogen bonding. Overall, this eco-friendly aerogel offers promising potential for sustainable wastewater remediation and circular waste reutilization.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Porcine Sertoli cells (SCs) treated by acute heat stress (HS) (43°C, 0.5 h) have significantly decreased taurine level. Taurine treatment of porcine SCs could promote proliferation, inhibit apoptosis, enhance mitochondrial function and modulate protein profile. However, whether taurine can alleviate damages of porcine SCs caused by acute HS is unknown. We here showed that treatment of porcine SCs using taurine (5.7 μM) for 12 h before acute HS (HS0.5-B12-Taurine) significantly rescued damages induced by acute HS (HS0.5-Control), including cell viability, proliferation, apoptosis, intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, mitochondrial number, and lactate content. Transcriptome sequencing identified 18 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) (HS0.5-B12-Taurine vs. HS0.5-Control), mainly enriched in Gene Ontology (GO) terms of apoptosis, transmembrane transport, inward rectifier potassium channel activity, and 2 iron/2 sulfur cluster binding. RT-qPCR validated expression of 5 DEGs (GRIA4, KCNJ13, PTER, RAB44 and SLC12A8) and 7 other genes (AFF4, CXCL8, DENND5B, EPM2AIP1, SLC6A6, SSH2 and WNK3), most of them showing change trend consistent with RNA-seq results. Moreover, HDAC5 was confirmed to be significantly reduced in HS0.5-B12-Taurine (Western blotting: P < 0.05; Immunofluorescence: P < 0.01). Collectively, these findings suggest that taurine protects porcine SCs against damages induced by acute HS.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Papillary thyroid cancer is one of the most common malignancies in pediatrics, with increasing prevalence. We analyzed the single-cell transcriptomic landscape from 11 pediatric patients. The compositions and functions in the tumor microenvironment showed remarkable differences. Endo_tip was primarily from tumor, receiving angiogenesis-associated signals from epithelia. Abundant immune cells infiltrated into tumor. SPP1+ M2-macrophage and tumor cells interacted with T cells via immunosuppressive ligand-receptor pairs. Trajectory inference identified genes in evolutionary branchpoints that may participate in tumor progression. Analyzing the correlation of genes with thyroid differentiation score, clinicopathological features, and prognosis, we identified that FXYD5 might play a key role. RNA-seq data showed FXYD5 mediated proliferation and migration via apoptosis and adhesion processes. Compared with adults, epithelia in pediatrics exhibit higher enrichment in tumor-associated pathways; however, the differences in tumor microenvironment are less pronounced. Our findings reveal a heterogeneous microenvironment of pediatric PTC and identify FXYD5 as a potential prognostic and therapeutic marker.© 2026 The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42474100
The KCNJ13 gene encodes the Kir7.1 protein, and mutations cause Leber's Congenital Amaurosis (LCA) and Snowflake Vitreoretinal Degeneration (SVD), leading to early-onset vision loss. One such nonsense mutation, R166X, results in nystagmus, poor night vision, and visual impairment. We examined therapeutic options for the R166X nonsense point mutation. Unlike missense genetic mutations, which can be rectified by gene augmentation and genome editing, nonsense mutations provide an opportunity to test additional readthrough therapies. Attempts to produce human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) with the R166X mutation (CGA to TGA) were unsuccessful. This may be due to challenges in chromatin structure and folding that hinder access to the targeted loci. Therefore, we constructed an open reading frame (ORF) stably integrated HEK293T line by inserting the wild type (WT) or R166X-KCNJ13 gene using the FLP-FRT recombinase technique. While genome editing strategies did not repair the R166X mutation efficiently in this cell line, an arginine anticodon-engineered tRNA (ACE-tRNAArg.UGA) restored K+ channel expression and function. This study provides an example in precision medicine where translational readthrough strategies can rescue channel function at a mutation that is difficult to correct via genome editing.
Premature termination codons (PTCs) are a major class of pathogenic variants that underlie rare inherited disorders, including forms of childhood blindness. Therapeutic suppression of these "nonsense mutations" offers a gene- and position-agnostic strategy to restore protein function. Our previous work established that the W53X PTC in the KCNJ13 gene causes Leber congenital amaurosis type 16 (LCA16) by disrupting the inwardly rectifying potassium channel Kir7.1, leading to retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) dysfunction. Here, we present a proof-of-concept approach using anticodon-engineered transfer RNA (ACE-tRNA) to promote targeted translational readthrough. We engineered a suppressor tRNA encoding tryptophan (ACE-tRNATrp.UAG) to selectively recognize the UAG stop codon at the W53X site, enabling incorporation of the correct amino acid and restoration of full-length Kir7.1 protein. Delivery of ACE-tRNA via helper-dependent adenovirus (HDAd) resulted in robust rescue of channel function in heterologous systems expressing mutant KCNJ13 and in patient-derived human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-RPE cells. Functional recovery was confirmed by electrophysiological assays demonstrating restored inwardly rectifying currents and membrane potential. Importantly, subretinal delivery of HDAd-ACE-tRNATrp.UAG in a W53X mouse model led to partial restoration of RPE physiology, as measured by electroretinography, without evidence of retinal toxicity. Together, these findings establish ACE-tRNA-mediated suppression as a viable therapeutic strategy for nonsense mutations in multimeric ion channels and provide a translational framework for precision treatment of inherited retinal diseases.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42262737 is a review article
Despite advances in treatment, metastatic high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSC) remains largely incurable, and the molecular machinery enabling tumor cells to survive detachment and disseminate intraperitoneally remains poorly understood. HGSC metastasis requires tumor cells to evade anoikis during detachment from the fallopian tube epithelium. Through integrative analysis of hyaluronic acid (HA) metabolism-associated genes in transcriptomic datasets, calcineurin homologous protein 1 (CHP1) was identified as a novel mediator of HGSC metastasis. Mechanistically, CHP1 ablation disrupted spheroid morphogenesis in 3D models, inducing aberrant multi-spheroid formation and reduced structural integrity, with impaired cell extrusion from mosaic spheroids. Bioinformatic and experimental validation revealed that CHP1 interacted with the mechanosensitive channel transmembrane protein 87A (TMEM87A), forming a putative mechanosensing complex that may regulate metastasis via the YAP-GPC6-WNT5A/Hedgehog signaling axis; knockout of either gene downregulated WNT5A/GPC6 and inhibited WNT5A/Hedgehog pathways. In vivo, CHP1 or TMEM87A knockout significantly suppressed orthotopic tumor growth and metastasis in NSG mice, indicating a role in overall tumor progression beyond metastasis alone. Drug repurposing identified sodium gluconate (a TMEM87A modulator) as a therapeutic candidate: low-dose treatment (1 mg/kg, weekly) significantly reduced tumor burden by disrupting CHP1-TMEM87A binding and inhibiting downstream Hedgehog/PTCH1 signaling, as the cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA), microscale thermophoresis (MST), surface plasmon resonance (SPR), and co-immunoprecipitation. Clinically, high CHP1/TMEM87A expression exhibited stage-dependent prognostic significance (favorable in early-stage, unfavorable in late-stage HGSC), as assessed by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis of publicly available datasets. These findings suggest that the CHP1-TMEM87A complex may serve as a mechanosensitive regulator of HGSC metastasis and propose gluconate-based targeting as a promising therapeutic strategy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pathogenic variants in the genes encoding the non-canonical TGFB signaling components TAK1 (MAP3K7), TAB2 and PKA-Cα (PRKACA) cause rare multisystem disorders, which may include congenital heart disease (CHD). To investigate the role of TAK1 signaling in CHD, we performed genetic analysis of CHD patients and discovered an increased burden of rare TAB2 and TAK1 variants in patients with extracardiac abnormalities. To address the mechanism of TAK1 in heart development, we performed experiments in cell and animal models. Zebrafish tak1 and tab2 mutants presented with cardiac and extracardiac developmental defects, and tak1 mutant hearts showed downregulation of genes encoding core cardiac transcription factors, sarcomeric proteins and extracellular matrix proteins. In vitro experiments indicated that TAK1 via TAB2 and PKA-Cα is activated at the primary cilium during cardiomyogenesis; activation at this site is enhanced by TGFB/BMP ligands. Inactivation of TAK1 inhibited ciliary signaling and cardiomyocyte differentiation, and patient-derived TAK1 variants reduced its ciliary localization. In conclusion, our data establish a pivotal role for TAK1 and its upstream regulators at the primary cilium in heart development and syndromic CHD.Copyright: © 2026 Doganli et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Emodin exhibits various pharmacological activities, including hepatoprotective effects. However, its clinical application is limited by poor absorption and low oral bioavailability. This study aimed to optimize emodin through benzoylation and to assess the hepatoprotective potential of the resulting derivatives integrating bioinformatics and in vitro methods.We conducted network pharmacology, molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to predict potential targets and interactions of benzoylated emodin derivatives. The derivatives were synthesized and evaluated for cytotoxicity using the MTT assay. The hepatoprotective effects were assessed in vitro using a paracetamol-induced HepG2 cell injury model.Network pharmacology analysis and gene expression profiling identified four major targets-HSP90AA1, MAPK14, RELA, and PRKACA-as key liver disease-related targets of emodin and its derivatives. Molecular docking study revealed that the benzoylated emodin derivatives exhibited generally lower (more negative) binding energies compared to emodin across all four targets. MD simulations confirmed that the complex RELA with these derivatives is more stable than with emodin. These findings were consistent with in vitro assays, emodin and its derivatives increased cell viability or protected the cells up to 60-70%.This study provides a comprehensive evaluation of benzoylated emodin derivatives as potential hepatoprotective agents. The findings suggest that these derivatives exhibit binding affinity toward important targets related to cirrhosis, reduced toxicity to cells, and enhanced the efficacy in protecting the liver in vitro liver injury model.© the Author(s).
Primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease (PPNAD) is a rare cause of ACTH-independent Cushing syndrome (CS), occurring in isolation or as part of Carney complex (CNC); its phenotypic and molecular spectra remain incompletely defined.To characterize phenotypic variability, genotype-phenotype correlations, and molecular findings in PPNAD through integrated clinical, histopathological, and genetic analyses.We evaluated 18 index patients with PPNAD (15 with CNC, 3 isolated) and performed cascade genetic screening in relatives (20 variants-positive). Clinical, hormonal, imaging and histopathological data were reviewed; germline and somatic analyses employed targeted next-generation sequencing and copy-number assessment.Overt CS was present in 83% of index cases; 17% had cyclic hypercortisolism. Pathogenic or likely-pathogenic germline PRKAR1A variants were identified in 70.6% probands, including four novel variants; germline PRKACA duplications were detected in two cases. Cascade screening identified eight asymptomatic variant-positive relatives, in whom mild autonomous cortisol secretion (MACS) was observed. Somatic second-hit alterations in tumor tissue included PRKACA duplication, a PRKAR1A frameshift deletion, and 17q24.2 loss of heterozygosity. Histology most often showed classic PPNAD but also nonclassical patterns, expanding the morphological spectrum. Extra-adrenal manifestations were frequent (lentigines 61%, cardiac myxomas 22%).In this referral cohort, PPNAD/CNC displays marked phenotypic variability, incomplete penetrance with subclinical cortisol excess, and diverse molecular mechanisms, including novel germline variants and somatic second hits. Some cases lacked identifiable drivers, suggesting additional uncharacterized mechanisms. Systematic genetic screening and recognition of MACS are important for early diagnosis and long-term management.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Endocrinology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
The Boer goat, a key global meat breed originating from South Africa, has been exported for breeding in over 70 countries, leading to diverse selection pressures and environmental adaptations. In this context, the main objectives of this study were to quantify genome-wide diversity, breed structure, and selection signatures in Boer goats from nine countries to identify shared and population-specific adaptation and production-related signals. Genomic information of 321 Boer goats from nine populations worldwide was analysed: Australia (AUS), Canada (CAN), New Zealand (NZL), South Africa (ZAF), Switzerland (CHE), Tanzania (TZA), Uganda (UGA), United States (USA), and Zimbabwe (ZWE). Genetic diversity varied markedly among populations. The ZAF population exhibited the lowest observed heterozygosity (0.360) and the highest fraction of the genome in runs of homozygosity, suggesting recent inbreeding or strong selection. Population structure analyses, including principal component analysis and ADMIXTURE (optimal K = 8), revealed clear genetic differentiation. AUS Boer goats were the most divergent, while others formed clusters indicating shared ancestry. Four complementary selection signature methods, Fixation index, Divergence index, integrated haplotype score, and cross-population extended haplotype homozygosity, identified 4 706 unique genes under putative selection. No identified genes were common to all populations, indicating strong local adaptation, but 35 candidate genes were identified across five to six populations, highlighting shared selection for core production traits like growth, metabolism, and reproduction. Key shared genes regulating metabolism, including PPP2R2B, SCP2, and PRELID2, were detected in six populations. Regulatory hub genes such as MAPK3, HIF1A, PRKACA, and CREB1 were also detected, playing crucial roles in coordinating important biological processes. Population-specific adaptations included heat tolerance genes in AUS, cold adaptation and reproductive performance genes in CAN, and disease resistance genes in ZAF. These results underscore the need to monitor local genetic diversity while improving production traits in Boer goat breeding worldwide.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Bidirectional ventricular tachycardia is a rare electrocardiographic (ECG) finding, associated with a restricted group of clinical conditions, particularly hereditary channelopathies.An 11-year-old girl, asymptomatic from a cardiovascular point of view, was identified by family screening after detection in her father of a pathogenic variant in the KCNJ2 gene. The admission ECG showed bidirectional ventricular tachycardia. Clinical investigation revealed periodic paralysis and skeletal dysmorphisms, confirming a diagnosis of Andersen-Tawil syndrome. Pharmacological treatment significantly reduced the arrhythmic burden, with reverse ventricular remodeling at follow-up.This case illustrates the central role of ECG as a diagnostic tool in rare cardiovascular diseases, allowing early recognition, targeted genetic investigation, and prevention of arrhythmia-induced cardiomyopathy.Bidirectional ventricular tachycardia is a distinct ECG pattern that should raise suspicion of Andersen-Tawil syndrome and warrants genetic evaluation with cascade family screening. In this patient, the combination of propafenone and beta-blocker therapy was associated with suppression of bidirectional ventricular tachycardia, significant reduction in ventricular arrhythmic load, and reversal of tachycardiomyopathy, suggesting a potential therapeutic alternative when flecainide is not available.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background: Discoidin domain receptor 1 (DDR1) is a collagen-activated receptor tyrosine kinase that plays an important role in epithelial cell regulation; its function in cancer appears to be dependent on tumour type. Methods: This study investigated DDR1 expression in large numbers of breast (n = 1416) and ovarian (n = 450) tumours using immunohistochemistry. In addition, RNA sequencing was conducted on DDR1 knockdown breast and ovarian cancer cell lines. Results: In breast cancer, high DDR1 expression was significantly associated with poor patient survival in ER-positive disease and low expression was associated with poor patient survival in ER-negative disease. In ovarian cancer, high DDR1 expression was associated with improved patient survival. In DDR1 knockdown IGROV1 ovarian cancer cells, 770 transcripts were differentially expressed, whilst in DDR1 knockdown T47D breast cancer cells, 3647 transcripts were differentially expressed. Only 149 genes were shared, suggesting that DDR1 drives distinct transcriptional programmes across cancer types. Shared genes between T47D and IGROV1 DDR1 knockdown cells include key regulators of signalling, metabolism, and cytoskeletal organisation such as YWHAE, NCK2, FN1, and ITGB4. Gene Ontology analysis revealed significant enrichment of epithelial cell migration pathways in both cell lines. Conclusions: Current protein expression and transcriptomic data highlight the important prognostic role of DDR1 expression in breast and ovarian cancer and provide hypothesis-generating insights into the contextual and transcriptomic differences between the two cancer types.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42492837
Severe COVID-19-related acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) often progresses to respiratory failure requiring invasive mechanical ventilation (IMV). Although several biomarkers (e.g., CRP, suPAR, Ang-2) have been explored to predict COVID-19 disease severity, validated early-presentation biomarkers that specifically prognosticate the need for IMV and mechanistic pathways in ARDS remain limited.What transcriptomic and immune signatures distinguish IMV from non-IMV in patients with COVID-19 ARDS, and how do these molecular changes contribute to disease severity?Patients (n = 36) with SARS-CoV-2 infection requiring oxygen support were enrolled in this prospective study. Blood samples were collected at baseline, day 4, and day 8 from patients on IMV (n = 11) and non-IMV (n = 25). Transcriptomic profiles of peripheral blood mononuclear cells were assessed using RNA-sequencing, followed by gene ontology and KEGG pathway enrichment. Plasma cytokines and chemokines were measured using multiplex immunoassays, peripheral immune cell endotypes were characterized by mass cytometry, and neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation was evaluated by kinetic live-cell imaging.Clinically, IMV patients had significantly longer hospital (43.0 vs. 19.5 days, p = 0.001) and ICU stays (39.6 vs. 9.1 days, p < 0.01) and higher 28-day mortality (45.5% vs. 12.0%; aOR = 8.78, p = 0.04). Transcriptomic profiling identified 36 DEGs at day 4 and 21 at day 8 in patients on IMV, characterized by downregulation of mitochondrial gene MTARC2 and anticoagulant regulator TFPI, and upregulation of stress-response genes (RNF165, KCNMA1, and AC245014.3) (p < 0.05). Plasma IL-6, IL-8, and IL-10 were elevated in IMV group, with IL-10 showing the strongest predictive value (AUC 0.74, p = 0.0002). Immune profiling revealed higher percentage of CD57- NK cells at baseline in non-IMV group. NET formation did not differ between groups.Patients requiring IMV demonstrated distinct transcriptomic and immune profiles associated with severe COVID-19. These findings identify candidate biomarkers and pathways associated with disease severity; however, the results are exploratory and require validation in larger cohorts and functional studies.Copyright © 2026 Gotur, Gowda, Pinkaew, Zhang, Hankins, Rodgers, Xu, Syed, Reddy, Zhao, Zheng, Folz, Mylonakis and Hamilton.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality with limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis, particularly in advanced stages. This study integrates computational and experimental approaches to evaluate metformin as a candidate for repurposing in HCC. Key oncogenic targets EGFR, MAPK3, MMP9, and PRKACA were prioritized via protein-protein interaction network analysis. Molecular docking predicted favorable metformin binding poses for EGFR (ΔG = -7.42 kcal/mol), MAPK3 (ΔG = -7.45 kcal/mol), MMP9 (ΔG = -7.84 kcal/mol), and PRKACA (ΔG = -8.33 kcal/mol). Using AmberTools/Antechamber-derived GAFF2 parameterization and AM1-BCC partial charges for ligand topology, repeated 100 ns molecular dynamics simulations showed ligand retention with target-specific receptor and pocket RMSD adaptation and stable radius-of-gyration profiles. Network toxicology predicted low hepatotoxicity risk using ProTox-II and ADMETlab 2.0 endpoints. ITC measurements produced detectable metformin-protein binding responses and apparent dissociation constants under the reverse-orientation assay conditions (20 µM protein in the cell and 200 µM metformin in the syringe). Western blot analysis showed reduced total EGFR, MAPK3, and MMP9 expression after metformin treatment, while PRKACA changed only slightly. Triplicate MTT assays showed concentration-dependent inhibition of HepG2 cell viability, with an IC50 of 16.02 µM.Metformin and HCC-associated targets were collected from SwissTargetPrediction, DrugBank, GeneCards, DisGeNET, BindingDB, and OMIM. PPI networks were constructed using STRING (confidence > = 0.7, Homo sapiens) and visualized with Cytoscape v3.10.1; core targets were identified via CytoHubba. Hepatotoxicity and ADMET risk were evaluated using ProTox-II and ADMETlab 2.0. Molecular docking was performed using MOE 2022 with Amber99 force field and MOPAC7.0, generating 30 poses per target. MD simulations (100 ns) were conducted in GROMACS using AMBER99SB-ILDN protein topologies and metformin parameters generated with AmberTools/Antechamber, GAFF2, AM1-BCC partial charges, parmchk2, and ACPYPE, followed by NVT/NPT equilibration and production runs at 298 K/1 bar with particle mesh Ewald electrostatics. ITC analysis was performed using MicroCal VP-ITC at 25 °C in PBS (pH 7.4), using 20 µM protein in the cell and 200 µM metformin in the syringe. Western blot (HepG2, 50 µM metformin, 24 h) and MTT assay (0.01-500 µM, 48 h) were performed in triplicate as in vitro validation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a one of the common microvascular complication of diabetes that involves oxidative stress, inflammation, activation and overexpression of Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB), and chronic renal dysfunction. In this study, we evaluated the renoprotective role of perillaldehyde (PA) in protecting kidneys from diabetic nephropathy using in vitro and in vivo models of Streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy. PA pre-treatment of NRK-52E cells under high-glucose conditions resulted in a significant reduction of reactive oxygen species formation, up-regulation of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), suppression of Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (Keap1), and elevation of antioxidant enzyme biomarkers, such as heme oxygenase 1, superoxide dismutase 1, and NAD(P)H dehydrogenase quinone 1. PA also inhibited the overexpression of NF-κB, inducible nitric oxide synthase, and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase in high-glucose exposed NRK-52E cells. Administration of PA (35 and 70 mg/kg) to streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats showed beneficial effects on renal function parameters such as creatinine and blood urea nitrogen. PA treatment attenuated glomerular and tubular structural damage, as evidenced by H&E and PAS staining. At molecular level, PA was found to maintain the redox balance in the kidneys by stimulating the Nrf2/Keap1/HO-1 signalling pathway and inhibiting the NF-κB-dependent inflammatory response. Moreover, PA lowered lipid peroxidation and enhanced antioxidant status via reduction in MDA and elevation in GSH. The above results indicated that PA showed considerable reno-protective actions through coordinated regulation of both oxidative stress and inflammation pathways in experimental models of diabetic nephropathy.© 2026 International Federation of Cell Biology.
Some forms of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are associated with sequence variants in the superoxide dismutase 1 gene (SOD1). The mechanisms by which these variants contribute to ALS disease pathogenesis are poorly understood. Degenerative myelopathy (DM), a naturally occurring canine disease, shares similarities with some forms of SOD1-associated ALS, especially cases with sensory impairment. While motor pathway involvement in ALS has been extensively studied, sensory pathology has received comparatively less attention. To investigate whether pathology in the general proprioceptive pathway is associated with pelvic limb general proprioceptive ataxia, an early DM sign, we examined sensory system components of this pathway from Pembroke Welsh Corgis with early- and late-stage DM and age-matched controls. The disease was characterized by axonal pathology in the spinocerebellar tracts and the fasciculus gracilis, pronounced accumulation of SOD1-positive inclusions in nucleus thoracicus and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons, and altered SOD1 immunolabeling in dorsal and ventral root axons and ensheathing myelin. Axonal pathology was also observed in a pelvic limb sensory nerve. These findings suggest that pathology in the proprioceptive sensory pathways may play a significant role in general proprioceptive ataxia in DM. Some dogs that were homozygous for the SOD1 risk allele did not develop clinical disease or the associated neuropathology, indicating that other factors in addition to the SOD1 mutation influence disease onset and progression.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Background: Breast cancer is the most common malignancy among women and a leading cause of cancer-related deaths globally. Its development involves hormonal, genetic, environmental and inflammatory factors. Among environmental contributors, cadmium (Cd2+), a metalloestrogen known to induce redox imbalance, as well as estrogen metabolites, may exert divergent biological effects. Methods: This study investigated the effects of 17β-estradiol (E2) and its metabolites-2-methoxyestradiol (2-MeOE2) and 4-hydroxyestradiol (4-OHE2)-administered alone or in combination with CdCl2, on estrogen receptor--positive MCF-7 breast cancer cells and their doxorubicin-resistant cells (MCF-7/DOX). We evaluated cytotoxicity, interaction profiles (synergism/antagonism), and redox-related enzymes associated with drug resistance, including superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) and glutathione S-transferase pi (GST-pi). There are no known examples of these types of interactions, especially those involving estrogen metabolites with opposing biological activities-anticancer 2-MeOE2 and procarcinogenic-4-OHE2 in combination with cadmium. Cell viability was assessed after 48 h exposure to individual and combined treatments of CdCl2. Interaction types (synergism/antagonism) were determined via the combination index method. Antioxidative enzymes were evaluated by quantitative and immunocytochemical analysis of SOD1, GST and GST-pi expression. Results: All tested compounds reduced cell viability in a concentration-dependent manner, with CdCl2 showing the highest cytotoxicity. MCF-7 cell lines were generally more sensitive to CdCl2, E2, and 2-MeOE2, whereas MCF-7/DOX cell lines exhibited greater sensitivity to 4-OHE2. Combination studies revealed predominantly antagonistic interactions, particularly for CdCl2 + 2-MeOE2, suggesting a protective redox-modulating effect of this metabolite. Resistant cells consistently displayed higher SOD1 activity and GST-pi expression, indicating enhanced adaptive responses to oxidative stress. Conclusions: Our study underscores the importance of concentration-dependent interactions between environmental Cd2+ and pathways regulated by 17β-estradiol and its metabolites, particularly in the context of cytotoxicity and redox imbalance relevant to breast cancer progression and therapy resistance.
Microplastic exposure is an emerging environmental risk factor for cardiovascular health; however, whether cardiovascular alterations can be detected after exposure cessation remains unclear. This study investigated subclinical cardiovascular alterations following repeated oral exposure to polystyrene microplastics (PSMPs), with particular emphasis on redox imbalance and mitochondrial function in delayed cardiovascular alterations. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were administered 0.5 μm PSMPs via oral gavage at varying dosages of 5 or 20 mg/kg every 5 days for 70 days, followed by a 35-day exposure-free period. Repeated exposure to PSMPs did not affect body or organ weights but altered cardiac serum biochemical markers. Cardiac tissue exhibited elevated NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX4) expression and decreased superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), SOD2, and catalase (CAT) activities, whereas malondialdehyde (MDA) levels remained unchanged, indicating a state of chronic, low-level oxidative stress. Mitochondrial respiratory chain activities, including nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide cytochrome c reductase (NCCR) and succinate cytochrome c reductase (SCCR), were significantly reduced. Ultrastructural analysis revealed mitochondrial swelling and cristae disruption. In parallel, mitochondrial biogenesis-related proteins, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 alpha (PGC-1α), nuclear respiratory factor 1 (NRF-1), and mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM), were downregulated, while mitophagy markers, including PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1), Parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (Parkin), microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3), and sequestosome 1 (p62), were upregulated. Notably, most significant alterations were primarily observed in the high-dose group. Furthermore, the aorta showed increased oxidative stress markers without overt structural remodeling. These findings suggest that repeated exposure to PSMP is associated with subclinical cardiac redox-mitochondrial dysregulation, potentially involving redox imbalance, impaired mitochondrial respiratory chain activity, reduced mitochondrial biogenesis, and altered mitochondrial quality-control markers.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is considered a highly complex, heterogeneous, fatal disease with a high unmet medical need that affects multiple pathophysiological pathways and has no known singular cause. Oxidative stress, however, is implicated as a central player in the progression of ALS and other neurodegenerative diseases. To date, only two FDA-approved drugs, Edaravone, an antioxidant, and Riluzole, an antiglutamatergic, have been widely used clinically, albeit with modest effects on the clinical course of ALS disease progression. Additionally, preclinical studies of both drugs in ALS mouse models have not shown any significant survival benefit, although some abatement in disease progression is observed and translated from preclinical animal models to clinical human studies.Using a trifunctional boron-based drug design strategy, we have synthesized a pyrazole small molecule called Borsantrazole (BSZ) and evaluated BSZ in cell-based experiments, acute and chronic toxicity models, and the SOD1-G37R ALS mouse model. We have also evaluated untargeted global proteomic and phosphoproteomic changes induced by BSZ.Borsantrazole (a small molecule that can selectively target oxidative stress) with favorable CNS drug like properties (low ER values of 0.9 and 1.0 at 1 and 10 µm, respectively, suggesting lower Pgp efflux liability and the LogD at pH 7.4 was within the range of 1.2 to 3.1, suggesting BSZ is lipophilic at pH 7.4.) shows no signs of treatment associated toxicity (acute or chronic (120 days)), significantly increases survival (whole animals, 15.1 days (p = 0.0326); males, 16.5 days; females, 13.7 days), rescued weight loss (27.1% control, 18.3% BSZ, p < 0.0001), delays symptom onset (whole animals, 24.9 days (p = 0.0011); males, 23.3 days; females, 26.4 days), delays disease onset (whole animals, 25.5 days (p = 0.0001); males, 21.1 days; females, 29.8 days) and affects global proteomic changes in the SOD1-G37R mouse model of ALS. In total, 51 proteins were found to be significantly differentially expressed (p < 0.05), including Ca3, Gan, Cplx2, Lrp4, Sqstm1, and 29 phosphorylation sites were differentially expressed and considered statistically significant, including T317 and T72 for neurofilaments light and heavy chain, respectively.Herein, we report that BSZ has demonstrated a favorable safety profile and compelling proof-of-concept efficacy in a ALS mouse model and has the potential to become a disease-modifying ALS therapeutic following further clinical development. Within a broader perspective of treatments for neurodegenerative diseases, BSZ offers a new paradigm for trifunctional small molecule targeting of oxidative stress that can mitigate neuronal deterioration and serve as a potential treatment.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease partly caused by gain-of-function mutations in superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1). Here we developed RAG-17, an siRNA-targeting SOD1, using an accessory oligonucleotide conjugate platform for enhanced central nervous system (CNS) delivery. Preclinically, RAG-17 rescued motor neuron degeneration, delayed disease progression, preserved motor function and extended survival in SOD1G93A ALS rodents, even with advanced-stage treatment. In cynomolgus monkeys, intrathecal RAG-17 led to dose-dependent, durable reductions in SOD1 mRNA (CNS) and protein (cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)). In a first-in-human trial in patients with SOD1-ALS (n = 6), participants were assigned to two cohorts-cohort 1 (n = 3) received an initial 60 mg dose (seven doses total) and cohort 2 (n = 3) received an initial 90 mg dose (six doses total). The dose was escalated in 30 mg steps to maintenance doses of 150 mg (n = 5) or 180 mg (n = 1). Thus, the primary safety endpoint was met, showing acceptable safety and tolerability. Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) occurred in 33% of participants (two of six). All TEAEs were mild to moderate, including muscle tremor (two patients) and elevated alanine aminotransferase (one patient), all of which resolved. No serious adverse events were reported. Furthermore, no other clinically meaningful changes were observed in laboratory parameters, vital signs, the ALS Functional Rating Scale-Revised score, physical or neurological examinations or ECG. The key secondary endpoints showed CSF SOD1 reductions of 69% (cohort 1, day 240) and 56% (cohort 2, day 210), and plasma neurofilament light chain reductions of 62% (cohort 1) and 52% (cohort 2), from baseline; no patient required invasive mechanical ventilation or died by the end of the study. These results demonstrate a favorable safety outcome, supporting the continued clinical evaluation of RAG-17 for SOD1-ALS. ClinicalTrials.gov registration: NCT05903690 .© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567394 is a review article
In this study, a novel nanoparticle vaccine that can efficiently display the protective antigen TbpBY167A of Glaesserella parasuis was constructed using the self-assembly property of the capsid (Cap) protein of porcine circovirus type 3 (PCV3). Traditional subunit vaccines against Glässer's disease often suffer from insufficient immunogenicity and suboptimal protective efficacy. The vaccine developed in the present study efficiently elicits both humoral and cellular immune responses via multivalent antigen display, leading to substantially enhanced overall adaptive immunity. This work therefore provides promising vaccine candidates with high safety and improved protective efficacy for the prevention and control of Glässer's disease.Monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) against TbpBY167A were generated using recombinant TbpBY167A protein expressed in E. coli and their epitope characteristics were identified and which can specifically react with TbpBY167A displayed on the surface of VLP (Virus-Like Particle). A recombinant baculovirus expressing the Cap protein of PCV3 fused with TbpBY167A at the N terminus was constructed. Guinea pigs were immunized with the nanoparticle vaccine and a conventional subunit vaccine (MBP-TbpBY167A), humoral immune responses, cytokine profiles, pathological changes, and protection rates after challenge were compared. One stable hybridoma cell line, designated 2D3, secreting MAbs against TbpBY167A was obtained, and its recognized epitope was mapped to a linear region spanning amino acids 269-275. Transmission electron microscopy confirmed that the Cap-TbpBY167A fusion protein self-assembled into homogeneous nanoparticles approximately 20 nm in diameter. Animal experiments showed that both the nanoparticle vaccine and the subunit vaccine elicited robust specific antibody responses and provided a 60% protection rate against lethal challenge. Notably, the nanoparticle vaccine group exhibited significantly milder histopathological lesions in the lungs and spleen compared with the subunit vaccine and challenge control groups. The Cap-TbpBY167A nanoparticle vaccine confers protection against lethal G. parasuis challenge and demonstrates less lesions of target organ pathology compared with the conventional subunit vaccine. The success of this study provides a novel antigen delivery strategy for the development of broad-spectrum vaccines against G. parasuis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Rhodium-based nanophotosensitizers have recently emerged as promising platforms for near-infrared (NIR)-activated photodynamic therapy (PDT). However, their therapeutic potential remains largely restricted to reactive oxygen species-mediated cytotoxicity, limiting their ability to address the complex molecular drivers of tumor progression. Here, we report the therapeutic transformation of a previously validated transferrin-targeted rhodium nanophotosensitizer into a dual-action nano-therapeutic by incorporating the selective estrogen receptor modulator tamoxifen within the mesoporous silica matrix. The resulting system enables a combined therapeutic strategy that integrates endocrine therapy and light-triggered photodynamic action, providing a targeted approach for estrogen receptor-positive (ER+) breast cancer. Structural and functional characterization confirmed efficient drug loading, preservation of photodynamic activity, and maintained targeting capability. In vitro studies demonstrated enhanced cytotoxic efficacy compared with single-modality treatments, while intracellular quantification by LC-MS verified sustained tamoxifen delivery. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying therapeutic efficacy, quantitative SILAC-based proteomics revealed coordinated disruption of oxidative stress defense, calcium homeostasis, mitochondrial energy metabolism, and tumor proliferation pathways. These findings indicate that the combined therapy induces a multifaceted cellular response involving both ROS-mediated damage and modulation of endocrine signaling. Together, this work establishes a mechanistically informed dual-modality nano-drug that expands the therapeutic scope of rhodium nanophotosensitizers beyond conventional PDT, providing a new strategy for targeted treatment of ER-positive breast cancer.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566087 is a review article
Ferroptosis contributes to Parkinson's disease (PD) through interconnected processes including iron dysregulation, oxidative stress, and mitochondrial dysfunction, yet current therapies targeting single pathways remain insufficient. Herein, we developed gallium-quercetin nanoparticles (GQNPs) as an intranasally deliverable nanoplatform for multi-target ferroptosis inhibition. In vitro, GQNPs suppressed ferroptosis by coordinating iron regulation and antioxidation. Ga3+ interfered with transferrin-mediated iron uptake to restrict iron influx, while quercetin reduced oxidative stress and supported iron homeostasis, thereby decreasing ROS accumulation and improving mitochondrial function. In vivo, intranasal delivery of GQNPs effectively bypassed the blood-brain barrier to recover motor coordination and cognitive function in PD mice. By integrating iron regulation, antioxidant activity, and mitochondrial protection within a single nanoplatform, this work highlights gallium-based coordination nanoparticles as a promising therapeutic strategy for ferroptosis-associated neurodegenerative diseases.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
In contemporary practice, elevated 24-hour urinary copper excretion (24-h UCE) often triggers referral for suspected Wilson disease (WD). In this hypercupriuric referral setting, interpretation of 24-h UCE may be distorted by spectrum effects. In this study, we aimed to compare conventional copper biomarkers in hypercupriuric referrals and evaluate whether a Leipzig-aligned ceruloplasmin (Cp) framework could provide a clinically useful triage approach.We retrospectively studied consecutive, untreated patients evaluated for suspected WD with hypercupriuria between February 2017 and February 2025. The final diagnosis was established using a prespecified Leipzig-based algorithm, with ATP7B testing when indicated. Diagnostic performance of Cp and 24-h UCE was compared. A prespecified Cp three-zone framework was evaluated using <0.10 g/L, 0.10-0.20 g/L, and >0.20 g/L as high-probability, indeterminate, and low-probability zones, respectively.Among 541 untreated hypercupriuric patients, 65 had WD and 476 had adjudicated non-WD liver disease. Cp outperformed 24-h UCE for diagnosing WD (AUROC, 0.988 vs. 0.762). The optimal Cp cutoff was 0.15 g/L, with 90.8% sensitivity and 97.7% specificity. Cp < 0.10 g/L defined a high-probability zone with 98.0% WD prevalence, whereas Cp > 0.20 g/L defined a low-probability zone with 0.5% WD prevalence. Among non-WD controls, higher urinary copper was independently associated with higher bilirubin, prolonged international normalized ratio, and lower albumin.In hypercupriuric referrals for suspected WD, Cp retained strong diagnostic performance and outperformed 24-h UCE. A Leipzig-aligned Cp three-zone framework may support probability-based triage in contemporary referral practice.© 2026 Authors.
Heme is released from red blood cells during hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS). Here, we investigated hemolysis-induced kallikrein-kinin system activation and the interaction between heme and clotting factor XII (FXII).Pediatric patients (19 male and 15 female, median age three years, range three months to 14 years) with HUS induced by enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC) and mice infected with EHEC were assessed for activation of the kallikrein-kinin system by degradation of high-molecular-weight kininogen ((HK) by immunoblotting) and levels of residual pre-kallikrein (by chromogenic assay). Heme induction of kallikrein-kinin system activation was evaluated by plasma kallikrein or FXII activity, bradykinin release (by ELISA) and heme binding to FXII (by surface plasmon resonance). Hemolysis was induced in vitro and in mice by phenylhydrazine in the presence or absence of C1-inhibition.Ten of the 34 patients with EHEC-HUS had HK degradation associated with the severity of hemolysis and 17 of 32 had reduced residual pre-kallikrein associated with kidney dysfunction. Similarly, EHEC-infected mice had HK degradation and pre-kallikrein consumption, the latter inversely correlated with hemolysis biomarkers lactic dehydrogenase and arginase 1 and with creatinine levels. Heme bound to and activated FXII with increased kallikrein activity, causing HK breakdown and releasing bradykinin in normal, but not FXII-deficient plasma; effects inhibited by hemopexin, C1-inhibitor, and corn trypsin inhibitor. Phenylhydrazine-induced hemolysis led to HK degradation in human and murine blood; not detected when red blood cells were added to FXII-deficient plasma, or in the presence of C1-inhibitor. Mice challenged with phenylhydrazine exhibited hemolysis and significant pre-kallikrein consumption as well as HK degradation in five of 10 mice. HK degradation was abrogated by pretreatment with C1-inhibitor.Our study demonstrates that heme binds to and activates FXII leading to HK degradation and bradykinin release. This could be a potent inflammatory mechanism in hemolytic disease, such as HUS, and amenable to pharmacological blockades.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Infection with Pseudorabies virus (PRV) triggers a state of oxidative distress in host cells, which consequently results in cellular damage. Although the normal butanol fraction of flavonoids derived from Polygonum hydropiper L. (FNB) is recognized for its strong antioxidant properties, it remains unclear whether FNB can mitigate PRV-induced oxidative damage and whether this protective effect involves long non-coding RNA (lncRNA)-mediated regulation during PRV infection. This study aimed to investigate the protective effect of FNB against oxidative stress in PRV-infected porcine alveolar macrophage cell line (3D4/2) and to elucidate the associated lncRNA regulatory network. The safe concentration of FNB was determined using the CCK-8 assay, and oxidative stress-related parameters were measured using commercial kits. The expression levels of key factors in oxidative stress signaling pathways were analyzed by qRT-PCR and Western blotting. Furthermore, transcriptome sequencing was performed to identify differentially expressed mRNAs and lncRNAs, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses to construct a lncRNA-mRNA interaction network. The results showed that treatment with 50 μg/mL FNB for 12 h significantly restored the PRV-suppressed activity of catalase (CAT) (p<0.05), whereas treatment with 12.5 μg/mL FNB for 12 h markedly increased the activities of glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) in PRV-infected cells (p<0.01). At the molecular level, treatment with 50 μg/mL FNB for 12 h significantly increased the mRNA and protein expression levels of HO-1 and NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) (p<0.01). Transcriptomic analysis identified 6,948 differentially expressed messenger RNAs (mRNAs) after PRV infection and 4,400 differentially expressed mRNAs after FNB intervention compared with the PRV group, with these genes being mainly enriched in oxidative stress-related processes. By screening for key antioxidant-related mRNAs and their potentially interacting lncRNAs, a lncRNA-mRNA network was constructed. In conclusion, FNB may alleviate PRV infection-induced oxidative damage by activating the Nrf2/HO-1 signaling pathway and modulating specific lncRNA-mRNA networks. This study provides novel insights into the antioxidant effect of FNB against PRV infection-induced oxidative damage and the regulatory role of lncRNAs.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Long-term excessive fluoride intake accumulates in brain tissue, causing neuronal degeneration and nervous system dysfunction. This mechanism is closely related to elevated oxidative stress. α-Synuclein (α-Syn) is expressed in neuronal presynaptic terminals; under environmental toxin exposure or oxidative stress, its expression changes and it misfolds into oligomers and aggregates that are cytotoxic and induce oxidative cellular damage. Meanwhile, the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-NAD(P)H: quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1)/heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) pathway is an important cellular system for regulating oxidative damage, and its core kinase is mainly expressed in brain astrocytes.The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of fluoride exposure on oxidative stress levels in astrocytes and the expression of α-Syn within the Nrf2-NQO1/HO-1 pathway. Primary astrocytes were treated with extracellular α-synuclein pre-formed fibrils (αSP) in conjunction with fluoride exposure. The results demonstrated that fluoride exposure induced reactive activation of primary astrocytes, increased levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), decreased activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT), and up-regulated the protein expression within the Nrf2-NQO1/HO-1 pathway. αSP caused oxidative stress in primary astrocytes and exacerbated oxidative damage induced by fluoride exposure. These findings are significant for enhancing the understanding of the mechanisms underlying brain injury associated with chronic fluorosis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Phenolic compounds are recognized for antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antidiabetic properties. Lentils are abundant in these compounds, yet comparative studies across varieties and intestinal cells effects remain limited. This study evaluated the nutritional composition, phenolic profile, antioxidant activity, and α-glucosidase inhibition of four lentil types in raw and cooked forms. L01 had the highest bioactive potential and was the only one selected for further evaluation in Caco-2 cells under basal and IL-1β-stimulated conditions. Cooking altered composition, leading to higher protein, fiber, and carbohydrates, reducing tannins, and maintaining high phytic acid in some varieties. L01 consistently showed the highest phenolic content, antioxidant activity, and enzyme inhibition. Its phenolic profile was dominated by kaempferol derivatives, (epi)catechin, and procyanidins, with cooking increasing monomeric catechins but reducing procyanidin oligomers. At noncytotoxic levels, L01 extracts reduced IL-6/8 secretion in stimulated cells, with stronger effects from raw extracts. Additionally, they decreased expression of inflammatory markers (IL-6/8/1β) while increasing expression of metabolic regulation- and barrier-related genes (Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ, Sirtuin 1, Occludin, and Cadherin-1). Only raw extracts significantly enhanced Heme oxygenase-1 expression under stimulation. These findings highlight compositional differences beyond tegument color and support further investigation of phenolic-rich lentils as potential functional food ingredients targeting gut and metabolic health.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Distraction osteogenesis (DO) is a surgical technique used to repair skeletal defects by promoting bone and soft tissue regeneration. However, prolonged use of external fixators often causes complications such as infections and joint contractures. Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) enhances osteoblast differentiation via bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) and Akt signaling and may also modulate the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. In this study, we investigated the role of NT-3 in bone regeneration during DO. A DO model was established in 9-week-old male ICR mice, in which tibiae were osteotomized and stabilized with external fixators under anesthesia. After a 5-day latency period, distraction was performed at 0.2 mm every 12 hours for 8 days. RNA was extracted at defined time points post-osteotomy for quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) analysis, and NT-3 was administered post-distraction. Bone regeneration was evaluated by radiographic, histological, and biomechanical analyses. The effects of NT-3 and Dickkopf-1 were further examined in ST2 bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells. NT-3 significantly enhanced bone formation, increased bone mineral density within the DO gap, and improved the mechanical stiffness of regenerated bone. Histological examination revealed earlier bone continuity and greater callus formation in the NT-3 group. Gene expression analysis demonstrated upregulation of Wnt/β-catenin pathway components, including Wnt10b, β-catenin, and low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 5 (LRP5). In ST2 cells, NT3 increased the expression of LRP5, LRP6, β-catenin, and Runx2, while cotreatment with Dickkopf1 abolished these effects. These findings suggest that NT-3 promotes bone regeneration during DO by activating the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, highlighting its therapeutic potential to improve DO outcomes.
Kidney fibrosis is the pathologic hallmark of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and is driven by fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transformation (FMT), excessive extracellular matrix accumulation, and persistent activation of transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ) signaling. Although TGFβ is a central mediator of fibrosis, its pleiotropic physiological functions have limited the development of direct anti-fibrotic therapies, highlighting the need to identify context-specific regulators of this pathway. Matrix Gla Protein (MGP) is a vitamin K-dependent extracellular protein best known for inhibiting vascular calcification; however, its role in kidney fibrosis remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that MGP expression is markedly upregulated in fibroblasts from fibrotic kidneys in mouse models of chronic kidney injury and in human CKD samples. Using inducible global and fibroblast-specific Mgp knockout mice, we show that Mgp deficiency attenuates renal fibrosis, suppresses fibroblast activation, and preserves kidney function following folic acid nephropathy and unilateral ureteral obstruction. Mechanistically, MGP promotes FMT and amplifies TGFβ receptor/Smad3 signaling, whereas genetic or molecular inhibition of MGP blunts TGFβ-driven fibroblast activation both in vivo and in vitro. We further identify phosphorylation and γ-carboxylation as essential post-translational modifications required for the profibrotic activity of MGP. In addition, MGP interacts with bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2), reduces BMP-2 protein abundance, and counteracts BMP-2-mediated suppression of TGFβ signaling, thereby enhancing profibrotic responses. Collectively, these findings identify MGP as a previously unrecognized regulator of TGFβ-dependent fibroblast activation and kidney fibrosis, supporting MGP as a potential fibroblast-associated target for future strategies aimed at limiting CKD progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cardiac cachexia (CC) is an indicator of advanced heart failure (AHF), with significant unintentional weight loss (UWL) and poor prognosis. Its diagnostic criteria incorporate upregulation of established inflammatory cytokines. Identification of novel biomarkers, for example, via proteomic analyses, could unearth unstudied mechanisms behind CC formation with future applications in disease therapeutics. This study, therefore, aimed to explore the presence of contemporary, novel biomarkers, and mechanistic pathways in CC using targeted proteomics.Patients with AHF or stable heart failure were recruited and the presence of CC/UWL was identified. AHF was identified using the American Heart Association "I NEED HELP" criteria, and CC was identified using the contemporary 2008 consensus definition. All patients underwent phlebotomy, with plasma proteomic analyses using Olink Target 96 Cardiovascular II panel. Median proteins concentrations were compared between the CC/UWL group and the rest of cohort, with enrichment analyses conducted to identify potential novel pathways behind disease formation. Area under the receiver operator curve analysis was conducted to determine whether significant biomarkers had potential in identifying CC/UWL.Six proteins were differentially expressed in the CC/UWL group, of which four were novel: interleukin-27 and -4, vascular endothelial growth factor D, and bone morphogenetic protein-6. All were suitable biomarkers (area under the receiver operator curve range 0.741-0.826). Protein enrichment analyses yielded significant pathways in disease formation relating to immune regulation and cytokine signalling.We identified four novel biomarkers in CC, all of which are feasible biomarkers of disease identification, with proposed pathways of potential pathogenesis. Further research should be undertaken to validate our findings to better understand the mechanistic pathways in functional studies, with onward consideration regarding whether our findings have therapeutic applications.Copyright © 2026 Australian and New Zealand Society of Cardiac and Thoracic Surgeons (ANZSCTS) and the Cardiac Society of Australia and New Zealand (CSANZ). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Intra-abdominal infection frequently progresses to sepsis, where the liver is an early and commonly injured organ. In a cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) mouse model combined with bulk and single‑cell RNA sequencings, we observed marked neutrophil infiltration in the liver that correlated with injury severity. Sepsis‑associated neutrophils displayed a pro‑inflammatory phenotype and specifically upregulated the divalent metal transporter solute carrier family 11 member 1 (SLC11A1). Conditional knockout of Slc11a1 in neutrophils (Ly6G-Cre+ Slc11a1f/f) significantly alleviated liver injury and improved survival. Mechanistically, SLC11A1 drives intracellular Fe2+ accumulation and reactive oxygen species production via the Fenton reaction, promoting the formation of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). Hepatocytes were found to secrete C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10) through nuclear factor kappa B (NF‑κB) activation, which both recruit neutrophils and stimulates the JAK/STAT1/SLC11A1 axis, thereby enhancing NETs‑mediated pro‑inflammatory macrophage polarization. Clinically, peripheral blood CXCL10 levels correlated with liver injury markers in sepsis patients. Neutralization of CXCL10 using an anti-CXCL10 antibody or liver-specific knockdown of CXCL10 via Adeno-Associated Virus (AAV) reduced NETs formation and attenuated liver damage in CLP mice. This study delineates a "CXCL10-SLC11A1-NETs" signaling axis that exacerbates sepsis‑induced liver injury, offering a novel target for therapeutic intervention.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Breast cancer (BC) is the main cause of cancer-related mortality in women and is influenced by genetic, environmental and lifestyle factors. The inactivation of tumor suppressor genes, such as bone morphogenetic protein 6 (BMP6), breast cancer susceptibility gene 1 (BRCA1), estrogen receptor 2 (ESR2), glutathione S-transferase π1 (GSTP1) and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 3 (TIMP3), via methylation may contribute to the development of BC. The present study analyzed the methylation status of these genes in 60 BC and benign disease (BD) tissue samples from Mexican women and the association with clinical and histopathological variables. DNA was modified with sodium bisulfite, followed by methylation-specific PCR and electrophoresis, and analyzed using χ2 test, Fisher's exact test, logistic regression, odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence interval and Kaplan-Meier curves. The results indicated that the average age was higher in the BC group compared with that in the BD group (55 vs. 42 years; P<0.00001), with ≥50 years being a significant risk factor (OR, 5.44; P=0.00002). Only BRCA1 demonstrated a significant difference in methylation status, increasing the susceptibility to BC (OR, 2.50; P=0.0001), and tending to be associated with increased proliferation and lymph node metastasis. TIMP3 methylation was significantly associated with distant metastasis (OR, 8.65; P=0.028). Methylation of BRCA1 and TIMP3 demonstrated a significant association with poor prognosis in BC. BRCA1 was methylated more frequently in women with BC and TIMP3 was associated with a higher risk of distant metastasis. The present study highlighted the potential of these genes as prognostic biomarkers and the need to further explore DNA methylation for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes in future research.Copyright: © 2026 de la Torre-Guzmán et al.
Sustained human papillomavirus (HPV) infection induces cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN), a well-established precursor lesion and risk factor for cervical cancer. However, the specific long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) that regulate CIN progression remain poorly characterized. Herein, we identified a novel lncRNA, designated CIN-related lncRNA (CRL), and explored its role in CIN pathogenesis. Clinically, reduced CRL expression was significantly associated with advanced CIN stages, suggesting a potential correlation with disease severity. HPV oncoproteins E6 and E7 suppressed CRL expression through KDM2B-mediated modification of histone H3 lysine 4 trimethylation (H3K4me3). CRL repressed CIN progression and cell death in vitro. Further mechanistic investigations revealed that CRL exerted this inhibitory effect by suppressing ferroptosis. Importantly, CRL accelerated the degradation of transferrin receptor (TFRC) mRNA by interacting with the iron-sensing protein iron-responsive element-binding protein 2 (IREB2). Collectively, our findings highlight the functional importance of lncRNA CRL in HPV-induced CIN progression, specifically through its regulation of ferroptosis via the IREB2-TFRC axis. This study provides new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying CIN development and identifies CRL as a potential candidate for CIN diagnosis or intervention.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Human Cell Society.
Myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (MIR) injury remains the leading cause of adverse outcomes after myocardial infarction, and its prevention remains a major therapeutic challenge.The GSE160516 and GSE61592 datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus database were analyzed to screen MIR-related differentially expressed genes. To simulate clinical MIR injury, male C57BL/6 mice were subjected to ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery for 30 minutes, followed by reperfusion for 24 hours.In this study, the protein-protein interaction network was generated based on the 34 common upregulated genes, and among them, 11 genes were identified as hub genes, including solute carrier family 11 member 1 (Slc11a1), a gene associated with immune response. Herein, the upregulation of myocardial Slc11a1 was validated in mice with MIR injury. Mice subjected to MIR had improved cardiac function when Slc11a1 was knocked down via myocardial injection of Slc11a1 small interfering RNA (siRNA): the infarcted areas reduced from 38.43±4.13% to 22.18±3.45%; CK-MB levels decreased from 12.01±3.11 to 5.84±1.24. Slc11a1 silencing also reduced infiltration of F4/80 macrophages, deactivated the p65 proinflammatory pathway, and decreased the generation of IL-6 and TNF-α. Myocardial oxidative stress induced by IR challenge was attenuated in mice receiving Slc11a1 siRNA.Our study demonstrates that the abnormal elevation of Slc11a1 contributes to IR-related myocardial injury.©The Author(s) 2026. Open Access. This article is licensed under a Creative Commons CC-BY International License.
Ferroptosis is a critical contributor to cardiomyocyte injury in acute myocardial infarction (AMI). This study aimed to identify key ferroptosis-associated genes and elucidate their roles in AMI. Transcriptomic datasets from AMI patients and healthy controls were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). The role of the solute carrier family 11 member 1 (SLC11A1) was validated in vitro using a hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) model in H9c2 cardiomyocytes and in vivo using a murine AMI model. SLC11A1 expression was elevated in H/R-treated cardiomyocytes and infarcted murine hearts. SLC11A1 silencing reduced infarct size and improved cardiac function, and suppressed ferroptosis. Mechanistically, SLC11A1 led to the transcriptional suppression of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) mediated by the transcription factor specificity protein 1 (Sp1). This study identifies the SLC11A1-Sp1-GPX4 axis as a pivotal transcriptional regulator pathway driving ferroptosis in AMI. These findings highlight SLC11A1 as a promising therapeutic target in AMI.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Chronic neuroinflammation driven by activated microglia is a critical hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression. Metabolic dysregulation, particularly iron metabolism, has been implicated in neurodegeneration, yet the role of iron-responsive element-binding protein 2 (IREB2) in AD-associated neuroinflammation remains poorly understood. We performed integrative analysis of single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data from AD brain tissues, using non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) and intercellular communication algorithms to map cellular landscapes. We identified microglial subpopulations and their inflammatory signaling. To experimentally validate the functional role of IREB2 in inflammatory responses, we conducted siRNA-mediated knockdown in the human neuroblastoma cell line SH-SY5Y, which serves as a neuronal model for assessing IREB2's effect on cytokine expression. Single-cell analysis revealed a distinct microglial subpopulation (IREB2⁺ MC C1) that is significantly expanded in AD. This subpopulation exhibits a hyper-inflammatory state, with enrichment of Toll-like receptor and IL-17 signaling pathways, and functions as a primary source of outgoing inflammatory signals (CCL3, CCL4). Furthermore, IREB2 knockdown in SH-SY5Y cells significantly suppressed the expression of key pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL6, IL-1β, and TNF-α), confirming that IREB2 positively regulates inflammation in neurons as well. IREB2 drives both microglial activation and neuronal inflammatory responses in AD, potentially via the NF-κB pathway. The IREB2⁺ microglial subpopulation represents a specific pathogenic entity that orchestrates the inflammatory microenvironment. Targeting IREB2 may therefore offer a dual-pronged therapeutic strategy to mitigate neuroinflammation and slow AD progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), including Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), are chronic disorders with relapsing and remitting disease courses. Several clinical indicators and biomarkers have been evaluated for their clinical utility in assessing disease prognosis and monitoring disease activity. This study evaluated the utility of growth differentiation factor-15 (GDF15) and bone morphogenetic protein-6 (BMP6) in inflammatory pathways and iron regulation in IBD.Between September 2015 and March 2016, this single-center, cross-sectional study included 40 CD patients, 29 UC patients, and 70 healthy controls. The disease activity was measured using the Mayo score and the Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI). Serum iron, hematological indices, inflammatory markers, and the novel biomarkers BMP6 and GDF15 as determined by ELISA were evaluated.Both the CD and UC groups showed significantly lower serum iron (p < 0.001), reduced mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, and higher red cell distribution width than the control group. Inflammatory markers, including erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP), were elevated in IBD, particularly during active disease, with CRP increasing significantly in active UC compared to remission (p = 0.040). In contrast, BMP6 and GDF15 levels did not differ significantly between the disease groups or activity states. Nonetheless, GDF15 demonstrated moderate positive correlations with serum iron (r = 0.314), hemoglobin (r = 0.320), and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC) (r = 0.344), suggesting a link to erythropoietic or iron-related processes rather than inflammation.Conventional markers reliably confirmed iron deficiency and inflammation in IBD. BMP6 and GDF15 levels did not differ significantly across disease states, indicating limited utility as markers of disease activity. Notably, GDF15 was positively correlated with serum iron, hemoglobin, and MCHC, suggesting its association with iron metabolism rather than active inflammation. Larger longitudinal studies are warranted to validate this potential role.Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s).
Fish oil (FO) has been shown to confer beneficial effects on hepatic diseases in both humans and animals. This study aimed to investigate whether dietary fish oil (FO) supplementation alleviates deoxynivalenol (DON)-induced liver injury by modulating the ferroptosis signaling pathway in weaned piglets. Twenty-four weaned piglets were allocated to a 2 × 2 factorial design, with the main factors consisting of dietary treatment (5% corn oil or 5% FO supplementation) and DON exposure (basal diet or diet contaminated with 4 mg/kg DON). After 21 days of dietary treatment, piglets were euthanized for collection of blood and liver samples. Dietary FO significantly attenuated DON-induced hepatic structural damage and inflammatory infiltration. Specifically, FO supplementation reduced the activities of aspartate transaminase (AST) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP), as well as the AST/alanine aminotransferase (ALT) ratio following DON exposure. Dietary FO also decreased malondialdehyde (MDA) concentrations in both the liver and serum, lowered hepatic 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) level and Fe2+ content, and increased hepatic glutathione (GSH) content. Moreover, dietary FO ameliorated ultrastructural liver damage induced by DON. Furthermore, DON significantly downregulated the mRNA levels of multiple genes associated with iron metabolism and ferroptosis, including heat shock protein beta-1 (HSPB1), acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 4 (ACSL4), and arachidonate 15-lipoxygenase (ALOX15), and upregulated the mRNA levels of transferrin (TF), ferritin heavy chain (FTH), solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11), and transferrin receptor 1 (TFR1). Dietary FO counteracted these alterations by decreasing the mRNA of SLC7A11, TFR1, FTH, and TF after DON exposure. Finally, FO significantly decreased the protein expression of SLC7A11, iron-responsive element-binding protein 2 (IREB2), and FHT1 and increased the GPX4 protein expression following DON exposure. These findings suggest that FO may ameliorate DON-induced liver injury in weaned piglets, possibly through suppressing the ferroptosis signaling pathway.
To explore the clinical features, treatment strategies, and prognostic factors of patients with new diagnosed Lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma/Waldenström macroglobulinemia (LPL/WM), thereby enhancing the diagnostic and therapeutic understanding of this disease.Comprehensive clinical data were collected from 35 newly diagnosed LPL/WM patients at our hospital between December 2015 and June 2024. A systematic analysis was conducted on baseline characteristics, laboratory parameters, treatment regimens, and follow-up information. Survival analysis was performed using the Kaplan-Meier method, and a Cox regression model was applied to assess prognostic factors.A total of 35 LPL/WM patients were enrolled, with a male predominance (91.4%) and a median age at diagnosis of 69 years (range: 32-83). The most common clinical manifestations were fatigue (45.7%), lower limb edema (28.5%), and lymphadenopathy (62.9%). Laboratory findings revealed anemia in 88.6% of patients. The vast majority (94.3%) secreted monoclonal IgM, one patient secreted monoclonal IgG, and one patient had both monoclonal IgM and IgG. The light chain type was predominantly kappa (77.1%). Molecular genetic testing showed a MYD88 L265P mutation rate of 82.4% (28/34), while the CXCR4 mutation rate was lower (17.6%, 3/17). The overall response rate was 82.4% in the treatment group containing Bruton's tyrosine kinase inhibitors (BTKi) and 66.7% in the non-BTKi treatment group. With a median follow-up of 70 months, one patient was lost to follow-up and 14 patients died. The median overall survival (OS) for the entire cohort was 71 months. Univariate analysis identified β2-microglobulin ≥4 mg/L at diagnosis was associated with OS (P =0.036) and PFS (P =0.021). Multivariate analysis confirmed β2-microglobulin ≥4 mg/L at diagnosis as an independent adverse prognostic factor for OS (HR =3.854, P =0.025) and PFS (HR=3.201, P =0.030), while receiving BTKi-containing therapy was identified as a protective factor for OS (HR=0.312, P =0.047).This study confirms that elevated β2-microglobulin levels are an independent adverse prognostic factor in patients with LPL/WM. In our center's cohort, patients receiving BTKi therapy achieve higher response rates and longer OS.
As the core component of an artificial kidney, a hemodialysis membrane can remove metabolic wastes and excess fluid from the blood while retaining essential proteins. Despite their essential role in blood purification, current hemodialysis membranes still show limited efficiency in clearing middle-molecule uremic toxins, especially β2-microglobulin. Ordered mesoporous silica (SBA-15) was used as an inorganic pore-regulating additive to construct ordered mesoporous silica/polyethersulfone (PES) mixed-matrix membranes for separation applications. The incorporation of SBA-15 may help form additional effective transport pathways in the PES membrane by regulating pore formation, increasing membrane hydrophilicity, and improving apparent pore connectivity, thereby reducing the apparent transport resistance of middle-molecule solutes. As a result, the composite membranes achieved improved dialysis performance while maintaining high BSA retention. The SBA-15 loading was systematically optimized. Relative to the pristine PES membrane, the 7 wt.% SBA-15 membrane reduced the water contact angle from 65.1° to 49.0° and increased lysozyme reduction from 40.9% to 55.2%, with pure water permeability reaching 261.5 L m-2 h-1 bar-1 and bovine serum albumin (BSA) retention remaining above 90%. These results suggest that SBA-15 may regulate the pore structure of PES membranes and improve apparent pore connectivity, thereby facilitating middle-molecule solute transport while maintaining high BSA retention.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42500646 is a review article
The 2024 International Myeloma Society-International Myeloma Working Group consensus classifies isolated elevated β2-microglobulin (β2M) with normal serum creatinine (SCr) as high-risk multiple myeloma (MM). However, creatinine-based renal definitions may be inaccurate in Asian populations with lower muscle mass. We aimed to evaluate the prognostic impact of isolated elevated β2M on overall survival (OS) using SCr- and Cockcroft-Gault-derived creatinine clearance (CrCl)-based definitions.This retrospective study included newly diagnosed MM patients (2006-2023). Patients were classified as group A (β2M < 5.5 mg/L), group B (β2M ≥ 5.5 mg/L, SCr < 1.2 mg/dL), or group C (β2M ≥ 5.5 mg/L, SCr ≥ 1.2 mg/dL). In secondary analyses, renal function was redefined using CrCl (≥ 60 mL/min).Among 250 patients (mean age 61.0 ± 12.1 years; 62.0% male), 34.4% underwent autologous stem cell transplantation. Groups A, B, and C included 109 (43.6%), 29 (11.6%), and 112 (44.8%) patients, respectively. At a median follow-up of 4.55 years, 4-year OS for groups A, B, and C was 79.8%, 71.6%, and 60.0% (P = 0.015). Group B did not demonstrate significantly inferior OS compared with group A (adjusted hazard ratio (aHR), 1.51; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.70-3.24), whereas group C had significantly worse OS (aHR, 1.79; 95% CI, 1.11-2.86). When renal function was defined by CrCl, reclassified group B (n = 19) showed significantly inferior OS (aHR, 2.61; 95% CI, 1.17-5.86).Isolated β2M elevation showed a trend toward inferior OS using the SCr-based definition. CrCl-based reclassification appeared to improve prognostic stratification by identifying occult renal impairment not detected by SCr alone. These findings require validation in larger studies.Copyright 2026 Authors.
Polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs), predominantly neutrophil granulocytes, are key components of the innate immune system that eliminate invading pathogens through phagocytosis and clear apoptotic cells through efferocytosis. Beta-2-microglobulin (β2m) is best known as the light chain of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I), where it is required for antigen presentation to CD8⁺ T cells. However, emerging evidence suggests that extracellular β2m may also regulate innate immune responses. Here, we show that extracellular β2m enhances neutrophil phagocytosis and efferocytosis. Addition of soluble β2m (50 µg/ml) increased phagocytosis of latex beads by PMNs from 23% to 31%, whereas the proteolytically cleaved variant desLys58-β2m (dK58β2m) had no effect. In contrast, both β2m and dK58β2m enhanced phagocytosis of the Gram-positive bacterium Streptococcus pyogenes and the Gram-negative bacterium Acinetobacter baumannii by >3.6-fold. Furthermore, both β2m variants promoted efferocytosis of apoptotic Jurkat cells in a dose-dependent manner, resulting in up to a two-fold increase that was comparable to the effect of GM-CSF. Cytochalasin D abolished β2m-mediated uptake of apoptotic cells. Pre-incubation of latex beads with β2m followed by washing did not enhance phagocytosis, and pre-incubation of PMNs with β2m followed by washing did not enhance subsequent efferocytosis of apoptotic cells. These findings indicate that β2m does not act by coating phagocytic targets or by inducing sustained neutrophil priming. Collectively, these findings identify extracellular β2m as a regulator of neutrophil-mediated phagocytosis and efferocytosis and demonstrate that proteolytic processing differentially influences these activities.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study aims to evaluate serum beta-2 microglobulin (β2M) as a diagnostic biomarker for acute primary Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection in children, Additionally, serum vitamin D3 levels were compared between EBV-infected children and children with viral upper respiratory tract infection to explore their potential clinical relevance.A total of 129 children with acute primary EBV infection were identified as the EBV group, while 130 children with viral upper respiratory tract infections in the same age group hospitalized during the same period were identified as the control group. The age, gender, and laboratory indicators of the two groups were analyzed and compared. Pearson's correlation was used to analyze the correlation between β2M and serum EBV-DNA concentration. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was drawn, and the threshold and area under the curve (AUC) of β2M for predicting the diagnosis of EBV infection were calculated.The white blood cell count, serum lactate dehydrogenase, and alanine aminotransferase levels in the EBV group were significantly than those in the control group (P < 0.0001), and Serum β2M level were significantly higher in the EBV group than in the control group (P < 0.001), while serum vitamin D3 levels were significantly lower (P < 0.001). Pearson's correlation analysis showed a positive correlation between serum β2M levels and serum EBV-DNA load (r = 0.469, P < 0.01). ROC curve analysis revealed that the AUC of serum β2M for diagnosing EBV infection was 0.907 (95% confidence interval 0.8723-0.9412; P < 0.01), with an optimal threshold of 3.3 mg/L, a specificity of 62.1%, and a sensitivity of 90.8%.The serum β2M levels are significantly increased in the stage of primary EBV infection in children, and β2M appears to be a promising biomarker for predicting primary EBV infection. The serum vitamin D3 levels are significantly reduced in children with primary EBV infection, and the protective effect of vitamin D supplementation in those children warrants additional clinical exploration.© 2026 Cheng, Pan, Wang, Cai and Yin.
To evaluate and identify urinary biomarkers for the early diagnosis and staging of diabetic kidney disease (DKD).This study enrolled 200 participants, including healthy controls (NDM, n=50) and patients with type 2 diabetes. The diabetic patients were stratified by urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio (ACR) into the following groups: normoalbuminuria (SDM, n=50), microalbuminuria (MADKD, n=50), and macroalbuminuria (ADKD, n=50). Utilizing an integrated multi-dimensional screening strategy, we systematically evaluated traditional urinary protein markers (urinary retinol-binding protein [URBP], urinary immunoglobulin G [UIgG], urinary transferrin [UTRF], urinary alpha-1-microglobulin [Uα1-MG], and urinary beta-2-microglobulin [Uβ2-MG]), 20 urinary amino acids, and urinary proteins identified via high-throughput mass spectrometry. Candidate proteins were validated by ELISA, and their diagnostic performance was assessed using ROC curve analysis, with ACR serving as the practical clinical reference.Among the traditional urinary protein markers, UTRF and UIgG demonstrated excellent diagnostic value, with areas under the curve (AUC) of 0.926 and 0.916, respectively. Among the amino acids, PRO showed the best diagnostic performance (AUC = 0.746). However, when all 20 urinary amino acids were combined into a diagnostic model, it exhibited outstanding diagnostic value (AUC = 0.928), outperforming individual amino acids and even traditional protein markers. From the top 50 proteins identified in the proteomic screening, serpin family A member 1 (SERPINA1) was determined to be a key protein. Subsequent ELISA validation and ROC analysis further confirmed that SERPINA1 possesses outstanding diagnostic capability (AUC = 0.964, 95% CI: 0.936-0.990), significantly outperforming other candidate proteins, namely osteoclast-associated Ig-like receptor (OSCAR), contactin 1 (CNTN1), and CD58 molecule (CD58).Traditional proteins, especially UTRF/UIgG, hold diagnostic value. The 20-amino-acid combination (AUC = 0.928) outperformed them. This study first systematically identifies urinary SERPINA1 as a highly promising DKD biomarker, offering a novel target for early diagnosis and precise management.Copyright © 2026 Mi, Xiong, Gong, Sun, Xu, Jiang, Zhang, Zhang, Huang and Liang.
β2-microglobulin (B2M) is implicated in neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative processes, but its role in prion diseases remains unclear. Here, the alterations in B2M expression and distribution as well as its correlation with PrPSc accumulation were investigated in several scrapie-infected rodent models and a prion-infected cell line. Markedly increased B2M levels were detected in the brains of prion-infected rodents at the terminal stage, as well as in the prion-infected SMB-S15 cells, with prominent colocalization with neurons and microglia. Transient overexpression of cytosolic abnormal PrP in cultured cells induced an increase in B2M, whereas the expression of wild-type PrP did not alter the B2M level. Resveratrol-induced clearance of PrPSc in SMB-S15 cells sufficiently reversed the increased level of B2M. Molecular interactions and histological spatial distributions between B2M and PrPSc were identified in scrapie-infected brains. The B2M upregulation during prion infection was independent of the MHC-I expression. Routine Western blot and ELISA failed to find significant differences in B2M levels between the cohorts of human prion disease (PrD) and non-PrD in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and between the cohorts of PrD and the normal population in serum. These findings suggest that prion infection and abnormal PrP accumulation induce remarkable B2M upregulation, and this interaction along with its MHC-I-independent upregulation highlights the potential of B2M in the pathological progression of prion diseases, providing a novel molecular basis for understanding prion-induced neuroinflammation.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Semaglutide is a glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist widely used for its glucose-lowering effects in people with type 2 diabetes (T2D), as well as its cardiovascular and kidney-protective properties. However, it remains unclear whether semaglutide influences blood concentrations of endogenous filtration markers like creatinine, cystatin C, beta-trace protein (BTP), and beta-2 microglobulin (B2M). We investigated the effect of semaglutide on these filtration markers and the performance of estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) equations compared with measured glomerular filtration rate (mGFR).Post hoc analysis of a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial. Individuals with T2D and albuminuria were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive semaglutide 1 mg weekly or matching placebo for 26 weeks on top of empagliflozin. mGFR was determined by 99m-Tc-DTPA plasma clearance and eGFR was calculated using CKD-EPI equations based on plasma creatinine (eGFRcre), cystatin C (eGFRcys), their combination (eGFRcomb), or a panel of creatinine, cystatin C, BTP, and B2M (eGFRpanel). Outcomes included change in filtration marker concentration, mGFR, and eGFR from baseline to end-of-treatment, as well as eGFR performance compared to mGFR at each timepoint.Among 48 participants (median age 70 years; 16.7% female), semaglutide treatment was associated with a small but significant increase in plasma creatinine and BTP compared with placebo, whereas there was no significant change in cystatin C or B2M. Semaglutide treatment was not associated with a significant change in mGFR (median [IQR] change of 0 [-7.5 to 10.3] mL/min/1.73 m2) compared with placebo (median [IQR] change of -2 [-11.3 to 3.0] mL/min/1.73 m2). Both eGFRcre and eGFRcys were consistently outperformed by eGFRcomb and eGFRpanel at baseline and end-of-treatment.Semaglutide treatment was associated with a small increase in plasma creatinine and BTP but not cystatin C or B2M, and eGFRcomb yielded the most reliable estimates of mGFR.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the ERA. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site-for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Severe acute kidney injury (AKI) is associated with high mortality. Current blood purification technologies fail to replace the biological functions of renal tubular epithelial cells (RTECs), such as active transport, acid-base homeostasis, and endocrine regulation. The integration of viable RTECs into an extracorporeal circuit to construct a bioartificial kidney represents a potential strategy for renal functional support. However, its translation is constrained by the rapid loss of seed cell phenotypes, immune and coagulation activation triggered by conventional materials, and a lack of in vivo validation in large animal models. However, three key challenges hinder its clinical translation, which this study seeks to address: the rapid loss of seed cell phenotypes, immune and coagulation activation triggered by conventional materials, and a lack of in vivo validation in large animal models.We engineered a renal tubule assist device (RAD) that integrates viable cells with a functionalized interface. First, we established an immortalized human proximal tubule cell line [immortalized renal tubular epithelial cell line (iRTEC)] and achieved scalable expansion using a microcarrier system. Second, we fabricated a cell-supporting interface [chlorogenic acid/poly-L-lysine-modified pristine nanofibrous membrane (CA/PLL-PNF)] with antioxidant properties and enhanced hemocompatibility via the layer-by-layer self-assembly of PLL and CA onto polyacrylonitrile nanofibrous membranes. Finally, we assembled these components into a flat-plate bioreactor and evaluated its extracorporeal performance in a Bama miniature pig model after bilateral nephrectomy.iRTECs were stably expanded on microcarriers while maintaining a proximal tubule phenotype, and these cells outperformed existing cell lines in terms of amino acid hydrolysis and transmembrane transport, acid-base regulation, water transport, and endocrine responsiveness. With respect to the supporting interface, CA/PLL-PNF effectively scavenged diverse free radicals and mitigated cellular oxidative stress. Proteomic analysis confirmed that this modification remodeled the plasma protein corona, which significantly reduced the adsorption of complement and coagulation factors. In the bilaterally nephrectomized pig model, the RAD safely maintained extracorporeal circulation for 4 h-the duration of routine clinical dialysis-and preserved internal homeostasis. The antioxidant interface significantly attenuated circulating lipid peroxidation during treatment. Compared with hemofiltration alone, the RAD significantly enhanced the clearance of middle-molecule toxins (β2-microglobulin) and reduced proinflammatory cytokine levels at the outlet, demonstrating its capacity for the active modulation of local inflammation.This study established a renal support platform that integrates viable cells and functional materials. The device exhibited multidimensional biological efficacy in toxin clearance and internal homeostasis regulation and achieved stable extracorporeal circulation in a preclinical large animal model, which provides experimental evidence for advanced organ support strategies in the setting of severe AKI.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Black shank disease, caused by Phytophthora parasitica var. Nicotianae (P. nicotianae), severely affects the quality and yield of Nicotiana plants. Although resistance genes from some wild Nicotiana plant species, such as Nicotiana plumbaginifolia, were transferred to cultivated Nicotiana plant long ago, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. In previous work, NpSKP1-1A was found to interact with NpPP2-B10, which positively regulates Nicotiana plants resistance to P. nicotianae. In this study, we investigated the roles of NpSKP1-1A in resistance to P. nicotianae in Nicotiana plants. First, RT-qPCR and GUS assay results demonstrated that P. nicotianae infection induces an increase in NpSKP1-1A expression. Second, NpSKP1-1A was confirmed to positively regulate Nicotiana plants resistance to P. nicotianae through VIGS experiment in N. plumbaginifolia and heterologous overexpression in the susceptible Nicotiana plants cultivar Honghua Dajinyuan. Third, transcriptome data, LC-MS analysis, and VIGS experiments indicated that the jasmonic acid (JA) pathway is involved in N. plumbaginifolia resistance to P. nicotianae. Fourth, RT-qPCR and LC-MS analyses showed that NpSKP1-1A promotes JA biosynthesis. Y2H and BiFC assays further demonstrated that NpSKP1-1A interacts with NtCOI1 and NtCullin1 to form the SCFCOI1 complex, which participates in JA signal transduction. Finally, results of further analyses showed that NpWRKY2 performed positive regulatory effect on NpSKP1-1A. This study suggests that NpSKP1-1A positively modulates JA signaling, thereby boosting Nicotiana plants resistance against P. nicotianae. Understanding this regulatory module could provide valuable insights for improving Nicotiana plants resistance to P. nicotianae.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) is an autosomal‑dominant vascular disease characterized by telangiectasias and visceral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs), commonly in the lungs, liver, and brain. HHT is linked to mutations in the genes Activin A Receptor Like Type 1 (ACVRL1), Endoglin (ENG), and SMAD Family Member 4 (SMAD4). The ACVRL1 gene encodes the receptor ACVRL1 (Activin A Receptor Like Type 1), also known as ALK1 (Activin Receptor-Like Kinase 1), and belongs to the Transforming Growth Factor-Beta (TGFβ) Superfamily of receptors. Approximately 20% of patients with ACVRL1-associated HHT develop pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). [1] In pediatric PAH cohorts, ACVRL1 mutations account for nearly 10% of identified genetic variants. [2] The reduced penetrance of PAH among ACVRL1 mutation carriers suggests that additional modifiers account for PAH development. [3]. Given the relevance of the bone‑morphogenetic‑protein (BMP) pathway to the pathogenesis of PAH, and the intimate relationship of TGFβ superfamily signaling partners including ACVRL1 and BMPR2, genes which modify BMP-TGFβ signaling balance may contribute to PAH development in children with ACVRL1‑positive HHT. One such gene is SMAD9 (Receptor Regulated SMAD 9); the protein product of SMAD 9 (SMAD8) which mediates downstream TGFβ signaling. Herein, we report what we believe to be the youngest reported case of PAH in ACVRL1‑mediated HHT, in a patient who co‑harbors a SMAD9 mutation.© 2026 The Author(s). Pulmonary Circulation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Pulmonary Vascular Research Institute.
Pulmonary ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury is a life-threatening complication of thoracic surgery with limited therapeutic options. While ferroptosis contributes significantly to lung damage, its transcriptional regulation remains poorly understood.Murine pulmonary I/R models and hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R)-treated lung epithelial cells were integrated to explore the molecular mechanisms underlying ferroptosis. Transcriptomics, proximity-dependent biotin labeling using a promiscuous biotin ligase (TurboID), chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP), luciferase reporter assays, and functional rescue assays were employed to delineate the FosB proto-oncogene, activator protein-1 (AP-1) transcription factor subunit (FOSB)-histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6)-hepcidin antimicrobial peptide (HAMP) axis. Molecular markers were assessed by reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), immunoblotting, and biochemical kits.I/R injury upregulated FOSB expression in lung tissues, correlating with alterations in ferroptosis markers, including reduced expression of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11), concomitant with elevated expression of acyl-coenzyme A synthetase long-chain family member 4 (ACSL4), accumulation of ferrous iron (Fe2+), and increased levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS). FOSB directly bound the HAMP promoter at -600/-300 bp, inducing HAMP expression. HDAC6 physically interacted with and deacetylated FOSB. This deacetylation enhanced the promoter occupancy and transcriptional activity of FOSB, thereby amplifying HAMP production. HAMP overexpression reversed FOSB knockdown-mediated protection against ferroptosis in vitro.The FOSB-HDAC6 complex, via deacetylation of FOSB, transcriptionally activates HAMP to drive HAMP-mediated iron overload and ferroptosis in pulmonary I/R injury, revealing a targetable axis for lung protection.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Hepatic nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) reduction is a pathological hallmark and pathogenic basis for alcohol-associated liver disease (ALD). This study investigated the therapeutic role of nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN), a NAD+ precursor naturally presenting in various dietary sources, against ALD. Here, we show that NMN supplementation attenuates NAD+ decline, which in turn attenuates hepatic lipid deposition, dysregulated lipid metabolism genes, oxidative stress, and inflammation in ALD mice, and ultimately ameliorated liver injury. Transcriptomics-based mechanistic analysis demonstrates that alcohol-reduced hepcidin antimicrobial peptide (Hamp) is rescued by NMN, alongside the recovery of circulatory and hepatic iron levels. The hepatic Hamp expression is positively associated with NAD+ content in the liver. Hamp knockdown significantly abolishes NMN-improved lipid accumulation and the dysregulation of lipid metabolism-related genes in ethanol-treated hepatocytes. Further analysis identifies a C/EBPα-involved transcriptional regulation mechanism in NMN-protected Hamp in ALD. These findings identify NMN as a promising dietary therapeutic for ALD, acting via the C/EBPα/Hamp signaling axis.© 2026. The Author(s).
The SCF complex, a type of E3 ubiquitin ligase, plays a crucial role in regulating various cellular processes by targeting specific substrates for degradation. These processes include cell proliferation, cell cycle progression, transcription, and apoptosis. SKP1, also known as S-phase kinase-associated protein 1, is a key component of the Skp1-Cullin1-F-box (SCF) E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. It acts as a linker protein that facilitates the interaction between Cullin and F-box proteins. SKP1 is essential for plant growth and development, particularly in processes like pollen tube elongation and self-incompatibility mechanisms. In this study, we identified 19 genes belonging to the LbSKP1 family in the Lycium barbarum genome, located on six different chromosomes. Based on gene structure and sequence analysis, we classified these genes into three types: type Ia genes are mostly intronless, type Ib genes typically have a single intron, and type IIc genes contain multiple introns. Tissue-specific expression profiling revealed that LbSKP1-14 is highly expressed in Lycium barbarum pollen. The cloned LbSKP1-14 gene shares sequence similarity with PhSSK1, a gene involved in self-incompatibility recognition in tobacco. Subcellular localization studies showed that LbSKP1-14 is present in both the nucleus and cytoplasm. The results of the yeast two-hybrid assay revealed that LbSKP1-14 specifically interacts with both S2-LbSLF4, S2-LbSLF9 and S2-LbSLF13. This research lays the foundation for further exploration of the role and mechanism of the SKP1 gene in regulating self-incompatibility in Lycium barbarum. It also provides genetic resources that can be utilized for molecular breeding of self-compatible varieties within the Lycium barbarum germplasm pool.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12298-026-01746-y.© Prof. H.S. Srivastava Foundation for Science and Society 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
The treatment of infected bone defects remains challenging due to the dynamic coexistence of bacterial infection, dysregulated inflammation, and impaired tissue regeneration, which demands spatiotemporally coordinated immunomodulatory interventions. Here, we develop a bilayer self-assembling polypeptide hydrogel that enables the spatiotemporal delivery of distinct hepcidin forms to reprogram macrophage responses during different phases of infection and repair. The upper layer, consisting of a PC10A-Hamp hydrogel loaded with hepcidin-overexpressing mesenchymal stem cells (PHMH), undergoes rapid degradation to provide early-stage antimicrobial immune activation, effectively eliminating bacteria, inhibiting biofilm formation, and scavenging excessive reactive oxygen species. In contrast, the lower layer, a PC10A-RGD hydrogel loaded with hepcidin-engineered extracellular vesicles (PREH), enables sustained release to promote M2 macrophage polarization and support osteogenic and angiogenic regeneration. In vitro studies reveal that hepcidin enhances osteogenic differentiation of MSCs via activation of the p38/ERK pathway and promotes angiogenesis through the PI3K/AKT pathway. In vivo, the PHMH/PREH hydrogel demonstrates robust therapeutic efficacy in an infected bone defect model, achieving effective infection control and accelerated bone repair. Mechanistically, spatiotemporal hepcidin delivery orchestrates phase-adaptive macrophage reprogramming by maintaining M1 polarization during the infectious phase while driving Twist1-mediated M2 polarization during the resolution phase. Collectively, this bilayer hydrogel platform establishes a phase-adaptive immunomodulatory delivery strategy and offers a promising therapeutic approach for infected bone defect repair.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Four Janus kinase inhibitors (JAKinibs), ruxolitinib, fedratinib, pacritinib, and momelotinib, are indicated for myelofibrosis. All inhibit JAK2, but effects on additional kinases vary markedly, shaping their specific clinical pharmacology. Published comparative inhibitory profiles and cellular pharmacology data are incomplete and were determined here. Inhibitory potency and relative selectivity of JAKinibs were determined by full kinome profiling. JAKinib effects on signaling and cell growth were measured using JAK2-dependent and JAK2-independent cell lines. Ruxolitinib was the most potent JAK2 inhibitor (half-maximal inhibitory concentration [IC50] at physiological [1mM] ATP, 2.9nM), followed by fedratinib (17nM), momelotinib (29nM), and pacritinib (39nM), and the most selective. The other JAKinibs inhibited multiple additional kinases beyond the few typically reported for each drug in the literature. Interestingly, pacritinib and momelotinib showed only modest activin A receptor type 1 (ACVR1) inhibition at clinical doses and physiological ATP concentrations, suggesting the role of ACVR1 inhibition in mediating their anemia-related benefits may be overestimated. The observed inhibitory levels are unlikely to translate to a clinically meaningful reduction in hepcidin levels. In JAK2-dependent cellular assays, ruxolitinib showed most potent inhibition of STAT5 phosphorylation (IC50, 14nM), followed by momelotinib (201nM), pacritinib (421nM), and fedratinib (669nM), and was the only JAKinib that had minimal impact on growth in JAK2-independent cell lines. In conclusion, ruxolitinib was the most potent, and selective JAKinib with no relevant effects in JAK2-independent cells. In contrast, fedratinib, pacritinib, and momelotinib inhibited many other kinases and inhibited cell growth by JAK2-unrelated mechanisms at clinically relevant concentrations.© 2026 American Society of Hematology. Published by Elsevier Inc. Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0), permitting only noncommercial, nonderivative use with attribution. All other rights reserved.
Recently, increasing attention has been focused on the intergenerational toxicity of environmental contaminants. Tris(1,3-dichloro-2-propyl)phosphate (TDCIPP) is a widely detected contaminant in aquatic environments, but its paternally mediated intergenerational toxicity in vertebrates has remained insufficiently elucidated. In this study, zebrafish at 50 days postfertilization (dpf) were exposed to environmentally relevant concentrations (55, 550, and 5500 ng/L) of TDCIPP for 150 days. Following exposure, the males were paired with unexposed females, and cardiotoxicity and hepatotoxicity were assessed in the offspring larvae. It was found that TDCIPP accumulated in F0 testes but not in the offspring embryos. Furthermore, paternal exposure to TDCIPP led to an increased heart rate, abnormal cardiac morphology, and significantly elevated ventricular wall thickness in the offspring zebrafish. Additionally, lipid metabolism disorders, abnormal liver morphology, and functional impairment were also observed in the offspring. Moreover, paternal exposure to TDCIPP down-regulated the expression of the hepcidin antimicrobial peptide gene (hamp) in the offspring larvae, leading to iron overload, which might contribute to the observed cardiotoxicity and lipid metabolism disorders in the offspring, as well as the subsequent development of hepatotoxicity. Furthermore, the up-regulation of miR-184 in F0 testes and offspring larvae accounted for the suppression of hamp expression following paternal exposure to TDCIPP. Our findings reveal that paternal exposure to TDCIPP induces up-regulation of miR-184 in F0 testes, and this overexpressed microRNA can be transmitted to the offspring, subsequently inhibiting hamp expression, leading to iron overload and consequently contributing to cardiotoxicity and hepatotoxicity in the offspring.
This study investigated whether BACH2 affects bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) through ferritinophagy and elucidated its molecular mechanisms.JUN was identified as a key gene linking BPD and ferritinophagy, showing elevated expression in preterm neonates with BPD and in hyperoxia-exposed alveolar epithelial cells (MLE12). In the cellular BPD model, knockdown of either JUN or its upstream regulator, BACH2, inhibited hyperoxia-induced nuclear receptor coactivator 4 (NCOA4)-dependent ferritinophagy, accompanied by restored cell viability and mitigated oxidative stress, autophagy flux, and ferroptosis. Functional rescue experiments confirmed NCOA4 as the critical downstream effector of JUN, and JUN overexpression reversed the protective effects of BACH2 silencing. Mechanistically, BACH2 activates JUN transcription, thereby augmenting c-Jun phosphorylation and the activity of the downstream AP-1 complex. In a neonatal mouse BPD model, BACH2 knockdown attenuated hyperoxia-induced lung injury, improved alveolarization and vascular remodeling, and suppressed the BACH2/c-Jun/NCOA4 pathway, ferritinophagy, and ferroptosis in lung tissues.This study delineates a novel pathogenic axis in which BACH2 drives ferritinophagy-mediated ferroptosis in BPD by transcriptionally upregulating JUN, which, in turn, promotes NCOA4-dependent ferritinophagy, highlighting BACH2 and c-Jun as potential therapeutic targets.BACH2 exacerbates BPD by transcriptionally activating JUN, which promotes NCOA4-dependent ferritinophagy and ferroptosis. Targeting this axis offers a potential therapeutic strategy for BPD. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 00, 000-000.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42465023 is a review article
Emerging evidence suggests that ferroptosis, triggered by iron overload, plays a significant role in the resultant brain damage following intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Tetramethylpyrazine (TMP) is an alkylpyrazine bicyclic heterocyclic compound and a potent volatile aroma compound found in fermented foods, vinegar, cocoa, and traditional Chinese medicine. It has been extensively employed in the management of ICH; however, its precise mechanism of action remains to be elucidated.Current work aims to clarify the effects of TMP on neuronal ferritinophagy and ferroptosis in ICH.Collagenase VII was used to perform stereotactic injections into the brain of C57BL/6 mice to establish an ICH model. The therapeutic efficacy of TMP in mice with ICH was assessed using behavioral tests and hemorrhage volume measurement. The effect of TMP on neuronal ferroptosis and ferritinophagy following ICH was examined using in vivo and in vitro models.TMP significantly enhanced neurological functions and reduced hemorrhagic volume following ICH. It downregulated ferritinophagy markers, including nuclear receptor coactivator 4 (NCOA4) and microtubule-associated protein light chain 3 (LC3), while upregulating Sequestosome-1 (P62) and ferritin levels. Concurrently, TMP decreased malondialdehyde (MDA) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and increased the expression of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and ferroptosis suppressor protein 1 (FSP1), indicating a potent anti-ferroptotic effect.TMP protects neurons against ferroptosis after ICH by inhibiting NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy, an effect associated with activation of the PI3K/AKT pathway. These findings identify the natural product TMP as a promising candidate for ICH therapy and reveal novel mechanistic insights into the autophagy-ferroptosis axis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42449637 is a review article
The COP9 signalosome (CSN) plays crucial roles in various cellular processes, including cell proliferation and DNA repair, by regulating Cullin-RING ubiquitin ligases that influence protein stability. However, the mechanism by which CSN regulates multiple signaling pathways in stem and progenitor cells for different cell fate decisions remains elusive. Here, we examine the role of the CSN in determining the fate of blood progenitors within the developing Drosophila larval hematopoietic organ, the lymph gland, using in vivo genetics and cell biological methods. We find that CSN-deneddylated, inactive Cullin-1 regulates the differentiation of intermediate progenitors in the lymph glands to generate a correct ratio of plasmatocytes and crystal cells. CSN also controls Serrate activation, which triggers Notch signaling in neighboring cells, leading them to become crystal cells. Moreover, CSN modulates epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling, which regulates Notch signaling in intermediate progenitors. Our study reveals that CSN-mediated regulation of EGFR and Notch signaling is crucial for determining the cell fate of myeloid-type blood progenitors, making the lymph gland a convenient model to understand human disease caused by dysregulated EGFR and Notch signaling.© 2026. The Author(s).
Anti-tuberculosis drug-induced liver injury (ATB-DILI) is a leading cause of impaired anti-TB treatment efficacy in patients with tuberculosis. Baicalein (Bai), a dietary flavonoid from the root of Scutellaria baicalensis, exhibits diverse therapeutic effects across a broad spectrum of diseases. This study aimed to investigate the protective effects of Bai against ATB-DILI and to elucidate the role of ferritinophagy, using an integrated approach combining network pharmacology, animal models, and cellular assays. Bai treatment ameliorated ATB-DILI and hepatocyte injury in vivo and in vitro, respectively. Reactive oxygen species production, lipid accumulation, and cellular ferroptosis caused by anti-TB drugs were ameliorated following Bai treatment both in vivo and in vitro. Furthermore, Bai treatment alleviated excessive ferritinophagy induced by anti-TB drugs by modulating the nuclear receptor coactivator 4 (NCOA4)/ferritin heavy chain 1 (FTH1) signaling pathway. Notably, knockdown of YES-associated protein 1 (YAP1) abrogated the protective effects of Bai treatment, preventing it from alleviating the anti-TB drug-induced increase in NCOA4 expression, decrease in FTH1 expression, iron overload, and subsequent ferroptosis and lipid peroxidation in rat liver and hepatocytes. This study suggested that Bai treatment attenuates anti-TB drug-induced hepatocyte injury via inhibition of ferritinophagy activation-induced ferroptosis, which is regulated through the YAP1/NCOA4/FTH1 signaling pathway. These findings establish a novel therapeutic target for Bai in the treatment of ATB-DILI and provide a rational basis for its clinical application.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Endothelial function is impaired in patients with diabetes. Normal high-density lipoprotein (nHDL) protects endothelial function; however, HDL from patients with diabetes becomes dysfunctional (dHDL) and impairs endothelial function. Ferroptosis is a novel iron-dependent form of cell death driven by the accumulation of lipid peroxidation. Nevertheless, it remains unclear whether dHDL impairs endothelial function by inducing ferroptosis. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were treated with nHDL or dHDL; consequently, intracellular levels of ferrous ion, lipid peroxidation, superoxide anions (O2•-), and nitric oxide (NO) were detected. The expressions of ferritin heavy polypeptide 1 (FTH1), glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), nuclear receptor coactivator 4 (NCOA4), and sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor 1 (S1P1) were measured, while endothelial cell (EC) tube formation was studied. In addition, the mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), mitophagy, and ferritinophagy were determined. Moreover, vasodilation in C57BL/6 and diabetic db/db mice was examined. dHDL increased ferrous ion levels, lipid peroxidation, O2•- production, mitophagy, ferritinophagy, and NCOA4 expression; however, it inhibited FTH1, GPX4, and S1P1 expression, NO generation, and EC tube formation. dHDL decreased MMP and impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilation. These effects of dHDL were reversed by ferrostatin-1 or S1P1 overexpression. The expressions of FTH1, GPX4, and S1P1 decreased, whereas NCOA4 expression increased in diabetic db/db mice compared to wild-type mice. Taken together, dHDL impairs endothelial function by inducing mitochondrial damage and EC ferroptosis through the S1P1-NCOA4 axis. Our findings provide a novel mechanism by which dHDL impairs endothelial function and offer a therapeutic target for diabetic vascular dysfunction.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Friedreich ataxia (FRDA) is a neurodegenerative and cardiac disease caused by GAA repeat expansions within the first intron of the FXN gene, leading to reduced frataxin expression. Frataxin is involved in iron sulfur cluster (ISC) biosynthesis, and its deficiency results in multiple cellular dysfunctions, including mitochondrial iron overload. Although altered iron homeostasis has been reported in several frataxin-deficient models and in FRDA patients, its contribution to disease progression remains debated. Here, we used a GAA expansion-based Drosophila model of FRDA, termed fh-GAAs, to investigate the impact of reducing intestinal iron absorption on disease progression. We first found that iron accumulation was tissue-specific and predominantly affected the central nervous system. Furthermore, glial cells were affected more severely than neurons, suggesting an increased vulnerability of glia to frataxin deficiency. Reducing intestinal iron uptake, either through treatment with bathophenanthroline disulfonic acid (BPS), an extracellular iron chelator, or by gut-specific silencing of the gene encoding the iron transporter Malvolio, nearly doubled fly survival. BPS treatment also improved sensitivity to dietary iron, enhanced locomotor performance, fully restored normal brain size, and prevented glial alterations. Altogether, our findings identify glial cells as early and preferential targets of frataxin deficiency in an iron-dependent manner and support the in vivo relevance of intestinal iron uptake as a potential modulator of disease severity in FRDA.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42513621 is a review article
Friedreich ataxia (FRDA) is a neurodegenerative disorder typically caused by autosomal recessive inheritance of expanded guanine-adenine-adenine (GAA) repeats (>56) in both alleles of the frataxin (FXN) gene, leading to FXN protein deficiency. Omaveloxolone (Omav) is the only approved therapy. Therefore, further therapeutic options are essential. Previously, we showed that sulforaphane (SF) increases FXN expression and modulates epigenetic, inflammatory, and oxidative stress pathways in sensory neurons from a patient induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) with 550 GAA1 repeats (FA2). Here, we compared SF, Omav, and dimethyl fumarate (DMF) treatment in sensory neurons derived from three patient iPSC lines with varying GAA1 repeats: FA1 (867), FA2, and FA3 (450).In FA1, SF treatment improved cell viability and reduced oxidative stress and inflammation. In FA3, SF increased cell viability, FXN protein levels, and gene and protein expression of redox markers, while targeting dysregulated epigenetic mechanisms and inflammation. All three lines showed SF's consistent anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory effects. Responses to Omav and DMF varied across the FA lines with less pronounced effects than when treated with SF. Overall, SF was more effective than Omav and DMF in improving cell viability and regulating FXN expression and epigenetic, redox, and inflammatory pathways.These findings reveal variability in drug responses based on FRDA genetic profiles and position SF as a promising drug to address multiple pathological processes.Our preclinical data support SF as a strong FRDA drug candidate. Clinical evaluation is warranted to confirm its full therapeutic potential. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 00, 000-000.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42439976 is a review article
Friedreich Ataxia (FRDA) is a neurodegenerative disorder of children and young adults associated with cardiomyopathy and other systemic complications. We report a 10-year-old girl who presented simultaneously with Acute Myelogenous Leukemia and FRDA who was successfully treated for her leukemia with allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant. She experienced no major complications. After the transplant, her neurologic disease progressed similarly to other patients, but her blood frataxin levels returned to normal and cardiac hypertrophy decreased. This shows that FRDA patients can be treated with bone marrow transplantation, but such treatment alone has no direct effect on progression of neurologic disease.© 2026 The Author(s). Annals of Clinical and Translational Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Neurological Association.
Does 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate synthase 2 (PAPSS2)-mediated sulfation contribute to defective decidualization in patients with recurrent implantation failure (RIF), and what are the underlying mechanisms?Downregulation of PAPSS2 enhances the interaction between bone morphogenetic protein receptor type 1A (BMPR1A) and bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2), as well as SMAD family member 1/5/9 (SMAD1/5/9)-dependent autophagic flux, thereby promoting decidualization and increasing the receptivity of endometrial stromal cells to trophoblast invasion.Decidualization is essential for embryo implantation and pregnancy maintenance, and impaired decidualization is considered a key pathological mechanism underlying RIF. Although protein tyrosine sulfation is a critical post-translational modification, its role in endometrial decidualization remains unclear.We integrated transcriptomic datasets, performed in vitro decidualization assays in immortalized human endometrial stromal cells (T-HESCs) and primary human endometrial stromal cells (hEnSCs), and established an artificial decidualization mouse model. Functional assays and molecular analyses were conducted between 2023 and 2026.Mid-secretory endometrial tissues were collected from patients with RIF and fertile controls. Decidualization was induced in T-HESCs and primary hEnSCs using dibutyryl-cAMP and progesterone. The effects of PAPSS2 knockdown or overexpression were assessed by RT-qPCR, Western blotting, immunoprecipitation, immunofluorescence, and in vitro implantation assays with BeWo spheroids. In vivo, an ovariectomized mouse model was used to evaluate decidualization under pharmacological modulation of BMP-SMAD signaling and autophagy.We found that sulfation levels were elevated in endometrial stromal cells from RIF patients. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that PAPSS2, a known sulfation-related gene, was consistently downregulated during decidualization. Mechanistically, PAPSS2 knockdown in endometrial stromal cells decreased BMPR1A sulfation, enhanced its binding affinity for BMP2, and activated the downstream SMAD1/5/9 signaling pathway. Functionally, the activation of this pathway promoted autophagy, thereby enhancing decidualization and increasing stromal cell receptivity to trophoblast invasion.Publicly available bulk transcriptomic datasets GSE75425 and GSE17504, together with the single-cell RNA-seq dataset GSE183837, were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database.Although our data support dysregulated sulfotyrosine levels and implicate the PAPSS2-BMPR1A sulfation axis in stromal decidualization in RIF, further studies with larger sample sizes are required to confirm their in vivo relevance.Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized mechanism in which the PAPSS2-BMPR1A sulfation axis fine-tunes BMP2/SMAD signaling and autophagy homeostasis to regulate decidualization. This study provides a molecular basis and highlights a potential therapeutic target for uterine factor-related infertility.This work was supported by the National Key Research and Development Program (No. 2025YFC2708000), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 82371647), the Science Foundation for Outstanding Youth of Liaoning Province (No. 2024JH3/50100023), and the Shenyang Young and Middle-aged Science and Technology Innovation Talents Support Program (No. RC210436).The authors declare no competing interests.N/A.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Gene therapy offers unique therapeutic potential for treating rare genetic disorders such as DEE37, a severe Developmental and Epileptic Encephalopathy caused by biallelic loss-of-function mutations in the Ferric Chelate Reductase 1 Like (FRRS1L) gene, presenting with seizures, developmental delay, dyskinesia, ataxia and progressive, eventually debilitating cognitive and motor impairments. There is currently no treatment for DEE37. FRRS1L encodes an auxiliary subunit essential for the tetrameric assembly of α-amino-3 hydroxy-5-methyl-4 isoxazolepropionic acid receptors (AMPARs) and their recruitment to synaptic membranes. FRRS1L is expressed brain-wide, with high levels in the cerebellum. Here, we developed an adeno-associated virus 9 (AAV9) gene replacement vector expressing human FRRS1L driven by the JeT promoter. Administering the virus intrathecally in two doses (5 × 1010 and 3 × 1011 vg) to Frrs1l-knockout mice, we evaluated safety and efficacy in multiple phenotypic traits shared with affected patients. We obtained robust, near-normal, FRRS1L expression in the cerebellum and low levels of expression elsewhere in the brain, which were associated with corresponding levels of increased synaptic AMPAR abundance. Importantly, our phenotypic assessments revealed dose-dependent improvement trends, or rescue, across multiple brain structural, electrocorticographic, and behavioral domains. Our results indicate that cerebrospinal fluid-directed virally mediated FRRS1L gene replacement partially restores synaptic AMPAR and ameliorates disease-relevant phenotypes, supporting gene therapy as a promising therapeutic strategy for children suffering from this catastrophic, FRRS1L-related, 37th form of DEE.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Vaccine-based approaches provide a sustainable method for controlling pathogens in aquaculture. Our team previously created the IPath® vaccine, a recombinant formulation with metal-chelating properties. This study aimed to evaluate the performance of IPath® in salmon vaccinated with the mandatory vaccines used commercially in Chile, and to assess their effects on the transcriptome profiles of Atlantic salmon challenged with Caligus rogercresseyi and co-infected with Piscirickettsia salmonis. Four experimental groups of Atlantic salmon were immunized: IPath®, BlueGuard® (B) + Alpha Ject LiVac® SRS® (L), B + L + IPath®, and PBS as a control. After accumulating 400 thermal units (ATUs), vaccinated salmon were exposed to a coinfection model involving 35 copepodids per fish for 25 days, followed by an intraperitoneal infection with P. salmonis (1 × 10^8) for 16 days, with mortality recorded daily. Head kidney tissue samples were collected for mRNA Illumina sequencing at 25 days post-infection (dpi) for sea lice and at 16 dpi for P. salmonis infections. IPath® and B + L + IPath® showed 73.7 and 69.8% reduction in sea lice burden, respectively. Furthermore, the IPath® vaccinated group showed a delay in salmon mortality following P. salmonis infection compared with the other experimental groups. During sea lice infection, the B + L + IPath® group upregulated key immune-related genes, such as cathelicidin, major histocompatibility complex class I, and interferon regulatory factor, indicating an innate and adaptive immune response. During P. salmonis co-infection, the B + L group downregulated immune-related transcripts, including metalloendopeptidase, interferon regulatory factor 7, and T-lymphocyte surface antigen Ly-9-like. Biological processes and pathways related to stress response were highly enriched in the B + L group. Notably, the IPath® and B + L + IPath® groups triggered gene regulation associated with iron balance, such as ferric chelate reductase 1, in response to both pathogens. A synergy between IPath® and commercial vaccines, especially in iron regulation and immune response, offers a new approach for integrated control of C. rogercresseyi and P. salmonis in salmon farming.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
BACKGROUND: While the relationship between miRNAs and malignant melanoma is well-established, the role of miR-425-5p in melanoma remains underexplored. This study investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying miR-425-5p-mediated regulation of malignant melanoma proliferation and metastasis, with emphasis on its interaction with scavenger receptor class A member 5 (SCARA5). METHODS: The impact of SCARA5 and miR-425-5p on melanoma cell proliferation and metastatic potential was assessed using CCK-8, clonogenic, scratch, and Transwell assays. Western blotting was employed to quantify apoptosis markers, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-related proteins, and components of the Akt signaling pathway. Bioinformatics and dual-luciferase reporter assays validated the direct interaction between miR-425-5p and SCARA5. In vivo, a subcutaneous tumor model in nude mice was used to evaluate tumor growth, and TUNEL staining was performed to assess apoptosis. Tandem Mass Tag (TMT) proteomics was applied to comprehensively identify downstream pathways modulated by miR-425-5p. RESULTS: Silencing SCARA5 in A375 and A2058 cells downregulated the expression of caspase-3 and E-cadherin levels while elevating Bcl-2, p-AKT, N-cadherin, β-catenin, and ZEB1 levels. Conversely, SCARA5 overexpression reversed these effects. Dual-luciferase assays confirmed that miR-425-5p could directly target SCARA5. Inhibition of miR-425-5p expression increased SCARA5 expression and suppressed proliferation/metastasis, whereas miR-425-5p mimics reduced SCARA5 expression and enhanced malignancy. In the in vivo model, SCARA5 overexpression significantly inhibited tumor growth, while the administration of miR-425-5p agonists promoted it. Proteomics further revealed that miR-425-5p could suppress the PPARγ pathway and activate the AKT signaling pathway. CONCLUSION: Our findings demonstrate that miR-425-5p promotes melanoma progression by downregulating SCARA5, thereby inhibiting apoptosis, activating AKT phosphorylation, and inducing EMT. These findings identify the miR-425-5p/SCARA5 axis as a potential therapeutic target for melanoma.
To investigate the regulatory role of lncRNAs in milk fat metabolism in dairy goats, mammary gland tissues from six Saanen dairy goats, with consistently high (above 4.19%) and low (below 2.90%) milk fat percentages, were used as the subjects of this study. Through whole-transcriptome sequencing of mammary tissue from lactating dairy goats, we observed that linc8058 is highly expressed throughout lactation and positively regulates milk fat anabolism. Functional assays confirmed that linc8058 competitively binds with chi-miR-342-5p, modulating the expression of the target scavenger receptor class A member 5 (SCARA5). Interference with linc8058 or the use of chi-miR-342-5p mimics led to reduced SCARA5 mRNA and protein levels and inhibited the activity of the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway, resulting in decreased milk fat secretion by mammary epithelial cells in dairy goats. These findings indicate that linc8058 is a positive regulator of milk fat anabolism in dairy goats.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41429094 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 41387344 is a review article
Skin cutaneous melanoma (SKCM) is a highly aggressive skin cancer with poor prognosis in advanced stages, despite recent advances in immunotherapy and targeted treatments. Novel therapeutic targets are urgently needed to improve the patient outcomes. Scavenger receptor class A member 5 (SCARA5), a scavenger receptor widely expressed in various human tissues, has been reported to act as a tumor suppressor in multiple cancers. The expression level of SCARA5 in SKCM tissues and cell lines was analyzed using the Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis (GEPIA) database and validated by Western blotting. SKCM cells were transfected with SCARA5 overexpression plasmids, and cell proliferation, migration, and apoptosis were assessed using Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), colony formation, flow cytometry, and Transwell assays. Ferroptosis-related changes were examined by detecting intracellular Fe2, lipid Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS), and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels. Additionally, the expression of ferroptosis-associated proteins glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4 (ACSL4), and SLC7A11 was analyzed by Western blotting. SCARA5 expression was markedly downregulated in SKCM cells compared with normal skin cells. Restoration of SCARA5 expression significantly suppressed the proliferation and migration of SKCM cells. Further analysis revealed that SCARA5 overexpression induced ferroptosis, as evidenced by increased levels of Fe2, lipid ROS, and MDA. Mechanistically, SCARA5 regulated the ferroptosis process through modulation of the GPX4/ACSL4 pathway. CARA5 inhibits SKCM progression by promoting ferroptosis and disrupting the GPX4/ACSL4 axis.© 2025 Tianyin Zheng et al., published by Hirszfeld Institute of Immunology and Experimental Therapy.
Metallothioneins (MTs) are a cysteine-rich protein that scavenges reactive oxygen species. Hypoxia is involved in the progression of diabetic nephropathy (DN) and aggravates oxidative stress. Hypoxia dramatically induced MT3, whereas induced around twofold increment in MT2, but inhibited MT1 in human renal proximal tubular epithelial cells (HRPTECs). Given that the role of MT3 in DN remains unclear, we explored the involvement of MT3 in DN. Microarray analysis also identified MT3-regulated candidate genes, including ceruloplasmin (CP) and cytochrome b reductase 1 (CYBRD1), as well as FGF-Klotho (KL)-FGFR complexes in HRPTECs. Hypoxia significantly induced MT3 expression through HIF-1-dependent mechanisms, and MT3 small interfering RNA (siRNA) decreased CP, CYBRD1, and KL expression under hypoxic conditions. In humanized MT3-BACTg mice, except HIF-1α, diabetes significantly increased the expression of MT3, CP, CYRBD1, FGFR2, and KL in the renal cortex in MT3-BACTg mice. Diabetic MT3-BACTg mice presented more severely damaged mitochondria in proximal tubules than their wild-type littermates did, accompanied with peritubular capillary obstruction by swollen endothelial cells. Moreover, the proximal tubules-specific overexpression of MT3 in mice (MT3Tg) represented no overlap in the protein expression between MT3 and HIF-1α in diabetic kidney. Accordingly, MT3 siRNA significantly augmented HIF-1α protein and HIF1A in HRPTECs. Finally, MT3 expression in the renal tubulointerstitium was positively correlated with the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in DN subjects by data from Nephroseq. In conclusion, these results showed that there might be a unique interplay between MT3 and HIF-1α in diabetic kidney of to regulate hypoxia-induced HIF-1α expression.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13340-025-00840-y.© The Author(s) 2025, corrected publication 2025.
Skeletal muscle is crucial for glucose metabolism, but diabetes impairs this function, leading to muscle atrophy. Although the mutation of BOLA Family Member 3 (BOLA3) resulted in disease Multiple Mitochondrial Dysfunctions Syndrome, the role of which in diabetic muscle atrophy is unclear.Firstly, datasets were downloaded and assessed from skeletal muscle tissue with diabetic individuals in GEO database and key genes were screened using weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and machine learning algorithms. Subsequently, external validation datasets were applied to screen and verify specific genes. We also used qRT-PCR, Western Blot, H&E staining and MitoSOX in vitro and vivo experiments. Finally, molecular docking was employed to predict potential therapeutic drugs.BOLA3 and LPIN1, were screened by WGCNA, machine learning and external datasets verification. Among these, only BOLA3 emerged positively correlated with ferroptosis marker. Notably, muscle atrophy and ferroptosis phenotypes were observed in diabetic mice with reduced BOLA3 levels. Moreover, BOLA3 knockdown in C2C12 cells confirmed its association with both ferroptosis and muscle atrophy, with a surge in mitochondrial ROS emerging as a critical factor. At last, based on the protein structure of BOLA3, handelin showed the highest binding affinity to BOLA3.BOLA3 is a potential biomarker and therapeutic target for diabetic skeletal muscle atrophy. Handelin may represent a promising therapeutic candidate for modulating BOLA3 function in diabetes.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Hepcidin is the central regulator of iron homeostasis, controlling iron sequestration and dietary iron absorption. Transmembrane serine protease 6 (TMPRSS6) suppresses hepcidin via the bone morphogenetic protein/small mothers against decapentaplegic (BMP/SMAD) pathway by cleaving the co-receptor hemojuvelin. DISC-3405 is a novel humanized monoclonal antibody that enhances hepcidin expression by inhibiting TMPRSS6, thereby promoting iron restriction. This Phase 1 study evaluated the safety/tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK), pharmacodynamics (PD), and immunogenicity of DISC-3405 or placebo in 56 healthy participants. DISC-3405 (37.5 to 300 mg) or placebo was administered subcutaneously (SC) or intravenously (IV). DISC-3405 was well tolerated. No deaths, serious adverse events, or participant discontinuations occurred. Most treatment-emergent adverse events were Grade 1 (mild) in severity, with 2 participants reporting Grade 2 (moderate) events following single dosing and no Grade 3/4 (severe/life-threatening) events reported. Median time to maximum plasma concentration was ≈96 to 168 h. Elimination half-life rose from 130 h at 37.5 mg to 265 h at 300 mg, with a clinically relevant half-life of ≈11 days. Absolute bioavailability was 39.7% (75 mg SC vs. IV). Minor accumulation occurred with repeat 4-week dosing of two doses, and PK was greater than dose proportional. DISC-3405 increased hepcidin-25 and reduced serum iron and transferrin saturation across dose levels. Single and repeated dosing of DISC-3405 produced reductions in reticulocyte hemoglobin, hemoglobin, and hematocrit. Overall, DISC-3405 was well tolerated with PK/PD data supporting further development for patients who could benefit from iron restriction, such as those with polycythemia vera.© 2026 American College of Clinical Pharmacology.
Oocysts of Toxoplasma gondii exhibit remarkable resistance to environmental stressors and most conventional disinfectants. Despite its ability to infect a wide variety of host species, sexual reproduction and oocyst formation occur exclusively within felid definitive hosts. Despite the epidemiological significance of oocyst-mediated transmission, the molecular mechanisms governing oocyst production and sporulation remain incompletely understood. Glutaredoxin, serving as a central regulator of cellular redox homeostasis and multiple vital cellular processes in cells, is a potential regulator for oocyst sporulation. Here, we investigated the role of TGME49_227100 (glutaredoxin 5, Grx5) in the T. gondii Pru strain-a type II strain capable of oocyst formation, with a particular focus on its functions during oocyst formation and sporulation. We found that Grx5-knockout tachyzoites exhibited no defects in growth or virulence. Neither in vitro nor in vivo tachyzoite-to-bradyzoite differentiation was affected compared to wild-type parasites. Notably, Grx5 deletion significantly reduced oocyst production in cats by approximately 70%. Additionally, the collected oocysts showed a 50% decrease in sporulation rate. These results indicate that Grx5 plays a predominant role within feline host and the external environmental stage of sporulation, which of these is likely to provide a crucial molecular target for developing a transmission-blocking vaccine.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41446860 is a review article
Background/Objectives: Atherosclerosis (AS)-related cardiovascular diseases are a major global health threat, with vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) phenotypic switching, abnormal proliferation, and migration as key progression drivers. Nuclear receptor coactivator 4 (NCOA4), a core ferritinophagy mediator overexpressed in AS plaques, may promote VSMCs ferroptosis by perturbing mitochondrial iron metabolism and ROS homeostasis, but precise mechanisms remain unclear. The classic Chinese herbal combination "Gualou-Xiebai" (GLXB) has anti-AS effects, yet how it modulates NCOA4-mediated ferroptosis to inhibit VSMCs' functions is unknown. This study addresses this gap to advance GLXB's therapeutic potential and identify AS targets. Methods: An AS model was established in ApoE-/- mice by 12-week high-fat diet feeding, with model validation confirmed via ultrasound monitoring and H&E staining. NCOA4 was genetically modulated (knockdown and overexpression) to assess its role in plaque formation and lipid deposition using H&E staining, aortic imaging, immunofluorescence, and Western blotting. In vitro, VSMCs were stimulated with ox-LDL to induce proliferation and migration. NCOA4 was silenced using siRNA to examine associated ferroptosis levels and molecular mechanisms. Protein interactions between NCOA4 and the mitochondrial iron storage protein FTMT were evaluated by Co-IP and GST pull-down assays, while mitochondrial ROS (mitoROS) levels were measured to explore functional relationships. The extent of ferroptosis and the underlying regulatory mechanisms were assessed following treatment with GLXB-containing serum or transfection with small interfering RNA targeting LOX-1 (si-LOX-1). Results: NCOA4 knockdown reduced aortic lipid deposition, plaque burden, VSMC proliferation/migration, and mitochondrial ferroptosis. NCOA4 bound and suppressed FTMT, inducing mitochondrial iron overload, ROS accumulation, membrane depolarization, and ferroptosis. Combining NCOA4 silencing with FTMT inhibition elevated mitoROS, confirming the axis's role in iron homeostasis. GLXB attenuated VSMCs dysregulation in vivo and in vitro, an effect abrogated by LOX-1 overexpression. Conclusions: NCOA4 promotes AS by binding FTMT, disrupting mitochondrial iron homeostasis, and triggering VSMCs ferroptosis. GLXB inhibits LOX-1-mediated NCOA4 expression, mitigating ferroptosis and VSMCs dysregulation, supporting its potential as a targeted anti-AS therapy.
Based on the principles of Predictive, Preventive, and Personalized Medicine (PPPM), this study aimed to identify ferroptosis-related genes associated with multiple sclerosis (MS) and to explore the underlying mechanisms through genetic approaches.Summary statistics of circulating proteins were obtained from the UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project (UKB-PPP), ferroptosis-related genes were curated from the FerrDb database, and MS genome-wide association study (GWAS) data were sourced from the International Multiple Sclerosis Genetics Consortium (IMSGC). Two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses were performed to assess the causal relationships between proteins, ferroptosis-related genes, and MS risk. Mediation MR analysis was conducted to explore the potential mediating role of ferroptosis-related genes. The primary analytical method was inverse variance weighting (IVW), supplemented by MR-Egger and weighted median approaches.After Bonferroni correction, one ferroptosis-related gene (Ferritin Mitochondrial, FTMT) and 21 circulating proteins were significantly associated with MS. Eleven protein-gene pairs were identified. Mediation analysis further revealed that FTMT mediated the effects of several proteins on MS risk, including CD8A (17.6%), CFB (9.0%), ENPP6 (9.5%), GZMA (22.9%), KIR2DL2 (17.4%), KIR2DL3 (16.9%), and TNXB (13.2%).This study highlights the critical role of FTMT in linking circulating proteins to MS pathogenesis through ferroptosis regulation, providing novel insights into predictive, preventive, and personalized medicine strategies for MS management.
β-Thalassemia is a genetic disorder arising from mutations in the β-globin gene, leading to ineffective erythropoiesis and iron overload. Ineffective erythropoiesis, a hallmark of β-thalassemia, is an important driver of iron overload, which contributes to liver fibrosis, diabetes, and cardiac disease. Iron homeostasis is regulated by the hormone hepcidin; BMP6/hemojuvelin-mediated (BMP6/HJV-mediated) signaling induces hepatic hepcidin expression via SMAD1/5, with transmembrane serine protease 6 (TMPRSS6) being a negative regulator of HJV. Individuals with loss-of-function mutations in the TMPRSS6 gene show increased circulating hepcidin and iron-refractory iron-deficiency anemia, suggesting that blocking TMPRSS6 may be a viable strategy to elevate hepcidin levels in β-thalassemia. We generated a human mAb (REGN7999) that inhibits TMPRSS6. In an Hbbth3/+ mouse model of β-thalassemia, REGN7999 treatment led to significant reductions in liver iron, reduced ineffective erythropoiesis, and showed improvements in RBC health, running distance during forced exercise, and bone density. In a phase I, doubleblind, randomized, placebo-controlled study in healthy human volunteers (NCT05481333), REGN7999 increased serum hepcidin and reduced serum iron with an acceptable tolerability profile. Our results suggest that, by both reducing iron and improving RBC function, inhibition of TMPRSS6 by REGN7999 may offer a therapy for iron overload and impaired erythropoiesis in β-thalassemia.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common endocrine-metabolic disease in women of reproductive age. One of its core pathologies is ovarian granulosa cell (GC) dysfunction, and ferroptosis, as a novel cell death mode dependent on iron ions and lipid peroxidation, may be involved in the PCOS process, but the exact mechanism is unknown. Plumbagin (PLB) shows potential in PCOS treatment due to its antioxidant properties. The present study aimed to elucidate the molecular mechanisms by which PLB ameliorates mitochondrial dysfunction and ferroptosis in PCOS GCs through the YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein 1/L-type amino acid transporter 1 (YTHDF1/SLC7A5) axis.An in vitro model of PCOS was constructed by treating KGN cells with dihydrotestosterone (DHT), and PLB treatment, YTHDF1 knockdown (si-YTHDF1), and SLC7A5 overexpression (pcDNA 3.1-SLC7A5) were intervened respectively. Cell viability was measured by cell counting kit-8. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) level, iron ion, and lipid peroxidation (LPO) content were detected by commercial kits. Mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) was analyzed by JC-1 staining combined with flow cytometry. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels were assessed by C11-BODIPY probe, oxidative stress indicators including malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase were measured by kits, and Cytochrome C, Ferritin, mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM), glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and SLC7A5 expression were detected by Western blot. Fluorescence in situ hybridization, RNA immunoprecipitation, and m6A quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction verified the interaction and translational regulation of YTHDF1 and SLC7A5.DHT treatment significantly decreased KGN cell viability, MMP and ATP levels, increased LDH release, ROS, MDA, iron ions and LPO content, up-regulated Cytochrome C expression, and down-regulated Ferritin, TFAM, and GPX4 expression. Both PLB treatment and YTHDF1 knockdown significantly reversed the above changes, but YTHDF1 overexpression reversed the protective effect of PLB. YTHDF1 co-localized with SLC7A5 mRNA and enhanced its translation through m6A modification. YTHDF1 knockdown reduced SLC7A5 protein levels without affecting mRNA expression. SLC7A5 overexpression weakened the protective effect of YTHDF1 knockdown, resulting in decreased cell viability, deterioration of mitochondrial function, and increased ferroptosis.PLB ameliorates DHT-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and ferroptosis in KGN cells by inhibiting YTHDF1 expression, and its action is dependent on the mechanism by which YTHDF1 regulates SLC7A5 translation through m6A modification. Downregulating YTHDF1 or SLC7A5 significantly enhances GC survival and function.© 2025. The Author(s).
Glutaredoxin 5 (GLRX5) is a mitochondrial protein encoded by the GLRX5 gene, which is essential for cellular redox homoeostasis, lipoic acid synthesis, and iron-sulfur cluster transfer. Rare cases of pathogenic GLRX5 mutations have been associated with sideroblastic anemia and non-ketotic hyperglycinemia with progressive spasticity and cavitating leukoencephalopathy. We report an 11-month-old child, who died following aspiration, with severe cardiomyocyte mitochondrial abnormalities and cerebral white matter degeneration in the context of a homozygous GLRX5 variant (c.208A>G, p.S70G).
Urethral stricture is a common urological disorder associated with urethral fibroblasts, yet its pathogenesis remains poorly understood. This study aimed to elucidate the pathogenic mechanisms underlying the occurrence and development of this condition. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between urethral scar tissue and adjacent control urethral tissue in patients with urethral stricture were identified utilizing high-throughput mRNA sequencing, followed by Gene Ontology enrichment and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analysis. The expression of solute carrier family 22 member 17 (SLC22A17) was verified by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry. Urethral scar fibroblasts were isolated from human urethral scar tissue and cultured in vitro. Ferroptosis was detected by measuring the levels of malondialdehyde, lipid reactive oxygen species, acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4, and glutathione peroxidase 4. The activation of fibroblasts was verified by measuring the expression levels of collagen I and α-smooth muscle actin. High-throughput mRNA sequencing revealed 201 up-regulated and 561 down-regulated DEGs in urethral scar tissues. Additionally, SLC22A17 levels were decreased in urethral scar tissue. SLC22A17 knockdown inhibited ferroptosis and promoted the activation of primary adjacent control urethral fibroblasts. Deferoxamine suppressed the SLC22A17 overexpression-mediated ferroptosis and the inactivation of primary urethral scar fibroblasts. Furthermore, the silencing of SLC22A17 inhibited the erastin-mediated ferroptosis and inactivation of primary urethral scar fibroblasts. These findings indicate that SLC22A17 may inhibit the fibrosis of urethral scar fibroblasts by promoting ferroptosis, thereby preventing the development of urethral stricture.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Bone metastsis in advanced breast cancer patients are usually osteolytic. A better understanding of the mechanisms in osteolytic metastasis is critical for the development of new therapies. YTH domain-containing family protein 3 (YTHDF3) has been reported to function as an N6-methyladenosine (m6A)-modified mRNA regulator. In this study, we found YTDHF3 expression was associated with clinical characteristics of breast cancer patients. YTHDF3 expression influenced the migration and invasion capacity of breast cancer cells in vitro and in vivo, and low expression of YTHDF3 suppressed cancer cell-induced osteoclast differentiation and osteolytic bone destruction. Moreover, we found YTHDF3 enhanced the translation of zinc finger E-box-binding protein 1 (ZEB1) and SMAD family member 5 (SMAD5) by reading the m6A modification sites in their mRNAs and further promoted the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of breast cancer cells. Enhanced expression of ZEB1 promoted the transcription of bone morphogenetic protein inhibitors such as NOG, FST and CCN2, which boosts osteolytic metastasis. Furthermore, we newly found Wnt family member 5B (WNT5B) expression was regulated by ZEB1, also involved in osteolytic process. In conclusion, YTHDF3 plays an important role in osteolytic metastasis and it may serve as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for breast cancer bone metastasis.© 2025. The Author(s).
Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has caused more than 7 million worldwide deaths, but the mechanisms underlying its severe clinical outcomes remain elusive. Although attachment of the spike (S) protein of SARS-CoV-2 to angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), a pivotal step for infection, induces inflammation, the intracellular signals triggered by this interaction are unclear. Here, we found that S protein induced phosphorylation of SMAD family member 5 which was mediated by the bone morphologenetic protein (BMP) receptor activin receptor-like kinase 1 (ALK1) and BMP receptor type II. SMAD5 activation depended on the interaction of the cytoplasmic domains of ACE2 and ALK1. Notably, repetitive treatment with S protein increased the expression of immune-response genes, including interferon regulatory factor 1, interleukin-17A, and cysteine-cysteine chemokine motif ligand 20 (CCL20), all of which were blocked by an ALK inhibitor. In contrast, the S protein of human coronavirus NL63, a pathogen of acute respiratory infection with less severity than SARS-CoV-2 that also binds to ACE2, did not activate SMAD5. Because CCL20 recruits multiple immune cells positive for CC receptor 6, a specific receptor for CCL20, and was detected in broncho-alveolar lavage fluids of patients with respiratory failures by SARS-Cov-2, data suggest that SMAD5 activation by S protein augments the early immune response, leading to the severe clinical outcomes of SARS-CoV-2.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Formaldehyde (FA) is a significant risk factor that impacts fetal heart development. Circular RNAs (circRNAs) have been recognized as potent regulators of heart development and disease. We discovered a particular circRNA, circEYA3 (rno_circ_009926), which is upregulated in cardiomyocytes and fetal rat heart tissue exposed to FA. Additionally, circEYA3 shows elevated expression in the serum of pregnant women who have been exposed to FA and whose fetuses have congenital heart disease (CHD). While circEYA3 knockdown inhibited FA-induced cardiomyocyte pyroptosis, circEYA3 overexpression exhibited the opposite effect. Our results showed that circEYA3 interacts with SMAD family member 5 (Smad5) protein, serving as a scaffold to enhance the association between Smad5 and the Smad5 ubiquitination regulatory factor 1 (Smurf1). CircEYA3 knockdown stabilised Smad5 at the post-translational level by upregulating Smad5 and promoting Smurf1-mediated Smad5 ubiquitination. In addition, we found that circEYA3 knockdown in an FA-exposed foetal rat heart model inhibited foetal rat cardiomyocyte pyroptosis and ameliorated abnormal heart development in vivo. Overall, our work links circEYA3 to the onset of fetal CHDs induced by maternal FA exposure and provides potential therapeutic and diagnostic strategies targeting circEYA3 for CHDs.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) is implicated in human diseases, including osteoporosis (OP). In this study, we aimed to explore the functions and mechanisms of METTL3 in OP using bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs).The identification of BMSCs-derived exosomes was conducted by transmission electron microscope (TEM), Nanoparticle Tracking Analysis (NTA) and western blot. The osteogenic differentiation of osteoblasts (hFOB1.19) was analyzed by Alizarin red staining assay, Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) staining assay and western blot. The relationship between METTL3 and SMAD family member 5 (SMAD5) was analyzed by Methylated RNA Immunoprecipitation (MeRIP) assay and dual-luciferase reporter assay.BMSCs-derived exosomes (BMSC-Exos) promoted the osteogenic differentiation and elevated METTL3 expression in hFOB1.19 cells. Exosomal METTL3 knockdown repressed the osteogenic differentiation in hFOB1.19 cells. METTL3 could stabilize and regulate SMAD5 expression by N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification. Moreover, SMAD5 overexpression restored exosomal METTL3 knockdown-mediated effect on the osteogenic differentiation in hFOB1.19 cells.BMSCs-derived exosomal METTL3 mediated the m6A methylation of SMAD5 to facilitate osteogenic differentiation of hFOB1.19 cells.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 40267149
The Warburg effect serves as a crucial aspect of tumor metabolism, where tumor cells preferentially rely on glycolysis, despite its lower efficiency, over oxidative phosphorylation for energy production even under aerobic conditions. This reprogramming of glucose metabolism confers glioma cells with the capacity for survival and proliferation. Serving as a messenger for regulating transforming growth factor beta, intracellular pH, cell metabolism maintaining cellular bioenergetic homeostasis, SMAD family member 5 (SMAD5) plays a pivotal role in the malignant progression of glioma cells and aerobic glycolysis. Hence, we have identified the expression and function of SMAD5 in human glioma cells, aiming to clarify its role in glycolysis. qRT-PCR and Western blot, reveal that SMAD5 is significantly overexpressed in glioma cells. Knocking down SMAD5 can effectively suppress the proliferation and invasion of glioma cells, while promoting apoptosis, furthermore, downregulation of SMAD5 in vivo has been shown to significantly reduce the growth of xenograft tumors. Conversely, overexpressing SMAD5 enhances the proliferative and invasive capabilities of glioma cells, while suppressing apoptosis. Concurrently, alterations in the expression level of SMAD5 exert an impact on the expression of glucose transporter GLUT1 and crucial enzymes involved in glycolysis, namely HK2 and PKM2, ultimately influencing the glycolytic capability of glioma cells. Specifically, knockdown of SMAD5 suppresses glycolysis, whereas its overexpression enhances glycolytic activity. In conclusion, our data demonstrate that SMAD5 can influence the proliferation, invasion, and apoptosis of glioma cells by modulating glycolysis. This finding holds potential for the development of novel metabolic treatment strategies for glioma.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 39651533
Cancer onset and progression are driven by genetic and epigenetic alterations leading to oncogene activation and the silencing of tumor suppressor genes. Among epigenetic mechanisms, DNA methylation (methDNA) is gaining growing interest in cancer. Promoter hypomethylation is associated with oncogene activation while intragenic methDNA can be involved in transcriptional elongation, alternative spicing, and the activation of cryptic start sites. Several genes involved in the modulation of the tumor microenvironment are regulated by methDNA, including the Solute Carrier Family 22 Member 17 (SLC22A17), which is involved in iron trafficking and extracellular matrix remodeling cooperating with the Gelatinase-Associated Lipocalin (NGAL) ligand. However, the exact role of intragenic methDNA in cancer has not been fully investigated. Therefore, the aim of the present study is to explore the role of methDNA in the regulation of SLC22A17 in cutaneous melanoma (CM), used as a tumor model.Correlation and differential analyses between SLC22A17 expression and methDNA were performed using the data contained in The Cancer Genome Atlas and Gene Expression Omnibus databases. Functional studies on melanoma cell lines treated with 5-Azacytidine (5-Aza) were conducted to assess the correlation between methDNA and SLC22A17 expression. A validation study on the diagnostic potential of the in silico-identified SLC22A17 methDNA hotspot was finally performed by analyzing tissue samples obtained from CM patients and healthy controls.The computational analyses revealed that SLC22A17 was significantly downregulated in CM, and its expression was related to promoter hypomethylation and intragenic hypermethylation. Moreover, SLC22A17 overexpression and hypermethylation of two intragenic methDNA hotspots were associated with a better clinical outcome in CM patients. The correlation between SLC22A17 methDNA and expression was confirmed in 5-Aza-treated cells. In agreement with in silico analyses, the SLC22A17 promoter methylation hotspot showed higher methDNA levels in CM samples compared to nevi. In addition, the methDNA levels of this hotspot were positively correlated with advanced CM.The SLC22A17 methDNA hotspot could represent a promising biomarker for CM, highlighting the regulatory role of methDNA on SLC22A17 expression. These results pave the way for the identification of novel epigenetic biomarkers and therapeutic targets for the management of CM patients.© 2024. The Author(s).
Beyond neuronal injury, cell death pathways may also contribute to vascular injury after stroke. We examined protein networks linked to major cell death pathways and identified SLC22A17 (solute carrier family 22 member 17) as a novel mediator that regulates endothelial tight junctions after ischemia and inflammatory stress.Protein-protein interactions and brain enrichment analyses were performed using STRING, Cytoscape, and a human tissue-specific expression RNA-seq database. In vivo experiments were performed using mouse models of transient focal cerebral ischemia. Human stroke brain tissues were used to detect SLC22A17 by immunostaining. In vitro experiments were performed using human brain endothelial cultures subjected to inflammatory stress. Immunostaining and Western blot were used to assess responses in SLC22A17 and endothelial tight junctional proteins. Water content, dextran permeability, and electrical resistance assays were used to assess edema and blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity. Gain and loss-of-function studies were performed using lentiviral overexpression of SLC22A17 or short interfering RNA against SLC22A17, respectively.Protein-protein interaction analysis showed that core proteins from apoptosis, necroptosis, ferroptosis, and autophagy cell death pathways were closely linked. Among the 20 proteins identified in the network, the iron-handling solute carrier SLC22A17 emerged as the mediator enriched in the brain. After cerebral ischemia in vivo, endothelial expression of SLC22A17 increases in both human and mouse brains along with BBB leakage. In human brain endothelial cultures, short interfering RNA against SLC22A17 prevents TNF-α (tumor necrosis factor alpha)-induced ferroptosis and downregulation in tight junction proteins and disruption in transcellular permeability. Notably, SLC22A17 could repress the transcription of tight junctional genes. Finally, short interfering RNA against SLC22A17 ameliorates BBB leakage in a mouse model of focal cerebral ischemia.Using a combination of cell culture, human stroke samples, and mouse models, our data suggest that SLC22A17 may play a role in the control of BBB function after cerebral ischemia. These findings may offer a novel mechanism and target for ameliorating BBB injury and edema after stroke.
Sherpa highlanders exhibit remarkable tolerance to hypoxia, most likely due to genetic adaptations shaped by natural selection at high altitude. This study examined the roles of endothelial PAS domain protein 1 (EPAS1) and egl-9 family hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (EGLN1) in the genetic mechanisms underlying this adaptation.Blood samples were collected from 56 Sherpa highlanders residing in Namche Bazaar (3440 m) and 25 non-Sherpa lowlanders in Kathmandu (1300 m). Samples were measured for serum erythropoietin (EPO) concentrations, genetic variants of EPAS1 (rs13419896:G>A; rs4953354:A>G) and EGLN1 (rs1435166:G>A; rs2153364:A>G), and mRNA expression levels of the EPAS1 and EGLN1.Oxygen saturation (SpO2) was significantly lower in Sherpas at high altitude than in non-Sherpas at low altitude, consistent with a hypoxic state. However, serum EPO concentrations in Sherpas were comparable to those of non-Sherpas, despite the expected hypoxia-driven stimulation of EPO production. Genotyping revealed significantly lower frequencies of the wild-type alleles of EPAS1 and EGLN1 in Sherpas compared with non-Sherpas. These genetic patterns were linked to markedly reduced mRNA expression levels of both genes in Sherpa highlanders.High-altitude adaptive genetic variants in EPAS1 and EGLN1 are associated with reduced systemic mRNA expression of these genes and a blunted EPO response in Sherpa highlanders, suggesting transcriptional modulation of the hypoxia-induced factor pathway under chronic hypoxia. This attenuated hypoxic response manifests as the tolerance to hypoxia in Sherpa highlanders, enabling Sherpas to adapt to high-altitude hypoxia.© 2026 The Author(s). Annals of Human Genetics published by University College London (UCL) and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Our previous study demonstrates that PF-429242, an experimental membrane-bound transcription factor site-1 protease (MBTPS1) inhibitor, induces autophagy and exhibits potential anticancer activity in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells through mechanisms independent of its original target. However, the direct target of PF-429242 is still unclear. Using quantitative proteomics, cellular thermal shift assays, and gene/protein expression analyses, we show that PF-429242 stabilizes Nedd4 family interacting protein 1 (NDFIP1) protein and upregulates its expression at both transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. Knockdown experiments and pathway analysis confirm that PF-429242-induced autophagy partially occurs via a NDFIP1-dependent pathway. Additionally, NDFIP1 overexpression correlates with improved progression-free survival in HCC patients, as revealed by TCGA and a Taiwanese cohort. In conclusion, this study further identifies NDFIP1 as a novel target of PF-429242, partially responsible for its induction of autophagy in HCC cells. These findings offer a promising therapeutic avenue for treating HCC.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Roxadustat is used for treating chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients, particularly those on hemodialysis with comorbid cancer. Some studies suggest a link between roxadustat and cancer progression, but the mechanisms remain unclear, highlighting the need for further investigation into potential causal links.We employed a two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis to explore associations between genetic variations in Roxadustat targets and 14 cancer types. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the Egl-9 family hypoxia inducible factor 1 (EGLN1) and Egl-9 family hypoxia inducible factor 2 EGLN2 genes, related to hemoglobin levels, were chosen as instrumental variables. Analyses used inverse variance-weighted (IVW)-MR and summary data-based MR (SMR) approaches, assessing horizontal pleiotropy with Mendelian randomization Egger (MR-Egger) and Mendelian Randomization Pleiotropy RESidual Sum and Outlier (MR-PRESSO), and using the heterogeneity in dependent instrumental variables (HEIDI) test for SMR.Summary statistics were derived from three UK studies involving 172,925 individuals. IVW-MR revealed a positive association between EGLN1 variants and breast cancer (OR = 1.644) and lung adenocarcinoma (OR = 2.117), while negative associations were found for malignant non-melanoma skin cancer and kidney cancer. SMR confirmed the links to breast cancer and a decrease in skin cancer risk. EGLN2 expression was positively associated with prostate and lung cancers and negatively with estrogen receptor (ER)- breast and brain cancers.Our findings support a potential causal relationship between the inhibition of EGLN1 and EGLN2 and the development of specific cancer types.
Breast cancer (BC) represents a major contributor to cancer-associated deaths among women, underscoring the need for novel therapeutic approaches. This study explores the role of miR-155-5p as an oncogenic driver in BC progression through a multi-omics approach. Elevated miR-155-5p expression was observed in serum exosomes and tumor tissues, with its upregulation correlating with advanced pathological stages, lymph node metastasis, and unfavorable clinical outcomes. Functional experiments demonstrated that miR-155-5p enhances cellular proliferation, motility, and invasive capacity while inhibiting apoptosis in BC. Mechanistically, miR-155-5p exerts its effects by directly suppressing Nedd4 Family Interacting Protein 1 (NDFIP1), thereby initiating activation of the NF-κB axis. This activation was characterized by increased nuclear translocation of NF-κB p65 and enhanced secretion of inflammatory cytokines, including IL-6 and TNF-α. In vivo, knockdown of miR-155-5p effectively suppressed tumor growth and metastasis, with these effects reversed by silencing NDFIP1. These results highlight the miR-155-5p/NDFIP1/NF-κB axis as a critical pathway in BC progression, providing new insights into its molecular mechanisms. miR-155-5p emerges as a promising diagnostic marker and therapeutic candidate, suggesting the feasibility of miRNA-based interventions in BC treatment. This study highlights the pivotal role of integrative omics technologies in uncovering cancer-related regulatory networks.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Cardiovascular complications have emerged as the predominant cause of mortality in diabetes mellitus (DM), with diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) representing a critical clinical challenge due to its distinct pathogenesis independent of coronary artery disease or hypertension. DCM is characterized by left ventricular diastolic dysfunction, hypertrophy, and fibrosis, with impaired myocardial angiogenesis contributing to adverse cardiovascular outcomes. Despite this, targeted therapies for angiogenesis restoration in DCM remain elusive. Through bioinformatic analysis of public databases, we identified egl-9 family hypoxia inducible factor 1 (EGLN1) as a differentially expressed gene in both preclinical DCM models and clinical specimens. To validate its role, we established mice model of diabetes and corresponding endothelial cells cultures under hyperglycemic conditions. Results demonstrated significant upregulation of EGLN1 in diabetic mice, correlating with angiogenesis impairment. Intriguingly, EGLN1 inhibition attenuated high glucose-induced endothelial dysfunction by activating autophagy pathways, as evidenced by increased LC3-II/LC3-I ratios and decreased P62 levels. These findings unveil EGLN1 as a novel regulator of myocardial angiogenesis in DCM, proposing autophagy activation as a potential therapeutic strategy to ameliorate diabetic cardiovascular complications. This study provides the first evidence linking EGLN1 dysregulation to angiogenesis defects in DCM, offering insights for targeted intervention development.© 2025. The Author(s).
Fatty acids function not only as signaling molecules and for energy storage but also as essential cofactors for mitochondrial enzymes. These fatty acid cofactors are produced by the mitochondrial fatty acid synthesis (mtFAS) pathway, the terminal enzyme of which is mitochondrial trans-2-enoyl-CoA reductase (MECR). Dysfunction of MECR prevents the synthesis of fatty acids and is the monogenic cause of Mitochondrial Enoyl-CoA Protein Associated Neurodegeneration (MEPAN) syndrome, a rare mitochondrial disease characterized by dystonia, basal ganglia degeneration, and optic nerve atrophy. Given the necessity of mtFAS products for mitochondrial function, MECR should be essential. Yet, evidence from MEPAN individuals and model organisms with MECR loss of function indicate that mitochondrial function is not as severely impaired as would be expected. However, many of these studies have been limited to single cells or cell types. To better understand the role of MECR and its products in a multicellular system, we used CRISPR/Cas9 to knock out its 2 orthologs in Caenorhabditis elegans, MECR-1 and MECR-2. We found that only MECR-1 is necessary for normal mitochondrial function, germline development, and neuromuscular function. We thus establish a model in which further studies of MECR/MECR-1 can clarify its biochemical, developmental, and physiological roles.Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Genetics Society of America 2025.
Cisplatin is one of effect chemotherapeutic drugs for triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). However, cisplatin chemoresistance often generate in a notable proportion of TNBC patients, leading therapeutic failure. Thus, identification of key regulatory mechanisms for chemoresistance is important. Here, we aimed to study the functions and regulatory mechanisms of CLEC3B in cisplatin chemoresistance in TNBC.MTT assay, colony formation assay and Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay were employed to investigate the role of CLEC3B in cisplatin (CDDP) resistance in TNBC. Fe2+ Current assay and MDA level assay were used to determine CLEC3B's role in ferroptosis. Co-Immunoprecipitation was used to determine the interaction proteins of CLEC3B. Western blotting assay were performed to determine CLEC3B's role in solute carrier family 39 member 8 (SLC39A8) and solute carrier family 39 member 14 (SLC39A14) levels.Here, we find that CLEC3B was downregulated in TNBC tissues, especially in relapsed TNBC tissues. TNBC patients with high CLEC3B levels had better prognosis than those with low CLEC3B levels after chemotherapy. Functional assays showed that CLEC3B promoted CDDP chemosensitivity. Mechanistic assays found that CLEC3B promoted CDDP chemosensitivity via inducing ferroptosis. Moreover, CLEC3B interacted with SLC39A8 and SLC39A14 and knockdown of them reversed the effect of CLEC3B overexpression on chemosensitivity.In summary, CLEC3B promotes chemosensitivity via interacting with SLC39A8 and SLC39A14 to induce ferroptosis.© 2025. The Author(s).
Understanding the physiological and molecular mechanisms underlying altitude adaptation is critical for optimizing poultry health and performance in diverse environments. This study comparatively evaluated the respiratory metabolism, hematological profiles, antioxidant capacity, immune status, and hypoxia-related gene expression in Snowy White chickens raised at contrasting altitudes. A total of 380 chickens from a low-altitude region (Sichuan) and 550 from a high-altitude region (Tibet) were reared under standardized dietary and management conditions. The results should that key indicators of anaerobic metabolism, including serum lactate and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels, were significantly elevated in high-altitude chickens, indicating greater reliance on glycolysis under hypoxic stress (P < 0.05). Hematological analysis revealed significantly increased red blood cell (RBC) count, hemoglobin concentration, hematocrit, and mean corpuscular hemoglobin in high-altitude birds (P < 0.05), while mean corpuscular volume (MCV) was higher in low-altitude chickens (P < 0.05), reflecting divergent strategies in oxygen transport efficiency. Oxidative stress markers showed that high-altitude chickens had elevated malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, indicating increased lipid peroxidation, whereas low-altitude chickens demonstrated superior antioxidant defense, with significantly higher total antioxidant capacity (T-AOC) and total superoxide dismutase (T-SOD) activity (P < 0.05). In addition, immunoglobulin levels (IgM and IgG) were markedly higher in low-altitude chickens, suggesting enhanced immune responsiveness. Furthermore, qRT-PCR revealed elevated expression of hypoxia-related genes including hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF-1A), endothelial PAS domain-containing protein 1 (EPAS1), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and erythropoietin (EPO) in the heart, lungs, and kidneys of the high-altitude chickens (P < 0.05), while egl-9 family hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (EGLN1) expression was significantly downregulated in these tissues. These physiological and molecular adaptations highlight the mechanisms by which Snowy White chickens maintain homeostasis under chronic hypoxic stress and offer insight into genetic and metabolic pathways supporting high-altitude resilience. Taken together, these findings offer valuable insights into high-altitude resilience in avian species and may inform breeding strategies for improved adaptability to hypoxic environments.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40094446 is a review article
To investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying resistance to dopamine agonists (DA).LC-MS/MS analysis was performed on rat pituitary neuroendocrine tumors (PitNET) cell line GH3 to identify differentially expressed proteins induced by cabergoline (CAB) treatment. A total of 180 human PITNET samples were subjected to transcriptome analysis. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was conducted on 29 tumor samples to validate NDFIP1 alteration. A xenograft mouse model was established by subcutaneously injecting GH3 cells, with or without NDFIP1 overexpression, into nude mice to investigate tumor growth. PitNET cell lines were treated with CAB. Cell proliferation was assessed using the CCK-8, and protein expression levels were examined through Western blot analysis.CAB treatment upregulated FDFT1 and NDFIP1 protein expression in GH3 cells, with NDFIP1 showing a significant positive correlation with tumor size, as confirmed by IHC results. MMQ and GH3 cells overexpressing NDFIP1 exhibited enhanced viability and reduced sensitivity to CAB. In vivo experiments demonstrated that subcutaneous injection of NDFIP1-overexpressing GH3 cells led to enhanced tumor growth compared to parental GH3 cells. Although the total levels of PTEN remained unaltered, NDFIP1 overexpression induced PTEN nuclear translocation, potentially activating the mTOR pathway. This was supported by increased phosphorylation of key mTOR pathway components, including p-AKT and p-4EBP1, in cells overexpressing NDFIP1.CAB treatment induces the upregulation of NDFIP1 in PitNET cells, which correlates with tumor size and contributes to reduced CAB sensitivity, potentially through activation of the mTOR pathway. NDFIP1 as a potential therapeutic target for overcoming DA resistance in PitNET patients.© 2025. The Author(s).
The development of osteoarthritis (OA) is accompanied by various metabolic disorders, highlighting the need for further investigation into metabolism-related pathogenesis and targeted therapeutic strategies. Herein, we found that linoleic acid (LA), the most abundant essential fatty acid in the diet, accumulates in the blood, synovial fluid, and cartilage tissue of elderly and OA individuals. Notably, LA not only induces ferroptosis in chondrocytes, but it also serves as a risk metabolite, driving OA onset and accelerating the progression of traumatic OA in male rat models. Mechanistically, LA can directly bind to iron-sulfur cluster assembly enzyme (ISCU) to induce its autophagic degradation and inhibit iron-sulfur cluster synthesis, which subsequently activates IRP1-mediated translational regulation to drive the ferroptosis process. Furthermore, upregulating or supplementing ISCU in cartilage tissue contributes to mitigating LA accumulation and trauma-induced OA progression, and this strategy can further enhance the therapeutic efficacy of moderate exercise in OA treatment by effectively inhibiting ferroptosis. Taken together, our findings identify LA as a key metabolite involved in the onset and progression of OA by driving ferroptosis and propose a targeted therapeutic strategy based on ISCU supplementation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42199341 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42014951 is a review article
Lung cancer progression is regulated by multiple factors, including ferroptosis and gut microbiota-mediated butyrate metabolism. This study investigates the anti-tumor effects of ginsenoside Rh4 on lung cancer cells via ferroptosis mechanisms in vitro and in vivo. In vitro, ginsenoside Rh4 inhibited the proliferation of Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC) and A549 cells and triggered ferroptosis, effects that were suppressed by the ferroptosis inhibitor Ferrostatin-1 (Fer-1). In vivo, tumor-bearing mouse models were established and treated with 100 mg/kg ginsenoside Rh4 for 21 days. Tumor growth, ferroptosis markers, gut microbiota, and butyrate were analyzed, with in vitro validation of butyrate's pathway effects. Ginsenoside Rh4 induced ferroptosis in LLC cells both in vitro and in vivo, inhibiting tumor growth. It promoted ferroptosis by disrupting iron homeostasis through elevated Fe2+ and transferrin receptor (TFRC), and impaired antioxidant defense via depletion of glutathione (GSH) and reduction in ferritin heavy chain 1 (FTH1), solute carrier family 40 member 1 (SLC40A1), solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11), and glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4). Additionally, ginsenoside Rh4 enhanced lipid peroxidation, indicated by increased lipid peroxides (LPO) and malondialdehyde (MDA). In vivo, it suppressed the KEAP1/NRF2/HO-1 pathway, reducing antioxidant enzyme activity. Gut microbiota modulation and butyrate production further amplified ferroptosis by activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3)-mediated GPX4 suppression. Ginsenoside Rh4 induces ferroptosis by inhibiting the KEAP1/NRF2/HO-1 pathway and remodeling the gut microbiota to increase butyrate levels, which synergistically enhance tumor cell ferroptosis sensitivity through ATF3 activation and suppression of GPX4.
Ferroptosis, an iron-dependent programmed cell death driven by lipid peroxidation, has emerged as a potential contributor to sepsis-associated encephalopathy (SAE). However, the relationship between ferroptosis and cognitive deficits following sepsis needs to be further elucidated.Transcriptome sequencing was employed to identify solute carrier family 40 member 1 (Slc40a1) as a candidate ferroptosis-related gene in the hippocampus of septic mice. The SAE mouse model was established via cecal ligation and perforation (CLP) after treatment with recombinant adeno-associated virus 9 (AAV9)-CaMKII to knock down or overexpress musculoaponeurotic fibrosarcoma (c-Maf) or Slc40a1. We assessed cognitive performance, Nissl staining, and ferroptosis-associated parameters. Dual-luciferase reporter gene assays and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays were performed to illuminate the mechanism by which c-MAF transcriptionally activates Slc40a1.Hippocampal neurons of mice subjected to CLP showed downregulation of Slc40a1. Neuron-specific knockdown of Slc40a1 or c-Maf deteriorated sepsis-induced cognitive impairment, oxidative stress, and ferroptosis. Conversely, overexpression of Slc40a1 or c-Maf attenuated acute mortality and cognitive impairment following CLP, hampered lipid peroxidation and iron deposition, and enhanced antioxidant capacity. Moreover, Slc40a1 silencing neutralized the anti-ferroptotic property of c-Maf in SAE. Mechanistically, c-MAF was found to directly bind to the Slc40a1 promoter and facilitate its transcription.Our findings suggest that c-MAF/Slc40a1 may represent a promising prevention target for SAE.© 2026 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Growth differentiation factor 2 (GDF2), also known as bone morphogenetic protein-9 (BMP9), is a key member of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) superfamily, playing a pivotal role in pulmonary vascular regulation and remodeling. Dominant variants in GDF2 are known to cause hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia type 5 (HHT5), a condition characterized by telangiectases and arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). More recently, recessive variants in GDF2 have been reported to cause pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) with or without features of HHT5. In this study, we identified a founder variant in GDF2 that potentially causes semidominant PAH in a cohort of 13 patients ranging in age from pediatric to middle-aged adults. Careful clinical evaluation revealed a wide range of ages of onset and disease severity. However, lack of HHT manifestations was a consistent clinical feature. Our results lend further support to GDF2 as a bona fide disease gene in the context of non-syndromic PAH and demonstrate the power of founder variants to reveal the full spectrum of disease variability.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) is an inherited disorder of iron metabolism characterized by progressive iron accumulation in multiple organs. While most cases are associated with HFE mutations, non-HFE variants such as mutations in the transferrin receptor-2 (TFR2) gene represent rare causes of iron overload. We report a 37-year-old Saudi male who was incidentally found to have markedly elevated ferritin levels during routine laboratory testing. The patient was asymptomatic and was incidentally found to have significant hyperferretinemia through routine lab evaluation. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated diffuse hepatic iron deposition. Furthermore, Whole exome sequencing identified a homozygous TFR2 c.2093_2096del frameshift mutation. Using these results to reach a diagnosis, the patient was treated with frequent therapeutic phlebotomies, leading to a reduction of ferritin levels. To our knowledge, this represents the first reported case of homozygous TFR2 c.2093_2096del mutation-associated hereditary hemochromatosis in Saudi Arabia. This case sheds light on the importance of considering non-HFE HH in patients with unexplained hyperferritinemia as early diagnosis ensures the prevention of long-term complications.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Psoriasis vulgaris is a chronic inflammatory skin disease associated with epidermal proliferation and angiogenesis. This study evaluated Transferrin Receptor 2 (TFR2) expression in psoriatic skin and compared it with healthy skin using immunohistochemistry.Skin biopsies from patients with psoriasis vulgaris and healthy controls were immunohistochemically stained for TFR2. Expression in epidermal layers and dermal vascular structures was assessed. DAB staining intensity was quantitatively analyzed using QuPath software. Group comparisons were performed using the independent Student's t test.Healthy skin samples showed weak TFR2 expression, mainly in the basal epidermal layer. In contrast, psoriatic lesions demonstrated markedly increased TFR2 immunoreactivity in the basal and stratum spinosum layers, as well as in dermal vascular structures. The mean DAB-positive area was significantly higher in psoriatic lesions than in controls (55.0 ± 7.3 vs. 18.0 ± 3.4, p < 0.05).TFR2 expression was significantly increased in psoriatic epidermis and dermal vascular structures. These findings suggest a potential role of TFR2 in psoriasis pathogenesis and iron-related inflammatory pathways.
CDGSH iron sulfur domain 1 (CISD1) plays important roles in regulating cellular iron and reactive oxygen species (ROS) homeostasis. This study aimed to investigate the effect of CISD1 on neuronal ferroptosis in Alzheimer's disease (AD) cellular models, and the implication of AMPK pathway during this process. CISD1 expression in brain tissues from AD patients and controls was obtained from AlzData public database. HT22 and SH-SY5Y cells were challenged with amyloid-beta (Aβ) to construct AD cellular models. CISD1 or negative-control (NC) overexpression plasmids were transfected into AD cellular models; afterwards, Compound C (an AMPK activator) was added. CISD1 expressions in entorhinal cortex, hippocampus, temporal cortex, and frontal cortex tissues were decreased in AD patients versus controls via AlzData public database analysis. CISD1 expression was also downregulated in AD cellular models versus control cells. Interestingly, cell viability and SLC7A11 and GPX4 expressions were lower, but ROS and Fe2+ levels were higher in AD cellular models versus control cells, indicating an enhanced neuronal ferroptosis in AD. Subsequently, CISD1 overexpression plasmids raised cell viability and SLC7A11 and GPX4 expressions, while decreased ROS and Fe2+ levels compared with NC overexpression plasmids in AD cellular models. CISD1 overexpression plasmids also facilitated the phosphorylation of AMPK to activate this pathway compared to NC overexpression plasmids. Moreover, the addition of Compound C not only promoted the neuronal ferroptosis, but also attenuated the effect of CISD1 overexpression plasmids on regulating neuronal ferroptosis compared with the absence of Compound C in AD cellular models. Collectively, CISD1 represses neuronal ferroptosis by activating the AMPK pathway in AD cellular models, shedding a light on its potential engagement in the AD pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
To evaluate the in vivo efficacy of bone morphogenetic protein 9 (BMP9) relative to bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2) in a beagle peri-implant critical-size defect model.Peri-implant defects were created in beagle dogs and treated with either a collagen sponge (CS) or deproteinized bovine bone mineral with collagen (OCS-B Xenomatrix collagen [OCS-BC]), with or without BMP2 or BMP9. After 8 weeks, bone regeneration and osseointegration were evaluated using radiographic, histological, and biomechanical analyses.Radiographic analysis demonstrated that BMP treatment significantly increased peri-implant mineralization, with bone mineral density increasing from 0.597±0.151 (control) to 0.896±0.173 in the CS+BMP9 group (P<0.0001). Histological and histomorphometric analyses corroborated these findings, showing greater new bone formation and higher bone-to-implant contact (BIC) (7.943±7.048 vs. 68.90±20.27 in the CS+BMP9 group; P<0.05) without overt inflammatory reactions. Region-of-interest (ROI)-based micro-computed tomography analysis (200 μm) and resonance frequency analysis further supported improved osseointegration and stability, with osseointegration increasing from 20.32±6.976 to 70.37±0.785 in the CS+BMP9 group (P<0.0001) and the implant stability quotient (ISQ) peaking at 70.92±3.523 in the OCS-BC+BMP9 group (P<0.0001). Two-way analysis of variance indicated scaffold-dependent magnitudes for bulk endpoints, whereas interaction terms were not significant for BIC, ROI-based osseointegration, or ISQ, supporting preservation of BMP9-associated benefits across scaffold types for these outcomes.BMP9 produced overall improvements comparable to BMP2 and may provide more reproducible osseointegration-related outcomes across scaffold types.Copyright © 2026. Korean Academy of Periodontology.
Osteosarcoma remains the most common primary malignant bone tumor in adolescents and young adults, with survival plateauing despite multimodality therapy. Environmental heavy metals such as lead (Pb) and cadmium (Cd) and their binding protein metallothionein-2A (MT2A) may influence tumor biology, chemoresistance and outcome, but clinical data are scarce.A total of 100 patients with newly diagnosed, histologically confirmed primary osteosarcoma were enrolled in this prospective single-arm cohort at a tertiary referral centre. Clinicopathological details (AJCC grade, stage, tumor size, metastasis) and outcomes (2-3-year survival) were recorded. Blood and tumor tissue were collected at diagnosis; blood was re-sampled after neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT), at surgery and after adjuvant chemotherapy (ACT). Pb and Cd were quantified in blood and bone by inductively coupled plasma-optical emission spectrometry. MT2A mRNA was measured by quantitative RT-PCR and MT2A protein by Western blot in blood and tumor. Associations with baseline clinicopathological severity and short-term outcome were analysed.Most patients had high-grade (G2) disease and stage IIB tumors; 9% died within 2-3 years. Mean blood Pb and Cd were elevated, with marked skeletal accumulation. MT2A mRNA and protein were significantly up-regulated at diagnosis in both blood and tissue and declined stepwise after NACT, surgery and ACT (p < 0.0001). Baseline blood MT2A mRNA strongly correlated with disease severity (r ≈ 0.82, p < 0.0001) and moderately with mortality, while Pb and Cd showed low-to-moderate positive correlations with both severity and mortality.Heavy-metal burden and dynamic MT2A expression were associated with clinicopathological severity and short-term outcome in primary osteosarcoma. These findings should be considered exploratory and require validation in controlled studies with longer follow-up and multivariable modelling before prognostic application.© 2026 Delhi Orthopedic Association. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
The progression of pulpitis is strongly affected by the fate of dental pulp cells, with their modes of cell death determining whether inflammation resolves or leads to irreversible necrosis. Cuproptosis, a copper-dependent form of regulated cell death, has been implicated in inflammatory and metabolic disorders. Given the high metabolic activity of pulp cells and dynamic copper fluctuations during inflammation, cuproptosis may play a role in pulpitis, though this remains unexplored.Copper deposition was examined in inflamed dental pulp using copper staining, and cuproptosis activation was assessed by lipoylated Dihydrolipoamide S-acetyltransferase (lip-DLAT) expression through Western blot (WB) and immunofluorescence (IF). Key cuproptosis-related genes, including Metallothionein 2A (MT2A), were identified from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets and validated. A mouse pulpitis model with MTII (MT2A ortholog in mouse) knockdown was used to evaluate pulp tissue changes via Hematoxylin and Eosin staining and IF staining, and immune infiltration analyses were performed to identify MT2A-related immune cells. Finally, an inflammatory human dental pulp cells (hDPCs) model was used to assess its effects on macrophages by flow cytometry.Inflamed human pulp tissues exhibited marked copper accumulation and significantly elevated lip-DLAT expression, indicating activation of cuproptosis. Bioinformatic analysis of GEO datasets identified 6 hub cuproptosis-related genes, which were validated by reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction. In hDPCs, the cuproptosis inhibitor tetrathiomolybdate reduced copper overload, cell death, and lip-DLAT expression. Conversely, MT2A knockdown enhanced cuproptosis, as evidenced by increased copper accumulation, lip-DLAT levels, and IL-6 expression. Moreover, MT2A knockdown in the inflammatory hDPCs model promoted M1 macrophage polarization.Cuproptosis is activated in inflamed dental pulp and contributes to the pathogenesis of pulpitis. MT2A functions as a protective regulator, mitigating cuproptosis and modulating macrophage-mediated inflammatory responses. Targeting cuproptosis and MT2A may represent a novel therapeutic strategy for preserving pulp vitality.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Novel tetrahydropyrimido-pyrimidine diones (THPP) (compounds 2d, 3d, 4d, and 19) and dihydropyrimidinones (DHPM) (compounds 2b, 4b, and 5b) have been synthesized and tested for their antioxidative capacities by assays based on their radical scavenging properties with 2,2'-azino-bis-(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS) and 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) assays, respectively. Reducing properties were determined using a Ferric Reducing Antioxidant Power assay (FRAP). Most of the THPPs exhibited more potent antioxidant effects compared to DHPMs. Anticancer activities were measured against brain (SW-1088, U87 MG), lung (A-549, H460), breast (MCF7, MDA-MB-231), liver (HepG2, HuH-7), and colon cancer (HCT 116, HT-29) cell lines. Among these, THPP derivatives (3d and 4d) have shown the most prominent anticancer activity in all tested cancer cell lines, with the highest potency observed in hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines HepG2 (IC50 = 24.32 ± 1.38 and 27.69 ± 4.93 μM, respectively) and HuH-7 (IC50 = 9.77 ± 0.18 and 8.35 ± 0.28 μM, respectively). Apoptosis-inducing effects of compounds 3d and 4d were confirmed through Hoechst 33342/propidium iodide (PI) staining, Annexin V/PI flow cytometry, and Western blot analysis of cleaved PARP. Proteomic profiling and pathway enrichment analyses further suggested that both compounds 3d and 4d induced apoptosis, disrupted cell cycle checkpoints, and impaired DNA damage response pathways. Notably, Metallothionein-2A (MT-2A), a zinc-binding protein involved in stress response and cancer progression, was identified as a commonly downregulated target of these compounds. Molecular docking further suggested that 3d and 4d interact with key cysteine residues within the Zn-(II)-binding domain of MT-2A, potentially impairing its function. In silico ADMET predictions indicated that both 3d and 4d possess favorable pharmacokinetic properties and acceptable toxicity profiles, supporting their potential as drug-like compounds. Collectively, these findings support compounds 3d and 4d as promising lead candidates for hepatocellular carcinoma therapy.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
The formation of macrophage-derived foam cells is a critical factor in the development of atherosclerotic lesions. However, the mechanisms through which the cuproptosis pathway contributes to macrophage foam cell formation remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the role and mechanisms of the cuproptosis inducer Elesclomol in atherosclerosis. Macrophages were exposed to ox-LDL to establish a foam cell model. Subsequently, CCK8, oil red O staining, and Western blot were used to investigate foam cell formation and the cuproptosis pathway in macrophages. Furthermore, proteomics analysis was employed to explore the molecular mechanisms underlying the effects of Elesclomol. The results demonstrated that Elesclomol promoted foam cell formation by increasing lipid accumulation in ox-LDL-treated macrophages, which was attributed to the inhibition of cholesterol efflux mediated by ATP-binding cassette transporters A1 and G1 (ABCA1 and ABCG1). Additionally, Elesclomol enhanced the cuproptosis pathway in macrophages, leading to increased intracellular ROS accumulation and consequent cell death. Mechanistically, the cytotoxic effects of Elesclomol were mediated through activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway and upregulation of metallothionein 2A (MT2A). Collectively, these findings underscore the critical role of cuproptosis in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and suggest that targeting this pathway may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for the disease.© 2026 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
Cuproptosis is a novel copper-dependent form of cell death closely associated with mitochondrial metabolism and protein lipoylation. We propose a "Copper Buffering-Execution Imbalance" hypothesis where metallothionein 2A (MT2A) exhaustion leads to free copper accumulation, activating the FDX1-PDH axis and triggering mitochondrial cuproptosis. Metallothioneins (MTs) are key regulators of copper homeostasis, but their mechanistic roles in severe infections remain unclear.We employed a systems biology approach integrating in silico modeling and experimental validation. We analyzed multi-omics data from three independent datasets: (1) GSE158055 peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) single-cell transcriptomics (24 cuproptosis-related genes), (2) GSE145926 bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) single-cell transcriptomics (31 genes), and (3) Nie2021 lung tissue proteomics (26 proteins). Virtual knockout simulations (scTenifoldKnk) were performed including positive (MTF1) and negative (B2M) controls and seed sensitivity analysis to predict gene regulatory network perturbations. Findings were validated using an LPS-induced mouse model and bedside lung ultrasound (LUS) radiomics.Among 35 cuproptosis-related genes analyzed, we found: (1) MT2A showed discordant expression directions between PBMC and BALF (Wilcoxon test, P < 0.05), suggesting tissue-specific regulation; (2) Single-cell pseudotime analysis reconstructed the "temporal trajectory of redox homeostasis collapse", revealing a "Biphasic Dynamic" of MT2A (Acute Upregulation - > Exhaustion); (3) In silico perturbation analysis confirmed that MT2A depletion triggers the activation of the FDX1-PDH execution axis, which was experimentally verified in the mouse model; (4) LUS radiomics entropy served as a macroscopic marker of this microscopic oxidative damage.This study combines computational modeling with experimental evidence to elucidate the MT2A-mediated "copper buffering-execution imbalance" network, identifying novel redox checkpoints for therapeutic intervention in severe COVID-19.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) is a major contributor to low back pain, influenced by various factors including cellular senescence, apoptosis, oxidative stress, and inflammation. Metallothionein-2A (MT2A), due to its unique metal-binding and antioxidant capacity, plays a critical role in various diseases. This research sought to clarify how MT2A inhibits the progression of IVDD. Single-cell sequencing analysis revealed that ferroptosis was involved in IVDD, and MT2A was significantly upregulated in the degenerated nucleus pulposus tissue. In vitro, Tert-Butyl Hydroperoxide (TBHP) treatment induced MT2A expression. Knockdown of MT2A exacerbated TBHP-induced ferroptosis, whereas MT2A overexpression or treatment with ferrostatin-1 reversed ferroptosis, lipid peroxidation, and mitochondrial damage. In vivo, AAV-mediated MT2A overexpression significantly alleviated puncture-induced IVDD in rats. Mechanistically, MT2A overexpression activated PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway, and this protective effect was significantly attenuated upon treatment with specific pathway inhibitors. In Conclusion, our findings demonstrate that MT2A is protectively upregulated in IVDD and mitigates ferroptosis of NP cells and IVDD progression through activation of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway, which designates MT2A as a promising target for therapy in IVDD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Background/Objectives: Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a very aggressive biliary carcinoma characterised by significant molecular heterogeneity and restricted treatment alternatives. Despite genomic and proteomic investigations revealing recurrent changes, the signalling dynamics influencing tumour behaviour remain inadequately comprehended. Methods: We conducted high-resolution Liquid Chromatography-Tandem Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS/MS)-based phosphoproteomics on paired tumour and surrounding tissues from 13 CCA patients in Northeast Thailand, meticulously sampling four geographically unique tumour areas for each patient. Our analysis concentrated on phosphoproteins consistently identified across all regions, delineating strong tumour-specific and cohort-wide phosphorylation signatures. Results: Notwithstanding considerable inter-patient variability, two conserved signalling modules were identified: an adhesion/Wnt axis regulated by hyperphosphorylated CTNNB1 protein (β-catenin) and a metal-handling module facilitated by metallothionein-1G (MT1G) protein and metallothionein-2A (MT2A) protein. Pathway enrichment identified focal adhesion, ECM-receptor interaction, cytoskeletal modulation, and mineral absorption as critical activities. Conclusions: This study elucidates conserved oncogenic pathways by analysing phosphoproteomic signatures across regional and patient-level variability, emphasising phosphoproteomics as a robust framework for biomarker and therapeutic development in CCA.
1-Bromopropane, an alternative to ozone-depleting solvents, exhibits neurotoxicity in humans and rats. The aim of the present study was to identify the genes or signaling pathways involved in the neurotoxicity and hepatotoxicity of 1-bomopropane in two inbred strains of rats. F344 rats and WNA/NUM rats were exposed to 1-bromopropane or filtered air by inhalation for either a single 8-hour session, or 8 h daily for 4 weeks. Motor nerve conduction velocity and distal latency were measured in the tail. At the end of the experiment, the animals were decapitated, and the hippocampus, liver, and blood were collected. Exposure to 1-bromopropane for 4 weeks increased distal latency in the tail nerve significantly in F344 and marginally in WNA/NUM. It also increased total and direct bilirubin in both rat strains. Eight-hour exposure increased metallothionein 2A, metallothionein 1 and NAD(P)H quinone dehydrogenase 1 expression in the liver of both rat strains, whereas 4-week exposure upregulated glutathione S-transferase alpha 3 and CD36 molecule in the liver of both strains. KEGG analysis showed that 8-hr 1-bromopropane upregulated pathways of apoptosis, NOD-like receptor signaling and colorectal cancer, in both the hippocampus and liver, whereas 4-week exposure upregulated NOD-like receptor signaling pathway both in the hippocampus and liver of the two rat strains. Insulin signaling pathway was upregulated persistently in the hippocampus of the two rat strains. Our results suggest the involvement of immune system/inflammation-related pathway in the neuro- and hepato-toxicity of 1-bromopropane and the involvement of insulin signaling pathway in the neurotoxicity of 1-brromopropane.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42164494 is a review article
Complementary mass spectrometry-based approaches and molecular dynamics simulations were integrated to map Zn(II) distribution in partially metalated Zn4-6-metallothionein-3 species relevant to zinc metabolism. Sequential Zn(II) dissociation engages both the α- and β-domains through a structurally plastic, interdomain mechanism that underpins regulatory zinc buffering at physiological pZn.
Zinc (Zn) imbalance severely impairs plant growth, especially in perennial fruit crops chronically exposed to soilborne metal accumulation. However, the regulatory mechanisms underlying Zn detoxification in apple (Malus domestica) remain largely unknown. Here, we identified a high-mobility group protein MdHMGB15, transcript level and protein stability of which was increased under Zn treatment, suggesting that MdHMGB15 may play special roles in Zn stress tolerance. Subsequently, MdHMGB15 transgenic apple calli, Arabidopsis and tomato were generated, which showed that overexpression of MdHMGB15 significantly enhanced Zn tolerance, which was reflected by improved biomass, reduced oxidative damage, and lower electrolyte leakage under excess Zn. Furthermore, electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA), yeast one-hybrid analyses (Y1H), and dual-luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that MdHMGB15 directly bound to the AT-rich cis-elements within the promoters of genes related to metal homeostasis (Heavy metal-associated isoprenylated plant protein 37 (MdHIP37), Heavy metal ATPase 3 (MdHMA3), Heavy metal ATPase 5 (MdHMA5), Metallothionein 3 (MdMT3), Metal tolerance protein 1 (MdMTP1), and Natural resistance-associated macrophage protein 5 (MdNRAMP5)) and activated their transcription. Collectively, these findings revealed MdHMGB15 as an upstream transcriptional activator that coordinated Zn sequestration, efflux, and oxidative stress mitigation through direct induction of metal transporter genes. This study provides novel mechanistic insights into functions of MdHMGB15 and identifies a promising target for improving Zn tolerance in apple and other fruit crops.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and multiple sclerosis (MS) are devastating adult-onset neurological diseases with distinct pathological manifestations. Although growing evidence implicates copper dysregulation in both diseases, our understanding of this connection remains incomplete. In this study, we investigated metallothionein-3 (MT3), which is a key regulator of copper metabolism in the central nervous system (CNS), and its relationship to copper in the ALS and MS spinal cord. Using combined quantitative mass spectrometry approaches and immunohistochemical observations, we found a significant decrease in ALS and MS spinal cord MT3 levels compared to controls. This was correlated with levels of copper and MT3-copper binding, highlighting a strong relationship between copper and MT3 levels. These findings demonstrate decreased MT3 expression alongside copper as a common feature of ALS and MS supporting previously reported evidence for copper dysregulation in these diseases.
Dysregulation of autophagy and lysosomal function is central to Parkinson's disease (PD), yet the upstream mechanisms leading to lysosomal failure remain unclear. Across primary mouse cortical neurons, MT-3 deficient primary mouse astrocytes, human iPSC-derived midbrain dopaminergic neurons, and Rho0 CHO cells lacking mitochondrial respiration, we investigated how mitochondrial stress perturbs zinc (Zn2+) homeostasis and lysosomal integrity. We identify intracellular zinc as a critical mediator linking mitochondrial dysfunction to lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP) and neuronal death. Inhibition of mitochondrial complex I by 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+) elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) and intracellular zinc, jointly driving LMP. Blocking either ROS or zinc markedly attenuated lysosomal damage and cell death, demonstrating that both act upstream of LMP. To define zinc regulation, we examined metallothionein-3 (MT-3), a brain-enriched zinc-binding protein. MT-3-deficient astrocytes were more vulnerable to MPP+ and zinc overload (ZnCl2) but paradoxically resistant to hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), suggesting that MT-3 buffers cytosolic zinc during mitochondrial injury or extracellular zinc influx yet can release bound zinc under oxidative conditions. Using Rho0 cells, we show that MPP+ toxicity depends on mitochondrial ROS, as loss of mitochondrial function nearly abolished cell death. However, Rho0 cells were highly sensitive to ZnCl2 and H2O2 and exhibited markedly reduced lysosomal abundance, indicating limited capacity to sequester zinc and increased susceptibility to zinc-mediated injury. These findings support a coordinated system in which lysosomes and zinc-binding proteins maintain zinc homeostasis. When cytosolic zinc rises, its accumulation within lysosomes induces LMP and accelerates cell death. Collectively, our results identify intracellular zinc as an upstream trigger of lysosomal dysfunction and neurodegeneration. Zinc-mediated LMP provides a mechanistic link between mitochondrial injury, impaired autophagic flux, and α-synuclein pathology in PD. Enhancing zinc homeostasis and lysosomal resilience may offer promising therapeutic strategies.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Neurochemistry published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of International Society for Neurochemistry.
Metallothionein 3 (Mt3) is crucial for cellular homeostasis and neuroprotection, with accumulating evidence linking it to amyloid-beta (Aβ) clearance by astrocytes. This study developed a CRISPR activator (CRISPRa) system using lipid nanoparticles to selectively upregulate Mt3 in astrocytes, aiming to enhance Aβ endocytosis in an Alzheimer's disease (AD) mouse model. To directly assess the therapeutic potential of Mt3 activation in a specific brain region, stereotaxic injection is utilized to deliver the CRISPRa lipid nanocomplexes. This approach enabled precise in vivo brain delivery and Mt3 activation. The findings reveal that CRISPRa lipid nanocomplex-mediated Mt3 upregulation significantly boosts Aβ uptake by astrocytes, leading to a marked reduction in Aβ plaque accumulation in AD mouse brains. These results highlight CRISPRa lipid nanocomplex-mediated Mt3 targeting as a promising strategy to enhance endogenous Aβ clearance, presenting a novel therapeutic avenue for AD.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Cysteine-bound sulfane sulfur atoms in proteins have received much attention as key factors in cellular redox homeostasis. However, the role of sulfane sulfur in zinc regulation has been underinvestigated. In this study, we identified growth inhibitory factor (GIF)/metallothionein-3 (MT-3) as a sulfane sulfur-binding protein from mouse brain. We also report here that cysteine-bound sulfane sulfur atoms serve as ligands to hold and release zinc ions in GIF/MT-3 with an unexpected C-S-S-Zn structure. Oxidation of such a zinc/persulfide cluster in Zn7GIF/MT-3 results in the release of zinc ions, and intramolecular tetrasulfide bridges in apo-GIF/MT-3 efficiently undergo S-S bond cleavage by thioredoxin to regenerate Zn7GIF/MT-3. Three-dimensional molecular modeling confirmed the critical role of the persulfide group in the thermostability and Zn-binding affinity of GIF/MT-3. The present discovery raises the fascinating possibility that the function of other Zn-binding proteins is controlled by sulfane sulfur.© 2023, Shinkai et al.
This research sought to examine the role of solute carrier family 1 member 1 (SLC1A1) in renal interstitial fibrosis (RIF), exploring its relationship with fibrosis extent and its influence on amino acids absorption and ion levels.Renal tubulointerstitial damage was assessed using tissue microarray analysis combined with HE staining. Immunohistochemistry was used to identify SLC1A1 expression in fibrotic tissues, and its relationship with renal tubulointerstitial damage was examined. Additionally, an in vitro fibrosis model was created using HK-2 cells stimulated by transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1). The levels of SLC1A1 protein were evaluated by immunofluorescence staining, while glutamate uptake capacity and extracellular ion and amino acid levels were monitored.The expression of SLC1A1 decreases in cases of renal interstitial fibrosis, with a more pronounced reduction as fibrosis worsens. Following 48 h of exposure to TGF-β1 (15 ng/mL), these alterations became even more apparent. At this 48 h mark, the glutamate uptake in the experimental group was significantly lower compared to the control group, while the levels of extracellular Na+ and Cl- showed a notable increase. Additionally, aspartic acid (ASP) levels rose, whereas glutamic acid (Glu) levels fell, and cysteine (Cys) levels remained unchanged.The downregulation of SLC1A1 during renal interstitial fibrosis is inversely related to the severity of fibrosis and impacts both glutamate uptake and the balance of extracellular ions, indicating its potential as a therapeutic target for enhancing kidney function.Copyright © 2025 Lv, Cheng, Luo, Yang, Liu, Huang and Chen.
We focused on examining the impact of metallothionein 1H (MT1H) on colon cancer (CC) proliferation, migration, and invasion, as well as elucidating its underlying molecular mechanisms. Cell proliferation was assessed using the Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay. The invasive and migratory capacities of the cells were evaluated through transwell and wound healing assays. We found that both MT1H were lowly expressed in human CC tissues by immunohistochemistry (IHC). In HCT116 and SW480 cells and a xenograft mouse model, we found that overexpression of MT1H could inhibit CC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. In HCT116 and SW480 cell lines, as well as in a xenograft mouse model, our study demonstrated that the overexpression of MT1H significantly inhibited CC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Subsequent analyses revealed that MT1H interacts with dual-specificity phosphatase 1 (DUSP1) and enhances its expression. Further investigation into the role of DUSP1 in modulating the biological behavior of CC cells indicated that the suppression of proliferation, migration, and invasion induced by MT1H overexpression was reversed upon DUSP1 knockdown. Mechanically, we further showed MT1H overexpression suppressed mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling and the expression of downstream proteins extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), and p38 MAPK, which were blocked by DUSP1 knockdown. Moreover, our investigation revealed that the inhibition of the MAPK signaling pathway counteracted the impact of MT1H overexpression on CC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Taken together, these results suggest MT1H expression hinders CC progression by interacting with DUSP1 and subsequently deactivating the MAPK signaling. MT1H might be a novel target in CC treatment.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Metallothioneins 1X (MT1X) is expressed at low levels in renal cell carcinoma (RCC) and correlates with tumor progression, stage, grade and prognosis, but the mechanism of MT1X's role in renal cell carcinoma is not fully understood at present, and the aim of this study was to investigate the molecular mechanism of MT1X's role in renal cell carcinoma. We used immunofluorescence and flow cytometry to detect intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and immunoblotting to detect the expression levels of key proteins of the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) signaling pathway, transwell assay to assess the cell migration and invasion capacity. It was found that MT1X knockdown significantly upregulated H2O2-induced intracellular ROS, activated the EMT pathway, and ultimately promoted cell migration and invasion whereas Trolox inhibited cell migration and invasion by suppressing the elevated ROS induced by MT1X knockdown. Here, we reported that MT1X is low-expressed in RCC and that MT1X knockdown promotes cell migration and invasion through the upregulation of intracellular ROS levels, thereby activating the EMT pathway.© 2025. The Author(s).
Cognitive dysfunction in early-stage Alzheimer's disease (AD) involves significant impairments in synaptic plasticity and dendritic spines integrity. Intriguingly, exercise interventions have demonstrated efficacy in enhancing cognitive function. However, the precise molecular mechanisms, particularly the upstream endogenous regulators (such as miRNAs) through which exercise mediates this synaptic improvement, remain unclear. Our findings indicated that 12 weeks of aerobic exercise effectively increased learning and memory, promoted amyloid beta (Aβ) and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) clearance in early-stage AD. Furthermore, aerobic exercise markedly enhanced dendritic spines density of pyramidal neurons in cortical layers II/III and the hippocampal CA1 region, as well as the expression of synapse-associated proteins such as cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), synaptophysin (SYN), and postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD95). Whole genome RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) and bioinformatics analysis was performed to identify miR-3473e, a target closely related to AD and also a response factor that serves as a key mediator of aerobic exercise benefits. Subsequent findings revealed that miR-3473e was overexpressed in the brains of APP/PS1 mice, whereas aerobic exercise led to a decrease in its expression. Moreover, aerobic exercise enhanced its downstream targets, EPH receptor B2 (EphB2) and solute carrier family 1 member 1 gene (Slc1a1) as well as increased downstream GluN1, GRIA1 and p-GluN2B/GluN2B protein expression levels. In summary, we demonstrate that aerobic exercise can improve synaptic plasticity, and these effects are mediated via suppression of miR-3473e and regulation EphB2-NMDA/AMPA receptor signaling pathway, underscoring the potential of aerobic exercise to enhance cognitive function in early-stage of AD.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Globally, poultry production has increased to meet the demand for animal protein. Traditionally, antibiotic growth promoters have been used to enhance growth performance and prevent infections in commercial poultry practices. However, concerns regarding antimicrobial resistance have triggered interest in alternative solutions, such as essential oils (EOs) and seaweed additives. The aim of the current study was to assess the impact of a microencapsulated blend of EOs (cinnamaldehyde, eugenol, and thymol) and Ascophyllum nodosum seaweed meal on growth performance, intestinal function, blood biomarkers, and hepatic gene expression in broiler chickens. A total of 440 Arbor Acres chicks were randomly assigned to either a control (CON) or treatment (NEX) group. Each treatment was divided into 11 replicates (20 birds per replicate). NEX chicks were supplemented with 100 mg/kg feed containing a microencapsulated blend of EOs (cinnamaldehyde, eugenol, and thymol) and Ascophyllum nodosum seaweed meal. Data were analyzed using the UNIVARIATE procedure in SAS software. Each replicate was considered an experimental unit. Over a 35-d period, NEX supplementation improved the feed conversion ratio (P = 0.02), reduced mortality rate (P = 0.01), and increased the European performance efficiency factor. No differences in carcass traits were observed between the 2 treatments (P > 0.05). Jejunal digestive enzyme activities, particularly those of amylase and lipase, were higher in NEX birds (P < 0.05) and correlated with morphometric parameters, such as villus height (P = 0.04) and muscular layer thickness (P < 0.01). Gene expression analysis revealed the upregulation of key genes related to nutrient transporters (solute carrier family 5 member 1 gene (SLC5A1), solute carrier family 1 member 1 gene (SLC1A1), solute carrier family 15 member 1 gene (SLC15A1)) in the jejunum (P < 0.05) and lipid metabolism (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha gene (PPARA) and microsomal triglyceride transfer protein gene (MTTP)) in the liver (P < 0.05) of NEX-supplemented birds. NEX treatment altered plasma biomarkers, including increased glucose (P < 0.01), insulin (P < 0.01), and protein profiles (P < 0.05) but decreased low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (P = 0.03), suggesting enhanced metabolic health. NEX supplementation improved growth performance, economic efficiency, intestinal morphology, digestive enzyme activity, liver function, and metabolic biomarkers in broiler chickens.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society of Animal Science.
1. Chicken ghrelin (GH) plays an important role in regulating growth hormone secretion, immunity and gastrointestinal motility. This study utilised haematoxylin-eosin staining, quantitative reverse transcription PCR and western blotting to examine the effects of high-level ghrelin on the proliferation of small intestinal epithelial cells, intestinal nutrient transport and the mucosal immune barrier in chicks.2. Eighty, 17-d-old layer type chicks were randomly divided into two groups: control (C treated with sterile phosphate buffer) and the ghrelin-treated group (GH; intraperitoneally injected with 0.5 nM GH per 100 g body weight). At 1, 3 and 5 d post-injection, six chicks from each group were randomly selected for sampling of the duodenum and ileum.3. Administering GH reduced the expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen protein in the duodenum and leucine-rich repeat-containing G protein-coupled receptor 5 mRNA in both the duodenum and ileum. In addition, GH affected villus height and ratio of villus height to crypt (H/C) depth in these sections and fatty acid binding protein 6 expression in the ileum. The relative mRNA levels of oligopeptide transporter 1, solute carrier family 3 member 1, solute carrier family 1 member 1 and solute carrier family 5 member 1 were decreased by GH.4. Birds treated with GH had a decrease in duodenal intraepithelial lymphocytes, Paneth cells and ileal goblet cells. There was a reduction in mucin 2 mRNA in goblet cells and lysozyme C and phospholipaseA2 mRNA in Paneth cells. Additionally, the relative mRNA levels of avian β-defensin 1 (AvBD1), AvBD6 and AvBD7 in the duodenum and ileum decreased with GH administration.5. The GH inhibited proliferation of chicken duodenal epithelial cells and decreased surface area available for intestinal villus absorption. This affected the transport of intestinal amino acids, glucose and bile acids and impaired the function of the mucosal immune barrier in both the duodenum and ileum.
A successful therapeutic outcome in the treatment of solid tumours requires efficient intratumoural drug accumulation and retention. Here we demonstrate that zinc gluconate in oral supplements assembles with plasma proteins to form ZnO nanoparticles that selectively accumulate into papillary Caki-2 renal tumours and promote the recruitment of dendritic cells and cytotoxic CD8+ T cells to tumour tissues. Renal tumour targeting is mediated by the preferential binding of zinc ions to metallothionein-1X proteins, which are constitutively overexpressed in Caki-2 renal tumour cells. This binding event further upregulates intracellular metallothionein-1X expression to induce additional nanoparticle binding and retention. In both tumour animal models and human renal tumour samples, we show that ZnO nanoparticles actively cross the vascular wall to achieve high intratumoural accumulation. We further explore this feature of ZnO nanoparticles for the delivery of chemotherapeutics to mouse and rabbit cancer models. Our findings demonstrate that ZnO nanoparticles derived from supplements can serve as a multifunctional drug delivery and cancer immunotherapy platform.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
This study investigated the effects of dietary 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) supplementation on growth performance, apparent total tract digestibility (ATTD), blood profile, intestinal morphology, transcriptomics, and microbial composition in weaned piglets. A total of twenty-four 28-day-old weaned piglets (Landrace × Large Yorkshire, 8.28 ± 1.09 kg) were randomly divided into 3 dietary treatments with 8 replicates. The dietary treatments include basal diet (CON), CON diet containing 250 or 500 mg/kg 5-HTP. The results revealed that supplementation with 250 mg/kg 5-HTP significantly increased (P < 0.05) the average daily gain (ADG) and resulted in a lower (P < 0.05) feed conversion ratio (FCR), while also decreased (P < 0.05) the diarrhea rate compared to the CON group. The ATTD of crude protein (CP) was lower in the 500 mg/kg group (P < 0.05) compared with the 250 mg/kg group. Furthermore, supplementation with 5-HTP led to significantly increased (P < 0.05) plasma albumin (ALB) and total protein (TP). In addition, supplementation with 5-HTP, particularly in the 250 mg/kg group, significantly increased (P < 0.05) serum serotonin (5-HT), growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) levels, and improved the ratio of villus height to crypt depth in the jejunum and ileum. The transcriptomic analysis revealed that the majority of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) induced by 5-HTP were related to digestion and immunity in the ileum, and 5-HTP enhanced (P < 0.05) intestinal glucose transporter 2 (GLUT2), solute carrier family 1 member 1 (SLC1A1) and solute carrier family 7 member 7 (SLC7A7) mRNA expression in weaned piglets. Furthermore, supplementation with 250 mg/kg 5-HTP increased (P < 0.05) abundance of Firmicutes, Actinobacteriota, Lachnospiracea, Ruminococcaceae and Megasphaera and decreased (P < 0.05) abundance of Spirochaetes and Treponema. Collectively, the study demonstrated that 5-HTP supplementation, particularly at 250 mg/kg, positively impacted growth performance, gut health, and microbiome composition in weaned piglets. These findings suggest the potential of using 5-HTP as a dietary supplement to enhance the health and productivity of weaned piglets.© 2024. The Author(s).
Interventional therapy and surgery play important roles in the treatment of various diseases, but they cause varying degrees of vascular injury. Currently, the side effects are often overlooked. Here, we observed abnormal nuclear morphology (nuclear dysmorphism) and vascular aging in injured human and rodent arteries. Platelet-derived microvesicles (PMVs) adhere to injured blood vessels, leading to nuclear dysmorphism and cell senescence in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). This occurs because PMV adherence reduces intracellular Zn2+ levels, which impairs Zn2+-dependent processing of prelamin A by the enzyme ZMPSTE24. Consequently, prelamin A accumulates in VSMCs, contributing to the observed nuclear dysmorphism and cell senescence. RNA sequencing and loss-of-function assays revealed that Zinc transporter solute carrier family 39 member 4 (SLC39A4, also called ZIP4) deficiency accounts for the decreased Zinc concentration. Consistently, Zmpste24+/- and Zmpste24-/- mice displayed significant cumulative prelamin A, deteriorated nuclear dysmorphism and vascular aging. Whole genome bisulfite sequencing (WGBS) and bioinformatic analysis illustrated that demethylation of genes within Lamina-associated domains (LADs) participates in nuclear dysmorphism and cell senescence. Of note, Zinc supplementation, especially using platelet membrane-coated Zn-MOF nanoparticles, robustly alleviated nuclear dysmorphism and vascular aging. Our data established a novel and significant role of pMVs/ZIP4/zinc/prelamin A axis in promoting nuclear dysmorphism and vascular aging after injury.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by the Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
BACKGROUND Acrodermatitis enteropathica (AE) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by solute carrier family 39 member 4 (SLC39A4) gene variants that impair zinc absorption. Although typically associated with bacterial or fungal superinfection, its concurrence with Kaposi's varicelliform eruption (KVE) is exceptionally rare - only 1 case was previously reported. This report describes a case of KVE complicating AE in a patient with novel compound heterozygous SLC39A4 variants, highlighting the immunovirological implications of zinc deficiency. CASE REPORT An 8-year-old girl who had chronic dermatitis since infancy presented with a diffuse vesiculobullous rash. Physical examination revealed perioral and acral dermatitis, alopecia, and crusted vesicles consistent with KVE. Laboratory testing showed normal serum zinc levels (76.13 µg/dL) but reduced alkaline phosphatase (32 U/L). Genetic analysis identified compound heterozygous SLC39A4 variants: a maternal frameshift variant (c.522_523dup) and 3 paternal variants (c.925T>C, c.1782C>T, and c.1843C>T). The patient received oral zinc gluconate and topical crisaborole ointment, achieving complete resolution within 2 weeks. CONCLUSIONS This case demonstrates that AE may present with normal zinc concentrations, underscoring the diagnostic value of alkaline phosphatase. Genetic confirmation remains essential in atypical presentations. These novel variants broaden the mutational spectrum of SLC39A4 and emphasize the importance of early zinc supplementation and antiviral prophylaxis in patients with AE who display KVE risk.
Early weaning can impact piglets' gut health, and some forms of zinc (Zn) may mitigate this stress. This study evaluates the effect of authorised level of Zn, from different sources, on the performance and gut health of piglets weaned at different ages. At weaning (d0), 96 piglets weaned at either 21 (Early, E; 48) or 26 (Normal, N; 48) days were divided into 3 feeding groups: Zn sulphate (SO4), Zn glycinate (Gly) or a porous form of Zn oxide (Hi) to achieve 150 mg/kg of Zn. On d8 and d21, 8 piglets/group were slaughtered and oxidative status (blood), jejunal morphology, gene expression, microbiota, and volatile fatty acids and intestinal pH were assessed. The N group had a higher body weight throughout the study (P < 0.001) and a higher gain to feed ratio from d7-d14 (P = 0.03). At d8, villus height and villus height:crypt depth ratio (VH:CD) tended to be higher in the N group (P < 0.10). At d8, the Hi diet increased the abundance of the Lactobacillaceae (P = 0.04) in the E piglets. At d21, the Hi tended to increase VH:CD (P = 0.09) compared to SO4 in N piglets; in the E groups fed SO4 the crypt depth tended to be higher than Gly and Hi (P < 0.10). Regardless the weaning age, the Gly tended to increase the expression of Glutathione Peroxidase-2 (P = 0.09) and Hi reduced the one of Solute Carrier Family-39 Member-4 (P = 0.07). Weaning age impacted piglets' performance and gut physiology; feeding piglets different forms of Zn may positively improve gut health depending on weaning age.© 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Acrodermatitis enteropathica (AE) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by a mutation in the zinc transporter gene, leading to impaired zinc absorption. A triad of periorificial dermatitis, alopecia, and diarrhea is the characteristic clinical presentation, although symptoms may vary with age. This disease typically manifests during infancy, particularly during the weaning process. The diagnosis can be confirmed through a thorough history, clinical findings, and laboratory investigations, mainly plasma zinc level assessment with or without genetic testing. Lifelong zinc supplementation is the standard treatment. This case report describes a 19-month-old Yemeni girl residing in Bahrain who was diagnosed with AE. The patient's main presentation was periorificial dermatitis involving the eyes, nose, mouth, ears, nape, and more extensively around the diaper area. The diagnosis was confirmed by clinical exome sequencing, which demonstrated a homozygous missense variant in exon 3 of the solute carrier family 39 member 4 (SLC39A4) gene. Accordingly, zinc replacement therapy was started, resulting in an improvement in the patient's condition. This case report highlights the clinical characteristics and genetic features of this disease.Copyright © 2025, Isa et al.
Accumulating studies suggested that posttranscriptional modifications exert a vital role in the tumorigenesis of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). N4-acetylcytidine (ac4C) modification, catalyzed by the N-acetyltransferase 10 (NAT10), was a novel type of chemical modification that improves translation efficiency and mRNA stability.GEO databases and clinical samples were used to explore the expression and clinical value of NAT10 in DLBCL. CRISPER/Cas9-mediated knockout of NAT10 was performed to determine the biological functions of NAT10 in DLBCL. RNA sequencing, acetylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (acRIP-seq), LC-MS/MS, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP)-qPCR and RNA stability assays were performed to explore the mechanism by which NAT10 contributed to DLBCL progression.Here, we demonstrated that NAT10-mediated ac4C modification regulated the occurrence and progression of DLBCL. Dysregulated N-acetyltransferases expression was found in DLBCL samples. High expression of NAT10 was associated with poor prognosis of DLBCL patients. Deletion of NAT10 expression inhibited cell proliferation and induced G0/G1 phase arrest. Furthermore, knockout of NAT10 increased the sensitivity of DLBCL cells to ibrutinib. AcRIP-seq identified solute carrier family 30 member 9 (SLC30A9) as a downstream target of NAT10 in DLBCL. NAT10 regulated the mRNA stability of SLC30A9 in an ac4C-dependent manner. Genetic silencing of SLC30A9 suppressed DLBCL cell growth via regulating the activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) pathway.Collectively, these findings highlighted the essential role of ac4C RNA modification mediated by NAT10 in DLBCL, and provided insights into novel epigenetic-based therapeutic strategies.© 2024 The Author(s). Clinical and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Institute of Clinical Bioinformatics.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most prevalent malignant tumors with limited treatment options. Therefore, there is an urgent need to investigate new therapeutic targets against CRC. Ubiquitous Kruppel-like factor (UKLF) is involved in various cancer processes, but its effect and detailed molecular mechanism in CRC are not yet fully understood. Here, this study aimed to investigate the function and mechanism of UKLF in the development of CRC. The results showed that UKLF was highly expressed in CRC tissues from clinical patients and its high expression was related to poor prognosis. UKLF promoted cell proliferation, migration and invasion, and inhibited cell apoptosis. The promotion effect of UKLF on tumor growth was further confirmed in vivo. As far as the mechanism was concerned, poly (C) binding protein 2 (PCBP2) was verified to bind to the 3'-UTR of UKLF mRNA and enhance its mRNA stability. Moreover, UKLF modulated the expression of solute carrier family 39 member 4 (SLC39A4) at the transcriptional level. Taken together, these findings elucidated the regulatory mechanism of UKLF and uncovered the importance of the PCBP2/UKLF/SLC39A4 pathway. The targeting of UKLF may be a novel direction for molecular-targeted CRC therapy.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Introduction: The transmembrane channel-like (TMC) protein family contains eight members, TMC1-TMC8. Among these members, only TMC1 and TMC2 have been intensively studied. They are expressed in cochlear hair cells and are crucial for auditory sensations. TMC6 and TMC8 contribute to epidermodysplasia verruciformis, and predispose individuals to human papilloma virus. However, the impact of TMC on peripheral sensation pain has not been previously investigated. Methods: RNAscope was employed to detect the distribution of TMC6 mRNA in DRG neurons. Electrophysiological recordings were conducted to investigate the effects of TMC6 on neuronal characteristics and M channel activity. Zn2+ indicators were utilized to detect the zinc concentration in DRG tissues and dissociated neurons. A series of behavioural tests were performed to assess thermal and mechanical sensation in mice under both physiological and pathological conditions. Results and Discussion: We demonstrated that TMC6 is mainly expressed in small and medium dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and is involved in peripheral heat nociception. Deletion of TMC6 in DRG neurons hyperpolarizes the resting membrane potential and inhibits neuronal excitability. Additionally, the function of the M channel is enhanced in TMC6 deletion DRG neurons owing to the increased quantity of free zinc in neurons. Indeed, heat and mechanical hyperalgesia in chronic pain are alleviated in TMC6 knockout mice, particularly in the case of heat hyperalgesia. This suggests that TMC6 in the small and medium DRG neurons may be a potential target for chronic pain treatment.Copyright © 2024 An, Hu, Hao, Zhao, Zhang, Shao, Wang, Li, Liu, He, Zhao, Zhang and Du.
Cholangiocarcinoma represents a malignant neoplasm originating from the hepatobiliary tree, with a subset of tumors developing inside the liver. Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas (ICC) commonly exhibit an asymptomatic presentation, rendering both diagnosis and treatment challenging. Cuproptosis, an emerging regulated cell death pathway induced by copper ions, has garnered attention recently. As cancer cells show altered copper metabolism and comparatively higher copper needs, cuproptosis may play a role in the development of ICC. However, studies investigating this possibility are currently lacking.Single-cell and bulk RNA sequence data were analyzed, and correlations were established between the expression of cuproptosis-related molecules and ICC patient survival. Genes with predicting survival were used to create a CUPT score using Cox and LASSO regression and tumor mutation burden (TMB) analysis. The CIBERSORT software was employed to characterize immune cell infiltration within the tumors. Furthermore, immune infiltration prediction, biological function enrichment, and drug sensitivity analyses were conducted to explore the potential implications of the cuproptosis-related signature. The effects of silencing solute carrier family 39 member 4 gene (SLC39A4) expression using siRNA were investigated using assays measuring cell proliferation, colony formation, and cell migration. Key genes of cuproptosis were detected by western blotting.The developed CUPT score divided patients into high and low CUPT score groups. Those with a low score had significantly better prognosis and longer survival. In contrast, high CUPT scores were associated with worse clinical outcomes and significantly higher TMB. Comparisons of the two groups also indicated differences in the immune infiltrate present in the tumors. Finally, we were able to identify 95 drugs potentially affecting the cuproptosis pathway. Some of these might be effective in the treatment of ICC. The in vitro experiments revealed that suppressing the expression of SLC39A4 in ICC cell lines resulted in reduced cell proliferation, colony formation, and cell migration. It also led to an increase in cell death and the upregulation of key genes associated with cuproptosis, namely ferredoxin 1 (FDX1) and dihydrolipoyl transacetylase (DLAT). These findings strongly suggest that this cuproptosis-associated molecule may play a pivotal role in the development and metastasis of ICC.Changes in the expression of a cuproptosis-related gene signature can predict the clinical prognosis of ICC with considerable accuracy. This supports the notion that cuproptosis influences the diversity and complexity of the immune microenvironment, mutational landscape, and biological behavior of ICC. Understanding this pathway better may hold promise for the development of innovative strategies in the management of this disease.© 2024. The Author(s).
Cervical squamous cell carcinoma and endocervical adenocarcinoma (CESC) are becoming more common in younger women. Solute carrier family 39 member 4 (SLC39A4) produces a zinc ion transporter involved in metastasis and invasion of tumors.The Cancer Genome Atlas RNA-seq data was used to investigate the expression of SLC39A4 and its prognostic potential. The assessment of the effect of SLC39A4 on cell growth and migration in CESC was conducted using MTT, colony formation, and Transwell assays. SLC39A4 was studied in vivo using a xenograft mouse model, and its functional involvement in oncogenesis was investigated by identifying the associated differentially expressed genes (DEGs). We evaluated the relationships among SLC39A4 levels, chemosensitivity, radiosensitivity and immune infiltration.SLC39A4 was upregulated in CESC samples, and individuals with greater SLC39A4 mRNA expression had shorter overall survival. SLC39A4 has been identified to be a regulator of tumor cell metastasis and proliferation in vivo and in vitro, with an area under the curve of 0.874 for diagnosing CESC. In total, 948 DEGs were discovered to be enriched in key CESC progression-related signaling pathways. Additionally, intratumoral immune checkpoint and infiltration activity were associated with SLC39A4 expression. High SLC39A4 expression exhibited poor chemosensitivity and radiosensitivity profiles.In conclusion, SLC39A4 is a key regulator of CESC development, prognosis, and the composition of the tumor immune microenvironment. SLC39A4 could be used as a prognostic or diagnostic screening tool and as a potential target for CESC treatment.Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Defects in Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome protein associated complexes impair the biogenesis of lysosome-related organelles (e.g. platelet dense granule). Transmembrane protein 163 (TMEM163), a zinc transporter, is drastically reduced in platelets of AP-3-, BLOC-1-, and BLOC-2-deficient Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome mice and patients, but the mechanistic basis is unclear. We here found that TMEM163 was reduced and degraded primarily via the proteasome in a variety of deficient MEG-01 cells of endosomal trafficking complexes (AP-1, AP-2, AP-3, BLOC-1, BLOC-2). A conserved N-terminal acidic dileucine motif (LEDRGL69L70) in TMEM163 is essential for interactions with BLOC-1 and AP-3 but dispensable for binding with AP-1, AP-2 and BLOC-2. Mutation of this motif led to TMEM163 accumulation in the plasma membrane. Loss of either BLOC-1 or AP-3 enhanced TMEM163 bound to the other and exhibited differential abnormal endo-lysosomal localization, suggesting competitive binding during TMEM163 trafficking. Collectively, our findings established TMEM163 as a cargo protein sequentially sorted by AP-3 and BLOC-1 via a shared dileucine-based sorting signal, which is essential for its proper trafficking to platelet dense granules, uncovering a unique mechanism in Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome protein associated complex cargo sorting and lysosome-related organelle biogenesis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301607
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 37603641
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301658
Vascular dementia (VaD) is a prevalent cognitive disorder associated with cerebrovascular pathologies, in which hippocampal dysfunction plays a critical role. Impaired zinc homeostasis, mediated by the zinc transporters 3 (ZnT3) and transmembrane protein 163 (TMEM163), has been implicated in neuronal damage. However, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. The purpose of this study is to elucidate the molecular mechanisms by which these zinc transporters may contribute to VaD pathogenesis, and to determine whether these mechanisms are involved in the development of VaD.Rat primary hippocampal neurons were subjected to oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) to simulate ischemic conditions. To investigate the roles of ZnT3 and TMEM163, we employed siRNA-mediated silencing and plasmid-based overexpression. Neuronal viability was assessed using the methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium (MTT) assay, while apoptosis was quantified via TdT-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) staining. Intracellular and extracellular zinc levels were measured using FluoZin-3 fluorescence and ELISA, respectively. Protein and mRNA expression levels were analyzed by western blot and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). Protein-protein interactions were examined through co-immunoprecipitation, and subcellular localization was determined via cell surface biotinylation.OGD induced significant extracellular zinc overload, neuronal apoptosis, and reduced cell viability, concomitant with upregulated expression of ZnT3 and TMEM163 (all p < 0.001). Overexpression of these transporters exacerbated zinc efflux and neuronal damage under OGD, whereas their silencing attenuated zinc overload and neuronal degeneration (p < 0.001). Co-immunoprecipitation confirmed a physical interaction between ZnT3 and TMEM163. Furthermore, OGD triggered the translocation of both proteins from the cell membrane to the cytoplasm (p < 0.001), suggesting ischemia-induced dysregulation of zinc transport dynamics. These findings demonstrate that ZnT3 and TMEM163 cooperatively modulate zinc homeostasis and that their dysregulation during OGD contributes to neuronal injury.ZnT3 and TMEM163 are critical regulators of zinc homeostasis in hippocampal neurons. Their dysregulation under ischemic conditions promotes extracellular zinc overload and exacerbates neuronal damage, highlighting their potential therapeutic relevance in VaD.© Copyright: © 2025 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the solute carrier family 30 member 8 (SLC30A8) gene related to zinc metabolism have been associated with an impaired insulin metabolic response.This study aimed to investigate variations in serum zinc concentration and insulin resistance biomarkers according to SNPs in the SLC30A8 gene among participants from the 2015 ISA-Nutrition.A total of 497 participants were genotyped for SNPs rs13266634, rs3802177, and rs11558471. Outcome variables included in the study were serum zinc concentration, fasting glucose, insulin, body mass index, and the homeostatic model assessment for insulin resistance (HOMA-IR).The mean serum zinc concentration of participants was 85.5 µg/dL, without differences between sexes. The study population exhibited elevated glycemia and insulin resistance. No significant differences were found in serum zinc concentration and insulin resistance biomarkers between genotypes for all SNPs. However, men with the genotypes CC for rs13266634, GG for rs3802177, and AA for rs11558471 presented higher insulin concentration and HOMA-IR values compared to other genotypes, whereas there were no differences among women.These findings indicate that rs13266634, rs3802177, and rs11558471 SNPs in the SLC30A8 gene have no effect on serum zinc concentration but may contribute to insulin resistance effects in men.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Diabetes, a metabolic disorder characterized by hyperglycemia, underscores the importance of normal pancreatic β-cell development and function in maintaining glucose homeostasis. Poly(A)-specific ribonuclease (PARN) serves as the principal regulator of messenger RNA (mRNA) stability, yet its specific role in pancreatic β cells remains unclear. This study utilizes mice with targeted PARN deficiency in β cells to elucidate this role. Notably, Parn conditional knockout mice present unaltered β-cell development and insulin sensitivity but reduced glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS). The observed outcomes are corroborated in NIT-1 cells. Furthermore, transcriptomic analyses reveal aberrant mRNA expression of genes crucial for insulin secretion in PARN-deficient β cells. Insights from linear amplification of complementary DNA ends and sequencing and coimmunoprecipitation experiments reveal an interaction between PARN and polypyrimidine tract-binding protein 1 (PTBP1), regulating the RNA stability of solute carrier family 30, member 8 (Slc30a8) and carbohydrate sulfotransferase 3 (Chst3). Interference with either PARN or PTBP1 disrupts this stability. These data indicate that PARN deficiency hampers GSIS and insulin maturation by destabilizing Slc30a8 and Chst3 RNAs. These findings provide compelling evidence indicating that PARN is a potential therapeutic target for enhancing insulin maturation and secretion.© 2024 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Crohn's disease (CD) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) are immune-mediated inflammatory diseases. However, the molecular mechanisms linking these two diseases remain unclear.To identify shared core genes between CD and RA, we employed differential gene analysis and the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) algorithm. Functional annotation of these core biomarkers was performed using consensus clustering and gene set enrichment analysis. We also constructed a protein-protein network and a miRNA-mRNA network using multiple databases, and potential therapeutic agents targeting the core biomarkers were predicted. Finally, we confirmed the expression of the genes in the biomarker panel in both CD and RA using quantitative PCR.A total of five shared core genes, namely C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10), C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9 (CXCL9), aquaporin 9 (AQP9), secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1), and metallothionein 1M (MT1M), were identified as core biomarkers. These biomarkers activate classical pro-inflammatory and immune signaling pathways, influencing immune cell aggregation. Additionally, testosterone was identified as a potential therapeutic agent targeting the biomarkers identified in this study. The expression of genes in the biomarker panel in CD and RA was confirmed through quantitative PCR.Our study revealed some core genes shared between CD and RA and established a novel biomarker panel with potential implications for the diagnosis and treatment of these diseases.
Cancer secondary to dermatomyositis (DM) is defined as paraneoplastic dermatomyositis, which is one of the major subtypes of DM. However, cases of DM with intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) are rarely reported. In the course of our clinical work, we encountered a case of a middle-aged female patient who was diagnosed with DM for 7 years and then diagnosed with ICC, and we would like to share this case. In addition, in order to further investigate the deeper mechanism of ICC associated with DM, we also analyzed the dataset related to DM and ICC in the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database based on the machine learning methods and found that poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase family member 12 (PARP12) and metallothionein 1M (MT1M) were closely associated with ICC secondary to DM. They are potentially important biomarkers for predicting the occurrence of ICC in patients with DM.Copyright © 2023 Zhang and Chen.
Skipped: PubMed ID 36382190 is a review article
This study is to investigate the effect of Kruppel-like factor 9 (KLF9) on the occurrence and progression of cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) and its underlying mechanism. After the CCA cells were transfected with OE-KLF9 and/or sh-metallothionein 1 M (sh-MT1M), KLF9 and MT1M expression levels were measured. Likewise, the biological characteristics of CCA cells were measured, followed by detections of caspase3 activity and epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT)-related protein. Furthermore, the binding site of KLF9 and MT1M was predicted and verified. An in vivo model of CCA in nude mice was established where tumor volume and weight were recorded, in addition to tumor metastasis in the liver. The expression of KLF9 and MT1M in the CCA cells was remarkably lower. CCA cells overexpressing KLF9 showed repressed abilities to proliferate, invade, and migrate, and strengthened cell apoptosis. KLF9 inhibited EMT, growth, and migration of CCA cells by modulating MT1M transcription. Additionally, KLF9 facilitated MT1M expression in vivo and improve the progression of CCA in nude mice. KLF9 acted as a transcription factor of MT1M to promote its transcription level, thereby affecting the growth and migration of CCA cells, and ultimately improving the occurrence and development of CCA.Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Amoeboid cell migration is key to efficient T cell immunity. Spatial polarization of organelles within cells, including endo-lysosomes, is a prerequisite of migration. However, how ultrastructural polarization is linked to the signaling requirements governing T cell migration remains unknown. Here we show that signaling molecules generated by endo-lysosome-localized kinases regulate velocity of amoeboid migration. Specifically, imaging of T cells identifies accumulation of endo-lysosomes decorated with the lipid kinases VPS34-PIKfyve at the uropod of polarized cells. Activity of VPS34 and PIKfyve regulates speed, but not directedness, of migrating T cells. Mechanistically, PI(3,5)P2 generated by the sequential action of VPS34 and PIKfyve, mediates Ca2+ efflux from lysosomes via the mucolipin TRP cation channel 1 (TRPML1), thus controlling activity of myosin IIA and hence the generation of propulsive force through retrograde actin flow. The VPS34-PIKfyve kinases also regulate velocity of myeloid cells, as well as of the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum - establishing the axis as an evolutionarily conserved speed control system of amoeboid cell migration.© 2026. The Author(s).
Vandetanib, a critical therapy for advanced thyroid and RET-driven cancers, is limited by life-threatening hepato-cardiotoxicity. This study identifies lysosomal protease cathepsin B (CTSB) as the central mediator of vandetanib-induced organ damage through STAT3-driven transcriptional activation. CTSB triggers mitochondrial apoptosis by cleaving the lysosomal calcium channel mucolipin TRP cation channel 1 (MCOLN1), disrupting calcium/AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) signaling and autophagy flux. Crucially, the natural compound tannic acid directly binds and inhibits CTSB, completely protecting against hepato-cardiotoxicity without compromising vandetanib's antitumor efficacy in preclinical models. Overall, our findings establish CTSB-mediated lysosomal dysfunction and MCOLN1-calcium-AMPK axis disruption as the core mechanism of vandetanib-induced hepato-cardiotoxicity, and identify tannic acid as a readily translatable adjuvant strategy to prevent this toxicity. These findings redefine CTSB as a druggable target for kinase inhibitor toxicities and position tannic acid as a clinically translatable adjuvant to enhance vandetanib's safety profile. By preserving lysosomal function and calcium homeostasis, this strategy addresses a critical unmet need in precision oncology, enabling prolonged, safer use of vandetanib and related tyrosine kinase inhibitors. The discovery of shared lysosomal injury mechanisms across organs also opens avenues for preventing multi-organ toxicities in broader cancer therapies.© The author(s).
Sonic hedgehog subgroup medulloblastoma (SHH-MB), an aggressive pediatric brain tumor that originates from granule neuron precursors, faces the challenge of poor treatment owing to its unclear molecular mechanisms. Here, we show that sialic acid-binding immunoglobulin-like receptor 15 (Siglec-15), an immunosuppressive membrane protein, is upregulated and mediates SHH-MB growth through its translocation to the lysosomal membrane. We found that SHH-MB cells use the cation-independent mannose 6-phosphate receptor (CI-MPR) to transport Siglec-15 from the trans-Golgi network (TGN) to lysosomes, where Siglec-15 induces lysosomal Ca2+ release by interacting with mucolipin TRP cation channel 1 (TRPML1), leading to the nuclear translocation of the transcription factor EB (TFEB). Blockade of Siglec-15, TRPML1, or TFEB hinders SHH-MB growth in vitro and in vivo. Importantly, aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), a cytoplasmic transcription factor, upregulates Siglec-15 expression. AhR inhibition by CH-223191 or StemRegenin 1 (SR1) achieved therapeutic efficacy against orthotopic SHH-MB xenografts in mice. These findings reveal an essential role for the AhR-Siglec-15 axis in SHH-MB development, providing a potential strategy for SHH-MB treatment.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Higher Education Press.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) can stimulate autophagy and pyroptosis, which have been slightly reported in preeclampsia (PE). Mucolipin TRP Cation Channel 1 (MCOLN1) is a sensor for autophagy to receive ROS. This study aimed to investigate the role of MCOLN1 on ROS-mediated autophagy and pyroptosis in an in vitro model of PE. HTR-8/SVneo cells were treated with different concentrations of rotenone and pre-transfected with plasmids overexpressing or silencing MCOLN1. Thiazolyl blue tetrazolium bromide was used to examine the effects of rotenone and MCOLN1 on trophoblasts. ROS levels were detected by 2',7'-Dichlorodihydrofluorescein Diacetate (DCFH-DA). The levels of MCOLN1, pyroptosis and autophagy-related proteins were determined by western blot, and the mRNA level of MCOLN1 was examined by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. The effect of MCOLN1 on rotenone-treated trophoblast cells was also analyzed using flow cytometry, wound healing, Transwell, and Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) experiments. Rotenone decreased cell viability and induced ROS levels in a concentration-dependent manner in HTR-8/SVneo. MCOLN1 overexpression partially reversed the inhibition of cell viability, migration and invasion and the promotion of apoptosis by rotenone; but MCOLN1 silencing enhanced the effect of rotenone. Unlike MCOLN1 silencing, MCOLN1 overexpression reduced rotenone-elevated Interleukin (IL)-18, IL-1β, Gasdermin D (GSDMD), nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3), pro-caspase 1, caspase 1, but enhanced Beclin 1, Microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3)II/LC3I levels, and inhibited Sequestosome 1 (P62) expression suppressed by rotenone. MCOLN1 mediates autophagy and pyroptosis balance to alleviate trophoblast dysfunction caused by excess ROS.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40928057 is a review article
Microautophagy is a selective cellular process in which endolysosomes directly engulf cytoplasmic cargo through membrane invagination. The regulatory mechanisms governing microautophagy remain poorly understood. Here, we identified the deacetylation of ATG16L1 as a critical regulator of LC3-associated lysosomal microautophagy. We demonstrate that ATG16L1 acetylation is dynamically controlled by the acetyltransferase KAT2B and the deacetylase HDAC3. Under lysosomal osmotic stress or glucose deprivation, HDAC3-mediated deacetylation of ATG16L1 within its WD40 domain promotes its interaction with V-ATPase, facilitating ATG16L1 recruitment to lysosomal membranes. While dispensable for macroautophagy, this post-translational modification is essential for LC3 lipidation on lysosomes and enables lysosomal recovery, including the restoration of lysosomal size and degradative capacity following stress. Our results reveal a key role for ATG16L1 deacetylation in driving LC3-associated microautophagy to maintain lysosomal homeostasis.
Renal proximal tubules are a primary site of injury in metabolic diseases. In obese patients and animal models, proximal tubular epithelial cells (PTECs) display dysregulated lipid metabolism, organelle dysfunctions, and oxidative stress that contribute to interstitial inflammation, fibrosis and ultimately end-stage renal failure. Our research group previously pointed out AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) decline as a driver of obesity-induced renal disease. Because PTECs display high macroautophagic/autophagic activity and rely heavily on their endo-lysosomal system, we investigated the effect of lipid stress on autophagic flux and lysosomes in these cells. Using a model of highly differentiated primary PTECs challenged with palmitate, our data placed lysosomes at the cornerstone of the lipotoxic phenotype. As soon as 6 h after palmitate exposure, cells displayed impaired lysosomal acidification subsequently leading to autophagosome accumulation and activation of lysosomal biogenesis. We also showed the inability of lysosomal quality control to restore acidic pH which finally drove PTECs dedifferentiation. When palmitate-induced AMPK activity decline was prevented by AMPK activators, lysosomal acidification and the differentiation profile of PTECs were preserved. Our work provided key insights on the importance of lysosomes in PTECs homeostasis and lipotoxicity and demonstrated the potential of AMPK in protecting the organelle from lipid stress.Abbreviation: ACAC: acetyl-CoA carboxylase; ACTB: actin beta; AICAR: 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide-1-β-D-ribofuranoside; AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; APQ1: aquaporin 1 (Colton blood group); BSA: bovine serum albumin; CDH16: cadherin 16; CKD: chronic kidney disease; CTSB: cathepsin B; CTSD: cathepsin D; EPB41L5: erythrocyte membrane protein band 4.1 like 5; EIF4EBP1: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; EMT: epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition; FA: fatty acid; FCCP: carbonyl cyanide 4-(trifluoromethoxy)phenylhydrazone; GFP: green fluorescent protein; GUSB: glucuronidase beta; HEXB: hexosaminidase subunit beta; LAMP: lysosomal associated membrane protein; LD: lipid droplet; LGALS3: galectin 3; LLOMe: L-leucyl-L-leucine methyl ester hydrobromide; LMP: lysosomal membrane permeabilization; LRP2: LDL receptor related protein 2; LSD: lysosomal storage disorder; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MCOLN1: mucolipin TRP cation channel 1; MG132: N-benzyloxycarbonyl-L-leucyl-L-leucyl-L-leucinal; MmPTECs: Mus musculus (mouse) proximal tubular epithelial cells; MTORC1: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase complex 1; OA: oleate; PA: palmitate; PIKFYVE: phosphoinositide kinase, FYVE-type zinc finger containing; PTs: proximal tubules; PTECs: proximal tubular epithelial cells; PRKAA: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha; RFP: red fluorescent protein; RPS6KB: ribosomal protein S6 kinase B; SLC5A2: solute carrier family 5 member 2; SOX9: SRY-box transcription factor 9; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; Ub: ubiquitin; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; VIM: vimentin.
Co-occurring mutations in KEAP1 in STK11/LKB1-mutant NSCLC activate NFE2L2/NRF2 to compensate for the loss of STK11-AMPK activity during metabolic adaptation. Characterizing the regulatory crosstalk between the STK11-AMPK and KEAP1-NFE2L2 pathways during metabolic stress is crucial for understanding the implications of co-occurring mutations. Here, we found that metabolic stress increased the expression and phosphorylation of SQSTM1/p62, which is essential for the activation of NFE2L2 and AMPK, synergizing antioxidant defense and tumor growth. The SQSTM1-driven dual activation of NFE2L2 and AMPK was achieved by inducing macroautophagic/autophagic degradation of KEAP1 and facilitating the AXIN-STK11-AMPK complex formation on the lysosomal membrane, respectively. In contrast, the STK11-AMPK activity was also required for metabolic stress-induced expression and phosphorylation of SQSTM1, suggesting a double-positive feedback loop between AMPK and SQSTM1. Mechanistically, SQSTM1 expression was increased by the PPP2/PP2A-dependent dephosphorylation of TFEB and TFE3, which was induced by the lysosomal deacidification caused by low glucose metabolism and AMPK-dependent proton reduction. Furthermore, SQSTM1 phosphorylation was increased by MAP3K7/TAK1, which was activated by ROS and pH-dependent secretion of lysosomal Ca2+. Importantly, phosphorylation of SQSTM1 at S24 and S226 was critical for the activation of AMPK and NFE2L2. Notably, the effects caused by metabolic stress were abrogated by the protons provided by lactic acid. Collectively, our data reveal a novel double-positive feedback loop between AMPK and SQSTM1 leading to the dual activation of AMPK and NFE2L2, potentially explaining why co-occurring mutations in STK11 and KEAP1 happen and providing promising therapeutic strategies for lung cancer.Abbreviations: AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; BAF1: bafilomycin A1; ConA: concanamycin A; DOX: doxycycline; IP: immunoprecipitation; KEAP1: kelch like ECH associated protein 1; LN: low nutrient; MAP3K7/TAK1: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 7; MCOLN1/TRPML1: mucolipin TRP cation channel 1; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MTORC1: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase complex 1; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NFE2L2/NRF2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; NSCLC: non-small cell lung cancer; PRKAA/AMPKα: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha; PPP2/PP2A: protein phosphatase 2; ROS: reactive oxygen species; PPP3/calcineurin: protein phosphatase 3; RPS6KB1/p70S6K: ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STK11/LKB1: serine/threonine kinase 11; TCL: total cell lysate; TFEB: transcription factor EB; TFE3: transcription factor binding to IGHM enhancer 3; V-ATPase: vacuolar-type H+-translocating ATPase.
Skipped: PubMed ID 38522082 is a review article
LC3 lipidation plays an important role in the regulation of macroautophagy and LC3-associated microautophagy. The E1-like enzyme ATG7 is one of the core components that are directly involved in LC3 lipidation reaction. Here, we provide evidence showing that acetylation of ATG7 tightly controls its enzyme activity to regulate the induction of macroautophagy and LC3-associated microautophagy. Mechanistically, acetylation of ATG7 disrupts its interaction with the E2-like enzyme ATG3, leading to an inhibition of LC3 lipidation in vitro and in vivo. Functionally, in response to various different stimuli, cellular ATG7 undergoes deacetylation to induce macroautophagy and LC3-associated microautophagy, which are necessary for cells to eliminate cytoplasmic DNA and degrade lysosome membrane proteins, respectively. Taken together, these findings reveal that ATG7 acetylation acts as a critical rheostat in controlling LC3 lipidation and related cellular processes.Abbreviations: AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; ATG: autophagy-related; cGAMP: cyclic GMP-AMP; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; CREBBP/CBP: CREB binding protein; EGF: epidermal growth factor; EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor; EP300/p300: E1A binding protein p300; IFNB1: interferon beta 1; ISD: interferon stimulatory DNA; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MCOLN1/TRPML1: mucolipin TRP cation channel 1; MEF: mouse embryonic fibroblast; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NAM: nicotinamide; PE: phosphatidylethanolamine; PTM: post-translational modification; RB1CC1/FIP200: RB1 inducible coiled-coil 1; SIRT: sirtuin; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TSA: trichostatin A; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; WIPI2: WD repeat domain, phosphoinositide interacting 2; WT: wild-type.
Recurrent miscarriage (RM) is a distressing and complicated adverse pregnancy outcome. It is commonly recognized that insufficient decidualization could result in RM, but the molecular mechanisms of decidual impairment are still not fully understood. Thus, this study aimed to identify novel key genes potentially involved in RM and explore their roles played in endometrial decidualization.Initially, a combinative analysis of decidual and mid-secretory endometrial transcriptomes was performed to discover hub genes involved in the etiology of RM. And the expression levels of hub genes were evaluated in both primary decidual stromal cells (DSCs) and decidual tissues. Subsequently, the immortalized human endometrial cell line, T-HESCs, was used to investigate whether FXYD1 overexpression affects decidualization by regulating Na/K-ATPase activity.FXYD domain containing ion transport regulator 1 (FXYD1) was identified as a hub gene in the pathogenesis of RM through various bioinformatic methods. Abnormally increased FXYD1 expression was observed in DSCs and decidual tissues from RM patients compared to that of the normal group. Furthermore, in vitro decidualization was obviously inhibited by the overexpression of FXYD1. Additionally, Na/K-ATPase activity was significantly elevated during decidualization, whereas overexpression of FXYD1 reduced Na/K-ATPase activity. Bufalin, a Na/K-ATPase inhibitor, showed an effectively inhibitory effect on decidualization.Collectively, FXYD1 was discovered as a hub gene associated with RM, and its expression levels in RM patients were significantly upregulated. Increased FXYD1 expression might lead to decidualization defects by reducing Na/K-ATPase activity, of which presented a novel prospective treatment target for RM.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Inflammasome activation drives pyroptotic cell death and the release of inflammatory cytokines, and many diseases involve its overactivation. Zinc is essential for all organisms as a trace element, but its functions in innate immunity remain undefined. Here, we reported that Zn2+ inhibits caspase-1 to hinder inflammasome activation. We first identified the zinc exporter solute carrier family 30 member 1 (SLC30A1) as an inflammasome regulator, using a genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9-mediated screen. SLC30A1 deficiency suppressed multiple inflammasomes by increasing intracellular levels of Zn2+, which bound and inhibited caspase-1 at its active site residues H237, C244 and C285. Mutation of these residues almost completely blocked zinc binding. Similarly, Zn2+ also inhibited caspase-4/5/11-mediated noncanonical inflammasome activation. Importantly, zinc supplementation significantly relieved cecal ligation and puncture (CLP)-induced sepsis, Imiquimod (IMQ)-induced psoriasis and Alzheimer's disease. Thus, zinc might be used to treat inflammasome-related diseases as a broad-spectrum inflammasome inhibitor.Copyright: © 2024 Gong et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Condyloma acuminatum (CA), which is a highly contagious sexually transmitted illness generated by human papillomavirus (HPV) infection, is characterized by abnormal proliferation of keratinocytes resulting in verrucous lesions. Although solute carrier family 30 member 1 (ZNT1) is highly expressed in CA tissues, the function of ZNT1 in CA remains unclear.HPV transfection was performed in HaCaT to simulate the CA pathological environment. The mRNA and protein levels were monitored using RT-qPCR and immunoblotting. Cell viability was found using the MTT test. Cell invasion and migration were probed using the transwell and wound healing.ZNT1 expression was up-regulated in CA tissues, and HPV transfection increased the expression of ZNT1. Overexpression of ZNT1 promoted the proliferation, migration and invasion of Human immortalized keratinocyte (HaCaT) transfected with HPV. Meanwhile, ZNT1 knockdown repressed the proliferation, migration and invasion of HaCaT that HPV transfected. Further research displayed that ZNT1 promoted the proliferation, migration and invasion of HaCaT transfected with HPV through the PI3K/Akt pathway.Our research confirmed that ZNT1 regulated the proliferation, migration and invasion of HaCaT transfected with HPV through the PI3K/Akt pathway, providing a new target for the effective remedy of CA.Copyright: © 2024 Indian Journal of Dermatology.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a digestive tract cancer with high mortality and poor prognosis, especially in China. Current chemotherapeutic drugs lead to poor prognosis, low efficacy, and high side effects due to weak targeting specificity and rapidly formed multidrug resistance (MDR). Based on the previous studies on the doxorubicin (DOX) formulation for cancer targeting therapy, we developed a novel DOX delivery formulation for the targeting chemotherapy of HCC and DOX resistant HCC. HCSP4 was previously screened and casein kinase 2α (CK2α) was predicted as its specific target on HCC cells in our lab. In the study, miR125a-5p was firstly predicted as an MDR inhibiting miRNA, and then CK2α was validated as the target of HCSP4 and miR125a-5p using CK2α-/-HepG2 cells. Based on the above, an HCC targeting and MDR inhibiting DOX delivery liposomal formulation, HCSP4/Lipo-DOX/miR125a-5p was synthesized and tested for its HCC therapeutic efficacy in vitro. The results showed that the liposomal DOX delivery formulation targeted to HCC cells specifically and sensitively, and presented the satisfied therapeutic efficacy for HCC, particularly for DOX resistant HCC. The potential therapeutic mechanism of the DOX delivery formulation was explored, and the formulation inhibited the expression of MDR-relevant genes including ATP-binding cassette subfamily B member 1 (ABCB1, also known as P-glycoprotein), ATP-binding cassette subfamily C member 5 (ABCC5), enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2), and ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit beta 1 (ATP1B1). Our study presents a novel targeting chemotherapeutic drug formulation for the therapy of HCC, especially for drug resistant HCC, although it is primarily and needs further study in vivo, but provided a new strategy for the development of novel anticancer drugs.© 2024 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
HCC is closely associated with inflammation and immune modulation, and combined chemotherapy with other strategies is under extensive investigation to achieve better efficacy. HCC is accompanied by zinc (Zn) deficiency. This study aims to understand how Zn could affect macrophage function and its application for HCC therapy.Zn 2+ and the Zn transporter 1 (ZNT1, solute carrier family 30 member 1) were markedly reduced in intrahepatic macrophages from patients with HCC and from mouse liver tumors. Lower ZNT1 expression was associated with higher IL-6 production and shorter survival time in patients with HCC. Critically, ZNT1 regulated endosomal Zn 2+ levels for endocytosis of toll-like receptor 4 and programmed cell death ligand 1, thereby decreasing macrophage-induced inflammation and immunosuppression to protect from liver tumors. Myeloid-specific deletion of ZNT1 in mice increased chronic inflammation, liver fibrosis, tumor numbers, and size. Notably, Zn supplementation could reduce inflammation and surface programmed cell death ligand 1 expression in macrophages with the increased CD8 + T cell cytotoxicity, which synergized the antitumor efficacy of Sorafenib/Lenvatinib.Our study proposes a new concept that ZNT1 and Zn regulate endosome endocytosis to maintain surface receptors, and Zn supplements might be synergized with chemotherapy to treat inflammation-associated tumors, especially those containing programmed cell death ligand 1 + myeloid cells.Copyright © 2023 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.
Enhancing meat production and quality is the eternal theme for pig breeding industries. Fat deposition has always been the focus of research in practical production because it is closely linked to pig production efficiency and pork quality. In the current study, multi-omics techniques were performed to explore the modulatory mechanisms of backfat (BF) accumulation at three core developmental stages for Ningxiang pigs. Our results identified that 15 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 9 significantly changed metabolites (SCMs) contributed to the BF development via the cAMP signaling pathway, regulation of lipolysis in adipocytes, and biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids. Herein, we found a series of candidate genes such as adrenoceptor beta 1 (ADRB1), adenylate cyclase 5 (ADCY5), ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit beta 1 (ATP1B1), ATPase plasma membrane Ca2+ transporting 3 (ATP2B3), ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit alpha 2 (ATP1A2), perilipin 1 (PLIN1), patatin like phospholipase domain containing 3 (PNPLA3), ELOVL fatty acid elongase 5 (ELOVL5) and metabolites like epinephrine, cAMP, arachidonic acid, oleic acid, linoleic acid, and docosahexaenoic acid existed age-specificeffects and played important roles in lipolysis, fat accumulation, and fatty acid composition. Our findings provide a reference for molecular mechanisms in BF tissue development and the optimization of carcass quality.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy (FECD) is an age-related, bilateral corneal condition, characterized by apoptosis of the terminally differentiated endothelial cells. A genome-wide association study (GWAS) conducted in the European population in 2017, identified a new single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), rs1200114 in the intergenic region between long intergenic non-protein coding RNA 970 (LINC00970) and ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit beta 1 (ATP1B1). The major focus of the current study is to understand the genetic association of this intergenic variant, rs1200114 with FECD in the Indian population. Sanger sequencing followed by statistical analysis indicated a significant difference in the allelic frequency between controls and cases (P = 0.01) with the minor allele 'G' of rs1200114 imparting a 1.64 fold increased risk for the disease. Luciferase reporter assay revealed no significant difference in the luciferase activity between allele 'A' and 'G' of rs1200114. However, quantitative RT-PCR assay revealed lower expression of ATP1B1 in FECD subjects compared with controls (P = 0.007). Therefore, to find whether another nearby SNP imparts regulatory effect, tag SNP association analysis was carried out; which revealed a significant association of another SNP, rs1200108, present in the intergenic region between LINC00970 and ATP1B1 with FECD (P = 0.009). The protective allele 'A' of rs1200108 displayed reduced reporter activity as opposed to the risk allele 'G' (P = 0.014). Furthermore, haplotype 'A-A' of rs1200108 - rs1200114 was present at a higher frequency in control subjects, suggesting it as a protective haplotype. Altogether, this study inferred the genetic association of rs1200114 and rs1200108 along with the decreased expression of ATP1B1 related to FECD pathogenesis in the Indian population.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Rapamycin has been reported to inhibit the progression of diverse tumor cells. However, little is known about the functions of rapamycin in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). A Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay was conducted to evaluate cell viability. Flow cytometry analysis was employed to analyze cell apoptosis and cell cycle process. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) assay was performed to determine the levels of circRNA_0094100 (circ_0094100) and microRNA-217 (miR-217). Western blot assay was carried out to measure the protein levels of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), cyclin D1, B-cell lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2) and ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit beta 1 (ATP1B1). Dual-luciferase reporter and RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) assays were conducted to verify the relationship between miR-217 and circ_0094100 or ATP1B1. Rapamycin treatment suppressed AML cell viability and promoted apoptosis in a dose-dependent way. Circ_0094100 was elevated in AML tissues and cells. Moreover, the circ_0094100 level was reduced in AML cells treated with rapamycin. Circ_0094100 knockdown further inhibited rapamycin-mediated AML cell viability and cell cycle and promoted cell apoptosis. Circ_0094100 silencing reduced the protein levels of PCNA, cyclin D1, and Bcl-2 in rapamycin-treated AML cells. For mechanism analysis, circ_0094100 acted as the sponge for miR-217 and miR-217 inhibition reversed circ_0094100 knockdown-mediated malignant behaviors of rapamycin-treated AML cells. Furthermore, miR-217 overexpression suppressed cell viability and cell cycle and facilitated apoptosis in rapamycin-exposed AML cells, which were abolished by increasing ATP1B1. Rapamycin inhibited AML cell viability and cell cycle process and induced apoptosis through regulation of the circ_0094100/miR-217/ATP1B1 axis.Copyright © 2022 ISEH -- Society for Hematology and Stem Cells. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The antiviral innate immune responses are crucial steps during host defense and must be strictly regulated, but the molecular mechanisms of control remain unclear. In this study, we report increased expression of human ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit β 1(ATP1B1) after DNA and RNA virus infections. We found that the expression of ATP1B1 can inhibit viral replication and increase the levels of IFNs, IFN-stimulated genes, and inflammatory cytokines. Knockdown of ATP1B1 by specific short hairpin RNA had the opposite effects. Upon viral infection, ATP1B1 was induced, interacted with TRAF3 and TRAF6, and potentiated the ubiquitination of these proteins, leading to increased phosphorylation of downstream molecules, including TGF-β-activated kinase 1 (TAK1) and TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1). These results reveal a previously unrecognized role of ATP1B1 in antiviral innate immunity and suggest a novel mechanism for the induction of IFNs and proinflammatory cytokines during viral infection.Copyright © 2021 by The American Association of Immunologists, Inc.
This study employed primary uterine epithelial cells from Sansui ducks (Anas platyrhynchos) at the peak of lay as an in vitro model. Using shRNA-mediated interference, we generated single knockdowns of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1 (IP3R1), inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 2 (IP3R2), and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 3 (IP3R3), as well as dual knockdowns of IP3R1+IP3R2, IP3R1+IP3R3, and IP3R2+IP3R3, and a triple knockdown targeting all three IP3R isoforms. These treatments were designed to elucidate the regulatory effects of IP3R expression on intracellular calcium ion (Ca²⁺) concentrations and the expression of genes related to ion transport. After 48 h of transfection, fluorescence labeling with the Fluo-3/AM probe showed that intracellular Ca²⁺ concentrations were significantly higher in all treatment groups compared with the control group (P < 0.01). The real-time qPCR (RT-qPCR) analysis of ten ion transport-related genes revealed that the expression of transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 6 (TRPV6), ORAI calcium release-activated calcium modulator 1 (ORAI1), epithelial sodium channel gamma subunit (SCNN1G), solute carrier family 8 member A1 (SLC8A1), ATPase plasma membrane Ca²⁺-transporting 1 (ATP2B1), and ATPase sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum Ca²⁺-transporting 2 (ATP2A2) was significantly downregulated in multiple IP3R knockdown groups compared with the NC group (P < 0.05). The expression levels of these genes also showed significant correlations with intracellular Ca²⁺ levels (P < 0.05), including both positive and negative correlations. In the IP3R1 knockdown group, TRPV6, ORAI1, and SCNN1G were negatively correlated with Ca²⁺ concentration (P < 0.05). In contrast, ATP2B1 exhibited a positive correlation with Ca²⁺ in the IP3R2 knockdown group (P < 0.01), whereas SLC8A1 expression was positively correlated with Ca²⁺ in the IP3R1 + IP3R3 dual knockdowns group (P < 0.05). Collectively, the knockdown of IP3Rs not only reduced intracellular calcium ion (Ca²⁺) release but also altered the expression of ion channel-related genes, thereby affecting Ca²⁺ homeostasis. These findings provide new molecular evidence for the regulatory role of IP₃Rs in ion transport networks and Ca²⁺ balance in uterine epithelial cells of laying ducks.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Arsenic is a widespread trace element that adversely affects fish health and growth. This study investigated the potential of a genistein-fortified diet (500 mg/kg) to mitigate effects of arsenic exposure in Oreochromis niloticus. The 60-d experiment consisted of four groups: control diet, genistein (GE; 500 mg/kg) diet, and these two same diets but concurrent waterborne exposure to 10 μg/L As₂O₃. Arsenic exposure induced growth inhibition with decreased growth hormone concentration, reduced digestive enzyme (trypsin, amylase, and lipase) activities, and reduced total intestinal bacterial and Lactobacillus count. A decrease in the activity of superoxide dismutase and catalase, and reduced glutathione content with increased malondialdehyde concentration were also measured in the arsenic-exposed fish. Arsenic exposure also decreased gene expression of intestinal transporters (solute carrier family (slc) 26a6, slc4a4, ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit alpha 3, and slc15a1a) and the tight junction protein zonula occludens-1. Furthermore, up-regulation of the inflammatory (nuclear factor kappa β65, interleukin-1β, interleukin-6, and interleukin-8) and apoptotic (caspase-3 and bcl-2 associated X-protein) gene expression markers was noted in the arsenic-exposed fish. Feeding the arsenic-exposed fish on a GE diet improved their growth and intestinal microenvironment and mitigated the changes in oxidative stress, inflammatory, and apoptotic cascades. Notably, GE supplementation could enhance the Nile tilapia growth performance during arsenic exposure possibly by improving intestinal structure and function.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
BACKGROUND: Solute carrier family 8 member A1 antisense RNA 1 (SLC8A1-AS1) is a long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) that has been identified in recent years and is implicated in the progression of various cancers, including glioma and thyroid cancer. However, its role in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) remains poorly understood. The aim of this study is to investigate the function of SLC8A1-AS1 in OSCC and to explore its potential mechanisms of action. METHODS: The TCGA database was utilized to analyze the expression and prognostic significance of SLC8A1-AS1 in OSCC. QRT-PCR was employed to measure the gene expression levels of SLC8A1-AS1 and its target genes. CCK-8, EdU staining, wound healing, and Transwell assays were conducted to assess the effects of SLC8A1-AS1 on OSCC cells. Dual-luciferase reporter gene and RNA pull-down assays were performed to verify the interactions between SLC8A1-AS1 and its target genes. Student’s t-test or one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was applied for data analysis in this study. RESULTS: SLC8A1-AS1 was found to be downregulated in OSCC tissues and cell lines. Overexpression of SLC8A1-AS1 inhbited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of OSCC cells. Bioinformatics analyses predicted that miR-1305 is a target of SLC8A1-AS1, while ESRRG is a target of miR-1305. Furthermore, the inhibitory effects of SLC8A1-AS1 on the proliferation, migration, and invasion of OSCC cells were reversed by the introduction of miR-1305 mimics. CONCLUSION: SLC8A1-AS1 inhibits the progression of OSCC by modulating the miR-1305/ESRRG axis.
Huntington disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disease caused by a trinucleotide repeat expansion in the HTT gene encoding an elongated polyglutamine tract in the huntingtin (HTT) protein. The use of biomarkers has become a major component in preclinical studies focusing on HTT lowering strategies. Quantification of soluble mutant HTT (mHTT) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) has served as a pharmacodynamic readout and as potential disease progression biomarker. However, development of future assays for HTT measurement from other biofluids, such as blood, will facilitate the access to human samples since CSF collection is an invasive outpatient procedure. Brain cells, in particular neurons, secrete extracellular vesicles (EVs) that cross the blood-brain barrier and circulate in blood. Importantly, EVs have been identified to be involved in HTT export from cells to the extracellular space. However, it is unknow which vesicle subtype correlates better with HD progression. Our work investigates the potential of EVs as non-invasive sources of clinical biomarkers in liquid biopsies. We developed an optimized ultracentrifugation protocol for the purification of ectosomes and exosomes from human samples and plasma of humanized HD mouse models. Ectosomes are larger vesicles that bud from the plasma membrane of cells, whereas exosomes originate from multivesicular bodies and are afterwards released to the extracellular space. Consistent with previous published data in other model systems, ectosomes isolated from plasma of the Hu97/18 mouse model contain both wild-type (wt) and mHTT in higher levels than in exosomes. Similar results were observed in media from HD induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs)-differentiated neurons and in Hu97/18 primary neuronal cultures. Interestingly, we also found higher levels of HTT transcripts in this EV subtype. We further demonstrate that initial storage of the samples using a slow freezing protocol preserves HTT and EV protein marker levels, highlighting the importance of sample preparation for EV isolation and analysis. Our results also show that plasma contains vesicles originated from neuronal cells that can be isolated using neuron-specific markers, such as ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit alpha 3 (ATP1A3), allowing the evaluation of HTT levels in the brain through vesicles circulating in the blood. Overall, our results demonstrate that HTT protein measurement from EVs isolated from blood can be a potential less-invasive disease biomarker. We also demonstrate that EVs subtypes contain different HTT protein and RNA levels, important for the development of consistent and reliable biomarkers. Further characterization of neuron-specific EVs content from patient-derived biofluids will lead to the development of novel clinical biomarkers and for evaluation of therapeutic strategies.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is associated with interoceptive processing dysfunctions, but the molecular mechanisms underlying this dysfunction are poorly understood. This study combined brain neuronal-enriched extracellular vesicle (NEEV) technology and serum markers of inflammation and metabolism with Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) to identify the contribution of gene regulatory pathways, in particular micro-RNA (miR) 93, to interoceptive dysfunction in MDD. Individuals with MDD (n = 41) and healthy comparisons (HC; n = 35) provided blood samples and completed an interoceptive attention task during fMRI. EVs were separated from plasma using a precipitation method. NEEVs were enriched by magnetic streptavidin bead immunocapture utilizing a neural adhesion marker (L1CAM/CD171) biotinylated antibody. The origin of NEEVs was validated with two other neuronal markers - neuronal cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) and ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit alpha 3 (ATP1A3). NEEV specificities were confirmed by flow cytometry, western blot, particle size analyzer, and transmission electron microscopy. NEEV small RNAs were purified and sequenced. Results showed that: (1) MDD exhibited lower NEEV miR-93 expression than HC; (2) within MDD but not HC, those individuals with the lowest NEEV miR-93 expression had the highest serum concentrations of interleukin (IL)-1 receptor antagonist, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor, and leptin; and (3) within HC but not MDD, those participants with the highest miR-93 expression showed the strongest bilateral dorsal mid-insula activation during interoceptive versus exteroceptive attention. Since miR-93 is regulated by stress and affects epigenetic modulation by chromatin re-organization, these results suggest that healthy individuals but not MDD participants show an adaptive epigenetic regulation of insular function during interoceptive processing. Future investigations will need to delineate how specific internal and external environmental conditions contribute to miR-93 expression in MDD and what molecular mechanisms alter brain responsivity to body-relevant signals.© 2024. The Author(s).
Previous studies have reported the therapeutic effects of oleuropein (OP) consumption on the early stage of diabetic nephropathy and diabetic cardiomyopathy. However, the efficacy of OP on the long-course of these diabetes complications has not been investigated. Therefore, in this study, to investigate the relieving effects of OP intake on these diseases, and to explore the underlying mechanisms, db/db mice (17-week-old) were orally administrated with OP (200 mg/kg bodyweight) for 15 weeks. We found that OP reduced expansion of the glomerular mesangial matrix, renal inflammation, renal fibrosis, and renal apoptosis. Meanwhile, OP treatment exerted cardiac anti-fibrotic, anti-inflammatory, and anti-apoptosis effects. Notably, transcriptomic and bioinformatic analyses indicated 290 and 267 differentially expressed genes in the kidney and heart replying to OP treatment, respectively. For long-course diabetic nephropathy, OP supplementation significantly upregulated the cyclic guanosine monophosphate-dependent protein kinase (cGMP-PKG) signaling pathway. For long-course diabetic cardiomyopathy, p53 and cellular senescence signaling pathways were significantly downregulated in response to OP supplementation. Furthermore, OP treatment could significantly upregulate the transcriptional expression of the ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit alpha 3, which was enriched in the cGMP-PKG signaling pathway. In contrast, OP treatment could significantly downregulate the transcriptional expressions of cyclin-dependent kinase 1, G two S phase expressed protein 1, and cyclin B2, which were enriched in p53 and cellular senescence signal pathways; these genes were confirmed by qPCR validation. Overall, our findings demonstrate that OP ameliorated long-course diabetic nephropathy and cardiomyopathy in db/db mice and highlight the potential benefits of OP as a functional dietary supplement in diabetes complications treatment.
Parkinson's disease (PD) stands as the most prevalent degenerative movement disorder, marked by the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of the midbrain. In this study, we conducted a transcriptome analysis utilizing post mortem mRNA extracted from the substantia nigra of both PD patients and healthy control (CTRL) individuals. Specifically, we acquired eight samples from individuals with PD and six samples from CTRL individuals, with no discernible pathology detected in the latter group. RNA sequencing was conducted using the TapeStation 4200 system from Agilent Technologies. A total of 16,148 transcripts were identified, with 92 mRNAs displaying differential expression between the PD and control groups. Specifically, 33 mRNAs were significantly up-regulated, while 59 mRNAs were down-regulated in PD compared to the controls. The identification of statistically significant signaling pathways, with an adjusted p-value threshold of 0.05, unveiled noteworthy insights. Specifically, the enriched categories included cardiac muscle contraction (involving genes such as ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit beta 2 (ATP1B2), solute carrier family 8 member A1 (SLC8A1), and cytochrome c oxidase subunit II (COX2)), GABAergic synapse (involving GABA type A receptor-associated protein-like 1 (GABARAPL1), G protein subunit beta 5 (GNB5), and solute carrier family 38 member 2 (SLC38A2), autophagy (involving GABARAPL1 and tumor protein p53-inducible nuclear protein 2 (TP53INP2)), and Fc gamma receptor (FcγR) mediated phagocytosis (involving amphiphysin (AMPH)). These findings uncover new pathophysiological dimensions underlying PD, implicating genes associated with heart muscle contraction. This knowledge enhances diagnostic accuracy and contributes to the advancement of targeted therapies.
ATP1A3 is a gene that encodes the ATPase Na + /K + transporting subunit alpha-3 isoenzyme that is widely expressed in GABAergic neurons. It maintains metabolic balance and neurotransmitter movement. These pathways are essential for the proper functioning of the nervous system. A mutation in the ATP1A3 gene demonstrates remarkable genotype-phenotype heterogeneity.To provide insight into patients with ATP1A3 mutation.These cases were identified using next generation sequencing. The patients' clinical and genetic data were retrieved. Detailed revision of the literature was conducted to illustrate and compare findings. The clinical, genetical, neuroimaging, and electrophysiological data of all pediatric patients were extracted.The study included 14 females and 12 males in addition to two novel females cases. Their mean current age is 6.3 ± 4.24 years. There were 11.54% preterm pregnancies with 5 cases reporting pregnancy complications. Mean age of seizure onset was 1.07 ± 1.06 years. Seizure semiology included generalized tonic-clonic, staring spells, tonic-clonic, and others. Levetiracetam was the most frequently used Anti-seizure medication. The three most frequently reported classical symptoms included alternating hemiplegia of childhood (50%), cerebellar ataxia (50%), and optic atrophy (23.08%). Non-classical symptoms included dystonia (73.08%), paroxysmal dyskinesias (34.62%), and encephalopathy (26.92%). Developmental delay was reported among 84.62% in cognitive, 92.31% in sensorimotor, 80.77% in speech, and 76.92% in socioemotional. EEG and MRI were non-specific.Our study demonstrated high heterogeneity among patients with pathogenic variants in the ATP1A3 gene. Such variation is multifactorial and can be a predisposition of wide genetic and clinical variables. Many patients shared few similarities in their genetic map including repeatedly reported de novo, heterozygous, mutations in the gene. Clinically, higher females prevalence of atypical presentation was noted. These findings are validated with prior evidence and the comprehensive analysis in this study.© 2024. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Genetics Society of Korea.
Neuron-derived extracellular vesicles (NDEVs) are potential biomarkers of neurological diseases although their reliable molecular target is not well established. Here, we demonstrate that ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit alpha 3 (ATP1A3) is abundantly expressed in extracellular vesicles (EVs) isolated from induced human neuron, brain, cerebrospinal fluid, and plasma in comparison with the presumed NDEV markers NCAM1 and L1CAM by using super-resolution microscopy and biochemical assessments. Proteomic analysis of immunoprecipitated ATP1A3+ brain-derived EVs shows higher enrichment of synaptic markers and cargo proteins relevant to Alzheimer's disease (AD) compared to NCAM1+ or LICAM+ EVs. Single particle analysis shows the elevated amyloid-β positivity in ATP1A3+ EVs from AD plasma, providing better diagnostic prediction of AD over other plasma biomarkers. Thus, ATP1A3 is a reliable target to isolate NDEV from biofluids for diagnostic research.
Spasmolytic polypeptide-expressing metaplasia (SPEM) is characterized by mucus cell morphologies at the base of gastric glands, which is considered advanced SPEM when accompanied with an increase in transcripts associated with intestinal-type gastric cancer. Weiwei decoction (WWD) was modified from "Si-Jun-Zi Tang," which has been used for thousands of years in China against gastric atrophy and metaplasia.To investigate the effects and potential mechanisms of WWD against advanced SPEM.Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry was employed to analyze the constituents of WWD. Five-month-infected Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) Sydney strain 1 C57BL/6J mice and 6-week-old ATPase H+/K+ transporting subunit alpha-knockout mice (Atp4a-/-) were given folic acid (1.95 mg/kg) or WWD (13.65 g/kg, 27.30 g/kg, 54.60 g/kg) by gavage for one month.WWD demonstrated beneficial effects on gastric mucosal pathology and mucus secretion. In H. pylori-infected mice, WWD effectively reduced the expression of GSII and inhibited the mRNA levels of key markers associated with advanced SPEM, including Clu, Cftr, Wfdc2, Dmbt1, and Gpx2. Similarly, in Atp4a-/- mice, WWD significantly decreased the expressions of GSII and Clusterin, and inhibited the mRNA levels of Wfdc2, Cftr, Dmbt1, and Gpx2. Notably, WWD restored the expression of markers for chief cells (PGC, GIF) and parietal cells (ATP4A), particularly in the medium- and high-dose groups, indicating its potential anti-atrophy effect on H. pylori-infected and Atp4a-/- mice. WWD administration resulted in a decline in TFF2 expression to baseline levels, suggesting that the mucous protection mediated by TFF2 was unaffected. Furthermore, the infiltration of CD163+F4/80+ M2 macrophages in the gastric mucosa of H. pylori-infected mice was reduced after WWD treatment, indicating a potential modulatory role of WWD on M2 macrophages.WWD exerted protective effects against SPEM in H. pylori-infected and Atp4a-/- mice. The optimal doses of WWD were found to be medium doses in H. pylori-infected mice and high doses in Atp4a-/- mice. These effects include inhibition of transcripts associated with intestinal-type gastric adenocarcinoma, restoration of ATP4A and PGC expression, and reduction of M2 macrophage infiltration. These findings provide valuable insights into the therapeutic effects of WWD on advanced SPEM and highlight its potential as a treatment option.Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Conventional treatments for bladder cancer exhibit various limitations. Therefore, natural products, such as jujuboside A (JuA), have been explored for their multi-target effects and low toxicity. However, the specific effects of JuA in bladder cancer remain unclear.To determine whether JuA affects mitochondrial energy metabolism and apoptosis in bladder cancer cells by regulating the ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit alpha 2 (ATP1A2) expression.Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in bladder cancer were analyzed using the GSE133624 dataset. ATP1A2 overexpression and knockdown bladder cancer cell models were constructed. Cell phenotypes and markers related to apoptosis and mitochondrial energy metabolism were assessed. Moreover, targeting effects of JuA were investigated.Interleukin (IL)-6, ATP1A2, and hydroxysteroid 11-beta dehydrogenase 1 were identified as potential JuA targets, with ATP1A2 being the main target. ATP1A2 overexpression enhanced the viability and inhibited the apoptosis of bladder cancer cells and promoted mitochondrial energy metabolism in vitro, whereas ATP1A2 knockdown had the opposite effects. JuA decreased cell viability, inhibited ATP1A2 expression, and disrupted mitochondrial energy metabolism. These anticancer effects of JuA were reversed by ATP1A2 overexpression.This study elucidated the molecular mechanism by which JuA regulates mitochondrial energy metabolism and induces apoptosis in bladder cancer cells through targeted inhibition of ATP1A2. These findings reveal the crucial role of ATP1A2 in the energy metabolism and survival of bladder cancer cells, providing a new molecular perspective for a deeper understanding of the pathological mechanisms of bladder cancer.
As a typical species of Gecarcinidae, Cardisoma armatum has adapted to the terrestrial environment. Meanwhile, C. armatum with unique living habits provides an excellent model for exploring the terrestrial adaptation mechanism of crabs. In this study, we have conducted a comprehensive transcriptomic analysis of C. armatum, aiming to deepen our understanding of the adaptive mechanisms operating within two groups: the air-exposed (AE) group and the water-immersed (WI) group, over eight hours. Genes that showed differential expression about adaptation to terrestrial environments were categorized into three groups: immune regulation, antioxidant system, and ion transport. The transcriptomic analysis also revealed a significant increase in the expression of genes related to immune response, antioxidant systems, and ion transport, such as the mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathway, tumor protein 53, superoxide dismutase 1, superoxide dismutase 2, solute carrier family 9 member A3, and Na+/K+/2Cl- cotransporter, indicating that C. armatum responds positively to changes in habitat. This study aims to furnish a molecular rationale for the adaptive mechanisms that terrestrial and semi-terrestrial crab species exhibit in their terrestrial habitats, thereby contributing to a deeper understanding of their evolutionary adaptations.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
To detect the cystic fibrosis transmembrane transduction regulator (CFTR) gene mutations and congenital bilateral absence of vas deferens (CBAVD) susceptibility gene mutations in patients with CBAVD, and to explore their association with the risk of CBAVD.Whole-exome sequencing and Sanger sequencing validation were conducted on the pathogenic genes CFTR, adhesion G protein-coupled receptor G2 (ADGRG2), sodium channel epithelial 1 subunit beta (SCNN1B), carbonic anhydrase 12 (CA12), and solute carrier family 9 member A3 (SLC9A3) in thirteen cases of isolated CBAVD patients. The polymorphic loci, intron and flanking sequences of CFTR gene were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) followed by Sanger sequencing. Bioinformatics methods were employed for conservative analysis and deleterious prediction of novel susceptibility gene mutations in CBAVD. Genetic analysis was performed on the pedigree of one out of thirteen patients with CBAVD to evaluate the risk of inheritance in offspring.Exome sequencing revealed CFTR gene exon mutations in only six of the thirteen CBAVD patients, with six missense mutations c.2684G>A(p.Ser895Asn), c.4056G>C(p.Gln1352His), c.2812G>(p.Val938Leu), c.3068T>G(p.Ile1023Arg), c.374T>C(p.Ile125Thr), c.1666A>G(p.Ile556Val)), and one nonsense mutation (c.1657C>T(p.Arg553Ter). Among these six patients, two also had the CFTR homozygous p.V470 site, additionally, mutations in CFTR gene exon regions were not detected in the remaining seven patients. Within the thirteen CBAVD patients, three carried the homozygous p.V470 polymorphic site, four carried the 5T allele, two carried the TG13 allele, and ten carried the c.-966T>G site. Four CBAVD patients simultaneously carried 2-3 of the aforementioned CFTR gene mutation sites. Susceptibility gene mutations in CBAVD among the thirteen patients included one ADGRG2 missense mutation c.2312A>G(p.Asn771Ser), two SLC9A3 missense mutations c.2395T>C(p.Cys799Arg), c.493G>A(p.Val165Ile), one SCNN1B missense mutation c.1514G>A(p.Arg505His), and one CA12 missense mutation c.1061C>T (p.Ala354Val). Notably, the SLC9A3 gene c.493G>A (p.Val165Ile) mutation site was first identified in CBAVD patients. The five mutations exhibited an extremely low population mutation frequency in the gnomAD database, classifying them as rare mutations. Predictions from Mutation Taster and Polyphen-2 software indicated that the harmfulness level of the SLC9A3 gene c.493G>A (p.Val165Ile) site and the SCNN1B gene c.1514G>A (p.Arg505His) site were disease causing and probably damaging. The genetic analysis of one pedigree revealed that the c.1657C>T (p.Arg553Ter) mutation in the proband was a de novo mutation, as neither the proband's father nor mother carried this mutation. The proband and his spouse conceived a daughter through assisted reproductive technology, and the daughter inherited the proband's pathogenic mutation c.1657C>T (p.Arg553Ter).CFTR gene mutations remain the leading cause of CBAVD in Chinese patients; however, the distribution and frequency of mutations differ from data reported in other domestic and international studies, highlighting the need to expand the CFTR mutation spectrum in Chinese CBAVD patients. The susceptibility genes ADGRG2, SLC9A3, SCNN1B, and CA12 may explain some cases of CBAVD without CFTR mutations. Given the lack of specific clinical manifestations in CBAVD patients, it is recommended that clinicians conduct further physical examinations and consider scrotal or transrectal ultrasound before making a defi-nitive diagnosis. It is advisable to employ CFTR gene mutation testing in preconception genetic screening to reduce the risk of CBAVD and cystic fibrosis in offspring.
Familial hemiplegic migraine (FHM) is a rare subtype of migraine with aura. Variants in calcium voltage-gated channel subunit alpha1 A (CACNA1A), ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit alpha 2 (ATP1A2), and sodium voltage-gated channel alpha subunit 1 (SCN1A) genes have a well-established association with the development of FHM. Recent studies suggest that other genes may also have a significant role in the pathogenesis of FHM, including proline-rich transmembrane protein 2 (PRRT2). To our knowledge, there are currently no documented reports of the use of monoclonal antibodies targeting calcitonin gene-related peptide in FHM caused by a specific identified genetic mutation - and in particular not in FHM associated with PRRT2 mutations. The aim of our work is to describe the efficacy of galcanezumab as a prophylaxis treatment on patients from an Italian family consisting of six patient carriers of a PRRT2 pathogenic variant.Inclusion criteria for treatment eligibility consisted of a confirmed diagnosis of genetically confirmed FHM as defined by the International Classification of Headache Disorders, third edition, number of headache days/month ≥4, and at least two previously failed migraine prophylaxis treatments. We evaluated clinical data of patients treated with galcanezumab regarding number of headache days/month, frequency of aura, disability caused by HM using the Migraine Disability Assessment (MIDAS), attack severity through a numerical rating scale (NRS), acute medications intake, and response to acute medications at baseline (t0) and after 3 (t1) and 6 (t2) months of treatment.Three out of six family members met inclusion criteria for treatment with galcanezumab. The average number of headache days/month, acute medications, and MIDAS significantly decreased in all treated patients, as well as the average NRS score. Aura frequency reduced by ≥50% compared to the baseline in all three patients. No adverse events related to galcanezumab were reported.Galcanezumab is a valid and well-tolerated treatment option in PRRT2-associated FHM.© 2024 The Author(s). Headache: The Journal of Head and Face Pain published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Headache Society.
Propofol (Pro), a prevalent intravenous anesthetic, has recently been recognized for its potential in mitigating ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injuries. Despite a plethora of evidence suggesting the beneficial effects of low-dose Pro in renal I/R injury (RI/R), its role in modulating pyroptosis in renal tubular epithelial cells consequent to RI/R has not been thoroughly elucidated. In our investigation, we explored the therapeutic potential of Pro against pyroptosis in renal tubular epithelial cells under the duress of RI/R, employing both in vivo and in vitro models, while deciphering the intricate molecular pathways involved. Our results demonstrate an elevation in the expression of miR-143-3p, contrasted by a diminution in ATPase Na + /K + Transporting Subunit Alpha 2 (ATP1A2) under RI/R conditions. Pro effectively mitigates apoptosis in renal tubular epithelial cells induced by RI/R, principally characterized by the inhibition of pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL-)-1β and IL-18, enhancement of cellular viability, reduction in the ratio of pyroptotic cells, and suppression of nucleotide-binding domain and leucine-rich repeat-related family, pyrin domain containing 3 inflammasome activation along with the expression of cleaved caspase-1, and gasdermin D. Both knockdown and overexpression studies of miR-143-3p revealed its pivotal role in modulating RI/R-induced tubular cell pyroptosis. Notably, Pro's capacity to inhibit pyroptosis in renal tubular epithelial cells was found to be reversible following ATP1A2 knockdown. Furthermore, our study unveils miR-143-3p as a targeted regulator of ATP1A2 expression. From a mechanistic standpoint, Pro's therapeutic efficacy is attributed to its regulatory influence on miR-143-3p and ATP1A2 expression levels. In conclusion, our findings pioneer the understanding that Pro can significantly ameliorate pyroptosis in renal tubular epithelial cells in the context of RI/R, predominantly through the modulation of the miR-143-3p/ATP1A2 axis. This novel insight furnishes robust empirical support for the development of targeted therapeutics and clinical strategies in addressing RI/R.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Broflanilide is a novel pesticide that can antagonize ion channels and disrupt neurotransmitter systems in the brain. Zebrafish larvae were exposed to either 0, 1 or 10- µg/L broflanilide in the water for a period of 7 days during early development. RNA extraction was conducted on larval zebrafish for RNA-seq analysis using the Illumina NovoSeq 6000. Raw sequence data were processed through fastp and clean reads obtained by removing adapter and poly-N sequences. Alignment and differential gene expression analysis was conducted using HISAT2, StringTie assembler, and FPKM (Fragments Per Kilobase of transcript sequence per Millions base pairs sequenced). Subnetwork enrichment analysis (SNEA) revealed that exposure to 1 µg/L broflanilide altered gene networks associated with axonal injury, depression, neuroinflammation, and traumatic brain injury while exposure to 10- µg/L broflanilide resulted in changes in gene networks associated with brain infarction and ischemia, excitotoxicity, and neurogenic inflammation. In addition, genes related to MPTP-induced neurotoxicity were altered by broflanilide which has relevance for Parkinson's disease. Several transcripts were identified as being associated with a disease network link to neurodegeneration and included phospholipase A2 activating protein, calpain 1, ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit alpha 2, glia maturation factor beta, sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase 1, leucine rich repeat kinase 2, glutamate ionotropic receptor NMDA type subunit 2C, lysosomal associated membrane protein, and calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase II alpha among others. Data presented here include disease biomarkers for a novel pesticide and can be reused to refine models that describe adverse outcome pathways for neurotoxicity.© 2023 The Author(s).
The aim of this study was to describe a cohort of pediatric patients with genetically confirmed familial hemiplegic migraine (FHM). The knowledge of genotype-phenotype correlations may suggest prognostic factors associated with severe phenotypes.Hemiplegic migraine is a rare disease and data concerning the pediatric population are even more rare as they are often extrapolated from mixed cohorts.We selected patients who met International Classification of Headache Disorders, third edition criteria for FHM, who had a molecular diagnosis, and whose first attack occurred under the age of 18 years.We enrolled nine patients (seven males and two females) first referred to our three centers. Three of the nine (33%) patients had calcium voltage-gated channel subunit alpha1 A (CACNA1A) mutations, five (55%) had ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit alpha 2 (ATP1A2) mutations, and one had both genetic mutations. The patients experienced at least one aura feature other than hemiplegia during the first attack. The mean (SD) duration of HM attacks in the sample was 11.3 (17.1) h; 3.8 (6.1) h in the ATP1A2 group, and 24.3 (23.5) h in the CACNA1A group. The mean (SD, range) duration of follow-up was 7.4 (2.2, 3-10) years. During the first year from the disorder's onset, only four patients had additional attacks. Over the course of follow-up, the attack frequency overall was 0.4 attacks/year without a difference between the two groups (CACNA1A and ATP1A2).The study data show that most of our patients with early-onset FHM experienced infrequent and non-severe attacks, which improved over time. Furthermore, the clinical course revealed neither the appearance of novel neurological disorders or a deterioration of basic neurological or cognitive functioning.© 2023 The Authors. Headache: The Journal of Head and Face Pain published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Headache Society.
Tryptophan (Trp) has been shown to improve the growth and gut function of weaned piglets. Whether the growth-promoting effect of Trp is due to the improvement in nutrient transport and absorption during weaning or under conditions of inflammation has not been fully characterized. The objective of this study was to determine the effects of Trp on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced changes in glucose and amino acid (AA) transport in the rat jejunum. Twenty-four 7-week-old Sprague Dawley rats were randomly divided into one of three groups: control, LPS, and Trp + LPS. Rats were supplemented with 0 or 0.1 mg Trp per gram body weight/d in drinking water for 7 days and were intraperitoneally injected with LPS (5 mg/kg BW) on day 8. After 24 h, rats were sacrificed, and jejunum samples were isolated for the analysis of glucose and AA transport using an Ussing chamber and the expression of glucose and AA transporters. The results showed that Trp alleviated the LPS-induced increase in jejunal permeability (p < 0.05) and decrease in changes in the short-circuit current of glucose, arginine, glutamine, glutamate, glycine, histidine, leucine, lysine, taurine, threonine, and Trp (p < 0.05). Trp reversed (p < 0.05) the LPS-induced downregulation of expression of the glucose transporter SGLT1 and AA transporters solute carrier family 38 member 2 (SNAT2) and solute carrier family 7 member 8 (LAT2), as well as ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit alpha 2 (ATP1A2). However, Trp increased (p < 0.01) the LPS-induced upregulation of acidic AA transporter solute carrier family 1 member 1 (EAAT3) expression. The above findings may help to develop nutritional interventions for the differential targeting of gut nutrient transporters, aiming to improve gut function and health in the presence of inflammation in both humans and animals.
Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is characterized by abdominal aorta dilatation and progressive structural impairment and is usually an asymptomatic and potentially lethal disease with a risk of rupture. To investigate the underlying mechanisms of AAA initiation and progression, seven AAA datasets related to human and mice were downloaded from the GEO database and reanalysed in the present study. After comprehensive bioinformatics analysis, we identified the enriched pathways associated with inflammation responses, vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) phenotype switching and cytokine secretion in AAA. Most importantly, we identified ATPase Na+ /K+ transporting subunit alpha 2 (ATP1A2) as a key gene that was significantly decreased in AAA samples of both human and mice; meanwhile, its reduction mainly occurred in VSMCs of the aorta; this finding was validated by immunostaining and Western blot in human and mouse AAA samples. Furthermore, we explored the potential upstream transcription factors (TFs) that regulate ATP1A2 expression. We found that the TF AT-rich interaction domain 3A (ARID3A) bound the promoter of ATP1A2 to suppress its expression. Our present study identified the ARID3A-ATP1A2 axis as a novel pathway in the pathological processes of AAA, further elucidating the molecular mechanism of AAA and providing potential therapeutic targets for AAA.© 2022 The Authors. Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in infants and toddlers, with limited treatment options and persistent neurological sequelae. We developed a multi-pathoanatomic lesion multi-insult (MuLMI) severe TBI model in piglets that replicates age-dependent damage patterns to the cortical ribbon observed in human patients with less injury in postnatal day (PND) 7 “infant” piglets and more extensive tissue damage in PND30 “toddler” piglets. Given that neuronal chloride homeostasis influences excitability, seizure susceptibility, and edema, we examined the developmental and injury-induced regulation of key cation-chloride cotransporters and modulators: NKCC1 (sodium-potassium-2-chloride cotransporter), KCC2 (potassium-chloride cotransporter), and the regulatory kinase SPAK, which are biomarkers of neuronal chloride concentrations. This study is the first to define the spatiotemporal expression and phosphorylation profiles of these proteins in the developing piglet brain. We found a perinatal shift in the ratio of KCC2:NKCC1 across the brain, driven primarily by protein abundance, rather than transcriptional levels. We hypothesized that toddler piglets would exhibit an increase in cortical NKCC1 and SPAK causing hyperexcitability and perhaps explaining their more severe, unilateral cortical damage. Severe TBI induced a transcriptional increase in Slc12a2 (Solute Carrier Family 12 Member 2) and Stk39 (Serine Threonine Kinase 39), and a decrease in Slc12a5 (Solute Carrier Family 12 Member 5) in toddler piglets, but not infant piglets. We further found that infant piglets, not toddler piglets, upregulated SPAK and Tyrosine Receptor Kinase B (TRKB) protein in cortex after TBI, with minimal changes in NKCC1 and KCC2. However, phosphorylated NKCC1 (pNKCC1) was significantly upregulated in surviving cortical neurons after TBI in infant piglets and was unchanged in toddlers, despite more severe injury. These findings suggest that cortical neuronal NKCC1 activation may play a role in post-traumatic excitability or resilience in the immature brain and identify NKCC1 and/or SPAK as a potential therapeutic target. In human tissue, the KCC2:NKCC1 ratio also increased postnatally, and TBI caused region and cell-type specific dysregulation of pNKCC1. Our results establish piglets as a valuable model for investigating age-specific mechanisms of pediatric TBI and for testing targeted interventions, particularly for infant populations where seizure control remains a major clinical challenge.
Inland saline waters, widely distributed globally, impose stringent constraints on aquaculture owing to their high osmotic pressure, preventing most aquatic organisms from surviving. As the most extensively farmed freshwater fish worldwide, the grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella) is confined to freshwater habitats. The adaptation of this species to saline aquaculture holds significant ecological and economic potential; however, the mechanisms underlying its osmotic regulation in hypersaline environments remain poorly understood. In this study, juvenile grass carp with a mean body weight of 15.42 ± 0.96 g were subjected to acute salinity tolerance tests across six gradients (0, 4, 7, 10, 13, and 16 ppt). The 96 h median lethal salinity concentration (LC50) was first determined, followed by the evaluation of osmoregulatory dynamics through physiological-biochemical profiling and targeted quantification of salinity-responsive gene expression under acute stress conditions. Results showed mortality exhibited salinity-dependent escalation, and the LC50-96 h was 10.58 ppt. Under 24 h salinity exposure (0, 4, 7, and 10 ppt), grass carp exhibited salinity-dependent increases in serum electrolytes (Na+, Cl-, K+) and cortisol (P < 0.05). Serum osmolality remained stable at 4 ppt and 7 ppt but increased significantly at 10 ppt. Serum prolactin showed progressive decline from 7 ppt. Superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activities in the liver, kidney, and gills showed salinity-stimulated upregulation (significant at 7 and 10 ppt). Immune-related enzymes, acid phosphatase (ACP) and alkaline phosphatase (AKP), increased at 4 and 7 ppt, whereas AKP activity declined at 10 ppt. Gill Na+/K+-ATPase (NKA) activity was significantly elevated at 10 ppt (P < 0.01). Moreover, both gill and kidney structures exhibited significant alterations under 7 ppt and 10 ppt salinity stress. Specifically, the gill showed cracks in the filaments, chloride cell hyperplasia, and detachment of flattened epithelial cells; renal tubules were atrophic. The expression of ion transport-related genes NKA and solute carrier family 12 member 2 (SLC12A2) in the gills increased with increasing salinity; both genes showed significant differences at 7 ppt and 10 ppt, indicating their role in regulating osmotic pressure balance. This study provides a theoretical basis for the saline aquaculture technology and salt-tolerant variety development in grass carp.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The potential of membrane transporters activated in cancer stem cells (CSCs) as new therapeutic targets for cancer is attracting increasing interest. Therefore, the present study examined the expression profiles of ion transport-related molecules in the CSCs of esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC).Cells that highly expressed aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member A1 (ALDH1A1) were separated from OE33 cells, a human Barrett's EAC cell line, by fluorescence-activated cell sorting. CSCs were identified based on the formation of tumorspheres. Gene expression profiles in CSCs were examined by a microarray analysis.Among OE33 cells, ALDH1A1 messenger RNA levels were higher in CSCs than in non-CSCs. Furthermore, CSCs exhibited resistance to cisplatin and had the capacity to redifferentiate. The results of the microarray analysis of CSCs showed the up-regulated expression of several genes related to ion channels/transporters, such as transient receptor potential vanilloid 2 (TRPV2) and solute carrier family 12 member 2 (SLC12A2). The cytotoxicities of the TRPV2 inhibitor tranilast and the SLC12A2 inhibitor furosemide were higher at lower concentrations in CSCs than in non-CSCs, and both markedly reduced the number of tumorspheres. The cell population among OE33 cells that highly expressed ALDH1A1 also was significantly decreased by these inhibitors.Based on the present results, TRPV2 and SLC12A2 are involved in the maintenance of CSCs, and their specific inhibitors, tranilast and furosemide, respectively, have potential as targeted therapeutic agents for EAC.© 2023. Society of Surgical Oncology.
The protozoa Giardia duodenalis is a major cause of gastrointestinal illness worldwide, but underlying pathophysiological mechanisms remain obscure, partly due to the absence of adequate cellular models. We aimed at overcoming these limitations and recapitulating the authentic series of pathogenic events in the primary human duodenal tissue by using the human organoid system.We established a compartmentalized cellular transwell system with electrophysiological and barrier properties akin to duodenal mucosa and dissected the events leading to G. duodenalis-induced barrier breakdown by functional analysis of transcriptional, electrophysiological, and tight junction components.Organoid-derived cell layers of different donors showed a time- and parasite load-dependent leak flux indicated by collapse of the epithelial barrier upon G. duodenalis infection. Gene set enrichment analysis suggested major expression changes, including gene sets contributing to ion transport and tight junction structure. Solute carrier family 12 member 2 and cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator-dependent chloride secretion was reduced early after infection, while changes in the tight junction composition, localization, and structural organization occurred later as revealed by immunofluorescence analysis and freeze fracture electron microscopy. Functionally, barrier loss was linked to the adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP)/protein kinase A-cAMP response element-binding protein signaling pathway.Data suggest a previously unknown sequence of events culminating in intestinal barrier dysfunction upon G. duodenalis infection during which alterations of cellular ion transport were followed by breakdown of the tight junctional complex and loss of epithelial integrity, events involving a cAMP/protein kinase A-cAMP response element-binding protein mechanism. These findings and the newly established organoid-derived model to study G. duodenalis infection may help to explore new options for intervening with disease and infection, in particular relevant for chronic cases of giardiasis.Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) patients have a greater risk of developing colorectal cancer through inflammation-dysplasia-carcinoma sequence of transformation. The histopathological diagnosis of dysplasia is therefore of critical clinical relevance, but dysplasia may be difficult to distinguish from inflammatory changes.A proteomic pilot study on 5 UC colorectal dysplastic patients highlighted proteins differentially distributed between paired dysplastic, inflammatory and normal tissues. The best candidate marker was selected and immunohistochemistry confirmation was performed on AOM/DSS mouse model lesions, 37 UC dysplasia, 14 UC cancers, 23 longstanding UC, 35 sporadic conventional adenomas, 57 sporadic serrated lesions and 82 sporadic colorectal cancers.Differential proteomics found 11 proteins significantly more abundant in dysplasia compared to inflammation, including Solute carrier family 12 member 2 (SLC12A2) which was confidently identified with 8 specific peptides and was below the limit of quantitation in both inflammatory and normal colon. SLC12A2 immunohistochemical analysis confirmed the discrimination of preneoplastic and neoplastic lesions from inflammatory lesions in mice, UC and in sporadic contexts. A specific SLC12A2 staining pattern termed "loss of gradient" reached 89% sensitivity, 95% specificity and 92% accuracy for UC-dysplasia diagnosis together with an inter-observer agreement of 95.24% (multirater κfree of 0.90; IC95%: 0.78 - 1.00). Such discrimination could not be obtained by Ki67 staining. This specific pattern was also associated with sporadic colorectal adenomas and cancers.We found a specific SLC12A2 immunohistochemical staining pattern in precancerous and cancerous colonic UC-lesions which could be helpful for diagnosing dysplasia and cancer in UC and non-UC patients.© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Crohn’s and Colitis Organisation. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.
The heterogeneity of cancer stem cells (CSCs) within tumors presents a challenge in therapeutic targeting. To decipher the cellular plasticity that fuels phenotypic heterogeneity, we undertook single-cell transcriptomics analysis in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) to identify subpopulations in CSCs. We found a subpopulation of CSCs with ancestral features that is marked by FXYD domain-containing ion transport regulator 3 (FXYD3), a component of the Na+/K+ pump. Accordingly, FXYD3+ CSCs evolve and proliferate, while displaying traits of alveolar progenitors that are normally induced during pregnancy. Clinically, FXYD3+ CSCs were persistent during neoadjuvant chemotherapy, hence linking them to drug-tolerant persisters (DTPs) and identifying them as crucial therapeutic targets. Importantly, FXYD3+ CSCs were sensitive to senolytic Na+/K+ pump inhibitors, such as cardiac glycosides. Together, our data indicate that FXYD3+ CSCs with ancestral features are drivers of plasticity and chemoresistance in TNBC. Targeting the Na+/K+ pump could be an effective strategy to eliminate CSCs with ancestral and DTP features that could improve TNBC prognosis.
Hepatocellular cancer (HCC) has been reported to belong to one of the highly vascularized solid tumours accompanied with angiogenesis of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). KDM5A, an attractive drug target, plays a critical role in diverse physiological processes. Thus, this study aims to investigate its role in angiogenesis and underlying mechanisms in HCC. ChIP-qPCR was utilized to validate enrichment of H3K4me3 and KDM5A on the promotor region of miR-433, while dual luciferase assay was carried out to confirm the targeting relationship between miR-433 and FXYD3. Scratch assay, transwell assay, Edu assay, pseudo-tube formation assay and mice with xenografted tumours were conducted to investigate the physiological function of KDM5A-miR-433-FXYD3-PI3K-AKT axis in the progression of HCC after loss- and gain-function assays. KDM5A p-p85 and p-AKT were highly expressed but miR-433 was down-regulated in HCC tissues and cell lines. Depletion of KDM5A led to reduced migrative, invasive and proliferative capacities in HCC cells, including growth and a lowered HUVEC angiogenic capacity in vitro. Furthermore, KDM5A suppressed the expression of miR-433 by demethylating H3K4me3 on its promoterregion. miR-433 negatively targeted FXYD3. Depleting miR-433 or re-expressing FXYD3 restores the reduced migrative, invasive and proliferative capacities, and lowers the HUVEC angiogenic capacity caused by silencing KDM5A. Therefore, KDM5A silencing significantly suppresses HCC tumorigenesis in vivo, accompanied with down-regulated miR-433 and up-regulated FXYD3-PI3K-AKT axis in tumour tissues. Lastly, KDM5A activates the FXYD3-PI3K-AKT axis to enhance angiogenesis in HCC by suppressing miR-433.© 2021 The Authors. Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Accumulating evidence has suggested that extracellular vesicles (EVs) play a crucial role in lung cancer treatment. Thus, we aimed to investigate the modulatory role of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell (BMSC)-EV-derived let-7i and their molecular mechanism in lung cancer progression. Microarray-based analysis was applied to predict lung cancer-related miRNAs and their downstream genes. RT-qPCR and Western blot analyses were conducted to determine Let-7i, lysine demethylase 3A (KDM3A), doublecortin-like kinase 1 (DCLK1) and FXYD domain-containing ion transport regulator 3 (FXYD3) expressions, after which dual-luciferase reporter gene assay and ChIP assay were used to identify the relationship among them. After loss- and gain-of-function assays, the effects of let-7i, KDM3A, DCLK1 and FXYD3 on the biological characteristics of lung cancer cells were assessed. Finally, tumour growth in nude mice was assessed by xenograft tumours in nude mice. Bioinformatics analysis screened out the let-7i and its downstream gene, that is KDM3A. The findings showed the presence of a high expression of KDM3A and DCLK1 and reduced expression of let-7i and FXYD3 in lung cancer. KDM3A elevated DCLK1 by removing the methylation of H3K9me2. Moreover, DCLK1 suppressed the FXYD3 expression. BMSC-EV-derived let-7i resulted in the down-regulation of KDM3A expression and reversed its promoting role in lung cancer development. Consistently, in vivo experiments in nude mice also confirmed that tumour growth was suppressed by the BMSC-EV-derived let-7i. In conclusion, our findings demonstrated that the BMSC-EV-derived let-7i possesses an inhibitory role in lung cancer progression through the KDM3A/DCLK1/FXYD3 axis, suggesting a new molecular target for lung cancer treatment.© 2020 The Authors. Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Immunotherapies achieve durable responses in several cancers but show limited efficacy in refractory hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The mechanisms by which hepatoma cells evade immune recognition and limit immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) efficacy are incompletely defined. Here, we identified tumor-intrinsic tescalcin (TESC) as a previously unrecognized phagocytic checkpoint that contributes to immune evasion and ICB resistance in HCC. Mechanistically, H3K4 methylation drove TESC expression in hepatoma cells, facilitating cytosolic Ca2+ buffering and attenuating endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-induced calreticulin (CALR) plasma membrane exposure, an essential "eat-me" signal. Consequently, this process abrogated membrane CALR-directed phagocytosis by antigen-presenting cells (APCs), including macrophages and DCs, thereby impairing antigen presentation and subsequent T cell activation. Clinically, we found that elevated H3K4me3-TESC signaling was a promising prognostic biomarker for a poor ICB response in HCC. Importantly, in vivo disruption of this axis restored APC phagocytic function and enhanced the antitumor effects of ICB therapy. Therefore, targeting TESC-driven immune escape and its underlying epigenetic regulation may restore APC function and offer a precise therapeutic strategy to enhance immunotherapeutic efficacy in HCC.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a leading cause of visual impairment in elderly individuals and is influenced by various factors, such as age, genetics, and environmental conditions. While research into therapies for dry AMD is rapidly advancing, effective interventions are still lacking, underscoring the urgent need for new drug development. Recent studies have highlighted the multifaceted pharmacological activities of Exendin-4 (EX-4), including its anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and antiapoptotic properties, along with its role in maintaining calcium homeostasis. The precise effects of EX-4 on AMD and its immediate target remain unclear. In this study, we investigated whether EX-4 could protect against Aβ1-40-induced AMD and explored the underlying mechanism. Our findings indicated that pretreatment with EX-4 alleviated apoptosis and restored calcium homeostasis both in vivo and in vitro. To identify the target of EX-4, we employed proteome microarrays and pulldown LC‒MS/MS analyses. Our results revealed that EX-4 bound to Calcineurin-like EF-hand protein 1(CHP1), reducing CHP1 protein expression in a concentration-dependent manner. This interaction led to a subsequent reduction in apoptosis and the normalization of intracellular Ca2+ levels through the CHP1/NHE1 complex. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the inhibitory effects of EX-4 on apoptosis and calcium signaling were reversed by knocking down or overexpressing CHP1 in vitro. Finally, in AMD mice with CHP1-deficient retinas, the beneficial effects of EX-4 on apoptosis and calcium signaling were partially attenuated. In summary, our results suggest that the interaction of EX-4 with CHP1 has therapeutic potential for AMD, likely through alleviating apoptosis and restoring calcium homeostasis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study evaluated the protective effects of naringin (NG) against intestinal injury in 7-day-old piglets infected with porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV). Eighteen piglets (Duroc × Landrace × Large, body weight = 2.58 ± 0.05 kg) were divided into three treatment groups based on similar body weights and equal numbers of males and females: the blank control group (CON group), the PEDV infection group (PEDV group), and the NG intervention + PEDV infection group (NG + PEDV group) (n = 6 per group). The experiment lasted for 11 days, comprising a pre-feeding period from days 0 to 3 and a formal experimental period from days 4 to 10. On days 4-10 of the experiment, piglets in the NG + PEDV group were orally administered NG (10 mg/kg). On Day 8 of the experiment, piglets in the PEDV and NG + PEDV groups were inoculated with PEDV (3 mL, 106 50% tissue culture infective dose (TCID50) per milliliter). On day 11 of the experiment, piglets were euthanized for sample collection. PEDV infection caused significant intestinal damage, including a decreased (p < 0.05) villus height in the duodenum and ileum and an increased (p < 0.05) crypt depth in all intestinal segments. This intestinal damage was accompanied by an impaired absorptive function, as indicated by reduced (p < 0.05) serum D-xylose. Further results showed that PEDV compromised the intestinal antioxidant capacity by decreasing (p < 0.05) glutathione peroxidase and catalase activities, and it stimulated the intestinal inflammatory response by upregulating (p < 0.05) the expression of key inflammatory genes, including regenerating family member 3 gamma (REG3G; duodenum, jejunum, colon), S100 calcium binding protein A9 (S100A9; ileum, colon), interleukin 1 beta (IL-1β; ileum, colon), and S100 calcium binding protein A8 (S100A8; colon). PEDV also suppressed the intestinal lipid metabolism pathway by downregulating (p < 0.05) the ileal expression of Solute Carrier Family 27 Member 4 (SLC27A4), Microsomal Triglyceride Transfer Protein (MTTP), Apolipoprotein A4 (APOA4), Apolipoprotein C3 (APOC3), Diacylglycerol O-Acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1), and Cytochrome P450 Family 2 Subfamily J Member 34 (CYP2J34). Moreover, PEDV suppressed the intestinal antiviral ability by downregulating (p < 0.05) interferon (IFN) signaling pathway genes, including MX dynamin like GTPase 1 (MX1) and ISG15 ubiquitin like modifier (ISG15) in the duodenum; weakened intestinal water and ion transport by downregulating (p < 0.05) aquaporin 10 (AQP10) and potassium inwardly rectifying channel subfamily J member 13 (KCNJ13) in the duodenum, aquaporin 7 (AQP7) and transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 6 (TRPV6) in the ileum, and TRPV6 and transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 6 (TRPM6) in the colon; and inhibited intestinal digestive and absorptive function by downregulating (p < 0.05) phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1 (PCK1) in the duodenum and sucrase-isomaltase (SI) in the ileum. Notably, NG effectively counteracted these detrimental effects. Moreover, NG activated the IFN signaling pathway in the jejunum and suppressed PEDV replication in the colon. In conclusion, NG alleviates PEDV-induced intestinal injury by enhancing the antioxidant capacity, suppressing inflammation, normalizing the expression of metabolic and transport genes, and improving the antiviral ability.
This study investigates the role of Tescalcin (TESC) in promoting myocardial angiogenesis during adaptive cardiac hypertrophy induced by swimming exercise.Female rats were divided into a control group (CN, n = 8) and an exercise training group (ET, n = 10). RNA sequencing was conducted to identify key genes involved in exercise-induced vascular remodeling. Cardiac function was evaluated by echocardiography, while myocardial hypertrophy and capillary density were assessed through histological analysis and CD31 immunostaining. Gene and protein expression levels were measured using quantitative PCR and Western blotting, respectively.In the ET group, swimming exercise significantly increased the heart weight-to-body weight ratio and cardiomyocyte diameter, without upregulating markers of pathological hypertrophy. Capillary density and the expression of angiogenesis-related proteins (PI3K, p-AKT, VEGFA, and VEGFR2) were significantly elevated. RNA-seq analysis identified TESC as the most upregulated gene, a finding that was further validated by qPCR and Western blotting. To elucidate the underlying mechanisms, rat coronary microvascular endothelial cells (RCMECs) were assigned to six groups: control (Con), TESC overexpression (Ad-TESC), overexpression control (Ad-GFP), TESC knockdown (sh-TESC), knockdown control (sh-GFP), and TESC knockdown with IGF1 supplementation (sh-TESC+IGF). In the Ad-TESC group, endothelial cell proliferation and tube formation were enhanced via activation of the C-SRC/IGF1Rβ and PI3K/AKT/VEGFA pathways. Conversely, in the sh-TESC group, angiogenesis was suppressed, accompanied by reduced phosphorylation of C-SRC and IGF1Rβ, along with inhibition of downstream signaling. IGF1 treatment partially rescued the angiogenic activity.swimming exercise promotes myocardial angiogenesis during adaptive cardiac remodeling by activating the TESC-mediated C-SRC/IGF1Rβ/ PI3K/AKT/VEGFA signaling pathway.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is an extremely aggressive brain tumor, marked by restricted therapeutic possibilities and a generally unfavorable prognosis. GBM's complexity and heterogeneity necessitate comprehensive genetic and immunological profiling to enhance therapeutic strategies.The study integrated The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Integrative Epidemiology Unit Open Genome-Wide Association Studies (IEU OpenGWAS) data to identify genetic factors influencing GBM using expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) and genome-wide association studies (GWAS). Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis revealed 250 GBM-associated genes. A GBM risk prediction model was built using Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) and Cox regression. The research examined immune infiltration, drug response, and mutation profiles to characterize GBM molecular features. Functional enrichment and in vitro experiments validated key findings.The analysis uncovered significant genetic associations with GBM, emphasizing key genes such as follistatin-like 1 (FSTL1), FXYD domain-containing ion transport regulator 5 (FXYD5), Ras-related protein (RRAS), and ring finger protein 216 pseudogene 1 (RNF216P1). The risk model effectively categorized patients into low-risk and high-risk groups, showing significantly worse survival outcomes in the high-risk group. Immune profiling revealed differential infiltration of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), macrophages, and T cells, which correlated with the expression levels of the genes that were identified. Patients at high risk showed increased sensitivity to chemotherapeutic drugs such as dasatinib and lapatinib, while those at low risk were more responsive to elesclomol and lisitinib. Notably, key genes such as DCMP Deaminase (DCTD) and RRAS were found to regulate ferroptosis, underscoring their potential as therapeutic targets for GBM treatment.This study deepens the understanding of GBM by pinpointing critical genetic markers and elucidating their influence on the tumor immune microenvironment (TME) as well as treatment response. The risk model developed in this study holds promise for enhancing prognostic accuracy and facilitating the personalization of GBM therapy.© 2025 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury is a common cause of death. FXYD domain-containing ion transport regulator-5 (Fxyd5) is a type I membrane protein that plays a significant role in mediating cellular functions. However, the expression and function of Fxyd5 in myocardial I/R injury remain unclear.Male C57BL/6 mice (8-10 weeks) were subjected to myocardial I/R by ligating the left anterior descending coronary artery. Preventive intervention was performed using adeno-associated virus 9 (AAV9)-mediated Fxyd5 knockdown. An in vitro hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) in H9c2 cardiomyoblasts was used for validation.Myocardial I/R injury significantly upregulated Fxyd5 expression (p < 0.01). Silencing Fxyd5 markedly improved cardiac function, as evidenced by a 58.0 % increase in EF (p < 0.01) and a 54.5 % reduction in infarct size (p < 0.01). Fxyd5 knockdown also attenuated myocardial apoptosis and inflammation, demonstrated by decreased cleaved caspase-3 expression and reduced levels of IL-6 (-44.2 %) and TNF-α (-42.7 %) (p < 0.01). Mechanistically, Fxyd5 silencing suppressed NF-κB activation, and these protective effects were confirmed in vitro in H/R-treated cardiomyocytes.Fxyd5 silencing significantly attenuated I/R-induced myocardial injury, reduced infarct size, and improved cardiac function, while also decreasing apoptosis and inflammatory cytokine expression (p < 0.01). These findings indicate that Fxyd5 contributes to the pathogenesis of myocardial I/R injury and that its inhibition confers cardioprotective effects, partly through suppression of the NF-κB pathway.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Ovarian cancer (OC), as a malignant tumor that seriously endangers the lives and health of women, is renowned for its complex tumor heterogeneity. Multi-omics analysis, as an effective method for distinguishing tumor heterogeneity, can more accurately differentiate the prognostic subtypes with differences among patients with OC. The aim of this study is to explore the prognostic subtypes of OC and analyze the molecular characteristics among the different subtypes.We utilized 10 clustering algorithms to analyze the multi-omics data of OC patients from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). After that, we integrated them with ten different machine-learning methods in order to determine high-resolution molecular subgroups and generate machine-learning-driven characteristics that are both resilient and consensus-based. Following the application of multi-omics clustering, we were able to identify two cancer subtypes (CSs) that were associated with the prognosis. Among these, CS2 demonstrated the most positive predictive outcome. Subsequently, five genes that constitute the machine learning (ML)-driven features were screened out by ML algorithms, and these genes possess a powerful predictive ability for prognosis. Subsequently, the function of FXYD Domain-Containing Ion Transport Regulator 6 (FXYD6) in OC was analyzed through gene knockdown and overexpression, and the mechanism by which it affects the functions of OC was explored.Through multi-omics analysis, we ascertained that the high-risk score group exhibits a poorer prognosis and lack of response to immunotherapy. Moreover, this group is more prone to display the "cold tumor" phenotype, with a lower likelihood of benefiting from immunotherapy. FXYD6, being a crucial differential molecule between subtypes, exerts a tumor-promoting effect when knocked down; conversely, its overexpression yields an opposite outcome. Additionally, we discovered that the overexpression of FXYD6 can induce ferroptosis in OC cells, implying that a low level of FXYD6 in OC cells can safeguard them from ferroptosis. Insightful and more precise molecular categorization of OC can be achieved with a thorough examination of multi-omics data. There are significant consequences for clinical practice stemming from the discovery of risk scores since they provide a useful tool for early prognosis prediction as well as the screening of candidates for immunotherapy.Copyright © 2025 Ma, Ren, Gong, Xi, Shi, Zhao, Yin and Yang.
Gastric cancer (GC) is the third leading cause of cancer-related mortality and the fourth most prevalent malignancy globally. The high prevalence and mortality rates of GC are attributed to various factors, including drug resistance, local recurrence, and distant metastases. There is an urgent need to identify novel therapeutic targets for GC. Patient-derived xenografts (PDX) model offers unique advantages in maintaining the molecular heterogeneity and tumor microenvironment of primary tumors, offering significant advantages for the screening of personalized therapeutic targets. In this study, we established GC PDX models with metastatic potential through orthotopic transplantation and investigated the different gene expressions between primary and metastatic tumors using PCR-array analysis. We found that the metastatic tumors displayed elevated levels of FXYD domain-containing ion transport regulator 5 (FXYD5) compared to the primary tumors. Additionally, reducing FXYD5 expression was found to inhibit the invasion, metastasis, and proliferation of GC cells. Silencing FXYD5 also reversed the resistance of GC cells to doxorubicin and vincristine by modulating the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) process and the expression of multidrug resistance protein 2. This study indicates that FXYD5 is involved in GC progression and regulates chemotherapy resistance, suggesting its potential as a novel therapeutic target for the clinical treatment of GC.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
Despite improvements in therapeutic approaches, the mortality rate of gastric cancer (GC) remains unacceptably high. Evidence suggests that FXYD domain containing ion transport regulator 6 (FXYD6) is downregulated in GC. However, its exact function and the molecular mechanism in GC are still unclear. FXYD6 expression in different cell lines was estimated using RT-qPCR. Western blotting was employed for protein expression detection. Cell counting kit-8 assay, colony formation assay, and flow cytometry were implemented to assess GC cell viability, proliferation, and apoptosis, respectively. Bioinformatics analysis as well as chromatin immunoprecipitation and luciferase reporter assays were utilized for verifying FXYD6 interaction with the transcription factor Krüppel-like factor 10 (KLF10). The results showed that FXYD6 displayed a decreased level in GC cell lines. Impaired proliferative ability and enhanced apoptotic capacity were observed in GC cells overexpressing FXYD6. KLF10 expression is positively correlated with FXYD6 expression in GC samples. KLF10 binds to the FXYD6 promoter to enhance its transcription. FXYD6 depletion counteracted KLF10 upregulation-triggered reduction in GC cell proliferation and elevation in apoptosis. In conclusion, KLF10 activates FXYD6 transcription, thereby impeding GC cell proliferation and promoting cell apoptosis.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2025. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have identified numerous candidate genes for human brain-imaging phenotypes; however, the biological relevance of many of these genes remains unconfirmed. This study aimed to investigate the causal relationships among tescalcin (TESC) (a GWAS-indicated gene), hippocampal volume, Alzheimer's disease (AD), and the underlying biological mechanisms.Human transcriptional data were analyzed to confirm relative TESC expression in the hippocampus. In cell experiments, RNA-seq analysis was used to identify the potential biological pathways for TESC overexpression, and immunofluorescence imaging and cell viability assays were used to evaluate the effect of TESC overexpression on neuronal structure and survival. In animal experiments, the effects of TESC overexpression on hippocampal volume and cognitive function in normal mice and amyloid-β (Aβ)-induced AD mice were investigated by 9.4 T magnetic resonance imaging and behavioral tests. Underlying mechanisms were further assessed via western blotting and electrophysiological recordings.Human transcriptional data demonstrated that TESC is primarily expressed in the hippocampus and neurons. TESC overexpression enhanced the viability of HT22 cells and reduced Aβ-induced cell death. In mouse models, Tesc-overexpressing mice revealed increased hippocampal volume, likely owing to enhanced cell viability and long-term potentiation (LTP), and reducing apoptotic- and oxidation-induced hippocampal damage. TESC overexpression could significantly mitigate Aβ-induced hippocampal atrophy and memory impairment, potentially by reducing Aβ-induced neuronal apoptosis and LTP weakening.This study exemplifies the translation of GWAS findings into actionable biological knowledge and suggests that upregulation of TESC may offer a promising therapeutic strategy for AD.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a common and highly refractory malignancy; however, biomarkers and therapeutic targets associated with its progression remain incompletely understood. Crotonylation is an emerging lysine acylation modification that has been implicated in multiple diseases.In this study, we aimed to identify crotonylation-related prognostic genes in CCA.First, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) with consistent expression patterns were identified using the TCGA-CHOL and GSE26566 datasets. Key module genes associated with the expression patterns of known lysine crotonylation-related gene (LCRG) scores were subsequently identified through weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), and candidate genes were obtained by intersection analysis.Three prognostic genes, complement factor H (CFH), phosphatidylcholine N-methyltransferase (PEMT), and tyrosine 3-monooxygenase/tryptophan 5-monooxygenase activation protein epsilon (YWHAE), were ultimately selected to construct and validate a prognostic risk model. In addition, immune infiltration analysis revealed significant differences in mast cell abundance between the high- and low-risk groups. Moreover, the expression levels of the immune checkpoints FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3) and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) also differed between the two risk groups.These findings may have important implications for CCA immunotherapy and provide a theoretical basis for improving diagnostic and prognostic assessment in CCA.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a disease that causes significant functional impairment and high mortality, imposing a heavy economic burden on patients and society. In this in-silico study, we investigated the potential therapeutic targets and underlying mechanisms of naringenin (NAR) in SCI by integrating network pharmacology, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulation. The intersection of NAR and SCI targets was used to construct a protein-protein interaction network using the STRING database. Gene Ontology, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes, and Wiki Pathway enrichment analyses were performed using the DAVID bioinformatics resource. Finally, we used molecular docking and MD simulation to study the binding interactions between NAR and the core targets. The results show that the core targets of NAR for spinal cord injury include estrogen receptor 1, AKT serine/threonine kinase 1, B-cell lymphoma 2, PPARG, MAPK8, mechanistic target of rapamycin, protein kinase cAMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha, and HRas proto-oncogene, GTPase. These targets and associated biological processes provide multiple mechanisms supporting NAR's action. In addition, enrichment analysis indicates that the AMPK, FoxO, and PI3K-Akt-mechanistic target of rapamycin signaling pathways, autophagy, and apoptosis are the main pathways through which NAR acts in SCI. Molecular docking results show that the binding energy between NAR and key proteins ranges from -7.1 to -8.2 kcal/mol, providing a molecular basis for NAR's treatment of SCI. Molecular dynamics simulation results indicate that the AKT serine/threonine kinase 1-NAR and B-cell lymphoma 2-NAR complexes exhibit good stability. In summary, this study systematically predicts the key targets and signaling pathways through which NAR may act in SCI, providing a theoretical basis for future mechanistic and translational research. However, because the findings are based on computational analyses alone, further in vitro and in vivo validation is required.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Objective: To investigate the potential mechanism by which the mechanically sensitive ion channel protein Piezo1 responds to mechanical pressure to regulate acute inflammatory stress in periodontal tissue following dental trauma. Methods: An inflammatory model of human gingival fibroblasts (HGF) was induced using lipopolysaccharide (LPS), followed by the use of a hydrostatic pressure loading system to construct a HGF mechanical stress-inflammation composite model, simulating the mechanical microenvironment of dental trauma. The cell counting kit-8 assay, scratch test, real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR), and immunofluorescence staining were employed to assess cell viability, migration ability, inflammatory factor expression levels, and cytoskeletal morphology. The Piezo1-specific agonist Yoda1 and inhibitor Dooku1 were used to intervene in the HGF mechanical stress-inflammation composite model to evaluate inflammation-related biological behaviors of cells. Transcriptomics was used to screen the biological mechanisms by which Piezo1-mediated mechanosensation accelerates acute periodontal inflammation after dental trauma, validated by Western blotting assays. Results: A HGF mechanical stress-inflammation composite model was established using 1 g/cm² (1 g/cm2=0.01 N/cm2) hydrostatic pressure combined with 1 μg/ml LPS. Compared with the control group, cells in the model group showed significantly reduced proliferation and migration abilities, with notable increases in interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, C-C motif chemokine ligand 2, and Piezo1 mRNA expression (P<0.05). Treatment of the composite model with 5 μg/ml Yoda1 exacerbated these phenotypes, reducing the proportion of live cells at 48 h to [(37.74±0.97)%] (P<0.01) and upregulating inflammatory factor expression (P<0.01), while 5 μg/ml Dooku1 reversed these effects, increasing live cells to [(59.49±0.62)%] (P<0.01), downregulating inflammatory factor expression, and restoring cell function (P<0.05). Transcriptome sequencing indicated that mechanical stress-inflammation stimulation enhanced mechanical stress response and calcium signal release, coordinating the mechanoadaptive inflammatory microenvironment. Western blotting assays confirmed elevated protein expression of Piezo1, cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), protein kinase cAMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha, matrix metalloproteinase-3, P-AKT1, and CREB1 in the composite model group, further upregulated by Yoda1 and inhibited by Dooku1. Conclusions: Abnormal mechanical forces during dental trauma activate the mechanically sensitive ion channel protein Piezo1, triggering the AKT1/CREB1 signalling pathway, thereby driving overexpression of inflammatory factors, inhibiting cell migration, and ultimately exacerbating periodontal tissue inflammation.
Cylindrospermopsin (CDN) is a highly toxic secondary metabolite of cyanobacteria that is reported to induce severe organ toxicity. The current investigation was conducted to explore cardiotoxic potential of CDN in a dose-dependent manner. Thirty-two Sprague Dawley rats were apportioned into control, CDN low dose (0.105 μg/kg) group, CDN (0.140 μg/kg) moderate dose group, and CDN high dose (0.175 μg/kg) treated group through oral route. CDN administration induced severe disruption of sympathetic β-adrenergic pathway via suppressing the expression of cAMP responsive element-binding protein 1 (CREB1), guanine nucleotide-binding protein (GNAS), Protein Kinase CAMP-Activated Catalytic Subunit Alpha (PRKACA), β1-adrenoceptor (ADRB1)/β2-adrenoceptor (ADRB2) while upregulating the expression of phospholamban (PLN) at all the tested doses. Besides, CDN intoxication reduced HR while escalating IVSd, IVSs, PWd, PWs, LVIDd, ESV, EDV and LVIDs in a dose-response manner. The catalytic activities of HO-1, GPx, SOD, GSR, CAT, and GST were suppressed while the levels of MDA and ROS were augmented following the exposure to CDN. Additionally, CDN administration upregulated the levels of CK-MB, LDH, CRP, CPK, Troponin (I and T), and BNP. Cardiac tissues exhibited elevated levels of COX-2, NF-κB, IL-6, IL-1β, and TNF-α in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, CDN exposure induced severe myocardial disruptions including vascular congestion, myofibrillar degeneration, cytoplasmic vacuolization, extensive fibers disarray, and a high rate of inflammatory cells infiltration. These findings highlight the cardiotoxic potential of CDN at all the tested doses thereby warranting further clinical investigation to elucidate these impacts in humans.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Undifferentiated round cell sarcomas (URCSs) are tumors of bone and soft tissue that are heterogeneous in terms of driver events and diverse in their clinical course.To compare the pediatric BCL6 corepressor (BCOR) and capicua transcriptional repressor (CIC) sarcomas clinically while assessing the utility of advanced diagnostic algorithms.Forty-two histologically diagnosed undifferentiated round cell sarcomas were molecularly characterized using polymerase chain reaction assay, RNA sequencing, and/or NanoString digital bar code technology.The diagnosis of BCOR sarcoma was confirmed in 23 cases, including 17 cases of BCOR::cyclin B3 (CCNB3), 2 cases of BCOR internal tandem duplication, and single cases of BCOR::mastermind like transcriptional coactivator 3 (MAML3) and tyrosine 3-monooxygenase/tryptophan 5-monooxygenase activation protein epsilon (YWHAE)::NUT family member 2B (NUTM2B); in 2 cases, the verification was based on gene expression profiles. The primary lesion was localized intraosseously (15 cases; 65%) or originated from soft tissues (8 cases; 35%). Three-year overall survival was 96.0% ± 0.04%. The diagnosis of CIC sarcoma was confirmed in 14 cases, including 5 cases of CIC::double homeobox 4 (DUX4), 4 cases of CIC exon 21 fused to an intergenic region, 2 cases of CIC::double homeobox 4 like 9 (pseudogene) (DUX4L9) and 1 case of CIC::NUTM2B; in 2 cases, verification was based on gene expression profiles. The primary lesion was localized in soft tissues (12 cases; 86%) or intraosseously (2 cases; 14%). Three-year overall survival was 34.4% ± 16.0%.Despite the relatively favorable outcomes in BCOR sarcomas, the relapse rate is considerable, whereas pediatric patients with CIC sarcoma typically develop metastatic disease and have poor outcomes. The data provide a prospective foundation for genetically based therapeutic strategies and risk stratification.
Depression is a debilitating psychiatric disorder with high prevalence and suicide risk, imposing significant burdens on global health. Against this global health burden, the active ingredients of Gekko gecko Linnaeus (AIGG), a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), have shown empirical antidepressant effects. However, their specific pharmacological mechanisms remain unclear. This study systematically elucidated the antidepressant mechanisms of AIGG by integrating GC-MS-based component analysis, network pharmacology, molecular docking, and a corticosterone (CORT)-induced depressive mouse model. GC-MS identified 10 bioactive compounds (including fatty acids) in AIGG. Network pharmacology screening of 51 potential targets revealed significant enrichment in synaptic transmission and cAMP pathways. Molecular docking confirmed strong binding affinities between AIGG-derived compounds and key targets. In vivo experiments demonstrated that AIGG significantly reversed depression-like behaviors in both forced swim and tail suspension tests, suppressed Interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α), and elevated β-nerve growth factor (β-NGF) levels, attenuated neuroinflammatory infiltration and neuronal apoptosis in brain tissue, and upregulated protein expression of protein kinase cAMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha (PRKACA), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD95). The study confirmed that AIGG alleviates depression by activating the cAMP-PRKACA-BDNF axis to restore synaptic plasticity, providing a novel natural product-based strategy for treatment of the resistant depression.© 2025 Wiley‐VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.
In elderly patients, bone regeneration is impeded by age-related shifts in mesenchymal stem cell differentiation propensity toward adipogenesis over osteogenesis. We investigated whether DNA demethylation by 5‑aza‑2'‑deoxycytidine (5azaC) synergizes with Wnt Family Member 3A (Wnt3a) signaling to induce osteogenic potential in 3T3‑L1 pre-adipocytes, generating osteoblast-like cells.3T3‑L1 pre-adipocytes were treated with 5azaC and/or Wnt3a. Osteogenic differentiation was assessed via ALP activity, mineralization assays, and marker expression. Transcriptomic and epigenomic profiling were performed and compared with MC3T3-E1 cells. Functional relevance of candidate genes was examined using siRNA knockdown.Transcriptomic and epigenomic profiling revealed that 5azaC and Wnt3a co-treatment induced broader gene expression and methylation changes than either treatment alone, closely resembling the osteogenic profile of MC3T3-E1 pre-osteoblasts. Among the overlapping differentially methylated and steadily expressed genes, Tyrosine 3-Monooxygenase/Tryptophan 5-Monooxygenase Activation Protein Eta (Ywhah) and Tyrosine 3-Monooxygenase/Tryptophan 5-Monooxygenase Activation Protein Epsilon (Ywhae) emerged as key regulators, whose knockdown notably enhanced Alpl expression even without 5azaC.Combining 5azaC-induced demethylation with Wnt3a is a potent strategy to redirect pre-adipocytes toward osteogenesis. Identification of key targets like Ywhah and Ywhae provides mechanistic insight into trans-differentiation and suggests therapeutic potential for bone regeneration, particularly in elderly periodontal patients.
To explore the impact of intermittent theta burst stimulation (iTBS) treatment at various targets on spinal cord injury (SCI), as well as the effects of dual-target iTBS therapy on neurological functional recovery in rats with SCI and its underlying mechanisms.Using an improved Allen's method, an incomplete C6 SCI model was established. Postoperatively, the rats with SCI underwent transcranial iTBS, trans-spinal iTBS, or dual-target iTBS. Neurological functional recovery and synaptic function following SCI were evaluated through behavioral tests, footprint analysis, electrophysiological assessments, pathological staining, transmission electron microscopy, Golgi staining, and immunofluorescence staining. The expression of relevant proteins and genes was assessed using Western blotting and qRT-PCR. Proteomic and metabolomic sequencing analyses of spinal cord tissue from each group were conducted to investigate specific mechanisms. Additionally, lentivirus was used to infect primary neurons to elucidate the effect of PDE1A. Furthermore, lentivirus was applied to SCI rats to explore the influence of PDE1A on neurological and synaptic functions following SCI.Compared with the single-target iTBS group, dual-target iTBS treatment significantly improved motor function and reduced the damaged area of the spinal cord in SCI rats. Following dual-target iTBS intervention, SCI rats exhibited improvements in neural function and synaptic function. Sequencing analysis identified the protein PDE1A present in all groups, and the protein interaction network revealed that PDE1A is involved in the cAMP signaling pathway, with an increase in PDE1A expression observed after SCI. Additionally, inhibiting PDE1A promoted the expression of cAMP and protein kinase cAMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha (PRKACA) in primary neurons, thereby facilitating synapse function in primary neurons. Inhibition of PDE1A also improved neural connection and synaptic reconstruction in SCI rats.Compared with single-target iTBS treatment, dual-target iTBS treatment promotes the recovery of motor function and spinal cord tissue repair more effectively in SCI rats. Dual-target iTBS may promote neural regeneration and synaptic remodeling after SCI by regulating the PDE1A-cAMP-PKA signaling pathway, thereby improving neurological dysfunction.© 2025 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The underlying mechanisms of early onset memory deficit remain poorly understood. We tested the hypothesis that environmental enrichment (EE) can attenuate early-onset cognitive decline in a novel genetic model, the Wistar Kyoto More Immobile (WMI) inbred rat strain, which manifests the risk factors of enhanced stress reactivity and depression-like behavior compared to its nearly isogenic control, the Wistar Kyoto Less Immobile strain (WLI). Middle-aged (12 months) WMI females exhibited dramatically diminished fear and spatial memory in the contextual fear conditioning and Morris Water Maze paradigms, respectively, compared to young females of both strains and to middle-aged WLI females. Middle-aged WMI males showed a lesser, but significant, age-induced deficit. EE from 6 to 12 months of age completely reversed the memory deficits in middle-aged WMI females and reversed age-induced decreases in plasma levels of estradiol. RNA sequencing from female hippocampi revealed significant strain, age, and enrichment-induced differentially expressed genes. Among these, solute carrier family 35, member A4 (Slc35a4) and potassium inwardly rectifying channel, subfamily J, member 2 (Kcnj2) were confirmed to show hippocampal expression changes parallel to that of memory in the WMI. These genes have critical roles in the integrated stress response, cellular metabolism, and the effects of stress on neurovascular coupling, respectively. Pathway analyses revealed the involvement of oxidative phosphorylation and mitochondrial dysfunction in the hippocampal processes of aging and EE-induced reversal. These findings underscore the critical involvement of molecular stress responses in early-onset memory decline and suggest potential therapeutic targets for age-related cognitive impairment.© 2025 The Author(s). Genes, Brain and Behavior published by International Behavioural and Neural Genetics Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Mitochondria regulate cellular homeostasis in development and disease, and mitochondrial morphology plays a role in local injury signaling and wound repair. How mitochondria respond during dendrite injury remains an open fundamental question. Here we show that mitochondria contract rapidly and locally after laser dendrotomy. In the proximal intact dendrite, the extent of mitochondrial contraction diminishes with increasing distance from the injury site. We report that mitochondrial contraction is dependent on injury severity and that immediate contraction after injury results in a spatiotemporal increase in dendrite branching. Additionally, we find that mitochondrial contraction is inhibited by KCNJ2 (potassium inwardly rectifying channel subfamily J member 2), providing evidence that mitochondrial contraction is regulated by electrical activity. Mechanistically, we find that injury-induced mitochondrial contraction requires Drp1 (Dynamin related protein 1). In conclusion, these in-vivo findings characterize a dendrite response for mitochondria in neurons and provide insight into the regenerative outcomes of dendrites after injury.In-vivo dendrite injury drives local mitochondrial contraction and dendrite branching.
The radiocesium contamination of food poses a serious threat to food safety because radiocesium has a long half-life and emits harmful radiation during decay. Therefore, it is important to reduce radiocesium uptake by crops. In this study, we identified low-cesium-accumulating soybean mutants from an ethyl methanesulfonate-induced mutant population. Through the phenotypic screening of the population based on the seed cesium concentration, 10 candidate low-cesium-accumulating mutant lines were selected. Five of these exhibited significantly reduced seed radiocesium concentrations compared with the original variety, and one had accumulated an excessive amount of sodium. Since plant intracellular sodium ion homeostasis is regulated by the salt overly sensitive (SOS) pathway, sequence analysis of GmSOS1, which encodes an Na+/H+ antiporter in this pathway, revealed that the high-sodium-accumulating line contains a mutation in this gene. Additionally, two more gmsos1 mutant lines were isolated from the mutant population. In the field trial, the three independent gmsos1 mutant lines possessed lower seed cesium concentrations than the wild type. These results indicate that GmSOS1 is responsible for seed cesium accumulation, and gmsos1 mutants are potential breeding materials for reducing hazardous radiocesium accumulation in soybeans.Copyright © 2025 by JAPANESE SOCIETY OF BREEDING.
The Salt Overly Sensitive (SOS) pathway regulates intracellular sodium ion homeostasis as a salt-stress response in plants. This pathway involves three main genes designated as SOS1, SOS2 and SOS3, which are members of the Na+ /H+ exchanger (NHX), CBL-interacting protein kinase (CIPK) and Calcineurin B-like (CBL) gene families, respectively. To identify and characterize SOS genes in spinach (Spinacia oleracea), a species of the Amaranthaceae family, we conducted genome-wide identification and phylogenetic analyses of NHX, CIPK and CBL genes from four Amaranthaceae species, Arabidopsis and rice. Most Amaranthaceae genes exhibited orthologous relationships with Arabidopsis and/or rice, except a clade of Vac-type Amaranthaceae NHX genes. Phylogenetic analyses also revealed gene gain/loss events in Amaranthaceae species and the intron-less to intron-rich evolution of CIPK genes. A bacterial protein-rooted CIPK tree allowed naming most of the phylogenetic clades based on their evolutionary history. Single S. oleracea (So) SOS1, SOS2 and SOS3 proteins were identified. Direct protein-protein interaction was observed between SoSOS2 and SoSOS3 but not between SoSOS2 and SoSOS1 based on yeast two-hybrid assay. This may suggest distinct modes of action of spinach SOS proteins compared to Arabidopsis SOS proteins. Unlike SoSOS1 and SoSOS2, which were expressed at similar or higher levels in leaves than roots, SoSOS3 expression was significantly higher in roots than leaves, suggesting its greater importance in roots. The expression of SoSOS3 was upregulated in both roots and leaves under salinity compared to the control; however, SoSOS1 was only upregulated in roots. Thus, this study demonstrated the conservation of SOS pathway genes in spinach and also highlighted the complexity of SOS signaling in Amaranthaceae species.© 2020 Scandinavian Plant Physiology Society.
