A third of schizophrenia cases are resistant to antipsychotics, where clozapine is the only FDA-approved medication. Clozapine use is often limited by intolerable adverse effects. Persistent tachycardia occurs in approximately 25-54% patients receiving clozapine. Heart rate variability (HRV) is a non-invasive, clinically relevant marker of autonomic nervous system functioning. Atenolol and Ivabradine are usually prescribed for clozapine-induced tachycardia (CIT), although evidence guiding their optimal use remains limited.This study aimed to compare the effects of atenolol versus ivabradine on HRV in patients with treatment-resistant schizophrenia (TRS) receiving clozapine.This open-label randomised clinical trial, conducted at a tertiary-care center over 20 months, involved TRS patients on clozapine for more than three months and having persistent tachycardia. Twenty patients received atenolol 25mg once-daily, while twenty received ivabradine 5mg twice-daily for two months. The primary outcome was the change in the frequency domain of HRV, while the secondary outcomes were time-domains, central and peripheral blood pressure, pulse rate and treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAE).While both drugs significantly reduced pulse-rates (atenolol: -20.56±13.00, p<0.001; ivabradine: -21.855±12.873, p<0.001). Within-group analysis showed that, the atenolol group had significant improvements in high-frequency [HF] power (p=0.048) and LF/HF ratio (p=0.044), along with a non-significant trend towards increased total power (p=0.053); no significant within-group changes were observed in the ivabradine group.No significant between-group differences in HRV parameters were established between atenolol and ivabradine. Ivabradine could be a viable option in patients where atenolol is either contraindicated or not tolerated. Future larger multicentric studies are needed for greater generalisability.ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT06505668.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study investigates the role of CIT gene in uterine corpus endometrial carcinoma (UCEC) progression, focusing on its regulation by m6A methylation. Bioinformatics and experimental analyses (EdU, colony formation assay, Dot blot, MeRIP-PCR, RNA pull-down, qRT-PCR, Western Blotting, apoptosis assay) revealed that CIT was significantly overexpressed in UCEC. Mechanistically, we found that the m6A writer RBM15-mediated CIT mRNA methylation, which was then recognized by the reader IGF2BP1 to enhance CIT mRNA stability and expression. Consequently, this m6A-mediated upregulation of CIT inhibited the Hippo signaling pathway, ultimately suppressing apoptosis and promoting malignant proliferation in UCEC. These findings elucidated a novel RBM15/IGF2BP1-CIT-Hippo axis, providing new theoretical insights and potential therapeutic targets for UCEC.© 2026 the Australian and New Zealand Society for Immunology, Inc.
The ovarian cancer immunoreactive antigen domain-containing protein 1 (OCIAD1) is a mitochondrial protein implicated in mitochondrial morphology, energy metabolism, and differentiation. Although understudied, recent studies position it as a critical player in carcinogenesis and neurodegenerative disorders, making it a potentially druggable node in cellular signaling networks. However, the phosphoregulatory networks and the upstream kinases governing OCIAD1 remain unknown.A large-scale literature mining and analysis of 177 phosphoproteomic datasets with differential expression of OCIAD1 was carried out to map its phosphoregulatory network. The predominant phosphosites were determined based on localization probability, detection frequency, and differential regulation. Multipronged computational approaches were employed to gather novel candidate kinases that may target OCIAD1 phosphosites. Co-differential phosphorylation analysis was conducted with other proteins, including interactors and candidate upstream kinases, to infer functional and regulatory associations.The sites S108 and S123 emerged as predominant, together accounting for 70% of OCIAD1 phosphorylation. Co-differential phosphorylation analysis revealed associations with proteins involved in the cell cycle, DNA repair, autophagy, mitophagy, endocytosis, and apoptosis. Novel candidate kinases for OCIAD1 phosphosites were identified; notably, SRMS and YES1 emerged as potential upstream regulators of Y199. Furthermore, the phosphosites in the candidate kinases of sites, including PLK1 (T210), CDK13 (S383, S397), PRKD2 (S200), CIT (S1343), and RPS6KA3 (T577), showed strong positive co-differential regulation with OCIAD1 predominant sites, supporting their potential involvement as upstream kinases.This study presents the first systematic map of the OCIAD1 phosphoregulatory network and provides candidate upstream kinases that may contribute to its phosphorylation, which warrant further experimental validation. The strong co-differential regulation of proteins involved in autophagy, mitophagy, endocytosis, and neurodegenerative pathways, as well as of kinases that orchestrate these processes, suggests that OCIAD1 phosphoregulatory network maybe involved in mitochondrial quality control and mitochondria-associated neurodegeneration, establishing a foundation for therapeutic investigations targeting OCIAD1 signaling.Copyright © 2026 Fahma, Subair, Lubaba, Gopalakrishnan, Shivamurthy and Raju.
Background and objectives Timely transport of donor organs is a critical determinant of successful transplantation because organ viability is limited by cold ischaemic time (CIT). Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), commonly referred to as drones, have recently emerged as promising tools for rapid medical logistics. The present study describes the design, engineering validation, and field evaluation of a drone-compatible organ transport container capable of maintaining cold-chain conditions during aerial transport. Methods A multidisciplinary engineering framework integrating biomedical engineering, materials science and transplant logistics consultation was used to design a lightweight crash-resistant container. The system incorporates carbon fibre reinforced polymer (CFRP) with aluminium reinforcement for structural stability, phase change materials (PCMs) for passive thermal regulation, and embedded sensors for monitoring temperature and mechanical shocks. Structural simulations, laboratory drop tests, thermal stability experiments, and pilot drone flight trials were conducted to evaluate mechanical resilience and preservation performance. Results Finite element simulations demonstrated that the composite container could withstand anticipated operational loads with adequate safety margins. Drop tests from heights up to 18.3 m resulted in minimal structural deformation while the internal payload chamber remained protected. Thermal experiments confirmed that PCM-based cooling maintained preservation temperatures within 0-4 °C for more than 18 h. Drone flight trials using a hexacopter UAV confirmed stable payload handling and maintenance of cold-chain conditions during simulated transport. Interpretation and conclusions The prototype demonstrates proof-of-concept feasibility for drone-compatible organ transport. UAV-enabled logistics may complement existing organ transport systems by reducing delays associated with traffic congestion and coordination challenges. Further clinical validation and regulatory approvals are required before routine deployment.
Deep Brain Stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN-DBS) is an efficient treatment for advanced Parkinson's disease (PD), when oral medication no longer provides satisfactory symptom control or causes disabling side effects. However, long-term outcomes vary considerably, and reliable preoperative biomarkers remain lacking. Dopamine transporter single-photon emission computed tomography (DAT SPECT) provides an indirect in vivo measure of presynaptic striatal dopaminergic degeneration in the basal ganglia. In patients evaluated for STN-DBS, DAT SPECT with [123I]FP-CIT supported the clinical diagnosis. This study aimed to examine whether preoperative DAT SPECT predicts the long-term outcome after STN-DBS surgery.Fifty-five patients with PD underwent DAT SPECT before STN-DBS surgery. Motor symptoms were assessed in ON and OFF medication states before surgery, and at long-term follow-up, 8-14 years after surgery. Cognition was assessed before surgery and at the long-term follow-up, and clinical data were curated retrospectively from medical records.Lower DAT striatal specific binding ratio (SBR) significantly correlated with longer disease duration, indicating greater dopaminergic loss.) Reduced striatal SBR predicted increased mortality during the long-term follow-up. Regional analyses revealed that this association was driven by the caudate nucleus. Furthermore, greater caudate compared to putaminal involvement, reflected by a higher putaminal/caudate uptake ratio, was related to longer disease duration and increased mortality. Preoperative DAT SPECT measures were not associated with DBS effect, cognitive function, or depression.Dopamine transporter imaging provides valuable insight into the pathophysiology and disease progression of PD. Although DAT SPECT did not predict the therapeutic effect of STN-DBS, this study demonstrates that DAT SPECT captures aspects of disease progression and survival in PD. These results highlight the value of assessing the dopaminergic system before advanced treatment, as DAT SPECT may provide prognostic indicators that could complement the pre-operative evaluation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by S. Karger AG.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42540148
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains highly aggressive, with a five-year survival rate under 13.3%, due to late diagnosis, rapid progression, and therapeutic resistance, highlighting the need for advanced treatments. GAIP-interacting protein C terminus 1 (GIPC1), a scaffolding protein overexpressed in PDAC, drives tumor growth and chemoresistance but has remained "undruggable" due to its PDZ domain. Using advanced computational modeling, machine learning, and predictive analytics, we identified a selective and specific small molecule inhibitor of GIPC1 (GIPCi) targeting its PDZ domain. Binding of GIPCi with GIPC1 protein itself was confirmed via hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS). Preclinical studies showed that GIPCi alone or in combination with gemcitabine (GEM) significantly suppressed tumor growth and improved survival in PDAC models by blocking key pro-tumorigenic pathways. These findings demonstrate the power of AI-driven drug discovery and rigorous validation in unlocking advanced therapeutic targets for treatment-resistant cancers like PDAC.Published by Elsevier Inc.
Distinguishing correlation from causation is a fundamental challenge in many scientific fields, including biology, especially when interventions like randomized controlled trials are infeasible and only observational data are available. Methods based on statistical tests of conditional independence within the Mendelian Randomization framework can detect causality between two observed variables that are each associated with a third instrumental variable. However, these methods for detecting causal relationships between traits (e.g., two gene expression or clinical traits associated with a genetic variant, all observed in the same population) often assume a linear relationship, thereby hindering the discovery of causal gene networks from genomics data. We have developed NLCD, a method for NonLinear Causal Discovery from genomics data based on nonlinear regression modeling and conditional feature importance scoring. NLCD uses these techniques to extend the statistical tests in an existing linear causal discovery method called the Causal Inference Test (CIT). We benchmarked NLCD against current state-of-the-art methods: CIT, Findr, and MRPC. On simulated datasets, NLCD performs comparably to most methods in detecting linear relations (Average AUPRC (Area Under the Precision-Recall Curve) of NLCD = 0.94, CIT = 0.94, Findr = 0.94, and MRPC = 0.99), and outperforms them in detecting nonlinear (sine and sawtooth type) relations between two genes (Average AUPRC of NLCD = 0.76, CIT = 0.60, Findr = 0.56, and MRPC = 0.73). When tested on a nonlinear subset of a yeast genomic dataset to recover known causal relations involving transcription factors, NLCD and CIT performed comparable to each other and slightly better than Findr and MRPC (Average AUPRC of NLCD = 0.82, CIT = 0.81, Findr = 0.71, and MRPC = 0.54). On application to a human genomic dataset, NLCD revealed active causal gene pairs (IRF1 → PSME1 and HLA-C → HLA-T) in the muscle tissue, and clarified the promises and challenges in discovering causal gene networks in tissues under in vivo human settings.Copyright: © 2026 Easwar, Narayanan. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42528663 is a review article
Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is clinically heterogeneous, and the evolutionary trajectories of cortical dysfunction, nigrostriatal dopaminergic degeneration, and amyloid accumulation, as well as the interactions among them, remain poorly understood. This study enrolled 83 patients with DLB who underwent dual-phase 18F-FP-CIT PET and 18F-FBB PET scans at initial assessment. Fifteen standardised imaging biomarkers capturing cerebral perfusion (early-phase 18F-FP-CIT PET images), striatal dopamine depletion (late-phase 18F-FP-CIT PET images), and amyloid burden (18F-FBB PET images) were entered into a Subtype and Stage Inference (SuStaIn) model. The SuStaIn analysis delineated two subtypes of DLB with distinct evolutionary trajectories: Subtype 1 (n = 37) was characterized by early amyloid accumulation, followed by cerebral hypoperfusion progressing from the posterior cingulate cortex to other cortical and limbic regions, and later diffuse striatal dopamine depletion; Subtype 2 (n = 36) initially presented with selective dopamine loss in the putamen, with subsequent dopaminergic deficits in other striatal subregions, followed by amyloid accumulation and cerebral hypoperfusion progressing from the precuneus to other cortical and limbic regions. The remaining 10 patients with DLB did not have sufficiently abnormal imaging findings to be categorized into a defined subtype (Subtype 0). Subtype 1 exhibited more severe Alzheimer's disease (AD)-like cortical atrophy and lower cingulate island sign ratios on early-phase 18F-FP-CIT PET images. Patients in Subtype 2 had a higher prevalence of rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder and visual hallucinations than those in Subtype 1. In conclusion, we delineate two distinct multimodal imaging progression patterns in DLB: an early nigrostriatal dopamine depletion-linked trajectory with more typical DLB characteristics and an early amyloid deposition-linked trajectory characterised by an inverse cingulate island sign and AD-like cortical atrophy. These findings highlight the clinical and biological heterogeneity within DLB.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Emotional eating and alcohol consumption are complex and multifactorial behaviors which are influenced by biological and psychological factors. Genetic predisposition to eating- and alcohol-related behaviors has previously been derived from broad, self-reported phenotypes. However, the association between such genetic predisposition and more refined measures based on validated questionnaires and clinical assessment of pre-diagnostic symptoms remains unclear. We examined whether two broad, nonspecific polygenic risk scores for poor appetite or overeating (PAO-PGS) and alcohol use (AU-PGS) are associated with emotional eating and habitual alcohol consumption. The study included 1,252 adults with overweight or obesity from the ONTIME study. We used two different questionnaires (the Emotional-Eating Questionnaire, EEQ and the Eating-related Behaviors and Emotions questionnaire) and 24h recall for alcohol consumption. Higher PAO-PGS and AU-PGS were associated with greater emotional eating (β =0.41, p=0.025) and greater risky alcohol consumption (OR=1.22, p=0.044), respectively. Further subcomponents of the EEQ such as greater disinhibition and food craving were also associated with higher PAO-PGS. Interestingly, the "eating-related behaviors and emotions score" was associated with genetic predisposition to alcohol use. In addition, minor allele carriers of specific genetic variants (FTO, MC4R, DRD2, and CTNNA2) were associated with specific characteristics of emotional eating and alcohol risk. These results provide novel evidence that polygenic scores for poor appetite or overeating and alcohol use are associated with emotion-driven eating and habitual alcohol consumption. Exploratory results point to CTNNA2 as a new candidate gene for food craving. Integrating genetic profiles into behavioral nutrition research may help identify individuals with higher vulnerability to maladaptive eating and drinking patterns. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov: NCT02829619.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
This study was designed to evaluate the genetic association of three specific intronic Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) within the Dopamine Receptor D2 (DRD2) gene-rs2005313, rs4274224, and rs4938019-with schizophrenia susceptibility in a Pakistani population. The primary objective was to identify population-specific biomarkers that could inform early intervention and personalized treatment strategies.Genotyping was conducted on a matched case-control cohort of 208 participants (104 cases; 104 controls) using High-Resolution Melting (HRM) PCR. Genetic associations were quantified using Odds Ratios (OR) and 95% Confidence Intervals (CI), representing the standard coefficient and its margin of error to ensure statistical precision. Functional annotation of the investigated polymorphisms was performed using GTEx, FORGEdb and RegulomeDB to assess regulatory potential and tissue-specific expression effects.The research identified highly significant associations across multiple inheritance models, validating the technical robustness of the findings. The rs4938019 polymorphism emerged as the most potent genetic risk factor, particularly under the recessive model (OR: 9.60; 95% CI: 3.92-23.52; p < 0.0001), where the rare GG genotype was found in 44% of cases compared to only 7.2% of controls. Conversely, rs4274224 demonstrated a significant protective effect, with a co-dominant OR of 0.23 (95% CI: 0.09-0.59; p = 0.0022), suggesting that the T allele confers genetic resilience. Furthermore, among the investigated DRD2 variants, rs2005313 demonstrated significance primarily under the over-dominant inheritance model, whereas rs4938019 exhibited the strongest association under the recessive model (OR: 2.13; 95% CI: 1.15-3.94; p = 0.014). All variants in the control group maintained Hardy-Weinberg Equilibrium (p > 0.05), confirming the absence of population bias. Functional annotation revealed that rs4274224 showed the strongest direct regulatory evidence for DRD2 (FORGEdb score: 6; RegulomeDB Rank 1f), while rs4938019 demonstrated the highest overall regulatory potential (FORGEdb score: 9), with rs2005313 exhibiting substantial regulatory evidence (FORGEdb score: 7) supported by extensive GTEx cis-eQTLs across multiple tissues including brain regions.These findings establish DRD2 intronic polymorphisms as critical determinants of schizophrenia risk. The high-risk rs4938019 GG genotype provides a clear translational biomarker for rapid genetic screening, potentially improving clinical outcomes through genotype-guided therapeutic interventions.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Background and objective Antipsychotic-associated metabolic abnormalities, including weight gain, dyslipidemia, hyperglycemia, obesity, and metabolic syndrome, vary among drugs. Receptor pharmacology offers mechanistic clues, while transcriptome-wide association studies identify genetically regulated expression signals linked to lipid traits. These evidence streams are usually evaluated separately. This secondary computational sensitivity analysis used previously generated Ki-DDD-TWAS outputs and was not a primary discovery or clinical validation study. The primary hypothesis was that removing literature-derived metabolic receptor weights would preserve overall drug ranking, with Spearman ρ approximately 0.9, while shifting receptor-level contributions from histaminergic and serotonergic systems toward dopaminergic and low-prior TWAS signals. Secondary objectives were to identify low-weight genes with strong TWAS signals, assess discordance with an author-defined clinical-liability comparator, and test sensitivity to gene removal and TWAS scaling. Methods Previously generated outputs were analyzed. Ki, the inhibition constant, and DDD, the defined daily dose, served as affinity and exposure-proxy inputs. Receptor-level and per-drug risk-score files were analyzed for 52 antipsychotics across LDL, HDL, log-transformed triglycerides, non-HDL, and total cholesterol. Analyses included reconstruction validation, pooled receptor contributions, TWAS signal versus literature weight, clinical-liability discordance, leave-one-gene-out and TWAS-scaling sensitivity, and receptor co-occurrence in high-risk drug sets. No patient-level data, independent TWAS resources, longitudinal outcomes, or outcome-based validation were used. Results Reconstruction reproduced saved risk ranks with Spearman correlation 1.000 for all 10 mode-trait combinations. V4 rankings remained concordant after removing literature weights, with trait-specific correlations of 0.900-0.923 and a mean of 0.913. The weighted model was dominated by HRH1, HTR2A, and HTR2C, contributing 25.7%, 21.6%, and 10.3% of pooled signal. Under uniform weighting, DRD2, DRD3, and HTR2A led, accounting for 22.1%, 12.9%, and 12.6%. ADRB1 was the strongest high-priority low-weight TWAS candidate, with an absolute HDL z-score of 13.53 and literature weight of 0.08. Other candidates included CHRM4, DRD2, DRD4, SLC6A4, and ADRB2. The model most strongly under-ranked paliperidone versus the supplied 12-drug comparator, while ziprasidone rose under uniform weighting. Removing HRH1 produced the largest rank shifts, particularly for levomepromazine, promazine, and acepromazine. Conclusions Removing literature-derived weights preserved overall drug ranking but substantially changed receptor-level score allocation. The weighted model emphasized histaminergic and serotonergic receptors prioritized in metabolic-liability literature, whereas the uniform model revealed broader dopaminergic and low-prior contributions. ADRB1 is a computational hypothesis-generating candidate, not a confirmed mechanism or established metabolic-risk contributor. HDL-association direction was not analyzed. The framework supports dual reporting of clinically anchored weighted and discovery-oriented uniform models as an internal sensitivity strategy only. It is not externally validated, does not predict patient-level outcomes, and should not be interpreted as estimating clinical metabolic risk or establishing receptor-level causality.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Age-related structural and functional remodeling of the heart and vessels increases cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk, yet comprehensive assessments using multimodal imaging and genetic characterization remains limited. We aimed to quantify cardiovascular aging using multimodal biomarkers and evaluate its genetic architecture, lifestyle determinants, and prognostic relevance.From the UK biobank, cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR), electrocardiogram, arterial stiffness, and carotid ultrasound biomarkers were integrated to establish a cardiovascular aging measure using machine learning (ML) models. Seven ML models were evaluated to predict cardiovascular age, and cardiovascular age gap (CardioAG) was calculated using the best-performing model. Associations between CardioAG and incident CVD outcomes were assessed, alongside modality-specific analyses to evaluate the incremental value of multimodal integration. Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) analyses were conducted to identify genetic variants associated with CardioAG, and linear regression models were applied to examine relationships between CardioAG and key lifestyle factors.Among 22,452 participants with complete multimodal data, 13,694 individuals free of baseline CVDs (median age 62.6 years [IQR 56.5-68.3], median follow-up 4.8 years [IQR 3.7-6.3]) were selected for model development. With 57 cardiovascular aging biomarkers, the CatBoost model performed best on the test dataset (Pearson r = 0.75; mean absolute error = 3.88 years). CardioAG was independently associated with hypertension, stroke, atrial fibrillation, coronary artery disease, and composite major adverse cardiovascular event (MACE, hazard ratio = 1.08, 95% CI, 1.06-1.10). Incremental and ablation analyses demonstrated complementary contributions across imaging and functional modalities, with multimodal integration enhancing predictive accuracy and providing independent prognostic value for MACE. WGS analysis identified novel common genetic variants associated with interindividual variability in CardioAG, including RN7SKP155, SVIL, and CBFA2T3, highlighting genetic contributions to vascular remodeling, electrophysiological and hemodynamic regulation, and cardiovascular functional reserve. Dietary factors, sleep duration, physical activity level, smoking, and alcohol intake were found to be significantly associated with CardioAG.This study developed a unified multimodal cardiovascular aging metric that integrates cardiac structure and function, vascular remodeling and stiffness, and electrophysiological features into a single biologically grounded, cumulative aging signal, providing incremental prognostic utility for CVD, and broadening the biological and genetic landscape underlying cardiovascular aging.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder increasingly associated with gut microbiota alterations, yet the mechanisms by which microbial metabolites influence PD remain unclear. Here, we applied an integrative computational and experimental strategy to identify key gut microbial metabolites and host genes potentially involved in PD. Differentially abundant gut microbes were obtained from the gutMDisorder database and their corresponding metabolites from gutMGene, with predicted protein targets generated using the Similarity Ensemble Approach. Transcriptomic data from PD brain tissues were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes, which were intersected with metabolite targets, followed by enrichment and protein-protein interaction analyses. Three machine learning algorithms were applied for gene prioritization, while molecular docking evaluated metabolite-gene binding affinities and ProTox3.0 predicted toxicity and blood-brain barrier permeability. In vitro assays further assessed the functional effects of 3-indolepropionic acid in a rotenone-induced SH-SY5Y cell model. Our analyses identified 44 PD-associated microbial taxa linked to 77 metabolites and 905 predicted target genes, with 29 overlapping differentially expressed genes enriched in synaptic signaling and dopaminergic pathways. Dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2) emerged as a central hub gene, with strong docking interactions predicted for two indole metabolites, 3-(1H-indol-3-yl)propanoate and 3-indolepropionic acid. Functional validation showed that 3-indolepropionic acid improved cell viability, reduced apoptosis, and preserved DRD2 expression under neurotoxic stress. Together, these findings suggest that specific gut microbial metabolites may modulate host dopaminergic signaling via DRD2, offering new insights into the microbiota-brain axis and potential targets for further PD research.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Positive social comparative feedback during motor skill practice is hypothesized to enhance motor learning by triggering a dopaminergic response. Individual differences in dopamine-related genes impact dopamine neurotransmission and may influence responsiveness to motor practice conditions that target dopaminergic pathways. The purpose of this study was to examine the impact of dopamine genotype on learning of a motor sequence task under two different feedback conditions: response time only feedback or response time with positive social comparison. Fifty-two adults practiced a joystick-based motor sequence task over two consecutive days. On Day 1, participants were randomized to receive either 1) response time only feedback (i.e., "You completed the block in 80 seconds") or 2) positive social comparative feedback (i.e., "You completed the block in 80 seconds. You were faster than others"). Motor learning was assessed by retention performance, or the change in response time from the first block of Day 1 to the first block on Day 2. Saliva samples were used to genotype for dopamine receptors DRD1, DRD2 and DRD3 and COMT. Individual genes were scored (0-2) and summed to create a polygene score (0-8). Participants were then categorized as having Low (1-4) or High (5-8) dopamine neurotransmission. A significant interaction was found between time, summary polygene group and feedback group (p = 0.048). The Low dopamine group showed greater improvements with response time only feedback versus positive social comparative feedback. The High dopamine group showed similar improvements in response time regardless of feedback type. This suggests that feedback targeting dopaminergic pathways may not be beneficial for individuals with lower dopamine neurotransmission. Our findings suggest that dopaminergic genetics may impact the efficacy of positive social comparative feedback on motor learning in low dopamine genotypes.Copyright: © 2026 Lewis et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Fibromyalgia is a common and debilitating chronic pain syndrome of poorly understood etiology. Here we conduct a multi-ancestry genome-wide association study meta-analysis across 2,563,755 individuals (54,629 cases and 2,509,126 controls) from 11 cohorts, identifying 26 risk loci for fibromyalgia. The strongest association was with a coding variant in HTT, the causal gene for Huntington's disease. Gene prioritization implicated the HTT regulator GPR52, as well as diverse genes with neural roles, including DCC, DRD2/NCAM1, MDGA2 and CELF4. Fibromyalgia heritability was exclusively enriched within brain tissues and neural cell types. Fibromyalgia showed strong, positive genetic correlation with a wide range of chronic pain, psychiatric and somatic disorders, including genetic correlations above 0.7 with low back pain, post-traumatic stress disorder and irritable bowel syndrome. Despite large sex differences in fibromyalgia prevalence, the genetic architecture of fibromyalgia was nearly identical between males and females. This study provides robust genetic evidence defining fibromyalgia as a central nervous system disorder, thereby establishing a biological framework for its complex pathophysiology and extensive clinical comorbidities.© 2026. The Author(s).
Colorectal cancer (CRC) progression from benign polyps to malignant adenocarcinomas is a complex process involving the abnormal proliferation and differentiation of colon epithelial cells. Colorectal adenomas (CRAs), the precursors to most CRCs, are histologically classified into tubular adenomas (TAs), tubulovillous adenomas (TVAs), and villous adenomas (VAs). Despite new findings, the molecular signatures and pathways specific to each adenoma type remain poorly understood. This study aimed to identify specific biomarkers and pathways associated with the progression of TA, TVA, and VA to CRC.We analyzed gene expression data from 169 CRA samples and 65 adjacent normal tissues from the GSE117606 and GSE117607 datasets. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified for each adenoma type, followed by functional enrichment and protein-protein interaction network analysis. Our results revealed 1,024 DEGs common to all three adenoma types, with COL1A2 and CXCL8 highlighted as hub genes. Additionally, specific genes such as NTRK2, JUN, LAT, and DRD2 were identified for TA; H2AFZ, NME1, MRTO4, and SSRP1 were identified for TVA; and WDR43, POLR1B, and NHP2 were identified for VA. Functional enrichment analysis revealed key pathways involved in adenoma progression, providing insights into the molecular mechanisms driving their malignancy potential. The expression of candidate genes was further validated by RT-qPCR, and repeated cross-validated ROC analysis supported the discriminative potential of CXCL8 and COL1A2 for distinguishing CRA and CRC tissues from adjacent normal mucosa.These findings provide valuable insights into adenoma biology and offer potential applications for targeted therapies in CRC prevention and treatment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Animals learn to approach and escape stimuli in their environment, in part through the representation of rewarding or aversive outcomes in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). The regulation of reward motivation in the NAc by dopamine signaling at DRD1 and DRD2 receptors has been the subject of extensive study. However, the process by which aversive stimuli are signaled within this system to promote motivated escape behavior is less well characterized. Conventional wisdom posits that rewarding and aversive stimuli ultimately affect DRD1 or DRD2-receptor expressing medium spiny neurons (MSNs) in an opposing manner to differentially modulate motivated behavior. However, recent studies have challenged this view and demonstrate the need to better characterize the processes that mediate aversion learning. To determine if DRD2 dopamine receptor activation disrupts escape behavior, 21 male and female Sprague Dawley rats were treated with an intra-NAc core DRD2 receptor agonist, quinpirole, while escape behavior was negatively reinforced by the termination of aversive white noise. This treatment attenuated escape, a result that is consistent with the view that aversion-induced reductions in dopamine promote escape behavior through decreased DRD2 receptor signaling in the NAc, and potential disinhibition of an aversion-sensitive striatal output circuit.Copyright © 2026 Côté, Grafelman, Moster, Zimolzak, Hix, Cooper, Padula, Wheeler, Hearing, Mantsch and Wheeler.
Computer-aided de novo drug design has been widely explored for early-stage drug discovery, yet the multi-property optimization of novel molecules remains challenging. We aimed to develop a de novo drug design model to efficiently optimize multiple properties simultaneously. We developed a teacher-student-interaction deep learning model fine-tuned by reinforcement learning (TSItransRL) using bioactivity datasets (DRD2 and JNK3/GSK3β targets). A conditional transformer was pretrained as the teacher model to incorporate multi-property information. A vanilla transformer served as the student model and was subsequently optimized through interactive knowledge distillation and reinforcement learning. An evaluation was conducted using MOSES and conditional metrics on two tasks, specifically generating molecules with DRD2-targeting activity and generating molecules with dual JNK3/GSK3β-targeting activity, with the analyses including docking, the similarity ensemble approach (SEA), and scaffold novelty. TSItransRL achieved success rates of 98.36% and 98.90% for the DRD2 and JNK3/GSK3β tasks, respectively, with an internal diversity of 0.795, outperforming most baselines. The docking, SEA, scaffold, and ADMET analyses were used as exploratory in silico assessments to support the preliminary prioritization of selected generated molecules. TSItransRL provides an in silico framework for benchmark-level multi-property molecular generation and prioritization, combining interactive knowledge distillation with reinforcement learning to explore molecules that satisfy predefined predicted-activity, drug-likeness, and synthetic-accessibility criteria. The generated molecules should be regarded as computational candidates for a further medicinal-chemistry assessment, independent validation, and experimental testing rather than experimentally validated leads.
Nearly half of patients with melanoma do not respond to immune checkpoint inhibitors (CPIs) and many develop immune-related adverse events (irAEs), often forcing treatment discontinuation, and underscoring the need to predict and monitor outcomes. Responses may depend on both B cell and T cell activity.We performed high-dimensional mass cytometry profiling of coexisting peripheral B cell and key T cell states in treatment-naïve patients and healthy individuals, and paired longitudinal samples from CPI-treated patients, with clinical annotations to define immune correlates of outcomes.CPI-naive patients exhibited reduced CD19+ B cells, reduced B cell (CD21, IL-2, CXCR5) and T cell (CD38, CD27) activation markers, alongside enriched naïve (CD21lo) and double-negative (DN2)-like B cells, CD95+IL-10+plasmablasts, consistent with extrafollicular responses. Concurrently, programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)+ and proliferation marker protein-67 (Ki67)+ T cell expansion indicates ongoing activation with features of proliferative exhaustion. Active disease featured increased regulatory CD95 expression on B cells and expanded T follicular helper-like and activated DN (CD4-CD8-) T cells, indicating sustained antigen stimulation. Pretreatment, elevated PD-1+ T cells predicted irAEs, whereas VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor)+TGF-β (transforming growth factor-β)+ DN T cells were enriched in patients without subsequent toxicity. Pretreatment, plasmablasts, transitional B cells, Forkhead box protein P3 (FoxP3)+ and central memory-like CD8+ T cells correlated with worse overall survival; naïve CD21lo B cells, PD-1+CD8+ T cells and CD4+follicular helper-like T cells predicted shorter event-free survival; CD4+ memory T cells predicted better prognosis, implicating dysregulated differentiation and sustained activation in adverse outcomes. On-treatment, naïve CD21hi B cells, plasmablasts, activated CD8+ and central memory-like CD4+ T cells expanded, indicating de novo humoral responses and cytotoxic T cell invigoration. On-treatment, increased class-switched memory (IgG2+) B and activated T cells predicted improved survival, while persistent naïve and DN B cells were associated with poorer outcomes. Anti-PD-1 monotherapy expanded naïve (CD21hi) B cells and global T cells. Anti-PD-1/anti-LAG-3 (lymphocyte-activation gene 3) combination contracted memory B cells.Melanoma displays aberrant peripheral B and T cell activation, maturation and exhaustion, prominent in active disease. Treatment-induced class-switched B cells and T cell invigoration predict clinical benefit and naïve/DN B cells signify resistance. Coordinated B and T cell responses, especially recurrent extrafollicular B cell and exhausted/regulatory T cell states emerge as candidate indicators of outcome.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ Group.
Mitochondria activate immunity, but the role in cancer is unknown. Here, we report that transgenic expression of Parkin, a regulator of mitochondrial fitness, induces inflammation and interferon (IFN) gene signatures, suppresses prostate cancer formation and generates CD8+ and CD20+ intraprostatic immune aggregates. These had hallmarks of mature tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS), expressing markers of B cell maturation (CXCL13, CCL21), germinal center formation (BCL6, GL7), mature dendritic cells (MHC-II/CD208) and high endothelial venules (LYVE-1). Parkin TLS showed high Ig gene expression, recruitment of CXCR5+ follicular T helper cells and expansion of CD69+/KLRG1+ effector T cells. Conditioned medium from Parkin-positive cells expanded memory B and plasma cells, increased IgG1 production, and sustained B and T cell migration. Finally, conditional expression of Parkin induced TLS formation, upregulated Ig chains and inhibited prostate cancer growth, in vivo, whereas Parkin reconstitution in IFNAR1, CD8 or CD20 knockout mice had no effect. Therefore, mitochondrial immunity orchestrates antitumor responses, and TLS formation contributes to tumor suppression.
Corticotroph pituitary neuroendocrine tumours (PitNETs)/adenomas are heterogeneous sellar neoplasms. Currently established histopathological classification approaches are often considered limited in fully capturing the clinical and biological complexity of these tumours. Thus far, a molecular-based classification has not been established in corticotroph PitNETs. We compile molecular data of 270 corticotroph PitNETs (111 internal, 159 external), encompassing epigenome, transcriptome, and proteome profiles. Comprehensive integrative analyses are performed to identify, validate and characterise definitive molecular subgroups. Corticotroph PitNETs separate into four robust and clinicopathologically distinct molecular subgroups, which are broadly distinguishable by microscopy using SSTR1, GATA3 and SSTR5 immunohistochemistry. An integrated stratification model incorporating these molecular subgroups demonstrates significant prognostic utility. Our findings support the establishment of a refined molecular-based corticotroph PitNET classification, the full clinical value of which will require validation in prospective studies. To facilitate future research, we provide an easy-to-use epigenomic classifier for corticotroph PitNETs.© 2026. The Author(s).
CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ dendritic cells (DCs) are pivotal players in orchestrating anti-tumor immune responses, particularly within tumor tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS). However, their heterogeneity, differentiation trajectories, and clinical relevance in bladder cancer remain incompletely defined. This study integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data (16 bladder cancer patients, 113,905 post-quality-control cells) and spatial transcriptomics to characterize CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets, their differentiation pathways (via Velocyto trajectory analysis), and intercellular crosstalk (via receptor-ligand mapping). A risk model (DTscore) was constructed using marker genes of these cells and validated in the IMvigor210 (atezolizumab-treated bladder cancer) and TCGA-BLCA cohorts. scRNA-seq clustering identified 10 immune and 3 nonimmune cell types, with T cells stratified into 8 subpopulations (including CD4+CXCL13+ T cells and CD8+CXCL13+ T cells) and DCs into 9 subgroups (including LAMP3+ DCs). Receptor-ligand mapping and spatial transcriptomics confirmed functional crosstalk between CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ DCs via key pairs (e.g., CCR7-CCL19, CXCR5-CXCL13, PDCD1-CD274) within TLS. The DTscore was developed using 8 marker genes (TSHZ2, ALOX5AP, GADD45G, TXN, CHN1, CCL19, CXCL13, ICA1) and exhibited robust prognostic and predictive performance: In the IMvigor210 cohort, high DTscore correlated with significantly poorer overall survival (OS) and a 3.27-fold lower immunotherapy response rate (11% vs. 36%, p = 4.23e-07); multivariate Cox regression confirmed DTscore as an independent OS predictor (hazard ratio = 1.97, p < 0.001). DTscore retained prognostic value in TCGA-BLCA (OS: p = 0.003; disease-specific survival: p < 0.001) and effectively predicted atezolizumab response even in the "immune desert" phenotype (p = 0.04). Combining DTscore with tumor mutational burden/tumor neoantigen burden yielded an AUC of 0.8122 for response prediction. Additionally, high DTscore was associated with higher OS hazard ratios in patients with wild-type TTN, RB1, EP300, or FGFR3 (all p < 0.01), while FGFR3 mutations correlated with lower immune checkpoint/CXCL13 expression. This study delineates the heterogeneity and interactions of CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets in bladder cancer TLS and validates DTscore as a robust tool for predicting OS and immunotherapy response, offering a potential guide for personalized bladder cancer treatment.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Uveal melanoma (UM) is a challenging malignancy, in terms of diagnosis, risk stratification, and treatment associated with high morbidity and mortality rates. It has been demonstrated that E2F-related pathways play a significant role in the tumorigenesis and distant metastasis of UM. In this study, the E2F target-related genes were utilized to construct and validate a prognostic risk score for patients with UM.Using the TCGA-UVM cohort (n = 80), 192 E2F target genes were screened using gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) to identify survival-associated genes. Prognostic genes were filtered using Kaplan-Meier analysis, univariate Cox regression, and LASSO, followed by multivariate Cox regression to construct a risk score model. The model was validated using the GSE22138 cohort (n = 63). Functional annotations of the risk score and its impact on stratifying tumor immune microenvironment components were assessed.A total of 9 genes (CDC25B, NME1, RFC2, PRDX4, NASP, UBE2S, PRKDC, MCM6, and LBR) passed the model construction pipeline. The risk score categorization system showed an independent prognostic power (HR: 2.34, 95% CI: 1.11-4.90, p = 0.025) and a good predictability of the survival outcome (receiver operating characteristic curve analysis: area under the curve = 0.730, 95% CI: 0.60-0.86, p = 0.002). When analyzing the most frequently mutated gene cohorts, the risk score was significantly lower in the mutated subgroups of GNAQ, SF3B1, and EIF1AX. In contrast, the risk score was notably higher in the BAP1 mutated subgroup. Copy number analysis of chromosomal arms showed significant correlations between the risk score and 1q, 3q, 3p, 6p, 8q. The high-risk group showed significant infiltration for NK cells, plasma B cells, gamma delta T cells, follicular T cells, M1 and M2 macrophages with lower infiltration of common myeloid progenitor cells. In addition, the high-risk group showed higher immune and microenvironment scores.The developed E2F target-related gene model offers a robust tool for predicting the prognosis of UM patients. As a potential risk stratification method for UM, this model could have clinical applications pending further evaluation.© 2026 S. Karger AG, Basel.
While classical tumor suppressors in colorectal cancer (CRC) are predominantly recognized for restraining cell-autonomous proliferation, their extrinsic mandate in orchestrating the tumor immunometabolic niche remains poorly defined. Clinically, we document that APC membrane recruitment protein 1 (AMER1) downregulation correlates with advanced progression and cytotoxic CD8+ T cell spatial exclusion in CRC patients. Using parallel homograft models in diverse host immune backgrounds, we show that tumoral AMER1 confers robust in vivo tumor-suppressive effects that are dependent on a fully functional immune system. Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals that tumoral AMER1 enrichment actively preserves CD8+ T cell effector stemness by expanding the CXCR5+ precursor exhausted subset (Tpex) across regional lymph nodes and primary tumor microenvironments. Integrated multi-omics and biochemical tracking identify dopamine (DA) as the conserved neurometabolic effector driving this niche remodeling. Mechanistically, AMER1 physically binds and rescues dopa decarboxylase (DDC) from post-translational degradation to sustain tumoral DA secretion; conversely, AMER1 loss creates a localized DA void. Cell-autonomously, tumoral DA accumulation triggers gasdermin D (GSDMD)-dependent tumor pyroptosis. Therapeutically, local DA administration halts multi-lineage carcinoma progression by reversing CD8+ T cell terminal exhaustion and reinforcing central memory differentiation. Collectively, our findings redefine AMER1 as a critical immunometabolic gatekeeper and establish neurotransmitter metabolic bypassing as a promising therapeutic strategy for CRC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Functional constipation is a common disorder of gut-brain interaction that substantially affects bowel function, psychological well-being, and quality of life. Probiotic supplementation represents a microbiota-targeted nutritional strategy for functional constipation, but associated host-response signals remain incompletely understood.This single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial enrolled 104 adults who met the Rome IV criteria for functional constipation. Participants received either Lactiplantibacillus plantarum Probio87 or placebo for 8 weeks, followed by a 4-week post-intervention follow-up. The primary endpoint was weekly complete spontaneous bowel movements. Secondary outcomes included Rome IV symptom scores, PAC-QOL, HAMD-24, safety parameters, and exploratory whole-blood gene-expression profiles related to inflammation, immune regulation, neuroendocrine signaling, and gut motility. The trial was registered in the Chinese Clinical Trial Registry (ChiCTR2300075360).Probio87 supplementation significantly increased weekly complete spontaneous bowel movements compared with placebo at Week 8 and Week 12. Improvements were also observed in Rome IV symptom scores, constipation-related quality of life, and HAMD-24 domains related to anxiety, sleep, and retardation. Exploratory whole-blood gene-expression analysis showed differential host-response signals after intervention, characterized by increased BDNF expression and reduced expression of IL-1β, CD117, CXCR5, IDO1, DBH, and MLNR in the probiotic group relative to placebo. No intervention-related adverse events or clinically relevant abnormalities in hematological, hepatic, or renal safety parameters were observed.L. plantarum Probio87 supplementation was associated with sustained improvement in bowel function, constipation-related quality of life, and psychological well-being in adults with functional constipation. Exploratory peripheral gene-expression findings suggest that inflammatory, immune, neuroendocrine, and motility-related host-response pathways may be involved, although causal mechanisms require further validation.https://www.chictr.org.cn/showproj.html?proj=205514, identifier (ChiCTR2300075360).Copyright © 2026 Zheng, Yang, Zhan, Zhang, Lu, Xie, Zhang, Mageswary, Lee and Liong.
In recent years, the clinical relevance of tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS) in cancer has become increasingly clear. However, the mechanisms that promote TLS development have remained obscure, largely because of a lack of animal models in which cause and effect studies can be performed. In this study, we used a mouse model in which TLS develop spontaneously in intraperitoneal tumors to address this issue.Cxcl13-cre-tdTomato mice were implanted with B16-OVA melanoma tumors in either intraperitoneal or subcutaneous locations to establish which cells expressed CXCL13. Single cell suspensions from tumors were analyzed by flow cytometry. To address the impact of CXCL13+ CAF on TLS formation, we bred Cxcl13-cre tdTomato mice to R26R-iDTRflox mice, which express the diphtheria toxin receptor under the control of a floxed stop codon. The resulting Cxcl13-cre/iDTR mice were treated with diphtheria toxin beginning on day 7 after IP tumor implantation. Single cell suspensions from tumors were analyzed by flow cytometry. To characterize their functional properties, CAF in IP melanoma tumors from Cxcl13-cre/eGFP mice were collected by cell sorting, analyzed for transcript expression using scRNA-seq, clustered into groups using the Seurat package, and profiled using pathway analysis and differential gene analysis.Extending earlier studies in which we showed that CXCR5-expressing B cells are essential for TLS development, we found that CXCL13, the ligand for CXCR5, were expressed exclusively by a population of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAF), and that these CAF were essential to promote B cell accumulation in these tumors. In keeping with earlier work showing that the presence of TLS was associated with smaller tumor size, we also found that the lack of B cell accumulation was associated with larger tumor size. Using scRNA-seq, we identified 7 groups of CAF in TLS containing tumors. One of these CAF groups was substantially enriched for CXCL13-expressing cells. This population was also enriched for additional genes that could promote B cell recruitment and enable regulation by a variety of cytokines. However, other genes that we have shown or hypothesize to be important in TLS development were enriched for expression in other CAF groups.This work indicates that TLS development in this model depends on multiple CAF populations operating at distinct points in the developmental process. Some of these populations appear similar to, but distinct from, those defined in other human and murine tumor models. However, we also discriminated new immunologically relevant populations of CAF, particularly one expressing CXCL13, which we propose acts as a central organizer of tumor-associated TLS.Copyright © 2026 Barnes, Cummings, Perusina Lanfranca, Rodriguez, Stasiak, Ludewig, Dolatshahi and Engelhard.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) remains a challenging autoimmune disease with variable treatment responses to tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) inhibitors. This study investigates the clinical significance of PD-1hiCXCR5-CD4+T peripheral helper (Tph) cells in RA and their potential utility as biomarkers for predicting etanercept (ETN) therapy response. We enrolled 58 RA patients, 12 age- and sex-matched osteoarthritis patients, and 15 healthy controls, with Tph cells quantified by flow cytometry. Among 25 RA patients with inadequate response to conventional synthetic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs receiving ETN therapy, treatment outcomes were stratified by ACR20 response criteria. Tph cell frequency was significantly elevated in RA patients and correlated positively with multiple disease activity indicators. At baseline, ETN nonresponders exhibited higher Tph proportions than responders (13.23 ± 2.60% vs. 10.82 ± 3.08%, p = 0.0467). Following ETN treatment, responders demonstrated significant Tph reduction (10.82% decreased to 7.97%, p = 0.0105), paralleling serum IL‑21 dynamics. In an exploratory analysis, baseline Tph levels showed an association with ETN response. These findings suggest that circulating Tph cells may serve as a candidate biomarker for RA disease activity and therapeutic response monitoring, warranting further validation in larger prospective cohorts.© 2026 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
CDC42 is involved in multiple signaling pathways, including actin organization and polarity. We previously reported progressive sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) in inner ear hair cell (HC)-specific Cdc42-knockout (Atho1-Cre+/-;Cdc42flox/flox) mice. However, the phenotype was milder than expected, suggesting possible redundancy with other Rho-family GTPases. Thereafter, Takenouchi-Kosaki syndrome (TKS), caused by de novo CDC42 mutations and manifesting as SNHL, was reported, in which the p.Y64C mutation was speculated to be constitutively active. However, the relationship between CDC42 status and hearing phenotypes in TKS remains unclear. Using cell models, mouse models, and patient data, we propose that impaired and/or dysregulated cycling between GDP/inactive and GTP/active forms, through either loss-of-function or constitutive activation, can lead to SNHL. Furthermore, to test redundancy, we generated HC-specific Cdc42;RhoQ double-knockout (Atho1-Cre+/-;Cdc42flox/flox;RhoQflox/flox) mice, which revealed synergistic roles of CDC42 and RHOQ in cochlear HCs. Supporting this synergy, MDCK cells with CDC42 and RHOQ double knockdown showed greater phospho-cofilin, a key regulator of actin turnover, elevation than single knockdowns.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Patients with osteoarthritis (OA) affecting multiple joints experience greater pain than those with single-joint disease, yet most research examines isolated joints, leaving a gap in multi-joint disease. This study aimed to describe radiographic hip (rHOA) and knee OA (rKOA) within UK Biobank (UKB), exploring interrelationships across joints and associations with joint pain, body size, race and deprivation.This cross-sectional study applied machine learning to hip and knee dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry scans. Radiographic OA (rOA) was defined as custom grades ≥2. Joint pain was assessed through self-reported questionnaires. Logistic regression models examined bilateral and cross-joint associations, as well as associations with joint pain. Adjustments were made for age, sex, race, height, weight and deprivation.Among 59,475 individuals (mean age 65 years; range 45-85; SD 7.7; 52.8% female), rHOA prevalence was 4,098 (6.9%, right-side) and 4,841 (8.1%, left-side). The corresponding estimates for rKOA were 3,750 (6.3%) and 4,220 (7.1%). Overall, increasing grades of rOA and number of joints affected were more strongly associated with concurrent joint pain (four-joints: OR 4.3 [95%CI 2.6-7.2]). Regarding joint-interrelationships, bilateral associations were stronger at the knee (26.1 [24.1-28.2]) than the hip (5.6 [5.2-6.1]). Cross-joint associations (hip-knee) were weaker. BMI was more strongly associated with rKOA (1.57 [1.52-1.61]) than rHOA (1.05 [1.02-1.09]). Greater height was positively associated with rHOA but appeared protective for rKOA.Radiographic hip and knee OA exhibit distinct patterns of interrelationship, associations with symptoms and risk factors, suggesting heterogeneity in disease processes and the need for joint-specific treatment.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566502 is a review article
Mutations in the MEFV gene, which encodes pyrin, are associated with a spectrum of inflammatory conditions called pyrin-associated autoinflammatory diseases (PAADs). Of the 400 MEFV variants listed in the Infevers database, most are classified as variants of uncertain significance. Thus, genetic diagnosis of PAADs remains challenging, and the molecular mechanisms underlying pyrin activation remain poorly understood. Here, we used a cell-based pyroptosis assay to stratify 265 missense MEFV variants and identified previously uncharacterized pathogenic variants. We then characterized the interaction between the pyrin B30.2 domain and CDC42, a key regulator of pyrin intracellular trafficking and activation. We found that classical familial Mediterranean fever (FMF)-related variants bind tightly to CDC42 to induce pyrin hyperactivation, whereas certain non-FMF variants induce pyrin hyperactivation independently of CDC42, indicating involvement of multiple pathways in pyrin activation. Our approach provides a proof of concept for a genotype-first approach, which may advance our understanding of complex human diseases.
Heterozygous carboxyl-terminal variants in the RHO guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase) CDC42 are known to cause severe autoinflammatory syndromes. Here, we identified a heterozygous amino-terminal p.T43I (Thr43→Ile) CDC42 variant in patients with autoinflammation and uncovered a molecular link between CDC42 and the inflammasome sensor pyrin, mutated in the hereditary autoinflammatory syndrome familial Mediterranean fever. We demonstrate that the region surrounding residue T43 of CDC42 interacts with the carboxyl-terminal B30.2 domain of pyrin and regulates its localization and activation. The p.T43I substitution strengthens the CDC42-pyrin interaction through additional van der Waals interactions, leading to increased pyrin inflammasome activation, as evidenced by increased ASC (apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a caspase activating and recruitment domain) speck formation, enhanced pyroptosis, and excessive interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and IL-18 production. These findings identify CDC42 as a pyrin ligand and provide critical insights into the role of the pyrin B30.2 domain in inflammasome activation, suggesting dual regulation of pyrin by two RHO family GTPases, RHOA and CDC42.
CDC42 is an evolutionarily conserved guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase) regulating critical cellular and immune processes. Variants in CDC42 therefore cause a spectrum of developmental phenotypes, including hematological and immunological symptoms. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized autoinflammatory condition caused by CDC42Met45→Leu(M45L). We confirm the pathogenicity of CDC42M45L given that it promotes pyrin inflammasome activation, consistent with highly elevated circulating interleukin-18 (IL-18) in all affected individuals. Coimmunoprecipitation demonstrates that CDC42 interacts with the PYD and B30.2 domains of pyrin. The B30.2 interaction is greatly enhanced by CDC42M45L. Models show that CDC42 methionine-45 sits in a hydrophobic cleft of the pyrin B30.2 domain, and substitution with a negatively charged residue prevents colocalization between CDC42 and pyrin. This study supports a model whereby CDC42 nucleates pyrin via the B30.2 domain, after which a threshold is reached to liberate the PYD for inflammasome activation. Blocking the inflammasome-associated cytokine IL-1 was therapeutically effective when tested against this autoinflammatory CDC42M45L endotype.
The epidermis is a stratified epithelium in which keratinocytes differentiate as they move from basal to suprabasal layers, a process during which tissue integrity relies on the coordinated remodeling of intercellular junctions and the cytoskeleton. Unlike simple epithelia, which form a continuous zonula adherens, suprabasal cells in the epidermis lack a canonical junction belt, with E-cadherin-based junctions distributed across the entire cell surface, highlighting distinct regulatory mechanisms that remain poorly understood. Here, we identify the CDC42 guanine nucleotide exchange factor FGD1, mutated in Aarskog-Scott syndrome, as a regulator of suprabasal junction architecture. Using stratified human keratinocytes and quantitative imaging, we show that loss of FGD1 induces elongated radial actin bundles and tortuous, tension-associated adherens junctions resembling the stress fiber-anchored discontinuous (focal) adherens junctions described in endothelial cells. These defects are accompanied by altered tissue mechanics. Inhibition of ROCK or myosin II restores junction organization, demonstrating that FGD1 restrains actomyosin contractility to promote suprabasal junction maturation. Several disease-associated FGD1 variants fail to rescue these defects. Together, our findings identify FGD1 as a regulator of suprabasal junction maturation.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Next-generation HER2-targeted therapies including tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) improve survival of HER2-positive cancer patients. However, mechanisms of primary and acquired resistance remain unclear. Here, we reported that primary HER2-specific targeted therapy (tucatinib) resistant or sensitive breast cancers derived from clinical trial patients exhibited differential protein profiles. Prolonged tucatinib exposure induced autophagy pathway enrichment in HER2-positive breast cancer cells. Integrated high-throughput analyses identified A-kinase anchoring protein (AKAP)13 as a critical molecule involved in both primary and acquired resistance and an independent predictor of poor prognosis. Silencing of AKAP13 significantly diminished novel HER2-targeted therapies resistance. Mechanistically, AKAP13 inhibits autophagosome formation by suppressing the expression of ULK1, a kinase essential for autophagy initiation. ULK1 transcription is driven by GLI1, which binds to the ULK1 promoter via its arginine-592 residue. We further elucidated that the RhoGEF domain of AKAP13 activates RhoA, which subsequently triggers the activation of PKA anchored to AKAP13. The activated PKA then inhibits the nuclear translocation of GLI1, thereby repressing its transcriptional activity on ULK1. In vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated the synergistic efficacy of tucatinib and AKAP13 inhibitor A13. In the validation phase, organoids were constructed using tissue obtained via puncture from patients resistant to trastuzumab deruxtecan, confirming upregulation of AKAP13 and A13-mediated reversal of resistance to novel HER2-targeted therapies. Collectively, these findings highlight the role of AKAP13 in drug resistance and propose A13 as a promising therapeutic strategy for HER2-positive breast cancer. Model diagram of this study and proposed molecular mechanisms.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Influenza A virus (IAV) remains a major global health threat due to its high mutation rate and the emergence of antiviral resistance. Targeting host factors provides an alternative therapeutic strategy to overcome these challenges. Previous studies have shown that the L-type calcium channel Cav1.2 was implicated in viral infections. In this study, we aimed to clarify the mechanism by which Cav1.2 acts as a critical host factor mediating IAV infection, using the dihydropyridine-type calcium channel blocker nisoldipine. Nisoldipine showed notable antiviral activity in both in vitro and in vivo models. Mechanistically, nisoldipine inhibited IAV internalization by targeting Cav1.2, thereby suppressing calcium-dependent activation of the Ras-PI3K-AKT, RhoA-ROCK, and JNK pathways associated with viral internalization. Moreover, nisoldipine modulated the unfolded protein response (UPR) in host cells by promoting adaptive XBP1 splicing and contributed to the maintenance of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) homeostasis during IAV infection. Collectively, these observations support a sequential cascade model: Cav1.2 inhibition restrains viral entry and indirectly mitigates virus-triggered ER stress. Furthermore, nisoldipine exhibits broad-spectrum in vitro antiviral activity against multiple enveloped RNA and DNA viruses, including human coronavirus OC43 (HCoV-OC43), respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), Zika virus (ZIKV), Dengue virus Type 2 (DENV2), and Herpes Simplex Virus Type 1/2 (HSV-1/2). This study clarifies the mechanistic involvement of Cav1.2 in IAV infection and further identifies it as a promising broad-spectrum antiviral target with potential applications in preventing and treating influenza, human coronavirus infections, and other emerging viral diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background Anorexia nervosa and binge-eating behaviour are clinically distinct yet genetically and neurobiologically overlapping phenotypes. The molecular systems that differentiate restrictive from binge-related eating pathology remain incompletely defined, particularly when genetic risk is integrated with age-related neuronal chromatin programs. A companion preprint prioritized synaptic vesicle dynamics, Ras homolog family member A (RHOA)-centered trafficking, and mitochondrial substrate utilization as candidate interfaces between eating-disorder genetic risk and nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN)-sensitive biology. Objective This study aimed to extend the companion NMN-sensitive framework by applying a Polycomb- and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG)-derived multi-gene-set transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) to the same brain-tissue summary-statistics-based PrediXcan (S-PrediXcan) results for broad anorexia nervosa (AN broad) and broad binge-eating behaviour (BE broad). The analysis is hypothesis-generating and is not an independent replication of the companion study. Methods Sixteen Polycomb- and KEGG-derived gene sets, constructed from age-associated H3K27me3 programs in neurons, were interrogated. Analytical steps included enrichment testing, competitive permutation analysis, bootstrap confidence intervals, disease-differential testing, tissue-level analyses, profile proximity, concordance testing, leave-one-out influence analysis, pooled Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate (BH-FDR) correction across the prespecified family of enrichment, differential, proximity, and pairwise tests, network co-occurrence, module clustering, cross-module candidate prioritization, and robustness-weighted prioritization. Results The synaptic vesicle cycle showed the strongest positive enrichment in BE broad (Stouffer Z = 4.628; competitive permutation p = 0.0179; Wilcoxon p = 0.00229; bootstrap 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.93-8.23). Positive tissue-level statistics were observed in the frontal cortex BA9, anterior cingulate cortex BA24, and caudate basal ganglia, although these tissues are correlated and were not treated as independent replications. AN broad exhibited its strongest meta-level signal in axon guidance, with additional enrichment involving adherens junctions, long-term potentiation, and ribonucleic acid (RNA) polymerase-related genes. Stage 3 integration identified four higher-order module clusters, 28 cross-module prioritized candidates influential across at least three modules and both phenotypes, 577 influential candidate genes, and 576 cross-module network nodes. RHOA emerged as a recurrent, high-influence, and directionally unstable network node and candidate linking adhesion, actin remodeling, trafficking, and signaling. Across pathways, the two phenotypes shared substantial molecular infrastructure yet demonstrated only moderate directional concordance, consistent with a dimensional rather than strictly categorical model. Conclusions The results supply structural and regulatory context for the companion NMN framework and support a dimensional model in which the two phenotypes share substantial molecular infrastructure yet differ in pathway magnitude and regional weighting. All pathway and gene prioritizations require independent replication, colocalization, fine-mapping, and functional validation before any mechanistic or therapeutic inference can be drawn.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy (DIC) is a common and severe cardiotoxic effect of doxorubicin (DOX)-based chemotherapy. This study aimed to identify core genes associated with DIC and investigate their immunoregulatory mechanisms.Core genes were identified based on GEO datasets by integrating differential expression analysis, WGCNA, and machine learning algorithms. Functional enrichment analysis, immune infiltration analysis, and single-cell RNA sequencing analysis were subsequently performed. In addition, AI-based drug screening, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulation, and Western blot validation were conducted.KIF23 was identified as the core gene. Functional analysis of DIC-related genes indicated that they were mainly involved in chromatin remodeling, cell cycle regulation, and energy metabolism. Immune infiltration analysis revealed significant enrichment of macrophages, dendritic cells, and regulatory T cells in the DIC group, and KIF23 expression was negatively correlated with multiple immune cell infiltrations. Single-cell analysis showed that KIF23 was predominantly enriched in macrophage populations. AI-based drug screening identified BRD-K40329609 as a potential therapeutic candidate. Molecular docking and 100 ns molecular dynamics simulations suggested a potential binding affinity between DOX and KIF23. In vitro experiments further demonstrated that DOX significantly downregulated KIF23 expression in cardiomyocytes.This study identified KIF23 as a core gene associated with DIC and suggested that it may be involved in immune microenvironment remodeling and macrophage-related pathological processes, providing new insights into the molecular mechanisms of DIC and potential therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) have emerged as important modulators in the molecular pathology of cancer. lncRNA ABCA9-AS1 is a newly identified lncRNA, and its role in gastric cancer has not yet been reported.To investigate the effects of lncRNA ABCA9-AS1 on the proliferation and metastasis of gastric cancer cells and to explore its role in the miR-497-5p/KIF23 signalling cascade.A gastric cancer-specific ceRNA network (lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA) was constructed using RNA-seq and miRNA-seq data from TCGA. qRT-PCR was used to detect the expression levels of the target genes in gastric cancer cells (AGS, HGC-27, MKN28) and human gastric mucosal epithelial cells (GES-1). Knockdown of lncRNA ABCA9-AS1 was achieved using specific siRNA, while overexpression of KIF23 was achieved using a pcDNA3.1-based overexpression plasmid. The proliferative capacity of gastric cancer cells was assessed using CCK-8 and colony formation assays. Cell migration and invasion were evaluated by Transwell migration and Matrigel invasion assays, respectively.A gastric cancer-specific lncRNA-associated ceRNA network was constructed. qRT-PCR showed significant upregulation of lncRNA ABCA9-AS1 in gastric cancer cells (AGS, HGC-27, MKN28), with concomitant downregulation of miR-497-5p and upregulation of KIF23. In AGS cells, ABCA9-AS1 knockdown increased miR-497-5p expression and reduced KIF23 expression, while miR-497-5p mimics suppressed KIF23 expression. Functional assays confirmed that ABCA9-AS1 knockdown and miR-497-5p overexpression inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of AGS cells. Conversely, KIF23 restoration or miR-497-5p inhibition reversed these effects, as did KIF23 co-expression with miR-497-5p mimics.Our results highlight lncRNA ABCA9-AS1 as a novel and promising prognostic biomarker that promotes gastric cancer progression by acting as a ceRNA to modulate the miR-497-5p/KIF23 axis.lncRNA ABCA9-AS1 is aberrantly upregulated in gastric cancer. As a ceRNA, it sponges miR-497-5p to increase KIF23 expression and enhance the proliferation, migration, and invasion of gastric cancer cells.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42481345
Skipped: PubMed ID 42449637 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42421965 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42410612 is a review article
Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are a subpopulation with self-renewal and differentiation capacity that drive the progression, recurrence, and therapeutic resistance of patients with cervical cancer (CC). However, the complete set of genes that maintain stemness in CC remains incompletely defined. We aimed to identify key stemness-related genes and evaluate their prognostic utility, immune associations, and drug sensitivity. Through literature mining and CellMarker 2.0, we identified 1345 stemness-associated genes that overlapped with differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from the TCGA-CESC dataset (log2FC > 2, p < 0.05), yielding 216 stemness-related DEGs. A protein-protein interaction network (STRING) and CytoHubba (MCC algorithm) revealed ten hub genes (HGs): CCNB1, CCNA2, BUB1B, UBE2C, KIF11, CCNB2, KIF23, CDC20, CDC6, and FOXM1. Gene ontology and KEGG analyses revealed predominant enrichment in cell cycle progression. Cox regression and Kaplan‒Meier analyses identified BUB1B, CCNA2, CDC20, FOXM1, and KIF23 as risk factors for poor overall survival, with KIF11 emerging as an independent prognostic factor. HGs overexpression significantly correlated with altered infiltration of 15 immune cell types, including negative associations with CD8 + T and NK cells. We identified 661 unique drugs/chemicals targeting these HGs, including FDA-approved repurposed agents. Experimental validation via RT‒PCR confirmed significant overexpression of FOXM1 and KIF11 in CC tissues and cell lines compared with normal samples. These stemness-associated HGs, particularly FOXM1 and KIF11, may serve as potential prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets, warranting further investigation of stemness-driven CC progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42288227 is a review article
Ovarian cancer (OC) typically exhibits aggressive growth and is prone to developing cisplatin (DDP) resistance. One of the Kinesin family members KIF11, is a current research hotspot due to its role in cisplatin resistance, although its underlying mechanisms are not yet fully understood.Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were obtained from TCGA-OV, GSE23391, and GSE29450, from which candidate genes were screened. Applying qRT-PCR and WB, KIF11 expression in OC cell lines was evaluated, followed by loss- and gain-of-function assays. The regulation of cell phenotype by KIF11 knockdown/overexpression was assessed using Transwell assays, CCK-8, flow cytometry, and colony formation assays. LiCl, an activator of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway, and XAV-939, an inhibitor, were applied to examine the regulatory mechanisms. The function related to chemoresistance was studied using a DDP-resistant cell model (SKOV3-DDP).Four candidate genes (BUB1B, CCNB1, KIF11, KIF23) were significantly upregulated in OC samples. In vitro, KIF11 was highly expressed in OC cell lines. KIF11 silencing suppressed cell growth, increased apoptosis, and induced G2/M arrest, effects that were partially rescued by LiCl, supporting a functional link to the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. KIF11 was upregulated in SKOV3-DDP cells compared with parental SKOV3 cells. While KIF11 overexpression had the opposite effects, which XAV-939 mitigated, KIF11 knockdown decreased viability and colony formation and increased apoptosis.KIF11 can promote the malignant phenotype and DDP resistance of tumor cells by activating the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway in OC. Therefore, KIF11 has the potential to serve as a biomarker for predicting OC progression and the efficacy of DDP treatment.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42178466 is a review article
Rho related BTB domain containing 1 (RhoBTB1) is highly expressed in placenta and functions to deliver protein targets to the Cullin-3 (CUL3) E3 ubiquitin ligase where they are targeted for ubiquitination and degradation. The targets of RhoBTB1 in placenta have not been identified. Using RNAscope, we show that RhoBTB1 is mainly expressed in syncytiotrophoblasts (SCT) in the human and mouse placenta. We employed ascorbate peroxidase 2-mediated targeted proteomics to identify RhoBTB1 binding proteins in immortalized human extravillous trophoblast (HTR8/SVneo) cells. We selected 9 RhoBTB1-interacting proteins to examine functionally. Two of these, S-Phase Kinase Associated Protein 2 (SKP2) and Rho GTPase-Activating Protein 29 (ArhGAP29), increased in abundance when Cullin activity was blocked by the neddylation inhibitor MLN4924 and co-immunoprecipitated with RhoBTB1. SKP2 increased in abundance in CRISPR-Cas9 HEK293 cells that lack CUL3, and in HTR8/SVneo cells after siRNA-mediated inhibition of RhoBTB1. SKP2 was ubiquitinated by a RhoBTB1- and CUL3-dependent mechanism providing evidence that its stability is regulated by RhoBTB1/CUL3. Like RhoBTB1, SKP2 is highly expressed in the placenta. Reanalysis of single cell RNA sequencing data sets revealed that SKP2 exhibits co-expression with RhoBTB1 in SCT precursor cells, SCTs, and cytotrophoblasts. These findings identify SKP2 as a RhoBTB1/CUL3 target in the placenta.© 2026 The Author(s). Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.
Gordon syndrome (Pseudohypoaldosteronism type II) is a rare autosomal dominant disorder characterized by hyperkalemia, hypertension, and metabolic acidosis. Among the four causative genes, CUL3 mutations produce the most severe phenotype, yet endocrine manifestations beyond growth delay remain poorly described. We report a 22-year-old male who presented with chronic hyperkalemia, hypertension, insulin resistance with steatohepatitis, and testicular hypoplasia with elevated gonadotropins, consistent with compensated primary testicular dysfunction. Genetic analysis identified a de novo heterozygous CUL3 c.1207-26A>G splice-site mutation resulting in exon 9 skipping. Treatment with hydrochlorothiazide normalized blood pressure and serum potassium while improving metabolic and hormonal abnormalities. Notably, these improvements reversed upon treatment discontinuation. This case suggests that certain endocrine manifestations in CUL3-related Gordon syndrome may be secondary to chronic electrolyte imbalance rather than direct genetic effects, highlighting the importance of comprehensive endocrine evaluation and sustained thiazide therapy in affected patients.Copyright © 2026 Fatahichegeni, Ansarian, Lv and Fu.
The development of the complex nervous system is strictly controlled by diverse isoforms produced from individual genes, but the underlying machinery remains unclear. Our long-read cDNA sequencing of mouse cerebellar granule cell progenitors (GCPs) identifies more than 700 genes with high isoform diversity. One such gene, Meis1, produces MEIS1-FL and MEIS1-HdL isoforms, which include and lack the homeodomain, respectively. Our previous study showed that MEIS1-FL localizes to nuclei and promotes ATOH1 protein degradation through transcriptional regulation, thereby promoting GCP differentiation. In contrast, our in vivo electroporation experiments in the postnatal mouse cerebellum show that MEIS1-HdL inhibits GCP differentiation. MEIS1-HdL localizes in the cytoplasm and inhibits the degradation of ATOH1 mediated by CUL3, which is a newly identified E3 ligase for ATOH1. MEIS1-HdL enhances the binding of the COP9 signalosome to CUL3, which suppresses ATOH1 polyubiquitination. This study demonstrates that functionally antagonistic isoforms derived from a single gene cleverly control neural progenitor differentiation.Copyright: © 2026 Owa et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Microglia-mediated neuroinflammation and oxidative stress are pivotal drivers of secondary injury following traumatic brain injury (TBI). While neddylation governs essential cellular functions, its specific contribution to microglial activation and TBI pathology remains poorly understood.We integrated bulk microglial RNA sequencing profiles with single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) datasets from TBI mouse brains. To assess therapeutic potential, we employed a controlled cortical impact mouse model and treated animals with the neddylation inhibitor MLN4924. The role of microglia was validated using microglia-depleted mice. Mechanistically, a combinatorial approach utilizing AlphaFold 3 molecular docking predictions, quantitative proteomics, and immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry was performed to identify molecular targets.We revealed a specific and robust up-regulation of neddylation exclusively within microglial clusters. Pharmacological inhibition of neddylation using MLN4924 significantly ameliorated neurological deficits, attenuated brain edema, and preserved blood-brain barrier integrity. Crucially, these neuroprotective benefits were abrogated in microglia-depleted mice, pinpointing microglia as the primary cellular target. We identified the glutamate-cysteine ligase modifier subunit (GCLM) as a novel substrate of the CUL3-KLHL12 E3 ligase complex. MLN4924 inhibits CUL3 neddylation, thereby impeding the CUL3-KLHL12-mediated ubiquitination and degradation of GCLM. Consequently, GCLM stabilization restores intracellular glutathione synthesis, effectively scavenging reactive oxygen species and mitigating neuroinflammation.Our findings characterize the Neddylation-CUL3-KLHL12-GCLM axis as a critical regulator of microglial redox homeostasis and highlight this pathway as a promising therapeutic target for TBI intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Retinopathy of prematurity (ROP)-associated vision loss is driven by pathological retinal angiogenesis. Current therapies suppress neovascularization but do not fully restore vascular integrity or prevent long-term visual deficit. Activation of the sigma-1 receptor (Sig1R) has been reported to confer neuroprotection, yet its role in retinal vascular protection remains largely unexplored. Here, we investigated whether Sig1R activation confers vascular protection in experimental ROP.The oxygen-induced retinopathy (OIR) mouse model was induced in wild-type and Sig1R-/- mice with or without systemic (+)-pentazocine ([+]-PTZ) administration to activate Sig1R. Retinal vascular pathology, barrier integrity, and avascular areas were evaluated by fluorescein angiography and retinal flatmount analysis. Molecular changes in metabolic, oxidative, and inflammatory pathways were assessed by immunostaining/blotting and ELISA assay.Sig1R expression was reduced in OIR retinas, accompanied by decreased cullin-3 ubiquitin ligase (Cul3) and phosphorylated AMP-activated protein kinase (pAMPK) and increased pAkt and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), indicative of metabolic and endothelial stress. Activation of Sig1R with (+)-PTZ restored Sig1R, Cul3, and pAMPK levels, suppressed pAkt/eNOS signaling, reduced oxidative stress, and attenuated Müller glial activation. OIR-induced upregulation of phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (p-STAT3) and pro-angiogenic/inflammatory mediators, including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), IL-6, TNF-α, macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF), vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1), and tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR), were markedly reduced by (+)-PTZ. Functionally, Sig1R activation improved retinal vascular barrier integrity, reduced arterial tortuosity and pathological neovascularization, and promoted revascularization of avascular retina. Importantly, (+)-PTZ treatment failed to confer any vascular benefit in Sig1R-/- mice, confirming that these vascular benefits are Sig1R dependent.Sig1R activation preserves vascular integrity and suppresses pathological angiogenesis in OIR. Together with known neuroprotective effects, Sig1R represents a promising dual neurovascular therapeutic target for ROP.
Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory skin disease driven by excessive proliferation and aberrant differentiation of keratinocytes. Autophagy-based unconventional secretory pathway (secretory autophagy) plays key roles in regulating cell proliferation and autosecretion in psoriatic keratinocytes; however, their upstream regulators remain poorly defined. The orphan G protein-coupled receptor 107 (GPR107) mediates signal transduction via clathrin-dependent endocytosis. Here, we report that upregulation of GPR107 in psoriatic keratinocytes promotes both cell proliferation and the secretion of chemokines and antimicrobial peptides through BECN1-dependent autophagy. Mechanistically, internalized GPR107 activates the β-arrestin/ERK/NF-κB pathway. This activation not only drives the direct transcription of inflammatory factors but also negatively regulates the expression of E3-ubiquitin ligase CUL3. The reduction of CUL3 decreases K48-linked ubiquitination at K206 of BECN1, preventing its proteasomal degradation. Stabilization of BECN1 facilitates secretory autophagy in psoriatic keratinocytes, further enhancing their proliferation and inflammatory responses. These findings highlight a novel function of GPR107 in psoriasis, and suggest that the integrated β-arrestin/ERK/NF-κB/CUL3/BECN1 axis may serve as a potential therapeutic target for this disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
While the cerebellar dopaminergic system is suggested to be implicated in neurodevelopmental disorders, especially autism spectrum disorder (ASD), the details of its disturbances remain unclear. We performed a comparative analysis of human (GTEx) and mouse (GSE144046, GSE144277) transcriptomes, complemented by RT-qPCR in DAT-KO rats, to identify dopaminergic gene associations in the normal cerebellum and neurodevelopmental disorder models. Pairwise dopaminergic gene correlations were generally weak, with a slight increase in interaction complexity in ASD models. However, weighted gene co-expression network analysis identified a robust gene module involving Comt, which was consistently associated with synaptic translation across mouse datasets. These associations reflect regulatory processes in the whole cerebellum, which is commonly represented in rodent studies but absent in human data, which are acquired in studies of cerebellar subregions. ASD modeling exerted contrasting effects: Cul3 haploinsufficiency increased the number of genes involved in the module with a decrease in connectivity, while Mbd5 haploinsufficiency led to module collapse. These findings confirm neurodevelopmental disorders as a heterogeneous condition where divergent backgrounds uniquely rewire cerebellar dopaminergic networks. Considering the cerebellum's role in ASD and that some ASD medications target the dopamine system, further investigation of these identified trends may support the development of more personalized therapeutic approaches.
Biomolecular condensates in the cytoplasm and nucleus contribute to carcinogenesis through aberrant signaling by assorted transcription factors and fusion oncoproteins. Oral cancer, which is highly prevalent worldwide, frequently occurs in a U-shaped "high-risk" zone (floor of mouth, side of tongue, and anterior fauces) which forms the path of liquid transit through the mouth. We previously reported that environmental stresses of saliva-like hypotonicity and beverage-like temperature changes triggered cycles of disassembly/reassembly of biomolecular condensates of GFP-tagged human myxovirus resistance protein (MxA; alias Mx1) in oral cancer cells. In the present study, we identified some of the constituents of GFP-MxA cytoplasmic condensates in oral cells. These condensates were isolated from interferon (IFN)-λ1-treated GFP-MxA expressing OECM1 human oral cancer cells using magnetic bead-based immunoisolation. Unbiased peptide identification confirmed the presence of MxA/Mx1 peptides; however, the strongest intensity was for the BACH1 transcription factor family. Immunofluorescence analyses confirmed the association of BACH1 and the family member Nrf2 with cytoplasmic human GFP-MxA condensates. Moreover, GFP-BACH1 and GFP-Nrf2 colocalized with cytoplasmic human HA-MxA condensates in transiently transfected OECM1 cells. Western blot assays confirmed the presence of BACH1 and Nrf2 proteins in complexes isolated using anti-MxA pAb. As much as BACH1 and Nrf2 regulate oxidative stress response genes, it was remarkable that immunofluorescence assays revealed the presence of heme oxygenase 1 (HO1)-a downstream redox regulator-in GFP-MxA condensates. However, these condensates were devoid of p62, KEAP1 and Cul3. In terms of aberrant function, in live cells, the Nrf2 transcription factor underwent rapid disassembly and reassembly cycles driven by saliva-like hypotonicity, and was also disassembled by sulforaphane. The data highlight the unexpected intersections in oral cells between MxA condensates and BACH1, Nrf2 and HO1-proteins well known to be involved in pathways regulating cellular responses to environmental and oxidative stresses, antiviral defense, oral epithelial dysplasia, and cancer progression and metastases.
Preimplantation genetic testing (PGT) represents a crucial strategy in the prevention of monogenic disorders, ensuring that only embryos free from these genetic conditions are implanted during assisted reproductive technologies. By analyzing the type of haplotypes of the variation of the probands or the carriers, we can significantly enhance the diagnostic precision of PGT. We presented a clinical strategy that uses embryos as probands to construct haplotypes; this innovative approach has successfully delineated the haplotypes associated with pathogenic variations in key genes, such as HBA (encoding hemoglobin subunit alpha), EXT1 (involved in exostoses), and CUL3 (a gene related to various developmental disorders). Ten embryos in three families were tested, all are diagnosed whether with the deletion variations or not by haplotype construction, Sanger sequencing, or PCR. Importantly, we compared SNP results with haplotype analysis by pedigree linkage or long reading sequence. This method can be considered when family members are incomplete and haplotype construction is otherwise unfeasible other than long reading sequencing.Copyright © 2026 Defeng Shu et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Lumbar disc degeneration (LDD) is a common spinal disorder that predisposes patients to lumbar disc herniation (LDH) and causes chronic low back pain. Its pathogenesis remains incompletely understood. This study investigated the clinical relevance of PRKG1-AS1 in LDD and explored its regulation of LDD progression through miR-218-5p, providing experimental support for LDD targeted treatment.This study enrolled 128 LDD patients and 102 healthy individuals to measure serum levels of PRKG1-AS1 and analyze its associations with clinical parameters. A degeneration model of human nucleus pulposus cells (hNPCs) was established using TNF-α induction. The effects of PRKG1-AS1 on cell proliferation, metabolic balance, ferroptosis, inflammation, and oxidative stress were assessed through transfection experiments. Additionally, dual-luciferase reporter assays confirmed the targeted binding interactions.Serum PRKG1-AS1 showed strong diagnostic value for LDD. Its expression was closely related to disease severity and patient functional status, making it an independent risk factor for progression from LDD to LDH. Overexpressing PRKG1-AS1 significantly improved the TNF-α-induced degenerative phenotype, enhanced hNPCs proliferation, restored metabolic balance, reduced ferroptosis, and alleviated inflammation and oxidative stress damage. Dual-luciferase assays confirmed that PRKG1-AS1 directly binds to miR-218-5p, and miR-218-5p targets CUL3. PRKG1-AS1 exerted a protective effect in LDD progression via the miR-218-5p/CUL3 axis.Serum PRKG1-AS1 may serve as a promising biomarker for early detection and prediction of LDD progression. It modulates inflammation and ferroptosis in nucleus pulposus cells through the PRKG1-AS1/miR-218-5p/CUL3 axis, thereby inhibiting the LDD development.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42529891 is a review article
Medulloblastoma (MB) is the most common malignant pediatric brain tumor. The non-WNT/non-SHH subtypes (Groups 3 and 4) exhibit high genetic heterogeneity and limited therapeutic options. Kinesin family member 14 (KIF14) is selectively expressed during nervous system development. However, its role in non-WNT/non-SHH MB remains poorly understood. In this study, analysis of the GEO database revealed that high KIF14 expression correlates with poor prognosis in patients with non-WNT/non-SHH MB. Silencing KIF14 in MB cells impaired cytokinesis, leading to p53-mediated cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Mechanistically, KIF14 knockdown disrupted the nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of the p53-binding protein 53BP1, resulting in its nuclear accumulation. This shift inhibited homologous recombination (HR)-mediated repair of DNA double-stranded breaks (DSBs), thereby enhancing cisplatin-induced DNA damage. In vitro experiments and intracranial orthotopic xenograft models confirmed that KIF14 silencing potentiates the antitumor efficacy of cisplatin treatment. Overall, these findings highlight the critical role of KIF14 in promoting cell proliferation and DNA repair in non-WNT/non-SHH MB and suggest that targeting KIF14 may represent a novel therapeutic strategy to enhance the efficacy of DNA-damaging agents in this challenging MB subtype.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chemoresistance remains a major barrier in colorectal cancer (CRC) therapy. Through epigenetic compound screening in patient-derived organoids (PDOs), we identified CX6258.HCl as a potent growth inhibitor. Treatment with CX6258.HCl significantly inhibited cell mitosis and induced apoptosis in CRC cell lines. Mechanistically, CX6258.HCl binds the D687 residue within HASPIN's kinase domain, suppressing H3T3 phosphorylation (H3T3ph). This triggers an epigenetic cascade: loss of H3T3ph upregulates demethylase KDM5B pre-mRNA, depleting H3K4me3 at promoters of Kinesin family member (KIFC1/KIF10/KIF14). Consequently, microtubule dynamics are disrupted, leading to mitotic arrest. Target specificity was validated genetically via HASPIN-D687A mutation. In vivo, CX6258.HCl suppressed CRC xenograft growth and further enhanced 5-FU-mediated tumor suppression without obvious histological injury in major organs. Clinically, elevated H3T3ph levels in human CRC tissues were associated with Ki67-positive proliferative tumor regions, suggesting that H3T3ph may represent a proliferation-associated marker in CRC. Together, our findings identify the HASPIN/H3T3ph-KDM5B-H3K4me3-KIF axis as a targetable antimitotic pathway and support therapeutic inhibition of HASPIN/H3T3ph as a potential strategy for CRC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a highly heritable neurodegenerative disorder whose genetic architecture remains incompletely understood, particularly with respect to rare variants and higher-order interactions. We applied Individualized Bayesian Inference-Decision Tree (IBI-DT) to 790,000 whole-exome sequencing variants from 8,292 unrelated White British individuals in the UK Biobank, using genome-wide association analysis (GWAS) based on Fisher's exact test as a marginal association comparator and evaluated the findings in an independent ADSP-Discovery ICE cohort of 1,560 unrelated individuals with 852,997 variants. In the discovery cohort, IBI-DT identified 178 significant variants using empirical null calibration, which mapped to 173 genes, whereas GWAS identified 16 significant variants that mapped to four genes. Compared with GWAS, IBI-DT prioritized more rare variants among the top 178 signals (147 vs. 66 with minor allele frequency ≤ 0.01) and identified variants with less correlated, less redundant linkage patterns. The IBI-DT-prioritized variants included established AD genes as well as additional biologically supported genes not prioritized by GWAS. Replication supported three variants and four genes across cohorts, including gene-level replication of KIF14 and ZNF90, which were replicated only by IBI-DT. IBI-DT also identified significant gene-gene and gene-environment interactions and biologically plausible enriched pathways. Neural networks trained on IBI-DT-prioritized variants outperformed GWAS-based models (AUC 0.67 vs. 0.63). Overall, these findings indicate that IBI-DT complements GWAS by recovering established AD signals while prioritizing rare, less redundant, and interaction-related AD-associated signals.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cervical cancer (CC) ranks as the fourth most prevalent cancer in women worldwide. While biomarkers exist, previous studies are often limited by public dataset heterogeneity, incomplete spectrum coverage, or lack of clinical validation. To address these limitations, this study aims to profile fresh tissues spanning the full continuum to systematically identify hub genes with dysregulated expression during malignant progression.This study collected cervical epithelial tissue from 10 patients each with low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (LSIL), high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL), and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) for transcriptome sequencing. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) analysis and Mfuzz clustering were employed to identify candidate genes showing monotonic expression trends. Candidate genes were prioritized using a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network with three centrality algorithms and validated in Gene Expression Omnibus to define hub genes. Subsequently, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), immune infiltration analysis, and regulatory network analyses were performed. Finally, hub gene expression was validated via reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) in an independent clinical cohort.A total of 1,654 DEGs (HSIL vs. LSIL) and 6,635 DEGs (SCC vs. HSIL) were identified. Mfuzz clustering and PPI analysis yielded nine candidates, with BUB1B, KIF14, and MELK finalized as hub genes via GEO validation. GSEA showed the three hub genes were significantly enriched in multiple shared pathways and exhibited stage-specific differences. Immune infiltration analysis showed no significant association between hub-gene expression and immune cell fractions. Regulatory network prediction implicated miRNAs (e.g., hsa-miR-192-5p, hsa-miR-215-5p, hsa-miR-193b-3p) and TFs (e.g., AF4, E2F1, FOXA1, KDM5B) as potential upstream regulators. The lncRNAs (e.g., KCNQ1OT1, LINC01089, XIST3) were linked to these miRNAs. Finally, RT-qPCR in independent clinical samples confirmed hub-gene expression changes consistent with the bioinformatics findings.This study found the progressive upregulation of BUB1B, KIF14, and MELK across the LSIL-HSIL-SCC continuum, strengthening existing evidence of their association with cervical oncogenesis and highlighting their potential as candidate biomarkers for CC progression. However, the single-center design, limited sample size, and exploratory nature of the immune infiltration, regulatory network, and drug prediction analyses warrant cautious interpretation and underscore the need for further experimental validation.©2026 Li et al.
As the most aggressive form of breast cancer, triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is associated with poor prognosis and a lack of effective therapeutic options. Glycosylation has been linked to metabolic reprogramming in various cancers, and therapies targeting glycosylation-mediated metabolic reprogramming have been found to be effective. However, the role of the glycosyltransferase GALNT6 in TNBC metabolic reprogramming has not been examined.Our approach involved analyzing clinical data to assess the association between GALNT6 levels and patient outcomes. We employed gene knockdown techniques to silence GALNT6 expression in TNBC models. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, we utilized methods to measure glycolytic activity, metabolite levels, protein stability assays, transcriptional analysis, and assessment of DNA methylation status.Our results revealed that high level of GALNT6 were associated with poor clinical outcomes in TNBC. GALNT6 knockdown inhibited glycolytic and enhanced α-KG accumulation. Mechanistically, GALNT6 stabilizes HIF-1α through O-glycosylation, thereby enhancing the transcriptional levels of glycolytic enzymes. Meanwhile, GALNT6 stabilizes PFKM and PKM2 via O-glycosylation to protect them from proteasomal degradation. In parallel, GALNT6 promotes α-KG depletion by upregulating IDH2 and α-KGDH while suppressing GPT2. This depletion inhibits TET3-mediated DNA demethylation, thereby elevating 5mC levels, which in turn activates genes such as KIF14 to promote TNBC progression. Notably, silencing glycosylation-dependent glycolytic pathways or inhibiting α-KG-dependent processes markedly suppressed TNBC proliferation.Our study uncovers GALNT6 as a key regulator of metabolic reprogramming (glycolysis/TCA cycle) and epigenetic remodeling (5mC/TET3) to accelerate TNBC progression, suggesting that targeting the GALNT6-mediated metabolic-epigenetic axis may provide a novel therapeutic strategy for TNBC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive breast cancer subtype with limited targeted treatment options. Ferroptosis has emerged as a potential therapeutic vulnerability in TNBC, but its upstream regulation remains incompletely defined. Here, we combined bioinformatics analysis with cell-based experiments to investigate the role of kinesin family member 14 (KIF14) in ferroptosis sensitivity. KIF14 was upregulated in TNBC datasets and associated with poor prognosis. In MDA-MB-468 cells, KIF14 knockdown reduced cell viability, increased malondialdehyde and intracellular Fe2+ levels, and induced mitochondrial changes consistent with ferroptosis. These effects were partially reversed by ferrostatin-1. Comparison with inhibitors of apoptosis, necroptosis, and pyroptosis showed that only ferrostatin-1 produced a clear rescue effect, supporting a predominantly ferroptosis-associated phenotype. Mechanistically, KIF14 depletion reduced phosphorylation of AKT serine/threonine kinase (AKT) and altered ferroptosis-related proteins, including decreased glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) and increased acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4 (ACSL4). The AKT activator SC79 partially reversed these biochemical and phenotypic changes. Reciprocal co-immunoprecipitation further supported an association between endogenous KIF14 and AKT. In addition, KIF14 knockdown had minimal effects on the viability of normal MCF-10A cells. Together, these findings support a functional link between KIF14, AKT signaling, and ferroptosis sensitivity in TNBC.© 2026 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a challenging hematological malignancy characterized by poor clinical outcomes. This study investigates the role of MYCBP2 in AML progression, focusing on its interaction with KIF14 and its involvement in ubiquitin-mediated processes. We found that MYCBP2 is overexpressed in AML samples compared to normal tissues, with high expression correlating with adverse clinical outcomes. Knockdown of MYCBP2 using siRNA significantly inhibited cell proliferation and promoted apoptosis in MOLM-13 and HL-60 AML cell lines. Flow cytometry revealed that MYCBP2 knockdown leads to cell cycle arrest in the G0/G1 phase. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis indicated that MYCBP2 is associated with the Ubiquitin-Mediated Proteolysis pathway, regulating KIF14 protein stability through ubiquitination. High KIF14 expression was linked to better overall survival, and KIF14 knockdown partially reversed the effects of MYCBP2 knockdown on cell viability and apoptosis. In vivo studies demonstrated that MYCBP2 knockdown significantly reduced tumor growth and enhanced apoptosis in a xenograft model. These findings support that MYCBP2 promotes AML progression at least in part by negatively regulating KIF14 stability, highlighting MYCBP2 as a potential therapeutic target. Future research should explore targeted therapies aimed at MYCBP2 and its downstream pathways to improve treatment strategies for AML.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Many cell division events are regulated by protein phosphorylation, which can result from cross-regulatory mechanisms among mitotic kinases and phosphatases that have yet to be fully elucidated. Here, we report the characterization of a novel mechanism by which CDK1 and Aurora B (AURKB) kinases regulate the distribution and interactions of Citron kinase (CIT-K, encoded by CIT). We show that CDK1 phosphorylates serine 440 and AURKB phosphorylates serine 699, both residues located adjacent to or within the CIT-K coiled coil domain. S440 and S699 temporal phosphorylation profiles reflect the activity of the kinases responsible for their phosphorylation. Functional analyses using phosphorylation site mutants indicate that S699 phosphorylation is important for CIT-K localization and successful cytokinesis, whereas perturbing S440 phosphorylation leads to abnormal midbody formation and accumulation of post-mitotic midbody remnants (MBRs). Furthermore, we found that phosphorylation at either residue reduces the ability of CIT-K to interact with its midbody partners AURKB, KIF14 and MKLP1 (also known as KIF23). Taken together, our findings indicate that phosphorylation of CIT-K by CDK1 and AURKB regulates midbody formation and MBR stability by controlling the association of CIT-K with its partners. They expand our understanding of the mechanisms that regulate abscission and can lead to further insights into the role of MBRs in post-mitotic events.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
BACKGROUNDS: Neoadjuvant chemoradiation (nCRT) is a standard treatment for rectal carcinoma that reduces tumor size and local recurrence while improving the rate of sphincter preservation. However, many patients remain insensitive to nCRT, with some exhibiting tumor progression. To date, there is still a lack of clinically available prognostic models to differentiate the sensitivity of patients with rectal carcinoma to nCRT. This study aimed to develop a genetic predictive model that predicts the effectiveness of nCRT in patients with rectal carcinoma, offering guidance for future treatments and studies on the underlying mechanisms. METHODS: Based on the NCBI GEO database datasets, key hub genes affecting the efficacy of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy in rectal carcinoma were identified using WCGNA. Subsequently, a consistency analysis of 101 model combinations constructed using ten different machine learning algorithms was performed in two independent cohorts, and a prognostic model (chemoradiation resistance score, CRTR score) was developed and validated. Moreover, the clinical applicability of CRTR in immunotherapy and drug selection was investigated using multi-omics analysis and public databases. Finally, the effect of KIF14 on the radiosensitivity of rectal carcinoma cells was studied using in vitro experiments. RESULTS: The CRTR model was composed of 13 genes impacting nCRT sensitivity, whereas six genes (KIF4, DBF4, UBL4A, SLC10A3, PRRG4, and PAPSS2) acted as protective factors and seven (BMS1, DSC2, PROM2, MNAT1, PPID, SMPDL3B, and TNFRSF14) served as risk factors. The CRTR model showed a significant negative correlation with the prognosis of patients with rectal carcinoma undergoing nCRT. Furthermore, patients with higher CRTR values displayed an increased potential to benefit from immunotherapy. Drug sensitivity analysis indicated that aurora kinase inhibitors, telomerase inhibitors, JAK1 inhibitors, and others may enhance the efficacy of nCRT. Finally, we identified KIF14 as the gene that contributed the most to the model and performed preliminary validation. Radiation significantly upregulated the expression of KIF14, and overexpression of KIF14 increased the radiosensitivity of rectal carcinoma cells. CONCLUSION: The CRTR score, based on 13 genes, was able to predict the prognosis of patients with rectal carcinoma undergoing neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy and demonstrated immense potential in providing personalized risk assessments and recommendations for targeted immunotherapy. The core gene, KIF14, in the CRTR model may serve as a potential predictive biomarker of radiosensitivity in rectal carcinioma.
Metastasis is the leading cause of mortality in colorectal cancer (CRC). The hypoxic tumor microenvironment contributes to CRC progression by activating hypoxia-adaptive responses and the Warburg effect. This study investigates the role of transmembrane channel-like protein 7 (TMC7) in CRC metastasis. TMC7 is significantly upregulated in CRC tissues in patients, particularly in metastatic lesions. High TMC7 expression was associated with reduced survival and a higher incidence of metachronous liver metastases. Moreover, TMC7-high tumors exhibited enhanced glucose uptake. In vitro, TMC7 promoted CRC cell proliferation and invasion under hypoxic conditions, accompanied by HIF-1α nuclear translocation and activation of hypoxia-adaptive responses. In vivo, TMC7 significantly accelerated lung metastasis and shortened overall survival in a nude mouse xenograft model. Mechanistically, protein kinase N2 (PKN2) acts as a negative regulator of HIF1α activity, suppressing hypoxia adaptation and glycolysis. TMC7 inhibited PKN2 activity, thereby relieving its repression on HIF1α and facilitating HIF1α nuclear accumulation. This cascade ultimately enhances glycolytic flux and supports metastatic progression. Importantly, ectopic expression of PKN2 reversed the pro-metastatic and metabolic reprogramming phenotypes induced by TMC7. Furthermore, elevated TMC7 predicted inferior outcomes following chemotherapy and immunotherapy. Together, these findings uncover a novel TMC7-PKN2-HIF1α signaling axis that drives CRC metastasis through regulation of hypoxia adaptation and the Warburg effect. This study provides new mechanistic insights into CRC metastasis and highlights TMC7 as a potential therapeutic target for precision treatment of metastatic disease.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lower respiratory tract infections (LRTI), including pneumonia, tuberculosis, and COVID-19, share overlapping clinical features and risk factors, yet their common genetic architecture remains poorly understood.We applied genomic structural equation modeling (Genomic SEM) to dissect the shared genetic susceptibility among seven LRTI-related phenotypes using large-scale GWAS summary statistics. Multivariate GWAS (mvGWAS) was performed to identify variants associated with the latent LRTI factor. Post-GWAS analyses included Bayesian fine-mapping, transcriptome-wide association studies, MAGMA analysis, pathway enrichment, and cell-type specific heritability partitioning.A single latent factor model demonstrated excellent fit, confirming substantial genetic overlap across LRTI phenotypes. The mvGWAS identified 5,469 genome-wide significant variants, including 3,705 associations uniquely identified at the latent-factor level. Fine-mapping prioritized high-confidence causal variants at CAMK2D, NFKB1, CNTN5 and PARK2 loci, implicating calcium signaling, NF-κB-mediated inflammation, neuroimmune regulation, and mitochondrial quality control. TWAS highlighted TLK2, NUDT6, and PKN2 as key transcriptional regulators involved in chromatin homeostasis and inflammasome modulation. MAGMA identified RPL18A, HLA-DRB1, HLA-DQB1, and PTPN6, underscoring roles of ribosomal function, antigen presentation, and immune cell signaling. Pathway analysis revealed enrichment in coagulation cascades, while cell type analysis suggested involvement of hematopoietic progenitors and myeloid lineages.This study provides the first comprehensive genetic framework for shared LRTI susceptibility, revealing convergent biological pathways spanning inflammation, mitochondrial homeostasis, antigen presentation, and coagulation. These findings offer candidate targets for host-directed therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Transient Receptor Potential Melastatin 7 (TRPM7) is a 'chanzyme' with dual functions, acting both as a channel for divalent ions and as a serine/threonine kinase. Overexpression of TRPM7 has been linked to the development of various diseases, particularly cancers, making it a promising molecular target. Despite its relevance in oncogenesis, the phospho-regulatory network of TRPM7 remains largely unexplored, with limited evidence on its upstream kinases, downstream substrates, and site-specific phospho-regulated functions.To address this knowledge gap, we employed a co-differential detection-based strategy to analyse publicly available phosphoproteomics datasets.Through the analysis of 569 phosphoproteomics profiling datasets and 116 differential abundance datasets, we identified 55 and 38 Class I phosphosites in TRPM7, of which 13 have not been previously reported. Among the Class I phosphosites, S1504, S1255, S1513, S1477, and S1387 emerged as the predominant phosphosites in TRPM7. Furthermore, all known interactors and substrates of TRPM7 were associated with broad cellular functions such as protein phosphorylation, chromatin remodeling, transcriptional regulation, intracellular signal transduction, DNA damage response, and apoptosis, whereas the co-differentially regulated interactors and substrates of TRPM7 were associated with more specialized functions, including positive regulation of stem cell population maintenance, regulation of mRNA splicing via the spliceosome, and regulation of the G2/M phase transition of the cell cycle. Finally, we identified potential upstream kinases for TRPM7, including PRKCD, CLK2, STK39, PKN2, MAST3, PRKD3, and MAP4K4.These findings provide a comprehensive resource of TRPM7 phosphosites, their potential regulatory kinases, and associated biological functions, laying the groundwork for future mechanistic and therapeutic studies.Copyright © 2026 Palollathil, Mahin, Gopalakrishnan, Sambreena, Shivamurthy and Raju.
Congenital heart disease (CHD), the most common birth defect and a leading cause of infant mortality, is frequently linked to dysregulated Notch signaling. However, the role of the Notch transcriptional coactivator Mastermind-like 1 (MAML1) in CHD pathogenesis and the underlying molecular mechanism remain unclear.We investigated the role of MAML1 in CHD by focusing on a patient-derived Q401K mutation with a knock-in mouse model and an endocardium-specific Maml1 knockout mouse model, complemented by CRISPR-edited human heart organoids. Cardiac phenotypes were assessed by echocardiography and histological analysis. The underlying molecular mechanisms were dissected through biochemical assays, microscopy to analyze liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS), and mass spectrometry to identify posttranslational modifications and the upstream kinase of MAML1.In a clinical cohort of patients with CHD, we identified rare missense variants of MAML1 associated with ventricular septal defects. Modeling a patient-derived variant (Q401K) was sufficient to recapitulate key ventricular septal defect-related phenotypes in both knock-in mice and human heart organoids. To confirm the tissue-specific pathogenicity, we showed that endocardium-specific knockout of MAML1 in mice and MAML1 deletion in human heart organoids caused similar septal and valvular defects by disrupting Notch-driven endocardial-to-mesenchymal transition. Mechanistically, we discovered that MAML1 activity depends on LLPS, which forms nuclear condensates, required for efficient interaction with the NOTCH1 intracellular domain and activation of downstream transcriptional targets. Crucially, patient-derived pathogenic variants, including Q401K, function as charge-altering mutations within the intrinsically disordered region 2, a core region for MAML1 LLPS, pathologically abrogating LLPS to downregulate Notch signaling. Furthermore, we identified a regulatory axis in which PKN2 phosphorylates MAML1 at Ser314, which destabilizes MAML1 condensates and consequently attenuates Notch transcriptional output.These findings support MAML1 as a candidate gene for CHD and identify MAML1 LLPS as a critical biophysical determinant of Notch transcriptional output in endocardial cells. The electrostatic integrity of MAML1 condensates is essential for proper regulation of Notch signaling during cardiac morphogenesis. Dysregulation of this state, whether through CHD-associated charge-altering variants or aberrant PKN2-mediated phosphorylation, impairs Notch signaling and disrupts endocardial-to-mesenchymal transition, thereby establishing a converged molecular mechanism underlying congenital cardiac malformations.
Protein kinase N2 (PKN2) is essential for embryonic heart development, but the precise timing and cellular requirement in cardiomyocytes are not well understood. Here we show that, in a constitutive cardiomyocyte-specific knockout (cKO) of PKN2, we observe partially penetrant early postnatal lethality, non-progressive systolic dysfunction in survivors, and a distinctive "coin-pouch" ventricular geometry resembling the embryonic shape, linking the phenotype to a developmental origin rather than ongoing pathology. By tracking heart morphogenesis, we find that mutant and control hearts are still grossly indistinguishable at E10.5, defining a stage prior to overt morphological divergence. Integrative RNA-seq, proteomics, and phosphoproteomics at E10.5 reveal transcriptional and proteomic signatures consistent with induction of actin cytoskeleton and motility-associated programs alongside repression of chromosome-condensation and mitotic modules in PKN2 cKO hearts. These molecular changes coincide with reduced cardiomyocyte proliferation at E10.5-E11.5 and early divergence in ventricular-shape trajectories. Quantitative light-sheet microscopy-based morphometrics of inducible cardiomyocyte-specific PKN2 knockout hearts pinpoints the critical dependence window: tamoxifen administration at E7.5 reproduces the ventricular geometry characteristic of constitutive PKN2 cKO hearts, whereas administration at E10.5 spares gross morphology. Together, these data show that cardiomyocytes depend on PKN2 during an early proliferative phase, characterized by cytoskeletal remodeling and motility-associated programs, that contributes to ventricular wall formation, after which PKN2 becomes dispensable for gross ventricular chamber morphogenesis. This temporally restricted requirement reconciles previous observations of PKN2's essential role in mesodermal and epithelial morphogenesis, suggesting a shared function in coordinating cytoskeletal remodeling with tissue expansion during organogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pulmonary fibrosis is a group of interstitial lung diseases caused by various aetiologies, leading to the destruction of tissue architecture and loss of physiological function. In recent years, the incidence of pulmonary fibrosis has been rising annually, and the fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transition (FMT) in human pulmonary fibroblasts is considered a key factor in the pathogenesis of pulmonary fibrosis. Protein kinase N2 (PKN2), as a member of the protein kinase N family, has been reported in the literature to be directly associated with pulmonary fibrosis; however, the pathways through which it participates in the progression of pulmonary fibrosis remain unclear. This study aims to investigate the biological functions of PKN2 in pulmonary fibrosis and the regulatory mechanisms of its upstream molecules. The findings reveal that PKN2 expression is significantly upregulated in human pulmonary fibroblasts following treatment with transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1). Overexpression of PKN2 promotes the upregulation of stromal cell markers following TGF-β1 treatment, thereby facilitating the FMT process. In TGF-β1-induced MRC-5 cells, PKN2 also enhances proliferation and migration capacity. Furthermore, the transcription factor sex-determining region Y-box protein 9 (SOX9) was found to bind to the PKN2 promoter region and promote its expression levels. These results indicate that the SOX9/PKN2 transcriptional axis plays a role in promoting FMT in TGF-β1-induced MRC-5 cells, whilst enhancing cell proliferation and migration capacity; this suggests that targeting PKN2 holds promise for the development of therapeutic approaches for pulmonary fibrosis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The protein kinase C-related kinase (PKN) family of serine/threonine kinases consists of PKN1, PKN2 and PKN3, all of which are Rho family GTPase effectors. PKNs have three N-terminal Homology Region 1 (HR1) domains (HR1a, HR1b and HR1c), which form antiparallel coiled coils, which in two cases interact with Rho family GTPases, activating the kinase. The PKNs are implicated in several important cellular processes, including cytoskeletal regulation, cell adhesion, gene expression and cell cycle progression, and are also implicated in cancer. Here, we have investigated the roles of the HR1 domains in PKN oligomerisation. We show that PKN1 HR1a is a dimer and that the HR1c domain drives further oligomerization. We have mapped the interactions between the HR1 domains and used an integrative approach to model HR1-containing PKN1 dimers. Biophysical analysis shows that RhoA forms a 1:2 complex with HR1a, resulting in a rearrangement of the HR1a dimer, an outcome supported by SAXS models. In contrast, Rac1 binds to monomeric HR1a, suggesting that this GTPase activates PKN1 via a different mechanism. These data provide structural insight into interactions between HR1 domains and the Rho family proteins and their potential consequences for PKN1 activation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Equine melanocytic neoplasms (EMN) are aggressive tumours characterised by high metastatic potential and limited therapeutic options available. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying their progression remain poorly understood. This study therefore presents the integrative phosphoproteomic analysis of EMN tissue, with the aim of elucidating stage-specific alterations in signalling pathways and metabolism. Nineteen tissue samples from grey horses were categorised as normal-stage (n = 6), early-stage EMN (n = 7), and severe-stage EMN (n = 6) and subjected to in-depth analysis using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). A total of 2035 phosphoproteins were identified, of which 219 were differentially expressed across the disease stages. Interestingly, early-stage EMN showed dysregulation of inositol phosphate metabolism and activation of the PI3K-Akt pathway which involved INPP5F and PKN2. In severe-stage EMN, upregulation of SYNJ1, STRN4 and VIM indicated enhanced membrane trafficking, cytoskeletal remodelling, and MAPK signalling. Additionally, ASPM and GNAO1 upregulation reflected heightened proliferation and altered Rap1 signalling, while UBR5 dysregulation suggested aberrant protein homeostasis. Metabolic reprogramming was also noticed, with elevated TKT and GAPDH expression supporting glycolysis and NADPH production. Observably, the severe-stage EMN exhibited a higher expression of Dickkopf-3 (DKK3) which suggests a role in aberrant Wnt/β-catenin activation and tumour progression. These findings reveal stage-specific molecular mechanisms in EMN pathogenesis and highlight potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets for equine melanoma.© 2026 The Author(s). Veterinary and Comparative Oncology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The protein kinase N family belongs to the AGC kinase group and contains three isozymes: PKN1, PKN2, and PKN3. Catalytic domains of PKNs share high sequence similarity, yet the proteins differ in tissue distribution, functions, and involvement in pathological processes. In particular, PKN3 has been implicated in tumor growth and metastatic progression, highlighting the need for isozyme-selective inhibitors as both research tools and therapeutic leads. Here, we report the rational design of selective PKN3 inhibitors based on distinctive structural features of this kinase. Two strategies were applied. First, the smaller threonine gatekeeper residue unique to PKN3 within the AGC group was exploited by derivatization of N-(2-aminoethyl)isoquinoline-5-sulfonamide (H-9) at position C8. Among the resulting compounds, a phenylamino-substituted derivative displayed the highest affinity, with a dissociation constant (KD) of 23 nM and more than 1000-fold selectivity over protein kinase A. Second, bisubstrate-analog design was employed to enhance binding to basophilic AGC kinases through covalent attachment of a (d-Arg)3-containing chain to H-9 derivatives. This approach yielded ARC-2603, which bound PKN3 with a KD value of 0.2 nM and showed 5500-fold selectivity over PKAcα. The selectivity of ARC-2603 was further evaluated in a commercial panel of 397 protein kinases, which supported its utility as a highly selective PKN3 inhibitor.
Pathological cardiac hypertrophy is a major predisposing factor for heart failure (HF). This study investigates the role of the E3 ubiquitin ligase Tripartite Motif-Containing 40 (TRIM40) in cardiac hypertrophy. Using TRIM40 knockout (TRIM40-/-), cardiac-specific knockdown and overexpressing mice, pathological hypertrophy was induced by angiotensin II (Ang II) infusion or transverse aortic constriction (TAC). Results showed that TRIM40 expression was upregulated in hypertrophic hearts. TRIM40 deficiency attenuated cardiac hypertrophy and dysfunction, whereas its overexpression exacerbated pathological remodeling. Mechanistically, TRIM40 binds PKN2 via its B-box domain and, in a manner requiring its C29-dependent E3 ligase activity, promotes K63-linked ubiquitination of PKN2. This leads to enhanced PKN2 phosphorylation at Ser815 and activation of downstream signaling. Pharmacological inhibition of PKN2 attenuated cardiac remodeling induced by TRIM40 overexpression. These findings reveal that TRIM40 drives cardiac hypertrophy through K63-linked ubiquitination and activation of PKN2, identifying TRIM40 as a promising candidate for therapeutic intervention in HF.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Major Depressive Disorder (MDD), a leading global disability affecting 280 million people, has poor treatment efficacy due to persistent biological variability involving cell-type-specific transcriptomic dysregulation and immune dysfunction, and integrated multi-omics approaches are vital to uncover pathways and therapeutic targets.This research utilized a comprehensive multi-omics approach, merging bulk RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) data from the GSE39653 dataset with single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data derived from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of three MDD patients and three healthy controls. Analysis of differential gene expression (DEGs1) and identification of genes inside Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) modules were conducted using bulk RNA-seq data. Analysis of differential cell population abundance and differential gene expression (DEGs2) was performed on the scRNA-seq data. Detection of CD3-CD56+ or CD3-CD16+ NK cells in human peripheral blood samples by flow cytometry. Candidate genes were subsequently identified from the intersection of DEGs1, WGCNA module genes, and DEGs2. Subsequently, machine learning methods were employed to discern key genes from these candidates. The functional characterization of essential cell populations was accomplished via pseudotime trajectory analysis, Gene Set Variation Analysis (GSVA), metabolic pathway analysis (scMetabolism), and transcription factor inference (SCENIC). Ultimately, diagnostic models, regulatory networks, and compound screenings were developed based on the key genes.In the RNA-seq analysis, 803 DEGs1 and 2080 WGCNA module genes were identified. scRNA-seq analysis revealed 1,539 DEGs2 and identified natural killer (NK) cells as a major dysfunctional immune cell subpopulation in MDD, exhibiting a significantly increased proportion (CD3-CD56+ or CD3-CD16+, p < 0.05) in the MDD patients. The NK cell population was significantly enriched, flow cytometry validated this finding. The intersection of DEGs1, WGCNA module genes, and DEGs2 yielded 26 candidate genes. Subsequent machine learning analysis identified five key genes: CSPP1, ZNF84, HLA-DPA1, CCZ1, and LRRC8D. A diagnostic nomogram constructed using these key genes demonstrated robust discriminatory performance in distinguishing MDD patients. Mechanistic investigations implicated these five key genes in MDD pathogenesis through neurodegenerative signaling pathways.Our study establishes NK cell dysfunction as a core pathophysiological mechanism in MDD, characterized by cellular expansion and metabolic alterations. The identified key genes serve as robust diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Elucidation of their regulatory networks provides critical insights for precision psychiatry interventions.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Kuang, Peng, Yuan, Ji, Chen, Tian, Zhou, Chen, Li, Feng and Nie.
Joubert syndrome is a genetically heterogeneous ciliopathy characterized by cerebellar vermis hypoplasia and the distinctive molar tooth sign on neuroimaging, often accompanied by neurological impairment. Pathogenic CSPP1 variants account for approximately 3% of Joubert syndrome cases. While certain ciliopathies have been associated with metabolic dysfunction, this has not been described in CSPP1-related Joubert syndrome.We report a 16-year-old Honduran mestiza female patient with CSPP1-related Joubert syndrome who presented with insulin resistance, early onset diabetes, dyslipidemia, and metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease. Notably, she lacked the typical neurological symptoms of Joubert syndrome. Brain magnetic resonance imaging revealed cerebellar vermis hypoplasia, confirming the diagnosis. Genetic testing identified a pathogenic heterozygous CSPP1 variant (c.3052C > T, p.Gln1018), supporting the diagnosis of CSPP1-related Joubert syndrome.This case expands the phenotypic spectrum of CSPP1-related Joubert syndrome and raises the possibility of a role for CSPP1 in metabolic homeostasis. Further research is needed to determine whether CSPP1 mutations contribute to metabolic dysfunction via ciliary or centrosome-associated mechanisms.© 2025. The Author(s).
Cilia are motile or sensory organelles present on many eukaryotic cells. Their formation and function rely on axonemal microtubules, which exhibit very slow dynamics, but the underlying mechanisms are largely unexplored. Here we reconstituted in vitro the individual and collective activities of the ciliary tip module proteins CEP104, CSPP1, TOGARAM1, ARMC9 and CCDC66, which interact with each other and with microtubules and, when mutated in humans, cause ciliopathies such as Joubert syndrome. We show that CEP104, a protein with a tubulin-binding TOG domain, and its luminal partner CSPP1 inhibit microtubule growth and shortening. Another TOG-domain protein, TOGARAM1, overcomes growth inhibition imposed by CEP104 and CSPP1. CCDC66 and ARMC9 do not affect microtubule dynamics but act as scaffolds for their partners. Cryo-electron tomography demonstrated that, together, ciliary tip module members form plus-end-specific cork-like structures that reduce protofilament flaring. The combined effect of these proteins is very slow processive microtubule elongation, which recapitulates axonemal dynamics in cells.© 2025. The Author(s).
This research explores the interactions of tripolyphosphate-chitosan-pea protein (TPP-CS-PP) in improving the stability and storage of 3D printing food inks. Chitosan (CS) and pea protein (PP) were complexed at various concentrations with 80 % palm olein to produce high internal phase Pickering emulsions (HIPPEs) 3D printing food inks. The resulting CSPP HIPPEs exhibited shear-thinning behaviour and the flexibility to switch between solid and liquid states, ideal for 3D printing. CSPP1:150 achieved the best 3D printing resolution and shape fidelity due to electrostatic attraction of CS-PP and excess PP enhancing adhesion at the oil/water interface. After spraying tripolyphosphate (TPP), crosslinking with CS and phosphorylation of PP further improved HIPPE resistance to deformation and oiling off for 2 days post-printing. This is a significant improvement over the control. Thus, further investigation on the interaction of TPP with CS and PP is warranted to further improve the storage stability of 3D printed food inks.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 38772741
Joubert syndrome (JS) is a rare autosomal recessive neurodevelopmental condition characterized by congenital mid-hindbrain abnormalities and a variety of clinical manifestations. This article describes a case of Joubert syndrome type 21 with microcephaly, seizures, developmental delay and language regression, caused by a CSPP1 gene variant and examines the contributing variables. This paper advances the understanding of JS by summarizing the literature and offering detection patterns for practitioners with clinical suspicions of JS.© 2024 Wei, Zhang, Fu, Ye and Yao.
Although the dynamic instability of microtubules (MTs) is fundamental to many cellular functions, quiescent MTs with unattached free distal ends are commonly present and play important roles in various events to power cellular dynamics. However, how these free MT tips are stabilized remains poorly understood. Here, we report that centrosome and spindle pole protein 1 (CSPP1) caps and stabilizes both plus and minus ends of static MTs. Real-time imaging of laser-ablated MTs in live cells showed deposition of CSPP1 at the newly generated MT ends, whose dynamic instability was concomitantly suppressed. Consistently, MT ends in CSPP1-overexpressing cells were hyper-stabilized, while those in CSPP1-depleted cells were much more dynamic. This CSPP1-elicited stabilization of MTs was demonstrated to be achieved by suppressing intrinsic MT catastrophe and restricting polymerization. Importantly, CSPP1-bound MTs were resistant to mitotic centromere-associated kinesin-mediated depolymerization. These findings delineate a previously uncharacterized CSPP1 activity that integrates MT end capping to orchestrate quiescent MTs.© The Author(s) (2024). Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Journal of Molecular Cell Biology, CEMCS, CAS.
A consanguineous couple was referred at 10 weeks of gestation (WG) for prenatal genetic investigations due to isolated cystic hygroma. Prenatal trio exome sequencing identified causative homozygous truncating variants in ASCC1 previously implicated in spinal muscular atrophy with congenital bone fractures. Prenatal manifestations in ASCC1 can usually include hydramnios, fetal hypo-/akinesia, arthrogryposis, contractures and limb deformities, hydrops fetalis and cystic hygroma. An additional truncating variant was identified in CSPP1 associated with Joubert syndrome. Presentations in CSPP1 include cerebellar and brainstem malformations with vermis hypoplasia and molar tooth sign, difficult to visualize in early gestation. A second pregnancy was marked by the recurrence of isolated increased nuchal translucency at 10 + 2 WG. Sanger prenatal diagnosis targeted on ASCC1 and CSPP1 variants showed the presence of the homozygous familial ASCC1 variant. In this case, prenatal exome sequencing analysis is subject to a partial ASCC1 phenotype and an undetectable CSPP1 phenotype at 10 weeks of gestation. As CSPP1 contribution is unclear or speculative to a potentially later in pregnancy or postnatal phenotype, it is mentioned as a variant of uncertain significance. The detection of pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants involved in severe disorders but without phenotype-genotype correlation because the pregnancy is in the early stages or due to prenatally undetectable phenotypes, will encourage the clinical community to define future practices in molecular prenatal reporting.© 2024 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1016/j.csbj.2022.06.046.].© 2023 The Authors.
Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a progressive vascular disease characterized by chronic inflammation, extracellular matrix degradation, and aortic wall remodeling, yet effective pharmacological therapies remain lacking and how macrophage state heterogeneity contributes to disease progression and defective inflammation resolution remains incompletely understood.We combined single-cell RNA sequencing of elastase-induced murine AAA with pathway, cell-cell communication, trajectory, and regulon analyses, and validated key findings in vivo by immunostaining and flow cytometry and in vitro by pharmacologic ERK inhibition, gene-expression analysis, and macrophage efferocytosis assays.Single-cell transcriptomic analysis identified four macrophage subsets in AAA, comprising Thbs1+Spp1+ inflammatory macrophages, Mrc1+Gas6+ efferocytosis-associated macrophages, Cdca8+ proliferative macrophages, and Cd36+Lpl+ lipid-handling macrophages. AAA progression was characterized by expansion of Thbs1+Spp1+ macrophages and emergence of Cdca8+ macrophages, together with relative loss of Mrc1+Gas6+ and Cd36+Lpl+ macrophages. Thbs1+Spp1+ macrophages showed inflammatory, chemotactic, oxidative stress, and metabolic remodeling signatures, whereas Mrc1+Gas6+ macrophages were enriched for efferocytosis- and homeostasis-associated features but exhibited increased apoptosis-related signals and reduced expression of Mertk, Gas6, and Igf1 during AAA progression. ERK signaling was overactivated in AAA and associated with loss of these effectors and impaired macrophage efferocytosis, whereas ERK inhibition restored Mertk, Gas6, and Igf1 expression and enhanced uptake of apoptotic cells in macrophage-line models. Trajectory and regulon analyses further suggested that inflammatory and efferocytosis-associated macrophages follow distinct state trajectories, with Maf emerging as a candidate regulator of the Mrc1+Gas6+ program.AAA is characterized by an imbalance between inflammatory and efferocytosis-associated macrophage states. ERK-associated dysfunction of Mrc1+Gas6+ macrophages may contribute to defective inflammation resolution and represents a potential therapeutic target in aneurysmal disease.Copyright © 2026 Xiang, Song, Xian, Zhou, Xu, Zhou, Yang and Zheng.
Wilms tumor (WT) is a prevalent pediatric renal malignancy, yet its molecular mechanisms remain poorly defined. Identifying key prognostic genes and understanding their functional roles is critical for improving clinical management. This study aimed to identify prognostic genes in WT and to investigate whether ATP5F1A functions as a candidate downstream effector in a CDCA8-associated regulatory axis.Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by analyzing RNA-seq datasets (GSE11151, GSE73209), comparing WT tissues with normal kidney samples. Functional enrichment was performed using Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed, and hub genes were identified using Cytoscape. Prognostic significance was assessed through univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses, and a risk prediction model was developed. External expression validation of candidate hub genes was performed using GSE11024 and GSE110696. CDCA8's functional role in WT was validated by gene knockdown and overexpression experiments. Co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) and ubiquitination assays were conducted to explore the interaction between CDCA8 and ATP5F1A.A total of 987 DEGs were identified, with six hub genes-BUB1B, CDC45, CDCA8, KIF15, NDC80, and TOP2A-were identified. The exploratory risk score model stratified overall survival in the TARGET-WT cohort (HR = 2.973, Log-rank p = 0.000252), although time-dependent AUC values indicated modest discriminatory performance. CDCA8 was upregulated in WT tissues and associated with worse survival outcomes (HR = 2.03, p = 0.011). Functional assays suggested that CDCA8 knockdown suppressed malignant phenotypes in WiT49 cells. Mechanistically, CDCA8 knockdown reduced ATP5F1A protein levels without altering ATP5F1A mRNA expression, and this reduction was partially rescued by MG132. CDCA8 depletion was also associated with increased ATP5F1A ubiquitination, supporting a role for CDCA8 in maintaining ATP5F1A protein stability.These findings suggest that CDCA8 may contribute to Wilms tumor cell phenotypes partly by maintaining ATP5F1A protein stability, providing preliminary evidence for a CDCA8-ATP5F1A regulatory axis in WT.Copyright: © 2026 Zeng et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, underscoring the need for robust molecular biomarkers to improve prognosis and therapeutic strategies. Although advances have been made in imaging, surgery, as well as systemic therapies, the prognosis of HCC remains poor due to late detection, high recurrence, and molecular heterogeneity, underscoring the significance of identifying robust prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets. mRNA-sequencing data from the TCGA-HCC cohort were examined to recognize differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between tumor and normal tissues. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was applied to uncover key gene modules and hub genes. Protein-protein interaction network (PPIN) construction and modular analysis further refined candidate genes. Univariate overall survival (OS) analysis identified five genes (TTK, CENPA, NUF2, KIF2C, and CDCA8) whose elevated expression significantly correlated with poor patient survival. Pathway enrichment analysis exhibited a strong association with mitotic checkpoint and kinetochore signaling pathways. Mutational profiling demonstrated frequent genomic alterations, particularly in NUF2, whereas immune infiltration analysis demonstrated significant correlations between NUF2 expression and multiple immune cell populations. In this study, we employed an integrative transcriptomic and systems biology approach to recognize prognostically relevant hub genes in HCC. Collectively, this finding highlights the critical genes that may serve as prognostic biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets in HCC.
Background/Objectives: Brain metastasis (BM) represents a significant clinical challenge in advanced breast cancer, yet the molecular mechanisms driving breast cancer brain metastasis (BCBM) remain incompletely characterized. This study aims to identify key molecular pathways and hub genes specifically associated with BCBM through comprehensive bioinformatic analyses. Methods: Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), differential gene expression analysis, and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) were performed using two independent GEO datasets (GSE191230 and GSE43837). Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks were constructed to visualize functional interconnections among dysregulated genes. Survival analyses were conducted using the Kaplan-Meier Plotter database to evaluate the prognostic significance of identified hub genes. Results: GSEA revealed significant upregulation of metabolic pathways (mTORC1 signaling, glycolysis, oxidative phosphorylation) and downregulation of immune-related pathways in BCBM compared to primary tumors. Integrative analysis identified 34 consistently dysregulated genes across datasets, from which 12 hub genes were validated. Among these, RRM2, CDCA8, CCNB1, LMNB2, FANCI, NCAPH, YWHAZ, and ESPL1 demonstrated brain-specific over-expression compared to other metastatic sites. Functional enrichment analysis highlighted cell cycle dysregulation as a critical mechanism in BCBM, and all hub genes showed significant association with poor prognosis in breast cancer patients. Conclusions: This study identifies a unique molecular profile of BCBM characterized by cell cycle dysregulation, metabolic reprogramming, and immune microenvironment alterations. The brain-specific expression patterns of these hub genes represent potential biomarkers for BCBM risk assessment and novel therapeutic targets, providing a basis for precision medicine development.
Cancer stemness is a major therapeutic challenge in oncology. This study investigated the functional role and molecular mechanism of cell division cycle-associated 8 (CDCA8) in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) stem cells. In this study, NSCLC and paracancerous tissues were collected. The lung adenocarcinoma cell line A549 and the lung squamous cell carcinoma cell line NCI-H520 were used. The stem-like cell population in A549 and NCI-H520 was isolated by CD44+ fluorescence-activated cell sorting. Gene expression was detected by quantitative real-time PCR, western blotting, and immunohistochemical staining. Cell stemness was assessed by biomarker (SOX and NANOG) expression detection, colony formation assay, and sphere-formation assay. Cell migration and invasion ability were determined by the Transwell experiment. Our results showed that CDCA8 expression was higher in NSCLC tissues than in paracancerous tissues. CDCA8 overexpression enhanced stemness properties, as evidenced by increased biomarker expression and colony formation, larger sphere size, and enhanced migratory/invasive capacity. Conversely, CDCA8 knockdown had the opposite effect. Mechanistically, we identified Y-box binding protein 1 (YBX1) as a direct binding protein of CDCA8 mRNA that positively regulated CDCA8 expression. YBX1 overexpression had a similar effect to CDCA8. Furthermore, recovery experiments revealed that the stemness-promoting effect of YBX1 was reversed by CDCA8 knockdown. These findings were further validated in xenograft models, confirming that the YBX1/CDCA8 axis promoted tumorigenesis in vivo. Collectively, our study reveals that YBX1 enhances cell stemness and metastasis of NSCLC by promoting CDCA8 expression. Our findings established a new mechanism that maintains NSCLC stemness and may provide novel biomarkers.
We integrated bulk, single-cell, and spatial transcriptomics to test whether intratumoral heterogeneity (ITH) aggravates CD8+ T-cell exhaustion (TEX) in lung adenocarcinoma. In bulk cohorts, ITH and TEX were tightly coupled, with ITH-High tumors preferentially exhibiting deeper TEX phenotypes. This dually adverse (high ITH/high TEX) context was associated with increased antigenicity (higher TMB, predicted neoantigen and cancer/testis antigen scores) but reduced TCR diversity, lower global immune/stromal infiltration, more aggressive clinicogenomic features, and poorer survival. Joint ITH-TEX stratification further revealed an additive prognostic effect, with dual-low (low ITH/low TEX) best and dual-high (high ITH/high TEX) worst outcomes. Single-cell analyses implicated macrophages: ITH-High tumors exhibited coordinated upregulation of classical MHC-I antigen-presentation programs (processing/loading; HLA-A/B/C signaling), stronger macrophage→TEX communication, and enrichment of terminal TEX states. Spatially, in ITH-High tumors, TEX co-localized more closely with MHC-Ihigh macrophage niches than with macrophages overall, whereas in ITH-Low tumors this proximity was attenuated. B cells showed increased TEX communication but inconsistent MHC-I state spatial coupling, while dendritic cells showed high proximity without ITH-dependent communication increases and weakened colocalization when restricted to MHC-Ihigh. We also derived a six-gene decision-tree classifier (CDC45, CENPF, PCLAF, SCGB3A1, CDCA8, and NDC80) predicting ITH/TEX phenotypes. These data support a macrophage MHC-I axis linking ITH to terminal TEX and motivate combining checkpoint blockade with macrophage reprogramming or modulation of antigen-processing and presentation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) play a crucial role in cancer, but their roles in immune modulation and the progression of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remain unclear.USP35 expression was first analyzed using data from public databases (TIMER3.0, GEPIA) and was validated in a cohort of paired NSCLC tumor and adjacent normal tissues (n = 45). To explore the functional role of USP35 in NSCLC, siRNA was used to silence USP35 expression in A549 and H23 cells. CCK-8, wound healing, and Transwell assays were performed to assess the effect of USP35 on NSCLC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Putative USP35-interacting proteins were identified using the BioGRID and STRING databases, and these interactions were validated by co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP). The effects of USP35 on ubiquitination and protein stability were assessed by IP-WB and cycloheximide chase assays. To explore its role in immune modulation, NSCLC cells were co-cultured with activated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), and tumor cell-mediated cytotoxicity as well as PBMC cytokine profiles were measured.Significantly elevated USP35 expression was correlated with a poor prognosis of NSCLC patients. Knockdown of USP35 notably inhibited the malignant behaviors of NSCLC cells. USP35 promoted NSCLC by directly interacting with and deubiquitinating the cell cycle regulator CDCA8. Deubiquitination stabilized CDCA8 and enhanced intrinsic tumor aggressiveness. Mechanistically, USP35 interacted with the immune checkpoint protein PD-L1 and removed ubiquitin chains from it, thereby preventing proteasomal degradation. This deubiquitination stabilized PD-L1, establishing a USP35-mediated mechanism of immune evasion. Consequently, knockdown of USP35 enhanced T-cell-mediated cytotoxicity and pro-inflammatory cytokine production, an effect that was partially reversed by restoring PD-L1 expression.USP35 was overexpressed in NSCLC and exerted dual pro‑tumor functions. USP35 promoted cancer cell proliferation, migration, and invasion by deubiquitinating and stabilizing CDCA8 and by mediating immune evasion through maintaining PD‑L1 stability. Computational and functional analyses revealed that USP35 was inversely correlated with CD8+ T‑cell infiltration, and that USP35 depletion enhanced T‑cell‑mediated cytotoxicity by reducing PD‑L1.The findings of this study demonstrated a potential dual role of USP35 in NSCLC, contributing to the targeted therapy of the cancer.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, with cellular senescence playing a context-dependent role in tumor progression and the immunosuppressive microenvironment. This study is aimed at identifying senescence-related gene signatures through integrated single-cell and transcriptomic analyses to construct a robust prognostic model for predicting survival and immunotherapy response in HCC patients.We obtained single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and transcriptomic data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). The scRNA-seq data were processed using the Seurat and Harmony packages for cell clustering and batch correction. Senescence scores were calculated via the AUCell package, and differentially expressed genes were identified using the limma package. Prognostic genes were selected through univariate and LASSO Cox regression (glmnet package) to construct a risk model, which was validated in multiple independent cohorts. Immune infiltration was assessed with single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA), TIMER, and MCPCounter algorithms, and response to immune checkpoint blockade was predicted using the tumor immune dysfunction and exclusion (TIDE) platform. Experimental validation included qRT-PCR, Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), wound healing, and Transwell assays in HCC cell lines.A total of 80,997 identified cells were allocated to eight clusters, with an evidently higher percentage of natural killer (NK) cells in HCC samples. A higher senescence score was also seen in HCC samples, and poor prognosis was noticed in the patients of high senescence score group. Further, the DEGs were intersected with the genes highly expressed in Population 4 of NK cells to reveal their enrichment in cell cycle and cell division. Further, eight genes (TMEM106C, BSG, COPE, CDCA8, KPNA2, LIG1, UQCRH, and CCT5) with differential expression in HCC were applied to construct the risk model, which could stratify HCC patients into different risks and predict the prognosis. Besides, the high immune infiltration and expression levels of immune checkpoint-relevant genes yet poor immunotherapy response were noticed in HCC patients of high risk. Further validation tests have suggested that the knockdown of CDCA8 repressed the malignant phenotypes of HCC cells.This integrated analysis establishes a senescence-related gene signature as a robust tool for prognostic stratification and immunotherapy response prediction in HCC. The model highlights the complex interplay between cellular senescence and the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment, offering insights for personalized treatment strategies. Furthermore, the identified biomarker CDCA8 represents a promising therapeutic target warranting further investigation.These discoveries provide novel evidence on senescence in HCC, which may tailor the pharmacological interventions to improve the clinical management.Copyright © 2026 Kai Yu et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Human umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hUC-MSCs) are a well-known source in the field of regenerative medicine. However, their biological features and perinatal environment are compromised by various conditions, such as preeclampsia. Pregnancy-related complications lead to functional impairments, making the cord-isolated mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) less efficient in self-renewal and regenerative capacity. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to assess the adhesion, migration, and proliferation potential of hUC-MSCs in preeclamptic conditions.MSCs were obtained from umbilical cords of normal and preeclamptic pregnancies, with three samples collected per group. The functional properties of hUC-MSCs, including adhesion, proliferation, migration, and colony formation, were assessed through cell adhesion, wound-healing, and colony-forming unit assays. Moreover, the proliferative potential of hUC-MSCs was determined by calculating the number of population doublings (NPD) and population doubling times (PDT). The expression level of cell cycle-related genes is examined by quantitative PCR.The MSCs isolated from preeclamptic cords exhibit higher PDT (p < 0.01) and reduced NPD (p < 0.05), adhesion (p < 0.001), proliferation (p < 0.01), wound-healing (p < 0.01), and colony formation capabilities. Additionally, preeclampsia-affected hUC-MSCs showed significantly downregulated cell cycle genes, including CDCA2 (0.86-fold, p < 0.01), CDCA8 (0.049-fold, p < 0.001), CDC20 (0.34-fold, p < 0.01), and CCNA2 (0.25-fold, p < 0.01).The study concludes that MSCs derived from preeclampsia cord show decreased adhesion, migration, and proliferation capabilities compared to normal hUC-MSCs. These findings show that pregnancy complications can influence the biological properties of perinatal stem cells. However, further research is necessary to investigate the underlying mechanisms via which preeclampsia affects the proliferative potential of stem cells, and to identify strategies to increase the proliferation rates of these cells.Copyright © 2026, Rasheed et al.
Gentamicin is a potent aminoglycoside antibiotic, but its clinical use is limited by severe nephrotoxicity. Experimental and transcriptomic studies have indicated that the extent of renal injury and recovery following gentamicin exposure may differ between sexes, yet the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. In this study, we investigated sex-specific transcriptional signatures, hub genes, transcription factors, and druggable molecular pathways involved in gentamicin-induced kidney injury and recovery. RNA-seq data from rat kidney tissues (male, female, and combined groups) were obtained from the NCBI-GEO database and analyzed at two time points corresponding to injury (day 15) and recovery (day 29). Differentially expressed genes were identified and subjected to functional enrichment (GO/KEGG), hub gene, and transcription factor detection analyses, followed by drug-gene interaction screening using DGIdb. Males exhibited a broader but more homogeneous transcriptional response, whereas females showed a narrower yet more pronounced activation pattern. A conserved mitotic core (BIRC5, BUB1B, CCNA2, CDC20) was shared across sexes and phases. Sex-dependent divergence emerged primarily during the recovery phase: PBK, CCNB1, and NUF2 were identified as female-specific proliferative hubs, whereas CDCA8 was uniquely enriched in males. Transcription factors CENPA, FOXM1, and MYBL2 formed a shared regulatory backbone, while DNMT1 appeared predominantly in male injury samples, suggesting a male-biased epigenetic component. DGIdb integration showed that among sex-specific hub genes, only CCNB1 had druggable interactions, whereas PBK, NUF2, and CDCA8 lacked pharmacological matches. In contrast, several core cell-cycle regulators (BIRC5, BUB1B, BUB1, CCNA2, CDK1) were highly druggable. These findings demonstrate that gentamicin nephrotoxicity is governed by a shared cell-cycle core but modulated by sex-specific repair programs, providing a molecular basis for the development of sex-tailored therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Prolificacy is a crucial economic trait in goat production, yet its underlying molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood due to its polygenic nature. While previous studies have identified several candidate genes, a comprehensive understanding of the local and systemic regulatory networks is lacking. This study aims to dissect the complex molecular basis of high prolificacy in goats through an integrated multi-omics approach.We conducted transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic profiling of ovarian tissues from high-fecundity (HF, n = 3) and low-fecundity (LF, n = 3) Chubao black-head goats, alongside multi-tissue (heart, liver, spleen, lung and kidney) transcriptome sequencing. Our analysis identified 1,075 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), 286 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), and 55 differentially expressed metabolites (DEMs) in the ovary. Functional enrichment highlighted critical roles for signaling pathways such as Hippo, Wnt, MAPK, ECM-receptor interaction, and PI3K-Akt. Integrated cross-omics analysis revealed 10 genes (including CA3, CENPV, and GATM) consistently differentially expressed at both transcriptional and protein levels, and public single-cell RNA (scRNA) sequencing analysis further demonstrated their specific expression in key ovarian cell types including germ cells, granulosa cells, and theca cells. A core regulatory network centered on glycerophospholipid metabolism was constructed, showing coordinated dysregulation of metabolites like PC(20:3(5Z,8Z,11Z)/20:3(8Z,11Z,14Z)) and 1-Palmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine with genes PLA2G2C and PTDSS1. Multi-tissue transcriptomics further indicated that prolificacy involves both ovary-specific regulation and conserved systemic mechanisms.This study demonstrates that high prolificacy in goats is a complex trait co-regulated by key local pathways in the ovary and systemic transcriptional adaptations. Our integrated multi-omics strategy provides a systematic molecular portrait of fecundity, identifying novel candidate genes and biomarkers with potential applications in genetic improvement programs for goats.© 2026. The Author(s).
The emergence of single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) technology makes it possible to measure DNA, RNA, and protein in a single cell. Cellular Indexing of Transcriptomes and Epitopes by sequencing (CITE-seq) is a powerful multimodal single-cell research innovation, allowing researchers to capture RNA and surface protein expression on the same cells. Currently, identification of cell-type-specific genes in CITE-seq data is still challenging. In this study, we obtained a set of CITE-seq datasets from Kaggle database, which included the sequencing dataset of seven cell types during bone marrow stem cell differentiation. We used Student's t-test to analyze these transcription RNAs and pick out 133 significantly differentially expressed genes (DEGs) among all cell types. Functional enrichment revealed that these DEGs were strongly associated with blood-related diseases, providing important insights into the cellular heterogeneity within bone marrow stem cells. The relation between RNA and protein levels was performed by deep neural network (DNN) model and achieved a high prediction score of 0.867. Based on their coefficients in the DNN model, three genes (LGALS1, CENPV, TRIM24) were identified as cell-type-specific genes in erythrocyte progenitor. Our works provide a novel perspective regarding the differentiation of stem cells in the bone marrow and provide valuable insights for further research in this field.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Objective: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a serious threat to human health worldwide. In this study, the aim is to analyze diagnosis biomarkers in NAFLD and its relationship with the immune microenvironment based on bioinformatics analysis. Methods: We downloaded microarray datasets (GSE48452 and GSE63067) from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database for screening differentially expressed genes (DEGs). The hub genes were screened by a series of machine learning analyses, such as support vector machine (SVM), least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA). It is worth mentioning that we used the gene enrichment analysis to explore the driver pathways of NAFLD occurrence. Subsequently, the aforementioned genes were validated by external datasets (GSE66676). Moreover, the CIBERSORT algorithm was used to estimate the proportion of different types of immune cells. Finally, the Spearman analysis was used to verify the relationship between hub genes and immune cells. Results: Hub genes (CAMK1D, CENPV, and TRHDE) were identified. In addition, we found that the pathogenesis of NAFLD is mainly related to nutrient metabolism and the immune system. In correlation analysis, CENPV expression had a strong negative correlation with resting memory CD4 T cells, and TRHDE expression had a strong positive correlation with naive B cells. Conclusion: CAMK1D, CENPV, and TRHDE play regulatory roles in NAFLD. In particular, CENPV and TRHDE may regulate the immune microenvironment by mediating resting memory CD4 T cells and naive B cells, respectively, and thus influence disease progression.Copyright © 2022 Zhang, Zhang, Li, Sun, Zhou, Chen and Sun.
Proper chromosome segregation is essential to avoid aneuploidy, yet this process fails with increasing age in mammalian oocytes. Here we report a role for the scarcely described protein CENP-V in oocyte spindle formation and chromosome segregation. We show that depending on the oocyte maturation state, CENP-V localizes to centromeres, to microtubule organizing centers, and to spindle microtubules. We find that Cenp-V-/- oocytes feature severe deficiencies, including metaphase I arrest, strongly reduced polar body extrusion, increased numbers of mis-aligned chromosomes and aneuploidy, multipolar spindles, unfocused spindle poles and loss of kinetochore spindle fibres. We also show that CENP-V protein binds, diffuses along, and bundles microtubules in vitro. The spindle assembly checkpoint arrests about half of metaphase I Cenp-V-/- oocytes from young adults only. This finding suggests checkpoint weakening in ageing oocytes, which mature despite carrying mis-aligned chromosomes. Thus, CENP-V is a microtubule bundling protein crucial to faithful oocyte meiosis, and Cenp-V-/- oocytes reveal age-dependent weakening of the spindle assembly checkpoint.© 2021. The Author(s).
Excessive fructose consumption is associated with metabolic syndrome (MS). This study evaluated the effect of two coffee by-products, coffee pulp (CP) and coffee silverskin (SK), on fructose-induced intestinal changes. Sprague-Dawley rats were assigned to six groups (n = 6/group) for 10 weeks: Control, Fructose (FRU; 20% fructose in drinking water), CP, CP + FRU, SK, and SK + FRU. CP and SK were administered by oral gavage (250 mg/kg/day) using corn oil as vehicle. Intestinal morphology, gene expression (RT-qPCR), and gut microbiota composition (16S rRNA sequencing) were assessed. Fructose significantly increased jejunal expression of the glucose transporters SGLT1 and GLUT2. CP and SK reversed SGLT1 and GLUT2 overexpression and reduced GLUT5 expression relative to the FRU group. Fructose also markedly increased expression of sweet taste receptors TAS1R2 and TAS1R3 and the transcription factors SREBP-1c and ChREBP. Both CP and SK normalized TAS1R2 and TAS1R3 expression, whereas SK additionally prevented SREBP-1c and ChREBP overexpression. Both by-products restored fructose-induced reductions in microbial richness and alpha diversity. CP also modified beta diversity and increased the abundance of the genus Blautia compared with FRU. In conclusion, CP and SK reversed several fructose-induced intestinal alterations, namely in the jejunal expression of sugar-sensing and absorption-related genes. Additionally, CP showed microbiota-modulating effects, whereas SK modulated the jejunal expression of key transcription factors (SREBP-1c and ChREBP) involved in carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. Overall, these findings suggest that CP and SK may represent promising candidates for mitigating fructose-induced intestinal alterations.
Beyond their role in chemosensory perception, taste receptors function as metabolic regulators extra-orally. While decreased taste receptor expression in gustatory tissue is linked to obesity-associated inflammation, we tested the hypothesis that taste receptor-inflammation interactions extend to extra-oral contexts.Obesity-associated metabolic syndrome-like phenotype was induced in female C57BL/6 mice by administration of a cafeteria diet for 18 weeks. The controls consumed a standard diet. Gene-expression levels of Tas1r2, Tas1r3, CD36, Ffar1, GPR84 and Ffar4 were analyzed in circumvallate papillae, lower jejunum, stomach and spleen using RT-qPCR. The number and area of fungiform papillae were assessed on the anterior tongue. Correlation network connectivity for taste receptor expression and fungiform papillae markers with inflammatory and cardiometabolic risk markers was calculated tissue-specifically.The cafeteria diet induced obesity, metabolic dysfunction, and systemic inflammation. Additionally, number and area of fungiform papillae were reduced, and Tas1r2, CD36, Ffar1 and GPR84 were downregulated in circumvallate papillae, whereas in jejunum only CD36, Ffar1, and GPR84 were downregulated following cafeteria diet. Gustatory sweet and fatty acid receptor expression correlated with dietary intake patterns. Exploratory network analysis indicated tissue-specific correlation patterns, with taste receptor-inflammation crosstalk predominantly appearing orally. In contrast, extra-oral sweet and fatty acid receptor expression showed weaker or absent correlations with systemic inflammatory markers under the conditions tested.Copyright © 2026 Kimmeswenger, Feješ, Somoza, Šebeková and Lieder.
This article aims to use TAS1R2/TAS1R3-SPGE biosensing combined with UPLC-MS/MS and molecular docking techniques to identify critical quality attributes(CQAs) for the sweetness of TCM. Jinzhen Oral Liquid was selected as the research subject. Its CQAs for the sweetness were systematically screened, and its immunomodulatory activity was verified, providing support for improving the quality control system of Jinzhen Oral Liquid. This study quantitatively analyzed the interaction between Jinzhen Oral Liquid and sweetness receptors TAS1R2/TAS1R3 by using biosensing technology, identified the structures of its eluted components via UPLC-MS/MS technique, and evaluated the binding ability of the eluted components to the receptors through molecular docking. Furthermore, its immunomodulatory effects were validated by using an LPS-induced BEAS-2B cell inflammation model. 19 chemical components interacting with the sweetness receptor were screened through the biosensor, among which calycosin, echinatin, oroxylin A-7-O-β-D-glucuronide, and L-tyrosine exhibited strong binding ability to TAS1R2/TAS1R3 and significantly reduced interleukin-6(IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α) levels in the cell model, showing good immunomodulatory activity. By jointly applying multiple technical approaches, this study successfully determined the CQAs for the sweetness in Jinzhen Oral Liquid, providing new ideas and methods for identifying CQAs of TCM preparations and comprehensive and in-depth theoretical support for TCM quality control, thereby contributing to the improvement and development of the quality control system of TCM preparations.
Background: Instant Cascara (IC) beverages, derived from dried coffee cherry pulp, represent an upcycled plant-based ingredient rich in phenolic compounds and methylxanthines. Although spray-drying enables the production of soluble cascara powders without carriers, previous sensory evaluation highlighted limitations in palatability, supporting the need for formulation strategies. Objective: To evaluate how the incorporation of inulin-type carriers with different degrees of polymerization modulates production yield, the apparent recovery of bioactive compounds, and formulation-dependent in vitro biological and receptor-level responses of Instant Cascara beverages. Methods: Formulations without carrier (IC 0.0) and with long-chain inulin (IC 1.0) or oligofructose-enriched inulin (IC 2.0) were prepared and characterized. Production yield, phytochemical composition, and in vitro antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, antiproliferative, and receptor-mediated responses were assessed using analytical tools, cell-based assays, and receptor-based platforms. Results: Carrier incorporation improved production yield, particularly for IC 1.0. Although differences in apparent recovery of bioactive compounds were observed, all formulations preserved relevant in vitro biological activities. IC 2.0 showed stronger nitric oxide inhibition and apoptosis induction in colorectal cancer cell models. Receptor-based assays revealed formulation-dependent differences, including reduced activation of bitter taste receptors (TAS2Rs), absence of sweet receptor (TAS1R2/TAS1R3) activation, and modulation of muscarinic (M3) and dopaminergic (D3/D4) receptor responses. These effects are consistent with variations in the composition and effective concentration of bioactive compounds between formulations, particularly caffeine. Conclusions: The incorporation of inulin-type carriers influences production yield and modulates in vitro biological responses and receptor-level responses of Instant Cascara beverages. IC 2.0 represents a formulation with a favorable balance between technological performance and functional responses, associated with a distinct receptor-level profile. This balance may be related to a reduced contribution of bitterness-associated compounds, such as caffeine, together with the preservation of other bioactive components contributing to the observed biological responses. These findings provide a mechanistic in vitro basis for future sensory and in vivo studies evaluating how formulation-dependent differences in bioactive composition may influence physiological responses and consumer perception.
Sweet detection involves at least two mechanisms: a G-protein coupled sweet taste receptor (Tas1r2/Tas1r3) and glucose transporters. As in pancreatic β-cells, glucose transport may lead to closure of ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channels. Since expression of KATP channels in sweet taste cells has been reported, modulation of KATP channel activity would affect sweet taste sensitivity. Here, we examined the effect of glibenclamide (a KATP channel closer) and diazoxide (an opener) on mouse taste behavior. Glibenclamide selectively reduced taste sensitivity to glucose without affecting responses to sucrose or sucralose compared to insulin, suggesting selective impairment of the transporter-dependent pathway. In contrast, diazoxide broadly suppressed responses to all tested sweeteners, indicating a generalized effect on sweet detection. Neither drug altered responses to non-sweet taste. These findings suggest that pharmacological modulation of KATP channel differently influences sweet taste; closers reduce glucose sensitivity whereas openers attenuate response to multiple sweeteners.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To analyze differences in taste preferences and dietary characteristics in early childhood according to genetic polymorphisms in taste receptor genes.This study is a secondary analysis of a randomized clinical trial (ReBEC: RBR-229SCM; U1111-1226-9516) that enrolled infants at 5.5 mo of age and allocated them to different complementary feeding methods in Porto Alegre, Brazil. At 12 mo old, the Food Preferences Questionnaire (FPQ) was applied, and data on dietary characteristics were obtained. Between 12 and 35 mo of age, the Taste Acceptance Test (TAT) was conducted, and oral mucosa samples were collected for the analysis of polymorphisms in sweet and bitter taste receptor genes. Pearson's chi-square test, Fisher's exact test, and Kruskal-Wallis test were used in data analysis.A total of 96 infants with available data for exposures and outcomes were included in the analysis. The duration of exclusive breastfeeding was associated with TAS1R3(rs35744813) (P = 0.039), TAS1R2(rs9701796) (P = 0.022), and the number of sweet taste-related polymorphisms (P = 0.013). In the FPQ, TAS1R3(rs35744813) was associated with a preference for sour-tasting foods (P = 0.040), and TAS2R16(rs846672) with a preference for umami-flavored foods (P = 0.042). In the TAT, bitter taste reactions were associated with TAS1R2(rs9701796) (P = 0.021), TAS1R3(rs307355) (P = 0.008), and the number of sweet taste-related polymorphisms (P = 0.037). In contrast, sour taste reactions were associated with the number of bitter taste-related polymorphisms (P = 0.048).The study found that genetic polymorphisms were associated with infant food acceptance, leading to differences in food preferences. Future longitudinal and experimental studies are needed to elucidate the mechanisms by which genetic polymorphisms influence infant food acceptance.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Taste receptors, including bitter (TAS2Rs), sweet (TAS1R2/TAS1R3), and umami (TAS1R1/TAS1R3) receptors, have recently attracted attention in cancer research due to their emerging relevance in tumour biology. Glioblastoma is the most common and aggressive primary brain tumour, yet its chemosensory properties remain poorly characterised and taste receptor expression has not previously been investigated in this type of cancer. Here, we performed a comprehensive characterisation of taste receptor expression in glioblastoma using human astrocytes, three glioblastoma cell lines, and human tumour samples. Transcript analysis identified 20 of the 26 human TAS2Rs, as well as TAS1R2/TAS1R3 and TAS1R1/TAS1R3, in glioblastoma cell lines. Selected receptors (TAS2R4, TAS2R5, TAS2R14, TAS2R39, and TAS1R2/TAS1R3) were further examined at the protein level by Western blot and immunocytochemistry, confirming their presence across the tested models. Immunohistochemistry in tumour samples from 13 glioblastoma patients demonstrated variable receptor expression, revealing receptor-specific distribution patterns within tumour tissue. In addition, the taste-signalling protein GNAT3 was detected in glioblastoma cells, supporting the presence of the taste pathway components. Together, these findings provide the first transcript and protein-level mapping of taste receptors in glioblastoma, establishing a molecular atlas of these chemosensory receptors in cell models and human tumours. This work lays a foundation for future studies investigating the biological significance of taste receptors in glioblastoma.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Taste perception plays a central role in fish feeding behaviour by influencing feed recognition, intake, and nutrient sensing. As aquaculture increasingly adopts plant-based ingredients to replace fishmeal, understanding how these diets affect gustatory mechanisms is critical. This study evaluated TAS-family taste receptor genes in Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) fed nutritionally formulated diets containing fishmeal (TFM), soybean meal (TSB), red seaweed (Kappaphycus sp., TSW), alongside a natural meal (TNM) reference. Fish were reared for 62 days under controlled conditions, after which growth performance was evaluated, and tongue transcriptomes were analysed using RNA sequencing to identify diet-associated gene expression changes. Candidate TAS1R and TAS2R receptors were identified through conserved domain screening and phylogenetic validation, and differential expression analysis was performed using DESeq2. Growth performance did not differ significantly among diets, although the soybean group showed the highest weight gain. Under the conditions of this study, most taste-related genes remained transcriptionally stable across formulated diets, indicating limited responsiveness of the gustatory system to ingredient substitution. Transcriptional differences were mainly observed in comparisons involving the TNM (TSB vs TNM and TSW vs TNM), where tas1r1 was upregulated, suggesting altered amino acid sensing relative to the non-formulated diet. Among formulated diets, tas1r2.2 was upregulated in the TSW vs TFM comparison, indicating potential modulation of carbohydrate-related taste pathways associated with seaweed inclusion. No reliable TAS2R transcripts were detected, likely due to low expression or tissue-specific distribution. Overall, taste receptor expression in Nile tilapia appears resilient to dietary variation, with selective modulation of TAS1R genes providing molecular insight into chemosensory adaptation to sustainable feed ingredients.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Taste receptors are expressed in the oral cavity and numerous extra-oral tissues, where they share signaling mechanisms. Within this broad context, taste receptors regulate feeding behavior and metabolic homeostasis, potentially contributing to exceptional longevity. We evaluated differences in genotype and allele frequencies at the TAS1R2, TAS1R3, TAS2R38, and CD36 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and their associations with BMI and sex in two genetically and environmentally distinct populations: a cohort of near centenarian participants (LBZ) and a control cohort (CYME). Significant differences were observed in the genotype and allele distributions of the TAS1R3, TAS2R38, and CD36 SNPs. In the LBZ cohort, specific genotypes, such as TAS1R3 CC, TAS2R38 PAV/PAV, and CD36 AA, were most frequent, and likely contributed to favorable phenotypes, whereas they showed no effect in the more heterogeneous urban CYME population. The BMI was significantly higher in the LBZ cohort, particularly among females. The TAS1R2, TAS1R3, TAS2R38, and CD36 variants modulated BMI in a population- and sex-dependent manner. These results contribute to expanding the understanding of taste receptors as multifunctional chemosensors, with roles that extend beyond gustatory perception to influence systemic physiology, energy balance, and potentially contribute to phenotypic profiles associated with longevity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Background/Objectives: Individual differences in sweet taste sensitivity, influenced by genetic factors such as variants of the taste receptor type 1 member 2 (TAS1R2), are associated with food preferences and nutrient intake. However, the relationship between TAS1R2 polymorphisms and diet quality in Koreans remains unexplored. This study investigated the association between the TAS1R2 rs35874116 (T>C, Ile191Val) variant and diet quality, assessed using the Korean Healthy Eating Index (KHEI). Methods: Analyzing data from the Korean Genome and Epidemiology Study, we evaluated the dietary quality of 41,669 Koreans based on KHEI scores and TAS1R2 rs35874116 genotypes (TT versus CT+CC). Results: The findings indicate that genetic variation in the sweet taste receptor is linked to specific components of dietary quality. Although total KHEI scores did not differ between genotypes, TT genotype carriers had significantly higher vegetable intake scores compared to C allele carriers (3.42 ± 1.35 vs. 3.37 ± 1.36, padjusted = 0.002). Additionally, TT carriers exhibited higher sodium intake (6.85 ± 3.53 vs. 6.95 ± 3.51, padjusted = 0.002) and lower scores in the moderation domain (18.82 ± 5.15 vs. 18.98 ± 5.07, padjusted = 0.002). Conclusions: The TAS1R2 rs35874116 variant is associated with specific aspects of diet quality in Koreans, particularly vegetable and sodium intake. These findings suggest that genetic variations in sweet taste perception influence dietary behaviors among Koreans.
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) is a degenerative disease characterized by degradation of the extracellular matrix (ECM) in the nucleus pulposus, disruption of the fibrous ring structure, and imbalance of the inflammatory microenvironment. It is the main cause of chronic low back pain. Its pathogenesis is closely related to cellular aging and immune inflammation. Aging nucleus pulposus cells release pro-inflammatory factors such as IL-6 and TNF-α through the secretion of senescence associated secretory phenotype (SASP), recruiting M1 macrophages to infiltrate and forming a vicious cycle of "aging inflammation matrix destruction." This study systematically analyzed the molecular mechanism by which kaempferol improves IVDD through multi-target regulation by integrating bioinformatics analysis, animal experiments, and cell models. Bioinformatics screening revealed significant abnormal expression of genes such as AURKB, CCNB1, AXL, NEK6, and PTK2 in IVDD degenerated tissues. Downregulation of CCNB1 induced G2/M phase arrest by inhibiting CDK1 activity, while activation of GSK3B inhibited the Wnt signaling pathway by phosphorylating β-catenin, exacerbating ECM catabolism. Proteomics further confirms that the NOX4 mediated ROS-p38 MAPK pathway promotes cell apoptosis and SASP secretion. Immune infiltration analysis showed that M1 macrophages were significantly enriched in degenerated intervertebral discs, and their secreted IL-6 and TNF-α amplified the inflammatory cascade by activating the NF-κ B pathway. Animal experiments have shown that intervention with kaempferol can partially restore the intervertebral disc height index (DHI), downregulate the levels of IL‑1β and TNF‑α, upregulate the expression of CCNB1 and AURKB (which were downregulated in the IVDD model), thereby alleviating G2/M phase arrest and promoting cell cycle progression, inhibit AXL and PTK2, and reduce macrophage infiltration. Mechanistically, kaempferol inhibits NOX4 activity by clearing ROS, blocking the vicious cycle of oxidative stress‑inflammation; by regulating the NEK6/NF‑κB axis, the expression of MMP‑3 and ADAMTS‑4 is reduced, delaying ECM degradation; and improve the immune microenvironment by promoting macrophage polarization towards the M2 phenotype. In addition, kaempferol can reverse the metabolic imbalance mediated by GSK3B. This study reveals for the first time that kaempferol upregulates core gene networks such as AURKB and CCNB1 while suppressing AXL through the "anti‑inflammatory anti‑aging" dual pathway, thereby breaking the "aging‑immunity" crosstalk and restoring cell cycle homeostasis, providing a new strategy for natural compound intervention in IVDD treatment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42490878 is a review article
A new cytosporin derivative, cytoeutypellane D, was isolated from a culture extract of the Arctic-derived fungus Eutypella sp. D-1. Its structure was determined based on a detailed nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopic interpretation, a mass spectrometry data analysis, and a literature review. Zebrafish were used in in vivo experiments to discover that the isolated compound significantly promoted angiogenesis in a dose-dependent manner. Further studies regarding the underlying mechanisms revealed that it may target the VEGF/VEGFR2 signaling pathway and rescue abnormal expressions of the cdk1, aurkb, topbp1, and brca2 genes to improve vascular endothelial cell proliferation and migration in zebrafish. In summary, our findings suggested that this novel compound isolated from the fungus Eutypella sp. D-1 might be used as a promising molecule for vascular injury disease treatment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Lung cancer (LC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related death globally. The methyltransferase METTL3, a core writer of RNA N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification, is a key regulator in cancer. However, its systematic regulatory network, particularly in contexts where it exerts tumor-suppressive functions, remains to be fully elucidated. In this study, we aimed to systematically investigate the transcriptomic and epitranscriptomic remodeling induced by METTL3 overexpression in A549 lung cancer cells to uncover its potential tumor-suppressive mechanisms.Bioinformatics analysis of public databases was performed to evaluate METTL3 expression and prognostic significance in LC. Cell biology assays were conducted to assess phenotypic changes (proliferation, migration/invasion apoptosis) induced by METTL3 overexpression (METTL3-OE). RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed for METTL3-OE and negative control (NC) A549 cells. Publicly available methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (MeRIP-seq) datasets of LC cell line and tissues (GSE117299, GSE76367) were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Bioinformatics analysis was performed to identify m6A-modified targets and infer their potential function. Key differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and alternative splicing events (ASEs) were validated by reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR).Analysis of public databases indicated that METTL3 was downregulated in LC tissues and its higher expression correlated with better patient prognosis. Functionally, METTL3 overexpression in A549 cells inhibited proliferation, migration, and invasion, while promoting apoptosis (P<0.05). RNA-seq identified 240 DEGs (227 up-/13 down-regulated). Upregulated DEGs were significantly enriched in antiviral response and antigen presentation pathways. METTL3-OE also altered 1,305 ASEs, with affected genes enriched in cell migration and apoptosis. Integrated analysis identified 22 genes (e.g., HLA-A/B/C, MYD88) that were upregulated by METTL3 overexpression and have been reported to harbor m6A modifications reported in LC tissues and A549 cells. Furthermore, analysis revealed an overlap of 222 genes between those undergoing METTL3-regulated splicing changes and genes documented as m6A-modified in the same LC datasets. RT-qPCR confirmed the upregulation of the immune-related genes (MYD88, HLA-A/B/C, IFIT1, IFIT3, OAS1, ISG20) and the altered splicing of NCOR2 and SIRT7 and AURKB (P<0.05).Our study demonstrates that METTL3 overexpression exerts tumor-suppressive effects in A549 cells and suggests that METTL3 may be involved in a multi-layered transcriptional and post-transcriptional response. This response includes the upregulation of immune-related genes-many of which are known m6A targets in LC-and the modulation of splicing in genes controlling cell fate, collectively contributing to the suppression of malignant phenotypes.© AME Publishing Company.
Sepsis is a systemic inflammatory response caused by a variety of causes, which is characterized by high morbidity and mortality. Our work aimed to screen the candidate genes of sepsis and evaluate their diagnostic value using bioinformatics tools.Multiple GEO datasets were integrated. GSE9960 and GSE28750 were merged as the training set, with other datasets used as validation sets for immune infiltration, prognosis, ROC analysis, subtype analysis, and single-cell analysis. Sepsis-associated genes were identified via weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis. Functional enrichment was explored using GSVA and GSEA. Diagnostic potential was evaluated by ROC curves. Correlation between gene expression and immune cells was analyzed by Pearson correlation, and gene expression was validated by qRT-PCR.WGCNA identified 1,463 sepsis-associated genes, which were enriched in biosynthesis/metabolism and immune-related signaling pathways. Five hub genes (CDK1, CCNB1, CCNA2, AURKB and BUB1) were screened via PPI network, all highly expressed in sepsis. Higher AURKB or BUB1 expression correlated with shorter overall survival. scRNA-seq revealed broad expression of these genes in pediatric immune cells (B cells, monocytes, T cells), but restricted to T cells in adult samples. A logistic regression model combining the five genes showed preliminary discriminative potential for distinguishing sepsis from healthy controls in the training set (AUC = 0.747) and an independent validation cohort (GSE65682, AUC = 0.799). In exploratory analyses, the model also demonstrated potential for differentiating septic shock from cardiogenic shock (AUC = 0.743) and from non-septic shock (AUC = 0.766). These genes exhibited significant correlations with immune cell infiltration in sepsis.In this study, we identified five sepsis-associated genes (CDK1, CCNB1, CCNA2, AURKB, BUB1). A logistic regression model based on these five genes demonstrated improved and consistent diagnostic performance for sepsis, and these genes also correlated with immune cell infiltration in sepsis. However, as the current results are correlational and do not establish a causal role, they should be interpreted as hypothesis-generating rather than conclusive, warranting further validation in independent prospective cohorts.Copyright © 2026 Fu, Yang, Lv, Zhang, Wang, Cai and Zhang.
To explore the mechanism of Bushen Yijing Formula (BSYJF) in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) through an integrated approach combining transcriptomics, network pharmacology, and molecular docking.Twelve specific pathogen-free male C57BL/6 mice, aged 6 months, were used in this study. Among them, four wild-type mice served as the normal control group, and eight amyloid precursor protein (APP)/presenilin 1 (PS1) double-transgenic mice were randomly divided into a model control group and a BSYJF group, with four mice in each group. Mice in the BSYJF group were orally administered 8.56 mL/kg BSYJF by gavage once daily, while those in the model control and normal control groups received an equal volume of normal saline by gavage. All treatments were continued for 12 consecutive weeks. Cognitive function and hippocampal amyloid β-protein (Aβ) deposition were assessed using behavioral tests and immunohisto-chemistry. Mouse brain tissue samples were subjected to transcriptomic sequencing to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Functional enrichment analyses were performed using Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA). In parallel, active compounds of BSYJF were screened via the TCMSP and PubChem databases, and AD-related targets were retrieved from GeneCards and other disease databases. Core targets were identified by intersecting these targets with transcriptomic DEGs. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations were employed to evaluate binding affinity between active compounds and core targets, and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) was used to validate expression changes of core target genes.BSYJF treatment improved cognitive function and reduced hippocampal Aβ deposition in APP/PS1 mice. Transcriptomic analysis revealed 73 DEGs between the model and BSYJF groups. GO analysis identified enrichment in 281 biological processes, 104 cellular components, and 120 molecular functions. KEGG analysis highlighted 110 pathways, and GSEA supplemented 322 enriched gene sets, many related to the immune system, neurodegenerative diseases, and signaling pathways such as Th17 cell differentiation and NF-κB. Integrated analysis with network pharmacology prioritized 10 core targets. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations indicated strong structural stability and binding affinity of BSYJF bioactive constituents to these core targets. qPCR results confirmed that BSYJF down-regulated the expression of Aurkb, Nr1i3, and Ttk, while upregulating Apob and Ces1d, consistent with the transcriptomic findings.BSYJF may regulate immune-inflammatory responses and alleviate neuronal damage through a multi-component, multi-target, and multi-pathway approach, thereby improving cognitive function in AD model mice.
Genomic complexity and small case numbers make statistically robust assessment of mutational patterns in osteosarcoma difficult. The authors analyzed a large cohort of targeted next-generation sequencing data from osteosarcoma cases from young patients submitted for clinical testing to Foundation Medicine.The osteosarcoma cohort included 653 patients: 109 pediatric (males, <13 years old; females, <12 years old), 246 adolescent (males, 13-17 years old; females, 12-17 years old), and 298 young adult (males and females, 18-40 years old). Sequencing from osteosarcoma cases was compared to a pan-cancer cohort comprising 37,947 patients ≤40 years old.Genes commonly altered and significantly enriched (p < .0001) for alterations in osteosarcoma compared to other cancers were TP53 (55%), RB1 (22%), GID4 (26%), MYC (17%), and CCND3 (16%). Less commonly altered genes also significantly enriched (p < .0001) for alterations in osteosarcoma included AURKB (odds ratio [OR], 28.0), NCOR1 (OR, 8.2), and BCL2L2 (OR, 8.9). Fisher exact tests demonstrated mutual exclusivity between MDM2 amplification and TP53 inactivation and between RB1 inactivation and CDK4 amplification or CDKN2A/B deletion. Chi-square tests and binomial regression revealed statistically significant differences in genomic events by age, including frequent amplification of CDK4 and MDM2 in young adults and MYC, CCND3, and CCNE1 in pediatric and adolescent cases.Novel findings from this statistically rigorous analysis of a large patient population include: identifying genes of interest in osteosarcoma that are more often altered when compared to other cancers; identifying MYC and CCND3 amplification as significantly more prevalent in osteosarcoma diagnosed in childhood; and proving mutual exclusivity and co-occurrence with statistical robustness.© 2026 American Cancer Society.
Reprogramming of branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) metabolism is a metabolic hallmark of cancer that fuels tumor progression. However, a comprehensive understanding of its pan-cancer heterogeneity and its crosstalk with the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) remains elusive.We performed an integrated multi-omics analysis of 33 cancer types from TCGA. Eighteen core BCAA metabolic genes were curated. Their genetic alterations, transcriptional regulation, and heterogeneous expression patterns across cellular subpopulations were systematically characterized using bulk, single-cell RNA-seq, and epigenomic data. A BCAA activity score was quantified via ssGSEA. Cancer-specific prognostic models were constructed using a rigorous penalty-optimized LASSO-Cox regression framework coupled with cross-validation strategy to effectively minimize overfitting.Comprehensive landscape analysis revealed extensive heterogeneity in the expression and regulation of BCAA metabolic genes between tumors and normal tissues across multiple cancer types. At single-cell resolution, these genes displayed distinct cell-type-specific expression profiles within epithelial, myeloid, and T cell lineages, strictly dependent on tissue context (normal, adjacent, or tumor). High BCAA scores were fundamentally associated with the inhibition of epithelial-mesenchymal transition and apoptosis. Notably, the high BCAA phenotype strongly correlated with an immunosuppressive TIME, marked by M2 macrophage enrichment, restricted CD8 + T cell infiltration, and elevated expression of key immune checkpoints (e.g., PDCD1, CTLA4, LAG3). Based on these core genes, robust cancer-specific prognostic signatures were developed and validated for 23 malignancies. Patients stratified into the high-risk group exhibited enhanced genomic instability, augmented proliferative signaling, and inferior clinical outcomes following immunotherapy. Furthermore, 13 potential therapeutic targets (including AURKB and PLK1) were prioritized, alongside the prediction of therapeutic agents with highly specific sensitivity profiles.This study successfully maps the pan-cancer landscape of BCAA metabolic heterogeneity, highlighting its instrumental role in remodeling the TIME and promoting tumor progression. The validated BCAA-derived prognostic signature represents a reliable biomarker for patient risk stratification and the rational guidance of immunotherapeutic interventions. Collectively, these insights into the intersection of metabolic reprogramming and microenvironmental immunity offer a conceptual framework for developing innovative, metabolism-targeted immunotherapeutic paradigms.© 2026. The Author(s).
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and psychiatric disorders exhibit complex comorbid patterns, with anxiety and depressive disorders being significantly more prevalent in IBD patients compared to the general population. These comorbidities may differ between Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), suggesting heterogeneous but potentially shared genetic mechanisms mediated through the gut-brain axis (GBA).To systematically investigate global and local genetic correlations between IBD and eight psychiatric disorders and to identify shared pathogenic mechanisms underlying these comorbidities.Using publicly available large-scale GWAS summary statistics, including a meta-analysis of 486,601 individuals for IBD and large international consortia datasets for eight psychiatric disorders, we conducted global genetic correlation analysis to quantify overall genetic overlap, local genetic correlation analysis to identify region-specific associations, summary data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) to evaluate putative causal gene-trait relationships, and multi-trait analysis of GWAS (MTAG) to detect pleiotropic variants.Significant global genetic correlations were observed between IBD and ADHD (rho = 4.79 × 10- 3, p = 3.07 × 10- 5), anxiety disorder (rho = 1.89 × 10- 2, p = 8.02 × 10- 11), ASD (rho = 6.65 × 10- 3, p = 7.24 × 10- 4), OCD (rho = 7.84 × 10- 3, p = 1.32 × 10- 3), and PTSD (rho = 2.19 × 10- 2, p = 1.16 × 10- 19). Local genetic correlation analysis identified 274 significant regions (Bonferroni-corrected), with loci 464 (chr3: 47.6-50.4 Mb) and 960 (chr6: 31.3-31.4 Mb) showing consistent cross-trait associations. MTAG identified 1,125 independent pleiotropic loci, while SMR and MAGMA integration prioritized 21 key pleiotropic genes, including NOD2, IL10, and AURKB. Enrichment analyses highlighted immune-related and neurobiological pathways, including JAK-STAT signaling, FoxO signaling, oxidative stress response, and GABAergic synapse pathways.Our findings provide multi-layered genetic evidence supporting a structured and locus-specific shared genetic architecture between IBD and several psychiatric disorders. The identification of key genes and pathways, particularly NOD2 and immune-synaptic signaling cascades, offers potential molecular targets for understanding and managing comorbid disease within the GBA framework.© 2026. The Author(s).
Multiple myeloma (MM) associated anemia affects over 60% of patients and correlates with poor prognosis. While most studies focus on the impact of microenvironment on erythropoiesis in MM, the stage-specific erythroid cell defects and their underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly characterized.Clinical data were collected from 300 patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (NDMM) and 300 healthy controls. Phenotypic and transcriptomic profiles of bone marrow early and late erythropoiesis were compared between healthy donors (HDs) and NDMM patients with anemia (NDMM-A). Furthermore, in vitro erythroid culture assays were performed to verify the intrinsic erythropoietic impairments in NDMM-A patients.Primary erythropoiesis profiles from bone marrow revealed a global reduction in erythroblasts across all maturation stages, along with significantly impaired colony-forming capacity of erythroid progenitors in NDMM patients. Transcriptomic profiling identified stage-specific dysregulation in the early and late erythropoiesis of NDMM-A patients. Erythroid progenitors exhibited downregulation of cell-cycle regulators (e.g., CDC20, AURKB) and key erythropoietic transcription factors (e.g., GATA1, GFI1B), accompanied by upregulation of immune-response genes (OAS3, OAS2). Conversely, terminal erythroblasts showed upregulation of genes involved in oxidative phosphorylation and the p53 pathway. In vitro assays confirmed intrinsic defects in erythroblasts derived from NDMM patients' CD34+ cells, including poor proliferation, increased apoptosis rate, and defective enucleation.These findings demonstrate that both cell-intrinsic impairments and external responses drive stage-specific erythropoietic failure in NDMM, providing new insights for therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Fu, Chen, Kong, Liu, Guo, Li, Ma, Liu, Chen, Qu, Li, An, Zhao and Zhu.
The understanding of anaphylaxis has evolved over time beyond the classical IgE-mediated paradigm. This review examines the role of Mas-related G protein-coupled receptor X2 (MRGPRX2) in non-IgE-mediated mast cell activation, a mechanism increasingly recognized in mast cell activation, anaphylaxis, and other mast cell-driven conditions.Recent studies have identified MRGPRX2 as a key receptor in rapid mast cell degranulation in response to a broad range of cationic ligands such as drugs, neuropeptides, and host defence-related peptides. Structural and signalling insights have clarified its dual coupling to Gi and Gq pathways. Clinically, MRGPRX2 has been implicated in immediate reactions to antibiotics, neuromuscular blocking agents and other compounds, often occurring upon first exposure. Additionally, emerging evidence suggests roles in chronic urticaria, neurogenic inflammation, and host defence, as well as growing interest in MRGPRX2 as a therapeutic target.MRGPRX2 represents a paradigm shift in mast cell biology, providing a solid base for non-IgE-mediated hypersensitivity. Improved understanding of this pathway may enhance diagnostic accuracy and enable the development of targeted therapies, although significant challenges remain in distinguishing activation mechanisms in clinical practice.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Anaphylaxis attributable to non-immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated mechanisms represents an increasingly recognized and clinically challenging subset of severe hypersensitivity reactions. This review synthesizes recent advances in the understanding of IgE-independent pathways, with emphasis on literature published in the last 18 months, and highlights their implications for precision diagnostics and therapeutic targeting.Major IgE-independent mechanisms have attracted substantial recent attention. First, the Mas-related G protein-coupled receptor X2 (MRGPRX2) has been consolidated as a central mediator of IgE-independent drug reactions, with new humanized knock-in mouse models revealing its capacity to amplify both IgE-dependent and IgE-independent systemic anaphylaxis. Second, clonal mast cell disorders-including systemic mastocytosis and monoclonal mast cell activation syndrome-are now recognized as major risk amplifiers for severe and fatal anaphylaxis, particularly following Hymenoptera venom exposure, reinforcing the role of the KIT D816V mutation in lowering the mast cell activation threshold. Third, a comprehensive biomarker meta-analysis confirms that tryptase, platelet-activating factor (PAF), and urinary prostaglandin D2 each contribute differentially to non-IgE reactions, with PAF and PAF-acetylhydrolase emerging as particularly relevant in IgE-independent severity pathways.Non-IgE-mediated anaphylaxis encompasses mechanistically distinct entities that demand tailored diagnostic algorithms. Recognizing MRGPRX2 activation, complement and IgG-dependent pathways, and clonal mast cell disease in the clinical work-up of unexplained or recurrent anaphylaxis is relevant. Emerging biomarkers and therapeutic targets - including MRGPRX2 antagonists - hold promise for transforming the management of this underdiagnosed condition.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Anaphylaxis during pregnancy is uncommon but remains one of the most critical emergencies in obstetric medicine because maternal deterioration and fetal hypoxia evolve simultaneously. Despite established treatment recommendations, diagnostic uncertainty and persistent concerns regarding epinephrine use continue to contribute to jeopardize preventable morbidity/mortality. This review examines recent advances in the recognition, management, and prevention of pregnancy-associated anaphylaxis, with emphasis on emerging concepts that may improve maternal-fetal safety.Physiological pregnancy-related cardiovascular and respiratory adaptations can obscure classic manifestations of anaphylaxis, creating important diagnostic blind spots and increasing the risk of delayed recognition. Growing evidence indicates that maternal hypotension and hypoxemia represent the main threats to fetal wellbeing. Epinephrine hesitancy remains common in clinical practice. New insights into mast cell disorders, hereditary alpha-tryptasemia, and MRGPRX2-mediated reactions are refining risk stratification and expanding understanding of severe and perioperative anaphylaxis. Recent epidemiological studies also highlight the predominance of drug-related and cesarean-associated triggers and support the implementation of multidisciplinary care pathways, allergy evaluation, and targeted prevention strategies.Maternal anaphylaxis should be viewed as a time-critical obstetric emergency in which prompt recognition and immediate epinephrine administration are essential to optimize maternal and fetal outcomes. Future progress will depend on pregnancy-adapted diagnostic approaches, improved risk identification, systematic prevention efforts, and coordinated multidisciplinary management across obstetric, anesthetic, emergency, and allergy services.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) is a common and debilitating disease with a lifetime prevalence of 20%. Recently, the mast cell Mas-related G protein-coupled receptor B2 (MrgprB2) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of pruritus in ACD. Huanglian Ointment (HLO) demonstrates significant clinical efficacy in promoting skin healing, treating eczema, and alleviating skin inflammation and itching. However, the mechanism underlying the antipruritic effects of HLO has not yet been elucidated.This study aims to elucidate the potential mechanism underlying the therapeutic effect of HLO against ACD via the MrgprB2-mediated neuroimmune axis.In this study, scratching behavioral assays, transgenic mice (MrgprB2-/- mice), histopathological analysis, immunofluorescence, whole-cell patch-clamp technique, HPLC analysis, UHPLC-MS/MS, molecular docking and Bio-layer Interferometry (BLI) were employed to investigate the potential antipruritic mechanisms of HLO and berberine.Here, we demonstrated that HLO ameliorated pruritus in the oxazolone-induced ACD model by inhibiting mast cell activation and the subsequent release of tryptase, thereby reducing the abnormal excitability of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. In addition, knockout of MrgprB2 receptor could significantly reduce oxazoline-induced pruritus, tryptase release, and the abnormal excitability of DRG neurons. Notably, the therapeutic effect of HLO was significantly weakened in MrgprB2-/- mice, indicating that the mechanism underlying the antipruritic effect of HLO is potentially related to the MrgprB2-mediated neuroimmune axis. Furthermore, component analysis of HLO combined with molecular docking screening suggested that berberine could serve as one of the potential key bioactive components. BLI assays implied a relatively preferable binding interaction between berberine and MrgprX2 protein. Further data also indicated that berberine might mitigate pruritus in ACD model, and such anti-pruritic activity is presumably correlated with the MrgprB2 receptor.In conclusion, our findings indicated that HLO could effectively alleviate pruritus, and this effect may be linked to the MrgprB2-related neuroimmune axis. Berberine may potentially act as an active component involved in HLO's antipruritic pharmacological effects.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Biosensors inspired by biological sensory systems are valuable tools for detecting physiological and environmental stimuli with high degrees of specificity and sensitivity. An itch irritant biosensor to detect environmental changes or pruritogenic substances in human blood or tissues highly associated with inflammation and prevalent conditions like atopic dermatitis (AD) has not been developed. To address this gap, we developed a novel bioelectronic sensor by integrating the human itch receptor Mas-related G-protein-coupled receptor X2 (MRGPRX2) with a graphene field-effect transistor (GFET). This MRGPRX2-GFET biosensor covalently immobilizes functional receptors, enabling direct conversion of ligand-binding events into quantifiable electrical signals. We demonstrate that the sensor can detect known MRGPRX2 agonists with exceptional sensitivity and specificity, achieving a detection limit for SP at approximately 7 pM. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and mutational effects reveal that ligand binding induces cytoplasmic conformational rearrangements in MRGPRX2, strengthening receptor-graphene coupling and providing a mechanistic basis for signal transduction. Importantly, the biosensor effectively distinguishes plasma samples from AD patients and healthy controls by capturing different electrical signal responses. In our study, we establish a versatile platform for diagnosing and subtyping chronic itch disorders and offer a generalizable strategy for developing membrane receptor-based multiplexed "itch-print" biosensors.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509489 is a review article
Chronic spontaneous urticaria (CSU) is a mast cell-mediated inflammatory disease marked by recurrent wheals and/or angioedema in the absence of identifiable external triggers. Once considered idiopathic, CSU is now recognized as a heterogeneous immunological disorder that results in mast cell activation. Two major endotypes have been described: autoallergic (type I) CSU, mediated by IgE autoantibodies directed against self-antigens, and autoimmune (type IIb) CSU, mediated by IgG autoantibodies targeting IgE or FcεRI on mast cells and basophils. Type IIb CSU is associated with higher disease severity, autoimmune comorbidities, low total IgE levels, and reduced responsiveness to antihistamines and omalizumab. Beyond classical autoantibody-mediated mechanisms, increasing evidence supports the contribution of non-IgE-dependent pathways in CSU pathogenesis. These include Mas-related G protein-coupled receptor X2 (MRGPRX2) - mediated mast cell activation, neuroimmune interactions, activation of coagulation and complement cascades, and persistent low-grade inflammation. Alterations of the gut microbiome and impaired barrier function have also been implicated in sustaining systemic immune activation and lowering mast cell activation thresholds in subsets of patients. Recent therapeutic advances, including biologics targeting type 2 inflammation and small-molecule inhibitors of intracellular signaling pathways such as Bruton's tyrosine kinase, highlight the clinical relevance of these mechanistic insights. However, a substantial proportion of patients remain inadequately controlled, underscoring the need for improved biomarkers, refined endotype stratification, and disease-modifying treatment strategies. This review summarizes current insights into the multifactorial pathophysiology of CSU, highlights remaining knowledge gaps, and discusses how emerging concepts may inform more precise, personalized, and potentially disease-modifying therapeutic approaches.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British Association of Dermatologists.
Some food and pollen allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis disproportionate to IgE titres, are not fully explained by IgE-mediated mechanisms. MRGPRX2, a polyspecific sensor of cationic ligands, mediates IgE-independent mast-cell degranulation and requires a salt bridge to aspartate D184. Whether protein allergens can adopt D184-engaging poses is unknown.Eleven peach, cedar pollen, peanut, birch and yam allergens were docked against the experimental MRGPRX2 cryo-EM structure (PDB 7VV6) with HADDOCK3 under three protocols. Three agonists calibrated a D184 salt-bridge consistency threshold, four size-matched non-allergen proteins probed the determinants of engagement, and in silico mutagenesis tested D184 dependence.Five allergens met a HIGH-consistency threshold (≥2/3): Pru p 7, Cry j 7, Cry j 1, Pru p 3 and Ara h 6; Ara h 2 was MODERATE, and mature-chain Cry j 2 did not engage D184. Engagement was charge-driven yet determined by a single accessible residue rather than net charge: HADDOCK score tracked the electrostatic term (ρ = 0.84) but not molecular weight (ρ = 0.36), the net-acidic Ara h 6 engaged through ARG4 while the net-neutral ubiquitin did not, and D184A abolished the salt bridge. Accordingly, size-matched non-allergen proteins presenting a surface lysine/arginine (ribonuclease A, carbonic anhydrase II) also formed genuine D184 salt bridges, whereas the acidic maltose-binding protein did not.Allergens presenting an accessible surface lysine or arginine can form the MRGPRX2 D184 salt bridge in agonist-like geometry, but engagement is governed by local cationic-residue accessibility rather than net charge or allergen identity - non-allergen proteins engage equally - so docking alone establishes neither specificity nor binding affinity, receptor activation or clinical relevance. We propose a charge-based, exposure-gated hypothesis for experimental and clinical validation.S. Karger AG, Basel.
Hypertrophic scarring (HTS) represents a common clinical challenge characterized by excessive fibroblast activation and tissue fibrosis. However, the upstream signals driving pathological fibroblast proliferation remain poorly understood. Here, we identify the G protein-coupled receptor MrgprX2 (human)/MrgprB2 (mouse), traditionally restricted to mast cells, as an inducible pro-fibrotic receptor in dermal fibroblasts during HTS progression. MrgprX2 is markedly upregulated in dermal fibroblasts from HTS, and pharmacological inhibition of MrgprX2 significantly reduces fibrosis in humanized skin organoid models. In mouse studies, the endogenous peptide LL37 emerged as an MrgprX2/B2 activator in fibroblasts, triggering calcium influx, transforming growth factor β1 (TGF-β1) secretion, and proliferation. Genetic ablation of MrgprB2 in fibroblasts significantly reduced fibrosis in vivo, establishing the LL37-MrgprX2/B2-TGF-β1 axis as a key mediator of fibroblast activation and fibrotic remodeling. Together, our findings position MrgprX2/B2 as a critical molecular link between tissue injury-associated signals and fibrotic pathology, offering a promising therapeutic target for fibroblast-driven fibrosis in HTS.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42307502
Liver fibrosis and cirrhosis are major global health burdens with limited treatments. Activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) drive fibrosis through increased proliferation, migration, collagen deposition and glycolysis. The aim of this study is to elucidate the signaling events that lead to enhanced glycolysis, subsequent HSC activation, and liver fibrosis.Utilizing a phospho-kinase array, we identified with no lysine kinase 1 (WNK1) as a new kinase in primary human HSCs activated by the pro-fibrotic platelet-derived growth factor-B (PDGF). PDGF-mediated glycolysis in HSCs was attenuated by WNK1 selective inhibitor, WNK-IN-11, as measured by live-cell metabolic assay, Glifon-300 fluorescence, Glucose-Glo assay and glucose transporter 1 immunofluorescence. To understand how WNK1 promotes glycolysis, we employed chemical genetics where an engineered WNK1T301G mutant with a modified ATP pocket accommodated a specific ATP-γ-S analogue to thio-phosphorylate its substrates. Thio-phosphorylated proteins were analyzed by mass spectrometry which identified the glycolytic protein, triosephosphate isomerase 1 (TPI1), as a novel WNK1 direct substrate. TPI1 interacted with WNK1 in condensates, membrane-less phase separation structures. Condensate disruption and knockdown of TPI1 or WNK1 reduced HSC proliferation and migration in vitro. In vivo, pharmacological or genetic WNK1 inhibition significantly attenuated liver fibrosis in carbon tetrachloride and high-fat, choline-deficient, L-amino-acid diet mouse models. Finally, WNK1 inhibition reduced fibrogenesis ex vivo in human precision-cut liver slices.These findings identify WNK1 as a previously unrecognized kinase that promotes HSC activation and liver fibrosis via TPI1-mediated glycolysis, highlighting the WNK1-TPI1 axis as a potential therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.
Allergic rhinitis (AR) represents a prevalent chronic inflammatory disease affecting the nasal mucosa, yet effective diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets remain elusive. This investigation sought to examine plasma miR-337-5p expression and its diagnostic utility in AR patients, additionally dissecting its role and molecular mechanism during IL-13-induced nasal epithelial inflammatory injury.RT-qPCR quantified plasma miR-337-5p in 100 AR patients versus 100 controls, with ROC curve analysis establishing diagnostic value. For in vitro experiments, IL-13 exposure generated a Th2-type inflammation model in HNEpC cells. Post-transfection with miR-337-5p mimic or inhibitor, assessments encompassed cell viability, apoptosis, inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-8), plus oxidative stress markers (SOD, MDA). Bioinformatics predicted target genes, subsequently validated through dual-luciferase reporter assay. Rescue experiments further clarified WNK1 involvement.AR patients exhibited significantly higher plasma miR-337-5p concentrations, which correlated positively with TNSS scores and eosinophil counts. The resulting ROC curve demonstrated an AUC of 0.840, reflecting good diagnostic value. Within IL-13-stimulated HNEpC cells, miR-337-5p overexpression worsened cell injury, apoptosis, inflammatory cytokine release, and oxidative stress, while miR-337-5p inhibition conferred protection. Bioinformatics, coupled with dual-luciferase reporter assay, identified WNK1 as a direct miR-337-5p target. WNK1 expression was reduced in AR patients and showed a negative correlation with miR-337-5p levels. WNK1 knockdown partially abrogated the protective impact of miR-337-5p inhibition.Increased plasma miR-337-5p holds potential as a diagnostic biomarker for AR. Through WNK1 targeting, miR-337-5p aggravates IL-13-induced nasal epithelial inflammatory injury, implicating its contribution to AR pathogenesis.S. Karger AG, Basel.
Lead (Pb) is associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD); however, the relationships between Pb and AD hippocampal transcription remains unclear. We evaluated overlap between Pb-response signatures and cell-type-independent AD transcriptomic signatures.Three toxicology studies (two neuronal cell lines, one mouse hippocampus) provided Pb-response genes. Five human postmortem hippocampal AD case-control transcriptional datasets (n=90 AD, n=106 normal cognition) were cell type deconvoluted and tested with beta regression. Differential gene expression, adjusted for age, sex, and estimated cell-types, were meta-analyzed. Overlapping Pb and AD genes and biological pathways were identified (p adj <0.05).Consistent Pb response was observed at 25 genes ( INPP5F , KIF20B , KIFC1 ) and 47 pathways (ensheathment of neurons, glial cell differentiation, regulation of nervous system processes). Relative to controls, AD samples had fewer neurons (-2.46%), greater microglia (0.42%), astrocytes (0.31%), oligodendrocytes (0.46%), and endothelial cells (0.95%), and 1,455 differentially expressed genes, which were enriched for cellular energy production and metabolism pathways. Six genes ( EHD3 , LAP3 , NRXN3 , PPP1R16B , RPL29 , THRA) and four pathways (synaptic vesicle maturation, vesicle docking) overlapped between Pb and AD.We identified overlapping Pb and AD transcriptomic signatures and pathways, providing molecular context for epidemiologic associations.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42528257 is a review article
Hypertension (HTN) is a common and complex disorder influenced by multiple genetic and environmental factor, where the underlying mechanisms of its etiology remain incompletely understood although the identification of several contributing elements. This research sought to evaluate the possible relationship between genetic polymorphisms in methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) and With-No-Lysine Kinase 1 (WNK1) genes and susceptibility to hypertension.Genomic DNA was extracted from blood samples collected from 220 individuals with hypertension and 220 normotensive controls. Genotyping of MTHFR (rs1801133 and rs1801131) and WNK1 (AluYb8) polymorphisms was performed using direct PCR and PCR-RFLP techniques. The resulting data were subjected to appropriate statistical analyses.A statistically significant association was identified between the rs1801131 polymorphism of the MTHFR gene and susceptibility to hypertension (p = 0.0006). This association remained significant under the codominant, dominant, and recessive genetic models, with all p-values < 0.016. Furthermore, the CC haplotype of the MTHFR gene showed a significant association with hypertension (OR = 2.02, p = 1e-04).These findings indicate that the MTHFR rs1801131 polymorphism is significantly associated with hypertension susceptibility and may represent a potential genetic marker. This highlights its relevance for future studies exploring genotype-driven risk assessment and personalized approaches to hypertension management.© The author(s).
Meier-Gorlin-syndrome (MGORS) is a rare cause of primordial dwarfism stemming from pathogenic variants in genes involved in DNA replication. The classic clinical triad is microtia, absent patella and short stature. MGORS can mimic endocrine causes of short stature or delayed/atypical pubertal development.We report two new cases of MGORS. A systematic literature search of all cases published up to 31 March 2026 was done to identify the cases reporting any endocrinopathy or hormonal therapy, focussing on growth-hormone-deficiency (GHD) and response to growth hormone (GH).We describe a 14 year-old girl, the first MGORS case with CDC6 variant and mammary hypoplasia. Another 11-year old boy with GMNN variant had severe short-stature with GHD and had significant height improvement with GH. Among 29 cases (out of ~150 published), the classic triad was absent in 18.5%. Short stature was almost universal (median height-Z-score -4.4), with 70% exhibiting delayed bone age, 42.9% low IGF-1 and 35.3% GHD. Among 10 GH-treated cases with response data, 6 had reported improvement in height-SDS/growth-velocity. Those with GHD and delayed bone age were more likely to benefit from GH. Among females, all post-pubertal cases had mammary hypoplasia, while 23.5% had clitoromegaly with hypoplastic labia. Among males, cryptorchidism, hypoplastic scrotum and micropenis were common. However, gonadal hormones and gonadotrophins were normal. Data on the effect of estrogen on hypoplastic mammary glands or labia was variable.MGORS should be kept in mind as a differential of multiple endocrinopathies. Cases of MGORS should undergo screening for GHD. Available data, mostly from case-reports or small series, suggest that response to GH has been reported in some individuals, particularly where GHD or delayed bone age was present, but evidence remains very limited.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Hyperactivity of hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons contributes to elevated sympathetic outflow in hypertension, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that activation of the WNK-SPAK-NKCC1/KCC2 pathway disrupts chloride homeostasis in paraventricular nucleus (PVN) CRH neurons, diminishing GABAergic inhibition and driving neuronal hyperactivity in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs). Chemogenetic inhibition of PVN-CRH neurons reduced blood pressure and renal sympathetic nerve activity in SHRs. We found depolarizing shifts in GABA reversal potential (E GABA) and elevated intracellular chloride concentrations ([Cl-]i) in PVN-CRH neurons of SHRs, associated with increased phosphorylation of NKCC1 (Thr212/Thr217) and KCC2 (Thr1007). Upstream WNK1/4 and phospho-SPAK (Ser373) were upregulated in the PVN of SHRs. Pharmacological inhibition of WNK or SPAK shifted E GABA toward more hyperpolarized values, reduced PVN-CRH neuronal excitability, and lowered blood pressure in SHRs. These findings identify the WNK-SPAK-NKCC1/KCC2 pathway as a promising therapeutic target for neurogenic hypertension.© 2026 The Author(s).
Mechanical stimuli are crucial in regulating normal osteoblast function to maintain bone homeostasis. Decreased osteoblast proliferation is one of the main causes of osteoporosis induced by mechanical unloading. However, the underlying mechanism remains unclear. Cyclin-dependent kinase 12 (CDK12), a member of the CDK family, plays a key role in regulating cell proliferation. In this study, we aimed to investigate the role of CDK12 in osteoblast proliferation, and its function and underlying mechanism in decreased osteoblast proliferation caused by mechanical unloading.CDK12 small interfering RNA (siRNA) and CDK12 plasmid were used to knock down and overexpress CDK12 in osteoblasts, respectively. 5-ethynyl-2´-deoxyuridine (EdU) staining, cell counting, and flow cytometry were adopted to detect the effects of mechanical unloading on osteoblast cell proliferation and cell cycle. Immunofluorescence staining was performed to detect the cellular localization of CDK12. Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and western blot were performed to analyze the expression of CDK12 and downstream molecules.Mechanical unloading significantly reduced the EdU-positive cell ratio and the total cell number of primary osteoblasts, accompanied by a marked decrease of S phase cell percentage. Meanwhile, the expression of CDK12, a key regulator for cell cycle and cell proliferation, was significantly downregulated by mechanical unloading. Loss and gain of function studies revealed that CDK12 knockdown inhibits osteoblast proliferation and S phase cell cycle progression, while CDK12 overexpression increases these parameters. Moreover, mechanical unloading altered the subcellular localization of CDK12, reduced the phosphorylation level of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII), and downregulated the expression of key DNA replication genes, including CDC6, CDT1, ORC2, and TOPBP1. Similar results were obtained in CDK12 knockdown osteoblasts. Furthermore, CDK12 overexpression rescued the decreased osteoblast proliferation and reduced S phase percentage induced by mechanical unloading.The present study demonstrates CDK12 as a critical regulator of osteoblast proliferation under mechanical unloading conditions. Mechanistically, mechanical unloading suppresses osteoblast proliferation by downregulating CDK12 expression, which results in decreased RNAPII phosphorylation and reduced expression of downstream core DNA replication genes. These findings provide a novel mechanistic insight into the inhibitory effects of mechanical unloading on osteoblast proliferation, and reveals CDK12 as a novel potential target for treating disuse osteoporosis.© 2026 Hu et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42480263 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42471779 is a review article
Plants dynamically adjust growth in response to short-day (SD) conditions while maintaining reactive oxygen species (ROS) homeostasis across cellular compartments. However, how light signaling is coupled to organelle-specific redox regulation remains poorly understood. Here, we identify the peroxisomal Mpv17/PMP22 family protein REGULATOR OF ROS-MEDIATED HYPOCOTYL ELONGATION 1 (RHE1) as a regulator of short-day-induced hypocotyl elongation and ROS homeostasis in Arabidopsis thaliana. RHE1 expression is associated with a light-responsive G-box element bound by HY5 and shows a strong positive relationship with N6-methyladenosine (m6A) enrichment. Environmental stresses that elevate inferred m6A levels increase RHE1 transcript abundance and stability, whereas short-day conditions reduce m6A enrichment and decrease RHE1 expression. Loss of RHE1 results in enhanced hypocotyl cell elongation and elevated ROS accumulation specifically under short-day conditions, indicating that RHE1 constrains growth through peroxisomal redox regulation. Furthermore, RHE1 transcript levels correlate with the m6A reader ECT2, and published binding datasets support direct association of ECT2 with RHE1 mRNA. Together, these findings reveal a multilayered regulatory mechanism in which HY5-associated transcription and m6A-dependent RNA stabilization converge on RHE1 to coordinate SD-dependent growth with peroxisomal ROS homeostasis. This study uncovers a previously unrecognized connection between SD signaling, epitranscriptomic regulation, and organelle-specific redox control.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Japanese Society of Plant Physiologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) exhibits marked molecular heterogeneity and diverse clinical outcomes, partly influenced by HPV status and the tumor immune microenvironment. Although tumor doubling time (TDT) reflects tumor growth kinetics and has prognostic relevance, its molecular basis in HNSCC remains unclear.Single-cell RNA-seq data from GSE164690 were integrated with bulk transcriptomic datasets from TCGA-HNSC, GSE41613, GSE65858, and ICGC. We identified 21 tumor doubling time-related genes (TDTRGs), evaluated their cell type-specific enrichment using UCell, and defined molecular subtypes by consensus clustering. Immune infiltration was assessed by ssGSEA and CIBERSORT. A prognostic model was developed using 117 machine-learning algorithm combinations in the Mime1 package and further evaluated by single-cell visualization, cell cycle scoring, pseudotime analysis, drug sensitivity prediction, and molecular docking.A single-cell atlas comprising 17 cell populations was constructed. TDTRGs were mainly enriched in cycling T cells and epithelial cells and showed HPV-related expression differences. Two molecular subtypes were identified; C2 was associated with poorer progression-free interval (P = 0.001) and enrichment of MET and integrin signaling. A seven-gene signature-CCBE1, MAD2L1, ECT2, BIRC5, ITGA6, ESM1, and NUF2-showed robust prognostic performance across independent cohorts and outperformed 73 published signatures. Single-cell and pseudotime analyses confirmed cell type-specific and dynamic regulation. Venetoclax was predicted as a potential therapeutic candidate, with docking energies below -9 kcal·mol⁻¹.This study defines TDTRG-related heterogeneity in HNSCC and establishes a robust seven-gene prognostic signature, providing potential biomarkers and therapeutic insights for personalized management.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) shows extensive lineage plasticity and early metastatic dissemination, but the oncogenic events that actively drive these processes remain poorly defined. Here, we identify coordinated PRKCI and ECT2 copy number gain, present in approximately 30% of human LUADs, as a driver of developmental reprogramming and metastasis. Using a genetically engineered mouse model that recapitulates PRKCI-ECT2 gain in Kras/Trp53-driven LUAD, we show that elevated PKCι-ECT2 signaling rewires tumor trajectory in a cell-of-origin-dependent manner. Alveolar type II cell-derived tumors dedifferentiate into a distal SOX9high progenitor-like state associated with aggressive growth and liver metastasis, whereas club cell-derived tumors transition into a foregut SOX2high progenitor-like state that supports lineage infidelity and histological transformation. Human LUAD analyses support these progenitor programs as clinically relevant features of PRKCI-ECT2 gain.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
N1-methyladenosine (m1A) is a recently identified mRNA methylation mark that affects gene expression and translation. In the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana, its landscape and function remain uncharacterized. Here we present base-resolution m1A methylomes across diverse Arabidopsis tissues and show that m1A is enriched in the 5' untranslated region and preferentially localizes to highly expressed genes, negatively correlating with mRNA translation. We demonstrate that TRM6 and TRM61 form the m1A methyltransferase complex and interact with ATH3 to regulate m1A levels. Notably, we identify previously unknown m1A readers, including CP33B and ECT2. Functional analyses reveal that m1A is intricately involved in abscisic acid (ABA) signalling and that knockout or knockdown of key genes in m1A RNA methylation causes ABA hypersensitivity. Collectively, our findings establish m1A as a dynamic epitranscriptomic mark, highlighting its critical role in regulating the ABA signalling pathway.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Relaxin family peptide receptor-3 (RXFP3) is a ligand-activated G-protein coupled receptor and the cognate receptor for the conserved neuropeptide relaxin-3. We recently demonstrated that chemogenetically activating an RXFP3-expressing population in the lateral hypothalamus and zona incerta (LH/ZIRXFP3) induced escape-like jumping behaviour following fear conditioning, but only in a subset of mice. Given the diverse hodology of the LH and ZI, we hypothesised that LH/ZIRXFP3 cells may consist of discrete subpopulations with unique connectivity patterns that govern different aspects of defensive behaviour. To explore this possibility, we unilaterally injected small volumes of a Cre-dependent anterograde viral tracer into four distinct sites of the LH/ZI in RXFP3-Cre mice and analysed their brain-wide efferent connectivity patterns. Each injection site group produced unique projection patterns, particularly to nuclei involved in threat and defensive behaviour. Of note were strong projections from the rostral ZI and anterior LH to the lateral habenula, and projections from the intermediate and caudal ZI to the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray. By combining retrograde tracing and RNAscope fluorescent in situ hybridisation, we identified that most LH/ZIRXFP3 projections to the lateral habenula arose from a subset of vGlut2-expressing lateral hypothalamus neurons, while most projections to the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray arose from a subset of GAD1-expressing zona incerta neurons. Taken together, our results strongly suggest that LH/ZIRXFP3 cells exhibit distinct efferent projection patterns throughout the brain depending on their topographical location within these nuclei, likely reflecting the functional diversity of these neurons.© 2026. The Author(s).
Biliary atresia (BA) is the leading cause of cholestatic liver disease and cirrhosis in infancy. Currently, there is a lack of efficient biomarkers for early diagnosis and prognostic evaluation of this disease, which urgently needs to be addressed. This study aimed to screen and validate key biomarkers closely associated with BA liver fibrosis progression and prognosis through bioinformatics analysis combined with clinical sample verification.First, the public transcriptomic dataset GSE122340 was thoroughly analyzed to screen differentially expressed genes, followed by construction of a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network. Epithelial cell transforming sequence 2 (ECT2) was ultimately identified as the core hub gene. Subsequently, clinical samples were collected, including 20 cases in the BA group (stratified by liver fibrosis severity) and 10 cases in the choledochal cyst control group. The expression level of ECT2 was clinically verified using immunohistochemistry, real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was performed to validate the predictive efficacy of serum ECT2 level for BA diagnosis, fibrosis stratification, and postoperative native liver survival. Kaplan-Meier (KM) curve analysis was used to verify the relationship between serum ECT2 level and postoperative native liver survival.ECT2 was significantly highly expressed in liver tissue (both mRNA and protein levels) and serum of BA patients, and its expression intensity was positively correlated with the severity of liver fibrosis. ROC curve analysis showed that serum ECT2 exhibited favorable efficacy in BA diagnosis, liver fibrosis stratification, and prediction of 2-year postoperative native liver survival, with area under the curve (AUC) values of 0.906, 0.807, and 0.844.Compared with MMP7, it demonstrates comparable predictive performance in the diagnosis of BA (AUC = 0.924) and the stratification of liver fibrosis (AUC = 0.829), and outperforms MMP7 in predicting autologous liver survival (AUC = 0.767). Its overall predictive performance is superior to that of traditional liver function markers (GGT, TBIL, TBA). Kaplan-Meier survival analysis further confirmed that BA patients with high serum ECT2 expression had significantly reduced native liver survival rates postoperatively.This study systematically demonstrates that ECT2 is characteristically highly expressed in BA and its association with disease fibrosis severity and poor prognosis. Preliminary findings suggest that serum ECT2 as a promising non-invasive biomarker, providing new technical approaches and theoretical basis for clinical diagnosis, disease assessment, and prognostic judgment of BA.© 2026 Chen, Li, Yang, Meng, Abudureyimu and Zhan.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly lethal malignancy with a dismal prognosis, characterized by an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment and rapid development of chemoresistance. The present study investigated the histamine receptor H1 (HRH1), a G protein-coupled receptor, and its functional interplay with the transcriptional coactivator YAP1, a known driver of PDAC progression. Through integrated multi-omics analysis of data from TCGA, ICGC and GEO cohorts, the present study found that HRH1 was consistently overexpressed in PDAC, and its expression correlated with poor prognosis. Mendelian randomization analysis further suggested a causal relationship between the use of fexofenadine, an HRH1 antagonist, and a reduced risk of PDAC. Mechanistically, the present study identified a positive feedback loop in which HRH1 stabilizes and activates YAP1 signaling, while YAP1 knockdown downregulates HRH1 transcription, potentially through direct binding to the HRH1 promoter region. The present study constructed a prognostic model based on the HRH1-YAP1 axis by integrating a panel of 101 machine learning algorithms. The model, which includes HRH1, YAP1, ECT2, ITGB5, SHCBP1, MAML2, YWHAZ and ITGA2, effectively stratified patients into groups with differential risk. Patients in the high-risk group exhibited characteristics associated with worse outcomes, including KRAS mutations, chemoresistance, an immunosuppressive microenvironment and reduced responsiveness to immunotherapy. The present study establishes HRH1 as a novel therapeutic target in PDAC and proposes the repurposing of fexofenadine as a promising strategy to disrupt the oncogenic HRH1-YAP1 feedback loop.Copyright: © 2026 Chen and Wen.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a common and devastating cancer in Thailand and in certain Asian countries. Among risk factors for CCA, exposure to environmental carcinogens such as arsenic and dichloromethane (DCM) has gained attention, especially because such exposure is preventable. Using a human cholangiocyte cell line (MMNK-1) and a CCA cell line (HuCCA-1), our study aimed to identify effects from exposure to arsenite alone and in combination with DCM on pathways associated with CCA development. MMNK-1 cells treated with 0.5 μM arsenite showed significantly increased formation of 8-OHdG and 8-nitroguanine; altered expression of genes and proteins involved in carcinogenesis, as well as increased cell transformation. Treatment with arsenite combined with 25 μM DCM (24 h) showed additive effects regarding the formation of 8-OHdG (1.88-fold), expression of CXCL8 and MMP9, as well as increased cell transformation. The synergistic effects observed in 8-nitroguanine (3.66-fold) highlighted the significant impact of combined-treatment on DNA damage formation. Transformed cells were subsequently cultured to form spheroids, which exhibited increased levels of CD133 and ECT2 in all treated cultures. Furthermore, the migration and invasion capabilities of HuCCA-1 cells increased with arsenite treatment compared to the control, with more pronounced increase from combined-treatment. This change was consistent with the increases in CXCL8 and MMP9 levels. Our data indicates that arsenite and DCM are relevant environmental chemicals which induced cellular changes that are consistent with cholangiocarcinogenesis. Our in vitro approach, like others, may also be useful as a valuable compliment to in vivo carcinogenesis investigations.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
NIMA-related kinase 4 (NEK4) is a serine/threonine kinase implicated in microtubule stabilization, cilia function, and DNA damage response (DDR), with emerging roles in cancer progression through context-dependent effects on proliferation, epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), and metastasis. Despite its significance, site-specific phosphorylation dynamics of NEK4 remain underexplored. Here, we conducted a comprehensive computational phosphoproteomic analysis by curating Class-1 phosphosites from over 3800 public datasets, identifying NEK4 phosphosites, including four predominant sites (S563, S661, S461, S639) outside the kinase domain that exhibit high detection frequencies and differential regulation. Coregulation analysis revealed phosphosites in other proteins (PsOPs) that coordinate with these NEK4 sites, linking them to DDR pathways (e.g., via interactions with DNA-PK complex components), EMT signaling, microtubule organization, and mitochondrial function. Network mapping integrated predicted upstream kinases (e.g., CDK13, RPS6KA1/3), downstream substrates (e.g., MKI67, INCENP), and binary interactors (e.g., TMPO, RRP1B), highlighting NEK4's integration into cancer-associated networks involving cell cycle regulation, apoptosis, and autophagy. Functional enrichment underscored NEK4's potential in modulating genotoxic stress responses and tumorigenic reprogramming. These findings provide a phospho-centric framework for NEK4 signaling, positioning it as a therapeutic target in DDR-defective and EMT-driven cancers, and lay the groundwork for experimental validation of its site-specific roles.
Faithful chromosome segregation relies on precise kinetochore-microtubule interactions and checkpoint surveillance, yet the molecular basis of these processes varies widely across eukaryotes and is only beginning to be defined in apicomplexan parasites. In the malaria parasite Plasmodium berghei, chromosome segregation is especially critical during transmission from host to mosquito: rapid mitoses generate male gametes, and meiosis in the zygote seeds the next round of infection. Here, we identify Aurora-related kinase 1 (ARK1) as a central regulator of chromosome segregation in both mitotic and meiotic contexts. ARK1 localises to spindle poles, spindles, and kinetochores, and its depletion results in short and multipolar spindles, kinetochore misalignment, and failed chromosome partitioning. ARK1 forms a minimal Chromosomal Passenger Complex (CPC) with INCENP-A during male gametogenesis, but associates with additional components, including INCENP-B, kinetochores, centromeric histones, and spindle assembly checkpoint proteins, during meiosis. This stage-specific modularity supports efficient male gamete formation while safeguarding faithful chromosome inheritance during zygote development, thereby ensuring parasite transmission to the mosquito. Together, our findings indicate that P. berghei deploys distinct CPC states across sexual development, revealing developmental plasticity in chromosome-segregation control and a potential vulnerability for blocking transmission.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly lethal malignancy with limited treatment options. Charged multivesicular body protein 3 (CHMP3), a core component of ESCRT-III, is involved in membrane remodeling. However, its clinical and biological relevance in PDAC remained unclear. This study evaluated the prognostic association and functional relevance of CHMP3 in PDAC.CHMP3 expression and clinical outcomes were analyzed using TCGA and CPTAC3 datasets. Protein expression was assessed by immunohistochemistry in a retrospective cohort of resected PDAC. Additional prognostic information was evaluated using concordance indices. Functional analyses were performed using siRNA-mediated CHMP3 knockdown in MIAPaCa-2 and PANC-1 cells. Single-cell RNA sequencing data assessed cell type-specific expression.CHMP3 expression was elevated in PDAC and associated with worse overall and disease-free survival in the TCGA and IHC cohorts. In the immunohistochemical cohort, higher CHMP3 expression was associated with poorer outcomes and modestly improved clinicopathologic prediction models. However, CHMP3-high status was substantially imbalanced with nonreceipt of adjuvant chemotherapy, limiting separation of CHMP3-related prognostic effects from treatment-related confounding. In vitro, CHMP3 knockdown suppressed cell proliferation, colony formation, and migration, and increased gemcitabine sensitivity. Single-cell RNA-seq showed CHMP3 enrichment in tumor epithelial and stromal/CAF populations relative to immune cells.CHMP3 expression is associated with poor outcomes in PDAC and may provide modest additional prognostic information when combined with conventional factors, although residual confounding by adjuvant therapy cannot be excluded. These findings support the biological relevance of CHMP3 and suggest that CHMP3 may represent a prognosis-associated marker requiring external validation.© 2026. Society of Surgical Oncology.
N-(1,3-dimethylbutyl)-N-phenyl-p-phenylenediamine quinone (6PPD-Q), a quinone derivative of the tire antioxidant 6-PPD, has exhibited toxic effects across a wide range of organisms. However, its nephrotoxicity and underlying mechanisms in mammals remain largely unknown. Herein, we demonstrated the renal toxicity of 6PPD-Q using in vivo and in vitro models. Further analysis revealed that 6PPD-Q exposure triggered ferroptosis in podocytes, as characterized by elevated intracellular ROS and Fe2 + levels, downregulation of GPX4, and accumulation of lipid peroxidation. A genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 knockout screen identified EXOC7 as a critical mediator of 6PPD-Q-induced podocyte injury. Mechanistically, 6PPD-Q disrupted the E3 ubiquitin ligase activity of MARCHF2, leading to reduced ubiquitination of EXOC7, subsequent attenuation of its proteasomal degradation, and consequent accumulation of EXOC7 protein, which ultimately promoted ferroptosis. Limited proteolysis-mass spectrometry (LIP-MS) further revealed that 6PPD-Q directly bound to EXOC7, interfering with its recognition and ubiquitination by MARCHF. Importantly, inhibition of EXOC7 or ferroptosis alleviated chronic 6PPD-Q-induced oxidative stress and podocyte injury in vivo. Together, these findings identify a previously unknown molecular mechanism for 6PPD-Q-induced nephrotoxicity and establish EXOC7-mediated ferroptosis as a sensitive mechanistic endpoint for assessing environmental 6PPD-Q exposure.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42538614 is a review article
Alu elements are primate-specific retrotransposons known to mediate structural genomic alterations associated with neurological disorders, yet their underlying disease mechanism remains incompletely understood. Here, we leveraged human pluripotent stem cell-derived cortical organoids and xenografts to model an Alu-mediated exon 17 deletion in the SPAST gene, a frequent cause of hereditary spastic paraplegia (SPG4) with dementia. This deletion generates fusion transcripts between SPAST and the downstream gene SLC30A6, resulting in reduced expression of ZnT6, the Golgi-resident zinc transporter encoded by SLC30A6. In SPASTΔe17 organoids, we detected pronounced cytosolic zinc accumulation, Golgi fragmentation, lipid dysregulation, and increased aggregation of Aβ and ubiquitin. These phenotypes were further exacerbated in xenograft models, concomitant with ubiquitin-positive inclusions resembling those found in patients' brains. Knockdown of SLC30A6 in control organoids recapitulated the neurodegenerative features, supporting a critical role of ZnT6 in maintaining neuronal homeostasis. Intervention with TPEN, a zinc-specific chelator, or a GRASP55-blocking antibody to prevent Golgi fragmentation significantly restored Golgi integrity and reduced Aβ levels. Notably, immunohistochemistry revealed heterogeneous ZnT6 expression in AD brains; however, both ZnT6-low and ZnT6-high cases consistently exhibited elevated p-GM130, a marker of Golgi fragmentation. Finally, we detected a SPAST-SLC30A6 chimeric transcript in brain tissue from a sporadic AD patient. Together, our findings identify a primate-specific cascade linking Alu-mediated genomic rearrangements to zinc dyshomeostasis and Golgi pathology and suggest that dysregulation of the ZnT6-Golgi axis may represent a vulnerability and therapeutic target in structural variant-driven neurodegeneration and possibly in a subset of sporadic cases.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP) comprises a heterogeneous group of inherited neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive spasticity and weakness primarily of the lower extremities. Data describing pediatric HSP from the Levant region remain limited.This study characterizes the clinical and genetic spectrum of pediatric HSP patients with an identified variant in an HSP-associated gene evaluated at a tertiary referral center serving the Eastern Levant.A retrospective descriptive review of pediatric and adolescent patients with a clinical diagnosis of HSP and an identified variant in an HSP-associated gene, evaluated between 2010 and 2024 was conducted. Demographic, clinical, neuroimaging and genetic data were extracted from medical records. Genetic diagnoses were established using next-generation sequencing-based approaches and interpreted according to American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics guidelines. Data were summarized descriptively.A total of 21 pediatric patients were included. Nineteen patients (90.5%) had an autosomal recessive inheritance, 71.4% were progeny from consanguineous families. Clinically relevant variants were identified across 11 HSP-associated genes, including CYP2U1, SPG11, ARL6IP1, B4GALNT1, DDHD2, RNF170, AMPD2, as well as variants in AP-4 complex genes (AP4B1, AP4M1, AP4S1). Additionally, the autosomal dominant SPAST gene was also featured. Age at symptom onset ranged from infancy to late childhood. Ambulatory status at last follow-up ranged from independent ambulation to dependence on assistive devices or caregiver support. Clinical presentations spanned pure spastic paraplegia and complex phenotypes, the latter being associated with variable combinations of features such as intellectual disability, ataxia or seizures. Brain magnetic resonance imaging findings were variable and encompassed thinning of the corpus callosum and nonspecific white matter abnormalities.The cases discussed provide a descriptive overview of the clinical and genetic characteristics of pediatric HSP in Lebanon, Syria and Iraq. The relatively high number of CYP2U1 and AP-4 complex variants observed in this referral cohort, together with the predominance of autosomal recessive and complex forms, highlight the value of broad molecular testing in populations with high rates of consanguinity, such as the Eastern Levant.Copyright © 2026 European Paediatric Neurology Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
RNA modification pathways are often misregulated in various cancers, with N6-methyladenosine (m6A) having a pivotal role in cancer progression and metastasis. Methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3), a core component of the m6A methyltransferase complex, not only functions as an m6A writer but also promotes tumorigenesis through m6A-independent mechanisms. Here, we show that METTL3 is mislocalized to the cytoplasm in breast cancer tumors from patients, contributing to the oncogenic phenotype. Cytoplasmic METTL3 interacts with EXOC7, a key regulator of exocytosis, promoting its stabilization. In addition, METTL3 regulates m6A-dependent alternative splicing of EXOC7. Silencing METTL3 impairs vesicle trafficking and the breast cancer secretome-effects that do not rely on its enzymatic activity but instead involve METTL3-mediated stabilization of EXOC7 and potentially other exocyst components. Furthermore, METTL3 knockdown impairs invadopodia formation, collagen matrix invasion, and focal adhesion morphology in vitro, while inhibition of METTL3 catalytic activity does not. Our findings uncover noncatalytic roles of METTL3 in regulating exocytosis and the cancer secretome.
Upper motor neuron (UMN) degeneration is a characteristic feature of hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP), a genetically heterogeneous heritable neurodegenerative disorder resulting from mutations in over ninety genes. The mutations in the SPAST gene, which encodes the microtubule-severing protein spastin, are responsible for about 40% of all HSP cases. To date, the cellular and molecular mechanisms linking mutant spastin protein to UMN vulnerability in HSP patients remain unknown and there are no disease modifying therapies. To address this knowledge gap, we isolated pure populations of corticospinal motor neurons (CSMN; a.k.a. UMN in mice) from SPASTC448Y-UeGFP reporter mice at two pre-symptomatic time points and performed bottom-up proteomic analyses to reveal changes in their proteome that informs the underlying causes of their initial vulnerability. We find dynamic changes in their proteome and that limitations with cytoarchitectural integrity and stability of key organelles contribute to their neuronal vulnerability. Since the compound NU-9 was shown to improve similar cellular problems in CSMN that are diseased due to misfolded SOD1 toxicity and TDP-43 pathology, we further investigated its effect on the well-established pathological features of HSP that are recapitulated in the SPASTC448Y mice. We find that NU-9 treatment (100 mg/kg, for 100 days) significantly prevented degeneration of corticospinal axons, restored the integrity of mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum, and reduced the presence of electron-dense accumulations in the CSMN of SPASTC448Y mice.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP) is primarily an inherited neurodegenerative disorder, although reports suggest possible systemic involvement. Cardiac manifestations in SPG4-HSP remain poorly understood, and dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) has not previously been documented.A 54-year-old woman with genetically confirmed SPG4-HSP presented with progressive dyspnea and a new left bundle branch block. Echocardiography and cardiac magnetic resonance revealed nonischemic DCM with reduced ejection fraction and dyssynchrony. Alternative causes were excluded, and extended cardiomyopathy gene testing was negative. Guideline-directed medical therapy was initiated with symptomatic improvement at outpatient follow up, and she subsequently received cardiac resynchronization therapy with defibrillator given persistent low ejection fraction and dyssynchrony.To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported experience of coexisting SPG4-HSP and idiopathic DCM. While causality remains uncertain, the case highlights a potential cardiac phenotype in SPG4 and underscores the importance of targeted cardiac evaluation in HSP patients presenting with exertional symptoms.Cardiac symptoms in SPG4-HSP warrant structured cardiac assessment. Standard heart-failure therapy and device management remain applicable.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP) is a genetically neurodegenerative disorder with limited epidemiological data in Korea. This study aimed to characterize the genetic landscape of HSP in a large Korean cohort. We analyzed 657 patients with suspected HSP using Sanger sequencing and a targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) panel covering 54 HSP-related genes. Variants were classified according to American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics/Association for Molecular Pathology guidelines, and copy number variations (CNVs) were detected using in-house methods and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification. Pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants were identified in 121 patients (18%), with SPAST (83%) and ATL1 (6%) being the most frequently mutated genes. Notably, 5% of SPAST mutations were CNVs, underscoring the importance of CNV detection. Among the identified variants, 23 novel mutations were discovered, primarily in SPAST (19), REEP1 (3), and SACS (1), expanding the mutational spectrum of HSP. The diagnostic yield was higher with NGS (25%) compared to Sanger sequencing (16%), reflecting the panel's broader gene coverage. This study highlights the predominance of SPAST and ATL1 mutations in Korean HSP patients and emphasizes the utility of targeted NGS panels, particularly for detecting CNVs and novel variants. Despite these advances, the majority of cases remain unresolved, suggesting the need for broader sequencing approaches to uncover additional genetic factors. These findings provide a foundation for improved diagnostic strategies and personalized treatment in HSP.© 2026. The Author(s).
Children with intellectual disability are more likely to experience chronic and neuropathic pain, which remains frequently under-recognized due to limitations in self-reporting and objective assessment tools. Epigenetic mechanisms, particularly DNA methylation, are believed to influence pain perception. This study investigates the differences in methylation patterns between children with intellectual disability and their age- and sex-matched neurotypical controls.A cross-sectional study was carried out from March 2022 to July 2023 at the IRCCS Burlo Garofolo in Trieste, Italy. The methylation profiles of children with severe to profound intellectual disabilities and a history of recurrent pain episodes were compared to those of healthy controls. Whole blood DNA was analysed through bisulfite conversion and microarray technology, focusing on CpG islands, gene regions, and enhancers.Seventy-two participants were enrolled, including 36 children with intellectual disability and 36 without. The analysis identified four Differentially Methylated Regions (DMRs). DMR1, located within the *RNF39* gene, was found to be hypomethylated in children with intellectual disabilities. Similarly, DMR2, upstream of *VTRNA2-1* and *MIR886*, and DMR4, at the 5'UTR of *AURKC*, were also hypomethylated. In contrast, DMR3, positioned upstream of *IRF6*, was hypermethylated in the intellectual disability group.These findings indicate that children with intellectual disability exhibit distinct methylation patterns of genes related to pain pathways compared to their healthy peers. Additional research is needed to investigate the clinical relevance of these epigenetic alterations and their potential as biomarkers for pain in this population.© 2026. The Author(s).
Distraction osteogenesis (DO) is a surgical technique used to repair skeletal defects by promoting bone and soft tissue regeneration. However, prolonged use of external fixators often causes complications such as infections and joint contractures. Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) enhances osteoblast differentiation via bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) and Akt signaling and may also modulate the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. In this study, we investigated the role of NT-3 in bone regeneration during DO. A DO model was established in 9-week-old male ICR mice, in which tibiae were osteotomized and stabilized with external fixators under anesthesia. After a 5-day latency period, distraction was performed at 0.2 mm every 12 hours for 8 days. RNA was extracted at defined time points post-osteotomy for quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) analysis, and NT-3 was administered post-distraction. Bone regeneration was evaluated by radiographic, histological, and biomechanical analyses. The effects of NT-3 and Dickkopf-1 were further examined in ST2 bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells. NT-3 significantly enhanced bone formation, increased bone mineral density within the DO gap, and improved the mechanical stiffness of regenerated bone. Histological examination revealed earlier bone continuity and greater callus formation in the NT-3 group. Gene expression analysis demonstrated upregulation of Wnt/β-catenin pathway components, including Wnt10b, β-catenin, and low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 5 (LRP5). In ST2 cells, NT3 increased the expression of LRP5, LRP6, β-catenin, and Runx2, while cotreatment with Dickkopf1 abolished these effects. These findings suggest that NT-3 promotes bone regeneration during DO by activating the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, highlighting its therapeutic potential to improve DO outcomes.
This study investigates the molecular mechanisms of renal clear cell carcinoma (RCC) induced by Aristolochic acid A (AAA) using machine learning, deep learning, and molecular docking approaches.To identify AAA target genes associated with RCC, differential expression analysis was performed on multiple datasets. Network toxicology, machine learning, deep learning, and molecular docking were used to explore the binding interactions between AAA and target proteins. The top candidate gene was validated using molecular dynamics simulation and in vitro Western blot assays.A total of 74 genes were identified as potential targets in AAA-induced RCC. Subsequent machine learning analysis identified seven core genes as key regulators of RCC. Deep learning classification further highlighted five of these seven genes, including PYGL, ADH1B, PTGS1, EDNRA, and AURKA. Additionally, molecular docking simulations revealed strong binding affinities between AAA and these target proteins. Molecular dynamics simulation demonstrated the binding stability of the AAA-PYGL complex, and in vitro studies highlighted PYGL as a potential target of AAA. Elevated expression of PYGL was observed in both 786-O and AAA-induced HK-2 cells. Moreover, treatment with CP-91149 (a PYGL inhibitor) or PYGL knockdown restored the expression of E-cadherin, an epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) marker, in HK-2 cells.By combining advanced computational methods with in vitro studies, this work elucidates a key toxicity mechanism of AAA in RCC. Our approach provides a feasible and efficient framework for toxicological studies, offering significant value for toxicologists with limited access to clinical specimens.Copyright © 2026 Li, Liao, Chen, Lin, Gong, Huang, Bi, Wang, Chia, Chen, Xu, Liu, Hao and Qi.
The role of adenosine receptor 3 (AR3) signaling in adipogenesis remains unclear. Here, we show that AR3 antagonism by MRS1220 inhibited adipogenic differentiation in both C3H10T1/2 and 3T3-L1 cells, as evidenced by reduced lipid accumulation in both models and suppressed PPARγ2 expression in C3H10T1/2 cells. Transcriptomic profiling and pathway analysis performed in C3H10T1/2 cells suggested that the Ereg gene, which encodes epiregulin (EREG), is a potential target of MRS1220 mediated adipogenesis inhibition. Mechanistically, MRS1220 induced EREG expression, leading to EGFR activation and leptin upregulation, which were critical for its anti-adipogenic effect. Recombinant EREG mimicked, and EREG neutralization reversed, MRS1220's inhibitory activity. EGFR inhibition abolished MRS1220-induced leptin expression and restored adipogenesis. Notably, AR3 knockdown abrogated MRS1220's effects on EREG induction, EGFR phosphorylation, leptin induction, and lipid accumulation. In contrast, the AR3 agonist CF101 enhanced adipogenesis independent of the EREG-EGFR-leptin axis. These findings establish AR3 as a key regulator of adipogenic differentiation and uncover an AR3-EREG-EGFR-leptin signaling cascade as a mechanism by which AR3 antagonism inhibits adipogenesis. Targeting AR3 may offer a novel strategy to modulate adipose tissue formation in metabolic diseases.© 2026 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) triggers a systemic inflammatory response that can lead to remote organ damage, including the brain. While the Low-Density Lipoprotein Receptor-Related Protein 5 (LRP5)-mediated canonical WNT pathway is a known regulator of cell survival in peripheral tissues, its role in the brain post-MI is unknown.Myocardial infarction was induced in Wt and Lrp5-/- mice and infarct size and mortality were assessed. Serum from these mice was used to treat neuronal cultures. The specific effects of TNF-α were investigated in LRP5-silenced neurons and microglia, with analyses of apoptotic markers, LDH release and key signaling pathways (WNT/β-catenin and NF-κB).Lrp5-/- mice showed significantly higher mortality and larger infarcts and its serum increased the pro-apoptotic profile in differentiated SHSY5Y neurons. TNF-α exerted prosurvival effects in neurons and microglia through distinct mechanisms. In neurons, TNF-α protection was LRP5- and NF-κB-independent while in microglia, TNF-αinduced survival and Bcl2 upregulation required both LRP5 and NF-κB signaling. The canonical WNT pathway was not involved.LRP5 deficiency aggravates cardiac injury and is associated with increased neuronal susceptibility to inflammatory signals. In vitro, LRP5 selectively mediates TNF-α-dependent survival in microglia via NF-κB while neuronal responses to TNF-α occur through LRP5-independent pathways. These data reveal cell type-specific roles for LRP5 in the inflammatory response to MI and provide a foundation for further mechanistic investigation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Over 600,000 cases of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) are diagnosed globally each year. Many HNSCCs overexpress the ERBB family member EGFR, and EGFR inhibitors (EGFRis) and pan-ERBB inhibitors (ERBBis) are clinically active in treatment of locally advanced, metastatic or recurrent HNSCC. However, resistance to these inhibitors typically develops, often associated with epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Aurora kinase A (AURKA), a mitotic regulator with expanded signaling functions in tumors, has been reported to reverse EGFR resistance in EGFR-mutated lung cancer. To identify strategies to overcome resistance in HNSCC, we developed HNSCC cell models that were treatment-naïve parental, or selected for resistance to the EGFRi erlotinib, or the ERBBi afatinib. The resistant HNSCC models had typically undergone partial EMT, consistent with clinical resistance, associated with upregulation of the AURKA partner protein NEDD9. Synergy of the AURKA inhibitor VIC-1911 with erlotinib or afatinib in parental models was reduced in resistant models in short term growth assays. In longer term clonogenic assays and in vivo, cells selected for EGFRi/ERBBi resistance showed heightened sensitivity to VIC-1911, contributing to reduced synergy. Based on increased AURKA dependence, we compared combination of VIC-1911 with adavosertib, an inhibitor of the cell cycle checkpoint regulator WEE1, in parental versus resistant models. These showed a combination effect both in vitro and in vivo, that was retained in ERBBi-resistant xenografts, suggesting the potential value of combined AURKA and WEE1 inhibitor use in patients with ERBB inhibitor-resistant HNSCC.
To investigate the mechanisms underlying benzo[a]pyrene-induced esophageal cancer (EC), and to screen and identify the key targets and biomarkers associated with benzo[a]pyrene-related EC.Potential targets of benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) were predicted using PharmMapper, SwissTargetPrediction, and ChEMBL databases, and were intersected with differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from the GEO database to screen candidate key genes. Subsequently, diagnostic models were constructed using 14 machine learning algorithms based on the identified key genes. Meanwhile, a prognostic model of key genes was constructed based on the TCGA esophageal cancer cohort, and the correlation between these key genes and tumor immune infiltration was further explored. Additional explainability was provided via SHAP analysis by determining the contributions of key features. Molecular docking was performed to verify the binding between BaP and core targets.A total of 82 genes were identified as potential targets of EC induced by BaP. These key genes were found to be mainly involved in core tumor-related pathways, cell cycle regulation, MAPK signaling, and immune-inflammatory pathways, covering the crucial biological processes underlying malignant transformation of EC. Subsequently, 12 core genes (ACOT9、ACOX3、AURKA、HMGCR、INHBA、MMP3、MSR1、SHC1、SORT1、MAOB、MMP13、CDK4) were identified as key regulators by machine learning analysis. Among them, SORT1 and ACOX3 were significantly down-regulated, while AURKA and MMP13 were markedly up-regulated (P < 0.05). The 12-gene prognostic model enables efficient prognostic stratification of esophageal cancer patients, and core genes are implicated in the remodeling of the esophageal cancer immunosuppressive microenvironment through the regulation of immune cell infiltration. Molecular docking revealed strong binding ability between BaP and target proteins.Bioinformatics analysis and molecular docking results revealed significant associations between BaP and 12 core esophageal cancer-related genes. BaP could stably bind to core proteins including AURKA, CDK4, MMP13 and INHBA, which is potentially correlated with altered cell cycle, metabolic disorders and dysregulated tumor immune microenvironment in esophageal cancer. 12 core genes were identified via machine learning, which offers new perspectives for the interdisciplinary field of environmental toxicology and precision oncology and provides a foundation for the development of individualized therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026 Lan, Huang, Lin, Sun, Guo, Li, Wang, Lin, Zhu and Guo.
Chemotherapy resistance remains a major challenge in colorectal cancer (CRC) treatment, necessitating novel adjuvant strategies. This study employed an integrated analytical strategy combining network pharmacology, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) of patient-derived organoids (PDOs) and molecular dynamics simulations to identify bioactive compounds from Ganoderma lucidum and elucidate their chemo-sensitizing mechanisms. Network pharmacology identified five bioactive components of G. lucidum, corresponding to 267 potential targets. Integration with transcriptomic data, weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), and known CRC genes refined these to 19 core targets. Cross-referencing with scRNA-seq data from irinotecan-treated PDOs pinpointed cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2) and Aurora kinase A (AURKA) as pivotal targets. Molecular dynamics simulations confirmed stable binding of the key component cerevisterol to both CDK2 and AURKA proteins, with binding free energies of -120.67 kJ/mol and -134.47 kJ/mol, respectively. In vitro cell viability assays across multiple CRC cell lines (HCT116, RKO, and HT-29) and PDOs demonstrated that cerevisterol significantly sensitized CRC cells to irinotecan (SN38). Notably, we observed that CDK2 was preferentially enriched in MSI-H tumors, whereas AURKA was enriched in MSS tumors, suggesting the potential of MSI status as a biomarker for patient stratification. Collectively, these findings identify cerevisterol as a dual-targeting natural product that modulates CDK2 and AURKA to overcome chemotherapy resistance, providing a quantitative analytical framework for discovering bioactive compounds and their molecular targets from medicinal fungi.
Background: Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a heterogeneous disease, and improved biomarkers are needed to support prognostic assessment. This study aimed to characterize hub genes in CRC and evaluate whether a gene signature provides biologically meaningful and prognostic information in clinical-genomic models. Methods: We integrated three GEO microarray datasets (GSE110223, GSE110224, and GSE23878) to identify common differentially expressed genes using adjusted p<0.05 and ∣log2FC∣>1. Hub genes and protein expression were identified through protein-protein interaction network analysis using maximal clique centrality and Human Protein Atlas, respectively. Prognostic relevance was evaluated in TCGA-COAD/READ using Kaplan-Meier analysis, multivariable Cox regression, Cox-derived prognostic indices, time-dependent ROC analysis, and regression-based machine learning for internal robustness. Principal component analysis (PCA) was used to derive a standardized PC1-based score from the 10-hub gene signature. Results: A ten-gene mitotic hub signature (TPX2, UBE2C, AURKA, NEK2, PRC1, CCNB1, CDK1, CEP55, FOXM1, and RRM2) was consistently upregulated across the three datasets and enriched for cell-cycle and mitotic pathways. Protein-level and survival analyses supported the biological relevance of several hub genes. In TCGA-COAD/READ, the signature showed limited standalone prognostic value and did not retain independent significance after adjustment for clinical variables, although it contributed modestly in integrated clinical-genomic models. PCA showed a one-dimensional signature, with PC1 capturing the dominant shared expression pattern. Gradient Boosting Regressor (R2 = 0.8035, MSE = 0.0473) supported the internal robustness of the DEG-based expression pattern. Conclusions: The ten-gene mitotic hub signature represents a coherent CRC-related proliferative program with limited value as an isolated prognostic marker, but it may still be useful as part of integrated risk models that require external validation.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is a severe, progressive liver disease lacking effective therapies. Disulfiram (DSF), an FDA-approved medication for alcohol dependence, exhibits diverse biological activities beyond its primary indication. This study aimed to evaluate whether DSF holds intervention promise for MASH and to unravel the underlying molecular mechanism. The efficacy of DSF was assessed in a mouse model of MASH induced by a choline-deficient, L-amino acid-defined diet, as well as in hepatocytes exposed to free fatty acids (FFAs) to trigger lipotoxicity. RNA-seq analysis combined with bioinformatic approaches was performed to identify key pathways and hub genes. Mechanistic validation was carried out using Western blotting and qPCR. Computational predictions suggested that DSF may influence insulin resistance, inflammation, autophagy-related markers, and lipid metabolism. In FFAs-treated hepatocytes, DSF administration dose-dependently reduced lipid accumulation and lipotoxicity. Consistently, in MASH mice, DSF administration significantly lowered elevated serum ALT (35%) and AST (40%) levels and the absolute hepatic triglyceride content (reduced from 1 to 0.5 μg/mg protein), and markedly attenuated hepatic steatosis, inflammation, fibrosis, and oxidative stress. Of note, RNA-seq analysis revealed that DSF modulated autophagy-related pathways and identified Aurora kinase A (AURKA) as a central downregulated hub gene. Mechanistically, DSF suppressed AURKA expression, which in turn led to changes in autophagy-related markers. These changes in autophagy-related markers were functionally coupled to a reduction in lipotoxicity. Collectively, DSF alleviates MASH by inhibiting AURKA, thereby relieving AURKA-mediated suppression of autophagy-related markers, which was associated with diminishing lipotoxicity, and ultimately achieving broad suppression of disease progression. Thus, DSF represents a promising hepatoprotective candidate for the intervention of MASH.
Immunotherapy, including chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy, has limited activity in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). Using orthotopic PDAC mouse models, we identified a rare population of quiescent PDAC cells that increases after CAR-T cell therapy and exhibits relatively higher clonogenic growth and self-renewal potential than bulk tumor cells. These quiescent cells express high levels of Epiregulin (EREG), a secreted ligand for EGFR and ErbB4, and induce an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment by increasing the frequency of ErbB4-expressing tumor-associated macrophages. Using complementary genetic and pharmacologic approaches, we demonstrate that targeting EREG enhances the sensitivity of quiescent tumor cells and PDAC tumors to CAR T-cell therapy, resulting in reduced relapse and improved overall survival. These findings support a model in which rare quiescent tumor cells contribute to remodeling of the PDAC tumor microenvironment through EREG-associated signaling and suggest that EREG inhibition may enhance the efficacy of adoptive cellular immunotherapy in this disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Products derived from Santalum species have been valued for centuries in religious practices and traditional Chinese and Indian medicine for treating various conditions, including inflammatory and skin disorders.This study investigated the impact of two essential oils, S. album L. and S. spicatum (R.Br.) A.DC. on bacterial isolates obtained from skin samples, as well as their impact on mammalian cells and enzymes involved in the eicosanoid cascade.Chemical composition was analyzed by GC-MS. Antibacterial activity against clinical isolates was assessed by broth microdilution to determine minimum inhibitory (MIC) and minimum bactericidal concentrations (MBC). Cytotoxicity in HaCaT and HFF-1 cells was evaluated using the MTT and ROS assays. Inhibition of 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX), cyclooxygenase (COX), and phospholipase A2 (PLA2) was also determined.α-Santalol and β-santalol were identified in both essential oils, with higher relative abundance in S. album. Both oils were active against Gram-positive isolates, with MIC values of 15.625-62.5 μg mL-1 and MBC values of 31.25-125 μg mL-1, showing bactericidal activity. No evident cytotoxicity and inhibition of ROS was observed below 500 μg mL-1. Both oils inhibited 5-LOX (S. album, 82.29 ± 8.85 μg mL-1; S. spicatum, 121.33 ± 52.03 μg mL-1) and PLA2 (100.12 ± 41.36 and 114.21 ± 17.25 μg mL-1, respectively), while S. spicatum also showed COX inhibitory activity.These findings demonstrate in vitro antibacterial activity against Gram-positive clinical isolates and modulation of eicosanoid-related enzymes, supporting further investigation of the biological relevance of both essential oils in inflammatory processes.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567458 is a review article
Nephronectin (Npnt) is a multifunctional basement membrane protein containing EGF-like repeats and an RGD motif. While we previously reported that Npnt regulates dental epithelial stem cell proliferation via its EGF-like repeats, the specific role of its RGD motif in ameloblast differentiation remained to be elucidated. In this study, we investigated the domain-specific functions of Npnt and identified its functional receptors during tooth development. Using the dental epithelial cell line M3H1, we demonstrated that overexpression of full-length Npnt and an EGF-deleted mutant significantly induced the expression of the ameloblast differentiation marker ameloblastin (Ambn), whereas an RGD-deleted mutant failed to induce differentiation. Competitive inhibition assays using RGD peptides further confirmed that Npnt-mediated differentiation and cell adhesion are RGD-dependent. Analysis of single-cell RNA sequencing data from mouse incisors revealed that Integrin αV and β6 are highly enriched in differentiating ameloblasts. siRNA-mediated knockdown experiments confirmed that Integrin β6 is essential for Npnt-induced Ambn expression. Furthermore, we found that EGF signaling negatively regulates Npnt-mediated differentiation, suggesting a mechanism to prevent premature maturation. These findings suggest that Npnt orchestrates a functional switch in tooth development: it promotes ameloblast differentiation via the integrin αVß6 pathway through its RGD motif, a mechanism distinct from its EGF-mediated regulation of stemness.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Despite advancements in digital health coaching (DHC) for type 2 diabetes self-management, a persistent digital divide limits access among underserved populations, necessitating low-tech, telephone-based alternatives.This formative qualitative study explored the lived experiences of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) self-management challenges among adults in Alabama and elicited preferences for telephone-based DHC to inform intervention optimization.This study was part of a larger National Institutes of Health clinical trial (5R01DK129378) that examined the feasibility and needs of a telephone-based DHC intervention for self-management of T2DM. The study employed a qualitative, phenomenological approach to assess patients' needs surrounding digital coaching. Twelve patients diagnosed with T2DM were recruited between August and December 2022. Data collection involved in-depth, semistructured interviews conducted via telephone calls or secure Zoom sessions. All interviews were audio-recorded, professionally transcribed, and verified for accuracy. Two independent coders analyzed the data using NVivo software version 14 Plus.Two themes emerged: (1) multifaceted barriers to diabetes self-management spanning behavioral (dietary adherence and nutritional gaps), physical/environmental (mobility limitations and weather constraints), and structural domains (medication shortages, insurance coverage limiting continuous glucose monitoring); (2) expectations for telephone-based DHC, including targeted education (meal planning, exercise adaptations, and medication effects), health coaches as accountability partners, daily reminders and check-ins via texts/calls, and incentives as extrinsic motivators to adherence. Insights from the study directly shaped the intervention components of a pilot feasibility trial (NCT05344859).Key challenges in day-to-day T2DM management included diet, physical activity, medication unavailability, and lack of insurance coverage for continuous glucose monitors. Expectations for a potential telephone-based DHC intervention included targeted education on diet, exercise, and medication effects; perceptions of health coaches as accountability partners; reminders via texts/calls as beneficial; and monetary incentives as extrinsic motivators for adherence to the intervention.© Tejossy John, Sangeetha Mohanraj, Tanjila Nawshin, Tapan Mehta, Mohanraj Thirumalai. Originally published in JMIR Diabetes (https://diabetes.jmir.org).
In industrial yeast fermentations, population-level viability assays routinely report healthy cultures even as aged, metabolically compromised mother-cell subpopulations go undetected. Replicative age contributes to this hidden heterogeneity, but its link to a cell's metabolic competence has been difficult to measure simultaneously in the same cell by high-throughput flow cytometry. Here, we introduce a dual-parameter flow cytometry workflow combining bud-scar labeling with a recombinant His6-SUMO-mCherry-chitin-binding domain fusion protein (~610 nm emission) and 5(6)-carboxyfluorescein diacetate (CFDA)-based viability detection (~525 nm), providing spectral orthogonality without computational autofluorescence correction. We applied it to four industrially relevant yeasts: Saccharomyces pastorianus W-34/70, S. cerevisiae var. diastaticus BE-134, S. cerevisiae var. chevalieri LA-01, and Komagataella phaffii X33. In S. pastorianus, viability declined monotonically from 88 % in daughter cells to 5 % in the oldest resolved mother-cell class; longitudinal monitoring over 96 h captured a progressive widening of this gradient masked at the population level. Among S. cerevisiae variants, age-dependent gradients were weaker and strain-specific, while in K. phaffii reliable discrimination required exponential growth. Replicative age is thus a strain-dependent predictor of metabolic competence rather than a universally conserved one, and the workflow offers brewers and bioprocess developers a practical tool for age-resolved fermentation monitoring and pitching-yeast assessment.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of FEMS.
Skin integrity is necessary for protection against microbial invasion, and disturbance of this barrier predisposes to infections, particularly those caused by Staphylococcus aureus.Study antioxidant SOD3, GPX4 genes expression and interaction with other genes and skin histopathology, hematological, and biochemical parameters as integrated markers of efficacy and safety of therapeutic potential of honeybee venom used in S. aureus-associated skin wounds.Male albino rats were divided into five different groups. The dorsal fur of experimental rats was shaved to create the bacterial infection site. After three weeks of treatment, wound healing was evaluated through histopathological examination, while systemic influences were assessed using hematological and biochemical parameters. The expression levels of antioxidant genes SOD3 and GPX4 were quantified. In silico analyses were conducted using gnomAD and GeneMANIA databases.Gene expression analysis revealed significant lower relative expression of SOD3 and GPX4 in the positive control group, whereas honeybee venom obviously increased relative expression both genes. The gnomAD database identified 812 variants in SOD3 and 2064 variants in GPX4. GeneMANIA analysis exhibited that SOD3 and GPX4 interact with 8 and 17 related genes, respectively, mainly through physical interaction. Histopathological results showing impaired skin architecture in infected rats and partial improvement by honeybee venom. Hematological analysis demonstrated minor variations. Liver enzymes were improved in honeybee venom treated groups. Renal function parameters showed no significant differences.Honeybee venom ability to increase relative expression SOD3 and GPX4 and promote tissue partial restoration highlights its potential as an effective therapeutic agent for infected wounds.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Rituximab (RTX) has been proven effective in the treatment of idiopathic nephrotic syndrome (INS). The development of anti-rituximab antibodies (ARA) may compromise its efficacy and safety. However, the incidence and clinical relevance of ARA in pediatric INS remain incompletely defined.This retrospective study involved 90 pediatric patients with INS who were treated with RTX at a dose of 375 mg/m2 at Jinling Hospital, Affiliated Hospital of Medical School of Nanjing University, China, between March 2024 and May 2025. ARA were detected using a paramagnetic particle chemiluminescence immunoassay.ARA were detected in 30 of 90 patients (33.3%). The incidence of ARA positivity increased progressively with subsequent RTX infusions, rising markedly after the third infusion. ARA-positive patients had a significantly higher relapse rate compared with ARA-negative patients (83.3% vs. 25.0%, p < 0.001), higher CD20⁺ B-cell counts at 3 and 6 months (p < 0.005), and an increased risk of infusion-related reactions (IRR) during multiple RTX infusions (p = 0.019). Multivariate analyses identified younger age at first RTX administration, a higher number of RTX infusions, and occurrence of multiple IRR as independent risk factors for ARA positivity.ARA are associated with impaired B-cell depletion and higher relapse rates. Monitoring ARA may help identify patients at risk of treatment failure and guide individualized therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International Pediatric Nephrology Association.
The genus Streptococcus contains some of the most important commensals and pathogens of the human microbiome. To obtain the fatty acids required for cell membranes, Streptococcus either produce fatty acids de novo through the fatty acid biosynthesis (fab) pathway or uptake host fatty acids through the fatty acid kinase (fak) pathway. Although both the fab and fak pathways represent potential therapeutic targets to prevent or treat infection, progress is limited because of an incomplete understanding of taxon-to-taxon variability in streptococcal lipid metabolism. Here, we examined the role of de novo monounsaturated fatty acid (MUFA) synthesis in physiology and virulence-associated traits in Streptococcus mutans, Streptococcus pyogenes, and Streptococcus pneumoniae, three major pathogens that cause disease at distinct body sites. In all three species, deletion of fabM abolished MUFA production and caused severe growth defects, decreased stress tolerance, increased antibiotic susceptibility, and defects in cell viability, morphology, and division. In S. mutans, loss of fabM also markedly reduced competence signaling and production of the mutacin IV bacteriocin. Deletion of fabM increased susceptibility to killing by human neutrophils in S. mutans and S. pneumoniae, but not S. pyogenes. Together, these findings illustrate that MUFA synthesis is broadly important for streptococcal physiology and cell membrane homeostasis, while its contribution to pathogenesis is strongly species- and context-dependent, providing leads to guide the development of novel therapeutic and/or preventative strategies.IMPORTANCEStreptococcus spp. exert profound effects on human health, with several species causing significant morbidity and mortality. Although streptococcal fatty acid biosynthesis and utilization are attractive metabolic targets for development of therapeutics, this opportunity is vexed by an incomplete understanding of taxon-to-taxon variability in lipid metabolism. In this study, the role of de novo monounsaturated fatty acid (MUFA) synthesis in physiology and virulence-associated traits was examined in Streptococcus mutans, Streptococcus pyogenes, and Streptococcus pneumoniae, three major pathogens that cause disease at distinct body sites. MUFA synthesis was important for stress and antibiotic tolerance across all three species, while its impact on virulence was species- and context-dependent. Overall, these discoveries provide leads to guide the development of novel therapeutic and/or preventative strategies.
Streptococcus pneumoniae is a major colonizer of the human nasopharynx, where inter- and intra-strain competition plays a critical role in shaping population structure and influencing vaccine outcomes. Bacteriocins are key mediators of intra-species competition, yet many of their functions and regulatory mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here, we identify and characterize streptolancidin D, a previously uncharacterized bacteriocin encoded by the sldA-T locus, and demonstrate its contribution to pneumococcal competition. Using isogenic streptolancidin-producing and non-producing variants of a naturally colonizing strain, we show that sldA-T contributes to the inhibition of competitor strains in in vitro biofilms and during murine co-colonization. Importantly, streptolancidin D also inhibited in vitro a subset of genetically diverse pneumococcal isolates representing multiple serotypes, whereas non-producing variants showed no activity. This indicates that its effect is broad and not restricted to isogenic interactions. Genomic analysis of over 7,500 pneumococcal genomes revealed that sldA-T is present in ~12% of isolates, with lineage-associated distribution patterns, and is consistently encoded downstream of the Rgg144/SHP144 quorum sensing system. We further demonstrate that sldA-T is regulated by this system, with sldA-T promoter activity abolished in a SHP-deficient background and partially restored by exogenous peptide stimulation. Finally, we show that streptolancidin D acts in concert with other bacteriocin systems and competence-mediated fratricide, highlighting a multifactorial antimicrobial strategy that enhances pneumococcal competitiveness. Overall, our findings identify a quorum sensing-regulated bacteriocin that contributes to pneumococcal competition and helps shape population dynamics.Bacteriocins are central to bacterial competition and niche occupation, particularly in structured environments like the human nasopharynx. While several pneumococcal bacteriocins have been characterized, the functions of many remain unknown, limiting our understanding of how these systems shape strain fitness and population dynamics. We characterize streptolancidin D, a bacteriocin that enhances intraspecies competitiveness in vitro and in vivo and contributes to the inhibition of genetically diverse pneumococcal strains. We demonstrate that its expression is tightly regulated by the conserved Rgg144/SHP144 quorum sensing system and that the locus is distributed and shows synteny across multiple pneumococcal lineages. Our findings reveal that streptolancidin D operates within a broader network of bacteriocins and competence-associated mechanisms that collectively shape competitive interactions. By integrating genomic, functional, and regulatory analyses, this work expands the known repertoire of pneumococcal antimicrobial systems and provides new insights into the mechanisms underpinning competition and population structure in S. pneumoniae.
Suicidal thoughts and behaviors (STB) are among the leading causes of death worldwide. Although previous research has consistently documented elevated risk-taking in individuals with STB and identified mood disturbances as central features of suicidality, the precise cognitive and affective computational mechanisms underlying this increased risky behavior remain poorly understood. Here, 83 adolescent inpatients with affective disorders-including 58 patients with STB (S+) and 25 without STB (S-)-and 118 age- and sex-matched healthy controls (HC) completed a decision-making task involving choices between certain and gamble options, alongside momentary mood ratings. Behavioral analyses showed that S+ exhibited greater risk-taking than both S- and HC. Computational modeling of choice behavior using a prospect-theory framework augmented with value-insensitive approach-avoidance parameters indicated that this increase in risky behavior was specifically driven by an elevated approach parameter in S+. In addition, mood-model analyses revealed reduced sensitivity to certain rewards in S+ relative to S- and HC. Importantly, these computational signatures predicted suicidal symptom severity and showed generalizability in an independent general-population sample (n = 747). In S+, lower mood sensitivity to certain rewards was associated with greater gambling, providing a computational affective account of increased risk-taking in STB. These findings remained robust after adjusting for demographic, clinical, and medication-related variables. Overall, our study identifies cognitive and affective computational mechanisms contributing to elevated risk-taking in STB and highlights their potential relevance for the early identification and prevention of suicidality.© 2025, Wang, Nan et al.
The widespread use of injectable antibiotics in intensive poultry production disrupts gut microbial balance and host immune function, potentially affecting nutrient utilization and promoting antimicrobial resistance. To assess the effects of injectable antibiotics on the gut microbiota, host immunity, tissue accumulation, and antimicrobial resistance in ducks, we systematically evaluated six commonly used injectable antibiotics-gentamicin sulfate, oxytetracycline, florfenicol, tylosin tartrate, lincomycin hydrochloride, and enrofloxacin. Although no statistically significant differences were observed in the feed conversion ratio and organ indices over the 28-day trial, antibiotic exposure disrupted microbiota-organ associations, suggesting subclinical effects despite the absence of detectable phenotypic differences. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay results showed a clear class-dependent accumulation of antibiotics in muscle tissues, with tylosin tartrate and enrofloxacin persisting through day 28. Single-molecule real-time full-length 16S rRNA sequencing revealed a significant decline in Escherichia coli abundance and an enrichment of several Gram-positive taxa, indicating a marked restructuring of the gut microbiota following antibiotic exposure. Antibiotic residues in tissues were associated with drug-specific enrichment patterns of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) and altered host innate immune-related transcriptional profiles, including changes in inflammatory cytokine expression (IL-6, IL-10, and TNF-α). Furthermore, an integrative microbiota-immunity-residue-ARG network was constructed, revealing a conserved association framework centered on TLR2, NF-κB1, TLR4, and IL-6 as network hubs. Collectively, these findings indicate that injectable antibiotics are associated with coordinated alterations in host-microbiota-resistance interactions before measurable growth changes occur. These results provide an integrative framework for evaluating antibiotic-associated risks in poultry production.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Migraine is one of the most disabling neurological diseases globally; however, a significant proportion of patients do not respond to current treatments, or treatment efficacy diminishes over time, highlighting the need to identify additional molecular candidates for further investigation. Recent studies have increasingly focused on the role of neuro-immune interactions in migraine. This study aimed to identify peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with NAD+ metabolism-related transcriptional features in migraine through integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses. Using the PRJEB40032 dataset, samples were stratified according to ssGSEA-derived NAD+ metabolism scores, followed by differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis and protein-protein interaction network construction. LASSO regression, SVM-RFE, and XGBoost were subsequently applied to prioritize candidate genes. CXCL8, CXCR4, CXCL1, and TNFAIP3 showed cross-algorithm consistency and were subsequently incorporated into an exploratory nomogram, which exhibited apparent discriminatory performance within the PRJEB40032 discovery cohort. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that these genes were associated with immune and inflammatory pathways, including IL-17, NF-κB, TNF, and Toll-like receptor signaling. Immune cell-composition analysis indicated significantly increased estimated abundances or activity scores for NK cells, mast cells, eosinophils, and neutrophils in migraine samples, with positive associations between the prioritized candidate genes and pro-inflammatory immune features. Single-cell RNA sequencing further showed that CXCL1 and CXCL8 were predominantly expressed in monocytes, while TNFAIP3 and CXCR4 were widely expressed across various immune cell types. qPCR assessment in a migraine mouse model showed group-dependent expression alterations in the functionally related murine CXCL1/CXCR2 axis. Overall, this study prioritized peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with migraine and NAD⁺ metabolism-related transcriptional features, providing exploratory evidence for a potential link among systemic immune alterations, NAD⁺ metabolism-related processes, and migraine.© 2026. The Author(s).
The incidence of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is increasing but clinical outcomes remain poor and new treatments are required. IGF2BP3 is an oncofetal m6A-reading RNA regulatory protein whose expression is commonly observed in PDAC and which may represent an important therapeutic target. IGF2BP3 protein is expressed in >95% of primary tumours whilst RNA expression ranges from 3 to 3000-fold above normal epithelium. siRNA knockdown reveals IGF2BP3 to strongly support expression of gene programs related to DNA replication, cell cycle and apoptosis, TNF signalling and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Direct sequencing of native RNA further reveals IGF2BP3-mediated enhancement of 863 RNA isoforms with suppression of 389 isoforms. m6A, m5C and pseudouridine (ψ) RNA modifications were seen in 97% of transcripts within the PDAC transcriptome and enriched within MYC gene targets. IGF2BP3 regulated the pattern of RNA modification with a substantial impact on m5C modifications of miRNA and scRNA, and genes associated with regulation of TNF signalling. Knockdown of IGF2BP3 expression in primary tumour organoid cultures suppressed proliferation and elicited apoptosis, indicating a critical requirement for IGF2BP3 within malignant stem cells. These data show that IGF2BP3 is expressed consistently in PDAC, plays a dominant role in regulation of RNA splicing and modification, and supports cancer stem cell proliferation and survival. IGF2BP3 therefore occupies a critical position within the RNA regulon of PDAC and represents an important therapeutic target in this tumour of unmet need.© 2026. The Author(s).
Anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) medical therapy is a major advancement for Crohn's disease (CD) management, yet many patients fail to respond. This study aims to develop and evaluate a multi-modal ensemble model to predict anti-TNF treatment response in pediatric patients with CD using pre-treatment magnetic resonance enterography (MRE) and non-imaging clinical data.This retrospective study included 92 pediatric CD patients (median [IQR] age, 14.6 [12.7, 16.6] years; 65.2% male; 37 responders and 55 non-responders) who underwent MRE within 3 months before initiating anti-TNF therapy between 2009 and 2021. Responders achieved mucosal healing within 36 months; non-responders did not, underwent surgery, or changed therapy. Four pre-treatment feature sets were used: (1) radiologist MRE assessment, (2) radiomic features from bowel regions, (3) deep learning features from representative bowel images, and (4) non-imaging clinical features. A 2-stage stacking ensemble model was trained and evaluated. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) was the primary performance metric.The multi-modal ensemble model integrating all MRE-based features achieved an AUROC of 0.771 [95% confidence intervals (CI): 0.745, 0.797], outperforming models using individual feature types (radiologist assessment: 0.706 [0.691, 0.721]; radiomic: 0.710 [0.691, 0.729]; deep learning: 0.724 [0.700, 0.749]). Combining MRE and clinical features (0.739 [0.696, 0.781]) achieved the highest AUROC of 0.817 [0.793, 0.842], though not significantly (P = .10). Radiomic features reflecting intensity distribution and texture heterogeneity were most predictive of treatment response.A multi-modal ensemble model combining MRE-based radiologist assessment, radiomic, deep learning, and clinical features accurately predicted anti-TNF treatment response in pediatric CD patients.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Crohn’s & Colitis Foundation. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) is a heterogeneous inflammatory disease with variable outcomes following functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS). Predictive biomarkers for post-FESS CRSwNP recurrence remain poorly defined.Identify tissue-based predictors of CRSwNP recurrence after FESS and assess dupilumab-induced modifications.From a cohort of patients with CRSwNP (including NSAID-exacerbated respiratory disease [NSAID-ERD]) who underwent FESS, we retrospectively identified 91 who could be dichotomized by clinical outcome as post-FESS "rapid recurrence" (<1 year) or "slow/no recurrence" (>2 years without recurrence). Nasal polyp tissue was analyzed for 69 inflammatory mediators using proteomics and ELISA. Logistic regression with LASSO feature selection identified candidate predictors. In an independent, second prospective cohort of 17 CRSwNP patients initiating dupilumab, nasal fluid was collected at baseline and after two months of dupilumab and profiled for the same mediators.Twenty-three tissue mediators strongly predicted rapid CRSwNP recurrence (AUC >0.70), including markers of type (T) 2 inflammation (IL-4, IL-13, IL-5Rα, ECP, IgE) and innate inflammation and/or myeloid involvement (CCL3/4/7/8/13, CSF2, IL-1β, IL-6, OSM, MMP12, HIF-1α, TNF-α, TNFSF14). Of these, dupilumab significantly reduced IL-5Rα and several chemokines (CCL3, CCL4, CCL13) but had no effect on key myeloid mediators (CCL8, CSF2, IL-1β, MMP12, HIF-1α).Both T2 and non-T2 mediators play a role in rapid post-FESS recurrence in CRSwNP. T2 blockade with dupilumab reduces T2-associated mediators but does not suppress a parallel innate/myeloid inflammatory axis. The persistence of this axis during treatment suggests that innate and myeloid mediators may underlie severe CRSwNP and could influence disease recurrence once T2 signaling is no longer inhibited, representing potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets to improve long-term disease control.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Both diet and aging shape the gut microbiota, yet how their combined remodeling propagates across microbial function to host barrier and brain outcomes remains poorly understood. Despite abundant links between Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and intestinal health, integrative studies that connect community ecology with SCFA linked metabolism, epithelial signaling, systemic inflammation, behavior, and test causal reversibility are limited. In this study, we assessed gut microbiota and function alongside host tissues and behavior. In mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD), particularly in the 12-month-old cohort, we observed hippocampal-dependent cognitive and locomotor deficits (longer escape latency, fewer platform crossings, reduced target-quadrant time; lower distance, speed and center time), accompanied by systemic inflammation, with serum lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and cytokines (IL-6 and TNF-α) elevated and associated with adiposity. We then profiled the gut microbiota and its functions alongside host tissues and behavior, finding that HFD and age reduced α-diversity and shifted β-diversity, with a selective depletion of Muribaculaceae and depressed SCFA-linked pathways. Muribaculaceae abundance positively correlated with predicted SCFA-related pathways, while qRT-PCR of microbial fermentation genes supported concurrent functional alterations. In the colon, ELISA-measured butyrate level, SCFA receptors Ffar2, Ffar3 and tight-junction genes Tjp1 and Ocln were downregulated, with ZO-1 and occludin mislocalization, while serum LPS and inflammatory cytokines increased and associated with adiposity. Notably, an intervention arm showed that sodium butyrate supplementation attenuated cytokinemia, restored Ffar2, Ffar3 and tight-junction expression, improved ZO-1 and occludin integrity, and rescued behavioral performance. Collectively, these findings support an association between Muribaculaceae depletion, reduced SCFA-related functional signatures, impaired barrier associated markers, systemic inflammation, and behavioral deficits under HFD and age-associated conditions. In an intervention setting, butyrate supplementation partially ameliorated inflammatory and barrier-related readouts and improved behavioral performance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To evaluate and compare the effects of topical Maresin-1 (MaR1) and cyclosporine A (CsA) in a capsaicin-induced rat model of neurotrophic keratopathy (NK).A total of 40 Sprague-Dawley rats were allocated to five groups (n = 8 per group): Control, NK, NK+Vehicle, NK+CsA (0.05%), and NK+MaR1. Except for the Control group, all animals received a single subcutaneous injection of capsaicin (50 mg/kg) on postnatal day 2. Topical treatments were applied twice daily for 14 days. Corneal TrkA, TNF-α, and Caspase-3 expression were assessed by immunohistochemistry and Western blot.Both treatment groups significantly restored TrkA expression and reduced TNF-α and Caspase-3 relative to NK+Vehicle (p < 0.05 for all). CsA produced greater suppression of TNF-α than MaR1 (p < 0.001), whereas MaR1 demonstrated greater reduction in Caspase-3 than CsA (p = 0.013), with no significant difference between groups for TrkA (p = 0.054).Both MaR1 and CsA significantly attenuated the neurotrophic, inflammatory, and apoptotic changes associated with experimental NK. The distinct efficacy profiles of the two agents suggest complementary mechanisms of action and warrant further investigation of MaR1 in neurotrophic keratopathy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Corneal neovascularization (CoNV) treatment via ocular drug delivery remains challenging because rapid ocular clearance and limited tissue penetration result in low bioavailability, reduced therapeutic efficacy, and the need for frequent administration. Although polymer-based delivery systems can provide sustained release, their clinical translation may be limited by low drug loading, suboptimal release kinetics, and potential toxicity associated with polymer degradation products. Here, we developed a carrier-free subconjunctival depot platform composed of pure regorafenib crystals, including microcrystals (∼5 µm) and nanocrystals (∼260 nm), to achieve sustained release through a dissolution/diffusion-controlled mechanism without the need for a polymer matrix. Both formulations maintained crystallinity and their initial particle size during 12 months of storage at 4 °C. Nanocrystals exhibited faster dissolution and clearance, whereas microcrystals provided prolonged local retention, maintaining detectable regorafenib levels through eight months after a single administration. In vivo imaging and histological analyses demonstrated the formation of dense monolithic depots within the subconjunctival space, supporting sustained release and local retention. In prophylactic CoNV models, nanocrystals enhanced tissue penetration and produced greater early inhibition of angiogenic sprouting than microcrystals (p < 0.05). In therapeutic models of established neovascularization, a single 2 mg subconjunctival injection of either formulation induced comparable and sustained regression of neovessels for up to eight months, with efficacy significantly greater than that of 0.5 mg bevacizumab administered at 2-month intervals (p < 0.01). In addition, the 1 mg microcrystal formulation reduced TNF-α, IL-1β, and VEGF expression relative to saline-treated controls and were associated with improved corneal epithelial healing compared with bevacizumab. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that carrier-free pure drug crystal depots can provide sustained ocular delivery for at least eight months following a single administration, while crystal size governs the balance between initial tissue exposure and long-term retention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Secondary lymphedema is a debilitating complication following oncologic surgery, characterized by progressive tissue fibrosis and chronic inflammation. Although transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) has been established as a central mediator of fibrotic remodeling, the broader interplay between pro-inflammatory cytokines and downstream fibrotic signaling cascades in post-surgical lymphedematous tissue remains poorly understood.Skin and subcutaneous tissue biopsies were prospectively collected from 126 patients with unilateral breast cancer-related lymphedema and 58 matched controls across three tertiary centers between January 2024 and December 2025. Tissue specimens were analyzed using immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time PCR, multiplex cytokine profiling, and Western blotting. Correlations between cytokine expression, fibrotic markers, and clinical severity were evaluated.Lymphedematous tissues exhibited significantly elevated expression of TGF-β1, interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-13 (IL-13), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) compared with controls (all P < 0.01). Concurrent activation of Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling pathways was observed, with both correlating positively with disease severity. Multivariate regression identified TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 as independent predictors of fibrotic burden, whereas TNF-α lost significance after adjustment for confounders. Lymphatic vessel density was inversely associated with cytokine levels and fibrotic severity.Secondary upper extremity lymphedema following breast cancer surgery is driven by a coordinated inflammatory and fibrotic axis involving TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 through convergent Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling. These findings support the development of multi-pathway therapeutic strategies beyond single-agent anti-fibrotic approaches for post-surgical lymphedema.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To evaluate the effects of melatonin on chondrogenic and osteogenic differentiation, chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, and inflammatory responses in equine mesenchymal stem cells (eMSCs) in vitro.This in vitro experimental study was conducted from October 2023 through June 2024. The eMSCs were cultured under chondrogenic, osteogenic, and chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation conditions with or without melatonin and exposed to proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1β and tumor necrosis factor-α [TNF-α]). Expression of chondrogenic and osteogenic markers was measured by quantitative reverse-transcription PCR. Concentrations of IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 in culture supernatants were quantified by multiplex immunoassay.In chondrogenic cultures, melatonin was associated with increased collagen type II (COLII) and sex-determining region Y-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9) expression and was associated with higher COLII-to-collagen type I (COLI) and SOX9-to-runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) ratios, consistent with preservation of chondrogenic phenotype. During chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, melatonin increased RUNX2 and ALP expression and decreased COLII:COLI and SOX9:RUNX2 ratios, suggesting promotion of an early osteogenic or hypertrophic shift. In contrast, in osteogenic cultures, melatonin decreased RUNX2, ALP, and COLI expression, indicating context-dependent effects on osteogenic differentiation. Across culture conditions, melatonin significantly reduced IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 concentrations in culture supernatants.Melatonin differentially modulated lineage behavior in eMSCs, preserving chondrogenic characteristics in some settings, promoting early osteogenic transition during transdifferentiation, and suppressing proinflammatory mediator production.These findings support further investigation of melatonin as a potential adjunct for modulating proinflammatory responses during equine cartilage repair and other inflammatory musculoskeletal disorders.
Liver fibrosis is a progressive pathological process driven by liver injury, including viral hepatitis and metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH), and can progress to cirrhosis, liver failure, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Hepatocyte-hepatic stellate cell (HSC) crosstalk plays a central role in disease progression, but its regulatory mechanisms remain incompletely understood.This study aimed to define hepatocyte-HSC crosstalk in liver fibrosis mediated by microRNA-149-5p (miR-149-5p) signaling and to explore its potential as a therapeutic target for intervention.Differentially expressed exosomal microRNAs were identified by RNA sequencing of hepatocyte-derived exosomes from fibrotic and control livers. Functional screening using collagen type I alpha 1 chain (COL1A1) reporter assays identified miR-149-5p as an anti-fibrotic candidate. Exosome-mediated intercellular communication was confirmed using co-culture systems and confirmed by tumor susceptibility 101 (TSG101) silencing. Liver fibrosis was induced by bile duct ligation (BDL) and thioacetamide (TAA) in mice. Therapeutic effects were evaluated using AAV-mediated hepatocyte-specific overexpression and miR-149-5p agomir administration.miR-149-5p was selectively enriched in hepatocyte-derived exosomes via a CCUC-based EXOmotif and directly targeted PDGFRB in HSCs, thereby inhibiting HSC activation, proliferation, and collagen deposition without affecting hepatocyte function. During fibrosis progression, PU.1 bound to the miR-149-5p promoter and suppressed its transcription, leading to reduced exosomal miR-149-5p delivery and consequent PDGFRB derepression in HSCs. Both AAV-mediated overexpression and systemic miR-149-5p agomir administration significantly attenuated BDL- and TAA-induced liver fibrosis, as evidenced by reduced collagen deposition, decreased hydroxyproline content, and downregulation of HSC activation markers.The PU.1 (hepatocyte)-miR-149-5p (exosome)-PDGFRB (HSC) axis represents a key regulatory pathway in liver fibrosis, wherein PU.1 represses miR-149-5p transcription in hepatocytes, leading to EXOmotif-dependent reduction of exosomal miR-149-5p delivery and consequent derepression of PDGFRB in HSCs, thereby promoting HSC activation and fibrosis progression. Importantly, miR-149-5p agomir administration offers a promising therapeutic strategy for liver fibrosis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Abatacept (ABA) and belatacept (BEL) are immunomodulatory fusion proteins in which the extracellular domain of cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) is linked to the Fc fragment of human IgG1. Functionally, they bind to cell surface antigens CD80 and CD86 on antigen-presenting cells, thereby preventing CD28-mediated costimulatory signaling. This systematic review aims to evaluate the clinical efficacy of ABA and BEL in immune-mediated diseases, focusing on indications currently not approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or the European Medicines Agency (EMA).We searched PubMed and Web of Science for reports describing clinical efficacy of ABA or BEL in at least one patient with immune-mediated conditions outside FDA/EMA-approved indications. The Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses checklist guided our data reporting.Of 5333 articles initially extracted, 2778 unique records were screened after de-duplication, and 96 matched our criteria and were included in this study. ABA was beneficial in patients diagnosed with Sjögren's syndrome (particularly secondary forms); autoimmunity in association with immunodeficiency; early, inflammatory and normal-like subtypes of systemic sclerosis; scleroderma; arthritis in systemic lupus erythematosus; inflammatory myopathies (polymyositis, immune-mediated necrotizing myositis, and antisynthetase syndrome); and giant-cell arteritis. Lower-level evidence studies reported positive results using ABA to treat granulomatosis with polyangiitis; relapsing polychondritis; sarcoidosis; and inflammatory eye diseases. Results of several studies highlighted the positive impact of ABA on arthritis in patients taking this drug for other indications. Likewise, several autoimmune diseases responded effectively to ABA when used to treat concomitant rheumatoid arthritis. Positive serological responses suggesting downstream modulation of B cell activation were reported in several randomized controlled trials. BEL was used after kidney transplantation in patients with proteinuric kidney disease or lupus nephritis, and in a few non-transplanted CTLA-4 haploinsufficiency carriers for immunodeficiency-associated autoimmunity.Our results provide a comprehensive summary of the efficacy of ABA and BEL across a broad spectrum of autoimmune diseases.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is characterized by profound immunosuppression and limited responsiveness to conventional T cell-based therapies and immune checkpoint blockade. Here, we establish a human microglial cell line to explore the concept of a brain-adapted platform for chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) expression targeting GBM. We engineered human microglial cells with anti‑carbonic anhydrase IX (CAIX) CARs incorporating either CD28 or 4-1BB costimulatory domains, alone or co-expressing anti-programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). Our results demonstrate that CAIX-targeted CAR-engineered microglia-like cells (CAR-MG) mediate potent, antigen-dependent tumor killing in vitro, with CD28-based constructs exhibiting superior antitumor efficacy and a robust pro-inflammatory cytokine profile. Furthermore, local secretion of anti-PD-L1 synergized with CAIX-targeting to significantly reduce tumor burden in vivo - an effect closely associated with the successful reprogramming of infiltrating myeloid cells toward an M1-like anti-tumoral state, evidenced by an increase in the frequency of cells expressing CD38, CD86, and HLA-DR. Notably, the anti-PD-L1 secretory platform downregulated tumor-derived PD-L1, effectively remodeling the immunosuppressive glioblastoma microenvironment. These findings suggest that this engineered microglial cell line platform has the potential to heat the immunologically "cold" GBM microenvironment. Together, these results identify CAIX-targeted engineered CAR-MG as an effective immunotherapeutic approach and support further development of CNS-targeted immune cells to overcome key barriers to cellular immunotherapy in GBM.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Pleomorphic giant cell carcinoma (PGCC) of the prostate is an extremely rare and aggressive malignancy with limited treatment options. We present a case report of metastatic PGCC patients treated with 177Lu-PSMA-617 radioligand therapy (Pluvicto) after progression on standard therapies. Both patients had PSMA-avid tumors on imaging. Molecular profiling revealed mutations in hallmark tumor suppressors including TP53, RB1, and PTEN. Both patients initially experienced partial radiographic response, in which one patient achieved stable disease for 9 months posttherapy. These findings suggest that PSMA-radioligand therapy may be a reasonable treatment for PGCC patients, but underscore the need for additional therapeutic options.Copyright © 2026 John Y. Kwon et al. Case Reports in Urology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The tumor immune microenvironment influences non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) progression and therapy response. Programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) is a key biomarker for immune checkpoint blockade, yet the genomic correlates of its expression status require elucidation.We analyzed 97 advanced lung adenocarcinoma patients, (13 cases-all from the PD-L1-unknown subgroup-excluded due to insufficient sequencing quality, leaving 84 cases for downstream analyses) categorized by PD-L1 expression (positive: n=32; negative: n=45; unknown: n=20). Genomic profiling was performed using a 95-gene targeted NGS panel. Analyses included mutational profiling, pathway enrichment (GO/KEGG), gene interaction patterns, and genomic complexity.The cohort was predominantly metastatic (99.0%). Dominant mutations were in EGFR(43.80%), TP53(38.02%), and KRAS(11.57%). PD-L1-positive tumors more frequently harbored EGFRE746_A750del, while TP53 mutations were enriched in PD-L1-negative cases. Somatic interaction analysis revealed significant EGFR/TP53 co-occurrence in PD-L1-positive tumors and TP53/RB1 co-occurrence in negative tumors. GO analysis showed PD-L1-positive tumors were enriched for kinase-related functions, reflecting a distinct EGFR-driven biology characterized by a striking 59.26% prevalence of EGFR mutations. KEGG analysis indicated immune pathway enrichment in this subgroup, supporting an oncogene-induced immune phenotype frequently synergized by TP53 co-alterations. In contrast, PD-L1-negative tumors correlated with co-mutation-prone, metabolism-oriented profiles and immune suppression. Mutual exclusivity patterns differed: in PD-L1-positive tumors, EGFRmutations were mutually exclusive with KRAS/NRAS/HRASmutations, suggesting a single dominant driver. PD-L1-negative tumors displayed more co-occurring alterations (e.g., TP53 with STK11 or PTEN). Furthermore, 24% of PD-L1-positive tumors had multiple concurrent alterations, a proportion significantly higher than in PD-L1-negative tumors (8%; P<0.05).This study delineates distinct genomic landscapes associated with PD-L1 expression. PD-L1-positive status is linked to an immune-active, kinase-signaling-driven phenotype with mutually exclusive drivers. PD-L1-negative status correlates with a more immunosuppressive, co-mutation-prone, and metabolism-oriented profile. These findings provide molecular insights into immune heterogeneity and may inform tailored combination therapies.Copyright © 2026 Huang, Yao, Zhang, Song, Wang, Zhao, Ji, Zhu, Zhao and Zhang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562245 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560566 is a review article
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301500
Cancer patient-derived T cells often exhibit impaired activation and functional responsiveness due to chronic antigen exposure and therapy-induced immune dysregulation, limiting the efficacy of current immunotherapies. Mechanical forces, such as fluid shear stress (FSS), are emerging as critical regulators of immune cell activation, yet their role in modulating activation of patient-derived T cells remains largely unexplored. In this study, primary T cells isolated from patients with metastatic prostate cancer were exposed to FSS using a cone-and-plate viscometer during ex vivo activation in the presence and absence of bead-bound anti-CD3/CD28 monoclonal antibodies. FSS alone was sufficient to induce NF-κB phosphorylation and intracellular cytokine synthesis, demonstrating that mechanical stimulation can independently initiate T cell activation signaling. Moreover, FSS combined with anti-CD3/CD28 stimulation produced a synergistic increase in activation signaling, IL-2 and IFN-γ production, and CD25/CD69 expression. While trends were consistent across donors overall, inter-patient variability reflected differences in baseline T cell phenotype, with naïve-like cells displaying greater mechanosensitivity. These results indicate that cancer patient-derived T cells retain mechanotransduction capacity despite reduced antigen responsiveness. Incorporating FSS as a co-stimulatory signal during ex vivo expansion may be more effective at priming patient T cells for activation, enhancing effector function, and improving the efficacy of adoptive cell therapies.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560011 is a review article
Infantile myofibroma (IM) is the most common congenital fibrous tumor of infancy, originating from fibroblasts and myofibroblasts and present at birth in approximately 50%-60% of cases. Solitary IMs most often develop in the head and neck, less frequently on the trunk or extremities, and usually have an excellent prognosis in the absence of visceral involvement. Clinically, IM appears as a painless, firm, bluish-purple, freely mobile nodule and may occasionally show ulceration or skin atrophy, clinically mimicking hemangioma. Imaging typically shows well-defined masses with low-flow or peripheral vascularity, distinguishing them from highly vascular hemangiomas. Although solitary lesions may spontaneously regress within 18-24 months, surgical excision is advised when diagnosis is uncertain, functional risk exists, or for cosmetic or psychosocial reasons. Multicentric IM without visceral involvement also has a favorable outcome, whereas lesions with visceral involvement carry significantly higher morbidity and mortality. Mutations in PDGFRB and, less commonly, NOTCH3 are reported in IM and may guide future targeted therapies. In the absence of standardized guidelines, management must be individualized, with options including observation, surgical excision, and chemotherapy for extensive or visceral disease. Regular clinical and imaging follow-up is essential until lesion stabilization or regression is confirmed. Here, we present a female neonate with a scalp IM. Persistent ulceration, recurrent bleeding, inability to definitively exclude malignancy on imaging, and significant maternal distress warranted the decision for surgical excision. This case emphasizes the importance of individualized care in IM, guided by current literature on presentation, pathology, and treatment.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. on behalf of The American Society of Plastic Surgeons.
Biliary tract cancer (BTC) has a high postoperative recurrence rate and limiting long-term survival. Accurate prediction of recurrence is vital for clinical management. Carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) and the neutrophil percentage-to-albumin ratio (NPAR) are established prognostic markers in various cancers, but their combined value in BTC remains unclear. This study assessed the predictive role of the combination of CA19-9 and NPAR on time to recurrence (TTR) and introduced the novel NPAR-CA19-9 stratified score (NCSS).A total of 145 BTC patients who underwent resection between March 2019 and December 2023 were analyzed. Preoperative blood samples, collected within two weeks of surgery, were used to measure CA19-9 and NPAR. Cutoff values were defined using the Maximum Selected Rank Statistic (MSRS). NCSS (0-2) were assigned according to marker levels and evaluated using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and Cox regression models.Higher NCSS were associated with shorter TTR and reduced overall survival (P < 0.001). Cox regression confirmed NCSS as an independent predictor of recurrence [NCSS = 1: hazard ratio (HR) = 1.82, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.05-3.14; NCSS = 2: HR = 2.95, 95% CI: 1.54-5.64] and overall survival (NCSS = 1: HR = 5.21, 95% CI: 1.19-22.82; NCSS = 2: HR = 11.88, 95% CI: 2.44-57.75). Subgroup analysis showed that patients with NCSS = 1 or 2 benefited from adjuvant chemotherapy, whereas those with NCSS = 0 did not. Incorporating NCSS into a nomogram improved prediction of TTR compared with a model excluding NCSS (C-index: 0.72 vs. 0.70; P = 0.027).NCSS is a novel, simple, and effective preoperative scoring system that predicts TTR and overall survival in BTC patients, supporting more individualized treatment planning.Copyright © 2026 First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine in China. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
By investigating the highly efficient synthesis conditions for ACT-007 (2), we developed a simple, highly productive, and mild gram-scale synthesis method for ACT-007 (2). ACT-007 (2) and six novel analogues (3-9) were obtained via a one-pot synthesis from staurosporine (1) using bis(trichloromethyl)carbonate (BTC) or thiophosgene (CSCl2) and silica gel under reduced pressure on a rotary evaporator, achieving yields ranging from 25% to 99%. Additionally, new analogues 10-13, as well as 14 and 15, were synthesized from staurosporine (1) through three and five-step sequences, resulting in overall yields of 53-60%, 52%, and 48%, respectively. Compounds 5, 13, and 15 demonstrated significant antiproliferative activity against the human acute myeloid leukemia cell line MV4-11, with IC50 values of 73.2, 51.9, and 5.1 nM, respectively. Furthermore, among compounds 2-15, only compound 15 showed activity against the human colorectal cancer cell line HCT-116 and the bladder carcinoma cell line 5637, with IC50 values of 580.6 and 375.9 nM, respectively. These results suggest that compounds 5, 13, and 15 hold promise as potential leads for the development of new antiacute myeloid leukemia drugs, while compound 15, in particular, emerges as a novel candidate for treating colorectal cancer and bladder carcinoma.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Phosphoprotein phosphatase 1 (PP1) forms holoenzymes composed of a catalytic subunit (PP1c) and one or two of over 200 regulatory subunits (PP1Rs). Humans express four conserved PP1c isoforms: PP1cα, PP1cβ/δ, and splice variants PP1cγ1 and PP1cγ2. To systematically characterize PP1c isoform-specific interactions, we employed mass spectrometry to identify PP1cα, PP1cβ, and PP1cγ interacting proteins, determine their isoform specificity, and assess and quantify their abundance within the PP1 holoenzyme pool. Our data shows that PP1c forms hundreds of dimeric and trimeric holoenzymes, but the 10 most abundant PP1Rs make up 74% of PP1 holoenzymes, and they are highly uniform among PP1c isoforms. A key exception are myosin phosphatase N-terminal element (MyPhoNE)-containing PP1Rs, which form abundant holoenzyme complexes exclusively with PP1cβ. To define the determinants of MYPT1-PP1cβ specificity, we systematically assessed the contributions of MYPT1-PP1cβ interactions. First, we generated PP1cβ-PP1cγ chimeras and PP1cβ Tyr 305/Tyr307 point mutations to test the contribution of the PP1 C-terminal residues, and secondly, we used PP1cβ Thr197Gln (T197Q) mutation to test the effect of the MYPT1:MyPhoNE-specific interaction. Using genome editing, we demonstrate that PP1cβ T197Q-expressing cells exhibit altered PP1 holoenzyme composition and phosphorylation signaling, including increased phosphorylation of the Polo-like kinase 1 (Plk1) activation loop. Our studies further the understanding of the PP1c isoform-specific preference and demonstrate how a single amino acid change can alter PP1 holoenzyme composition and phosphorylation signaling, potentially explaining how recently discovered PP1cβ clinical variants impact PP1 biology.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Therapeutic resistance remains a major challenge in cancer treatment, driven by compensatory signaling and stress response pathways that sustain tumor survival. Topoisomerase IIβ-binding protein 1 (TopBP1), a multifunctional scaffold protein with nine BRCT domains, integrates replication stress signaling with oncogenic networks and is frequently overexpressed in aggressive cancers. Its BRCT7/8 domains mediate critical interactions with E2F1, mutant p53, MIZ1, PLK1, and CIP2A, making TopBP1-BRCT7/8 an attractive therapeutic target. Using docking-guided screening and structure-activity relationship-driven optimization, we developed CS18 as a potent and selective BRCT7/8 inhibitor that disrupts oncogenic TopBP1 complexes without interfering with DNA replication. CS18 suppresses MYC transcriptional programs, restores E2F1-mediated apoptosis, and induces mitotic catastrophe. It exhibits broad-spectrum anticancer activity and synergizes with poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors in multiple cancer types and enhances osimertinib sensitivity in EGFR-mutated non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells. CS18 demonstrates efficacy in patient-derived breast cancer xenografts and overcomes osimertinib resistance in refractory NSCLC in vivo. These findings establish CS18 as a chemically distinct TopBP1 inhibitor with translational potential to overcome therapeutic resistance and advance precision oncology.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42555021
Guided by molecular orbital theory, we have designed and synthesized a novel bimetallic metal-organic framework (BTC-Co-O-Cu-BTA) for the electrocatalytic C─S coupling of CO2 and sulfate. The integration of edge/corner-sharing CoO6 octahedra and CuO5 square pyramids establishes a robust double-exchange interaction (DEI). This interaction effectively modulates the spin states of the cobalt and copper sites while optimizing their electronic configurations. This tailored electronic environment disrupts the hyperconjugation symmetry of the S─O bonds in sulfate, enabling the simultaneous activation of both CO2 and sulfate. Consequently, the catalyst achieves highly efficient C─S coupling with a remarkable Faradaic efficiency of 17.43% under a pure CO2 atmosphere, significantly outperforming conventional systems. Through in-situ FTIR, NMR, and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy, we demonstrate that this bimetallic synergy substantially lowers the reaction energy barrier and allows for the capture of key dynamic intermediates. Furthermore, magnetic measurements reveal a DEI-induced transition from an antiferromagnetic to a ferromagnetic electronic state, successfully validating our proposed orbital engineering mechanism. This work provides a novel strategy for activating inert chemical bonds and establishes fundamental principles for the design of high-performance electrocatalysts.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42550920 is a review article
The prognostic role of STMN1 and its regulatory effects on the tumor microenvironment (TME) in biliary tract cancer (BTC) remain poorly defined. This study aimed to investigate the prognostic value of STMN1 and its predictive capacity for chemotherapy and immunotherapy responses among patients with BTC.Six independent cohorts encompassing tissue microarray specimens and transcriptional profiling data from BTC patients were included in our analysis. STMN1 protein expression was quantified via immunohistochemistry (IHC) on tissue microarrays.STMN1 expression was significantly correlated with inferior overall survival (OS). Multivariate regression further identified STMN1 as an independent adverse prognostic biomarker for OS. Gene Ontology (GO) and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) revealed that elevated STMN1 expression was tightly linked to immune response activation and T-cell infiltration, enabling the formation of an immune-inflamed TME in BTC. IHC validation confirmed positive correlations between STMN1 levels and anti-tumor CD8⁺ T-cell infiltration as well as programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression. Patients with low STMN1 expression derived prominent survival benefits from gemcitabine-based adjuvant chemotherapy (ACT), whereas high STMN1 expression predicted superior therapeutic responses to immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) in BTC recipients.STMN1 functions as an independent prognostic biomarker and differential predictive indicator for ACT and ICB efficacy in BTC, likely facilitating the construction of an immune-inflamed TME by promoting tumor immune cell recruitment and infiltration.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Nan, Meng, Lu, Cui, Suo, Zhang, Liu, Wang, Qiu and Bo.
First-line immuno-chemotherapy is standard for advanced biliary tract cancer (BTC), but outcomes vary substantially, necessitating longitudinal monitoring and treatment adaptation. We aimed to develop models that dynamically update survival predictions using evolving clinical data to support real-time prognostic stratification.We analysed patients with advanced BTC receiving first-line immuno-chemotherapy across eight centres. Cohorts comprised development, internal validation, two retrospective external validation, and one prospective external validation sets. The Bayesian joint model iDREM-BTC integrated baseline clinical and imaging variables with serial C-reactive protein, carbohydrate antigen 19-9, and total bilirubin measurements. iDREM(Pro)-BTC additionally incorporated baseline immunohistochemical and genomic data. Performance was assessed using dynamic area under the curve (AUC), calibration, and comparisons with baseline Cox models; interpretability was examined by ablation analysis (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT06849193).Among 2314 patients (n=841, 360, 327, 284, and 502, respectively), machine learning identified age, ECOG performance status, tumour burden, tumour stage, and the three longitudinal biomarkers as mortality predictors. iDREM-BTC achieved overall dynamic AUCs of 0·730 (95% CI 0·689-0·794), 0·718 (0·670-0·778), 0·755 (0·707-0·808), 0·705 (0·639-0·773), and 0·745 (0·691-0·802), respectively. Discrimination improved over follow-up in all cohorts, with AUCs increasing from 0·633-0·705 at baseline to 0·778-0·810 at 6 months. iDREM(Pro)-BTC showed higher discrimination in development (n=628; AUC 0·807 [0·781-0·839]) and retained performance in external validation (n=281; 0·718 [0·669-0·787]). Exploratory matched analyses showed overall-survival separation among iDREM-BTC-defined high-risk patients; findings for iDREM(Pro)-BTC were directionally similar but not statistically significant.iDREM-BTC and iDREM(Pro)-BTC provide dynamically updated survival estimates during first-line immuno-chemotherapy and support individualized prognostic stratification, potentially informing treatment adjustment across diverse patient populations and immuno-chemotherapy regimens in clinical practice.We developed the Individualized Dynamic Risk Estimation Model for biliary tract cancer (iDREM-BTC), a novel prognostic prediction and treatment recommendation system trained on data from 841 patients. The model demonstrated robust performance across multiple validation cohorts including 1473 patients. By integrating baseline Cox models with three mixed models incorporating longitudinal biomarkers (C-reactive protein level, carbohydrate antigen 19-9 level, and total bilirubin grade), iDREM-BTC enables real-time, accurate prognostic predictions, risk stratification, and treatment adjustments. The enhanced version, iDREM(Pro)-BTC, further incorporates immunohistochemistry and genomic markers, improving predictive latency while maintaining dynamic modelling advantages. iDREM-BTC and iDREM(Pro)-BTC can serve as valuable bedside resources for clinicians in the routine monitoring and treatment of patients with BTC. These models have also been integrated into an online platform as a research deployment.NCT06849193.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41214141
Inflammation and genomic instability are among the hallmarks of human cancer. Proinflammatory cytokines induce DNA damage through the accumulation of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species (RONS), which often leads to base alternations. The link between proinflammatory cytokines and chromosomal instability remains largely elusive.Here, we report that the mitotic checkpoint protein p31comet (MAD2L1BP) is modified by linear ubiquitination via the E3 ubiquitin ligase HOIP after cytokine stimulation. HOIP-mediated polyubiquitination of p31comet occurs on its C-terminal lysine residues. Ubiquitinated p31comet displays reduced binding to PLK1, which phosphorylates and inactivates p31comet. Thus HOIP positively  regulates p31comet function. Consistent with this notion, HOIP-deficient cells exhibit prolonged mitotic duration similar to p31comet knockout. Mitotic defects are also more prevalent in cells without HOIP or p31comet. Moreover, compared with the cells expressing wild-type p31comet, cells expressing a ubiquitination-deficient p31comet mutant take more time to complete the M phase.Our results together uncover a mechanistic link between the proinflammatory cytokines and the mitotic checkpoint pathways. This molecular switch could be explored as a potential therapeutic target in inflammation-driving or p31comet overexpressed cancer types.© 2025. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 39433928
Covalent chemistry is a versatile approach for expanding the ligandability of the human proteome. Activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) can infer the specific residues modified by electrophilic compounds through competition with broadly reactive probes. However, the extent to which such residue-directed platforms fully assess the protein targets of electrophilic compounds in cells remains unclear. Here we evaluate a complementary protein-directed ABPP method that identifies proteins showing stereoselective reactivity with alkynylated, chiral electrophilic compounds-termed stereoprobes. Integration of protein- and cysteine-directed data from cancer cells treated with tryptoline acrylamide stereoprobes revealed generally well-correlated ligandability maps and highlighted features, such as protein size and the proteotypicity of cysteine-containing peptides, that explain gaps in each ABPP platform. In total, we identified stereoprobe binding events for >300 structurally and functionally diverse proteins, including compounds that stereoselectively and site-specifically disrupt MAD2L1BP interactions with the spindle assembly checkpoint complex leading to delayed mitotic exit in cancer cells.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
MAD2L1BP-encoded p31comet mediates Trip13-dependent disassembly of Mad2- and Rev7-containing complexes and, through this antagonism, promotes timely spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) silencing, faithful chromosome segregation, insulin signaling, and homology-directed repair (HDR) of DNA double-strand breaks. We identified a homozygous MAD2L1BP nonsense variant, R253*, in 2 siblings with microcephaly, epileptic encephalopathy, and juvenile granulosa cell tumors of ovary and testis. Patient-derived cells exhibited high-grade mosaic variegated aneuploidy, slowed-down proliferation, and instability of truncated p31comet mRNA and protein. Corresponding recombinant p31comet was defective in Trip13, Mad2, and Rev7 binding and unable to support SAC silencing or HDR. Furthermore, C-terminal truncation abrogated an identified interaction of p31comet with tp53. Another homozygous truncation, R227*, detected in an early-deceased patient with low-level aneuploidy, severe epileptic encephalopathy, and frequent blood glucose elevations, likely corresponds to complete loss of function, as in Mad2l1bp-/- mice. Thus, human mutations of p31comet are linked to aneuploidy and tumor predisposition.
Human oocyte maturation arrest represents one of the severe conditions for female patients with primary infertility. However, the genetic factors underlying this human disease remain largely unknown. The spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) is an intricate surveillance mechanism that ensures accurate segregation of chromosomes throughout cell cycles. Once the kinetochores of chromosomes are correctly attached to bipolar spindles and the SAC is satisfied, the MAD2L1BP, best known as p31comet, binds mitosis arrest deficient 2 (MAD2) and recruits the AAA+-ATPase TRIP13 to disassemble the mitotic checkpoint complex (MCC), leading to the cell-cycle progression. In this study, by whole-exome sequencing (WES), we identified homozygous and compound heterozygous MAD2L1BP variants in three families with female patients diagnosed with primary infertility owing to oocyte metaphase I (MI) arrest. Functional studies revealed that the protein variants resulting from the C-terminal truncation of MAD2L1BP lost their binding ability to MAD2. cRNA microinjection of full-length or truncated MAD2L1BP uncovered their discordant roles in driving the extrusion of polar body 1 (PB1) in mouse oocytes. Furthermore, the patient's oocytes carrying the mutated MAD2L1BP resumed polar body extrusion (PBE) when rescued by microinjection of full-length MAD2L1BP cRNAs. Together, our studies identified and characterized novel biallelic variants in MAD2L1BP responsible for human oocyte maturation arrest at MI, and thus prompted new therapeutic avenues for curing female primary infertility.© 2023, Huang, Li, Dai et al.
Chromosomal instability (CIN) arising from mitotic errors is a hallmark of cancer progression, yet how specific spindle assembly factors are co-opted to support aggressive tumor phenotypes remains incompletely understood. Hepatoma Upregulated Protein (HURP/DLGAP5), a Ran-regulated microtubule-associated protein essential for kinetochore fiber stabilization and chromosome congression, is frequently overexpressed in aggressive cancers. Here, we investigated HURP's role across a breast cancer metastatic gradient-immortalized MCF10A, the low-metastatic luminal T47D, and the highly metastatic triple-negative MDA-MB-231 cell lines-integrating quantitative spindle analysis, kinetochore tension measurements, spindle checkpoint profiling, migration dynamics, and three-dimensional spheroid modeling. We show that total HURP protein levels increase with metastatic potential, yet spindle-bound HURP is paradoxically reduced in MDA-MB-231 cells, indicating cytoplasmic mislocalization despite increased total protein levels. HURP silencing induced cell-line-specific defects: moderate disorganization and misorientation in MCF10A and T47D cells, but catastrophic spindle collapse, apoptosis, and G2/M arrest in MDA-MB-231 cells. Mechanistically, HURP depletion disrupted the spindle-associated levels and distributions of TPX2, Aurora-A, and NuMA in a subtype-dependent manner, implicating HURP as a context-dependent stabilizer of this mitotic regulatory axis. HURP loss reduced interkinetochore tension in all cell lines, but only MCF10A and T47D cells mounted a proportional BubR1-dependent checkpoint response; MDA-MB-231 cells showed reduced checkpoint signaling, consistent with constitutive spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) attenuation in triple-negative breast cancer. Beyond mitosis, HURP depletion impaired collective migration and converted MDA-MB-231 cells from super-diffusive, amoeboid-like motility to sub-diffusive behavior, while minimally affecting the less aggressive cell lines. HURP-depleted MDA-MB-231 spheroids were significantly larger, less compact, and less spherical than controls, linking spindle regulation to tissue-level architectural coherence. These findings establish HURP as a multifunctional regulator coordinating mitotic fidelity, migration plasticity, and tumor architecture in breast cancer, with a selective dependency in highly metastatic cells, positioning it as a promising therapeutic target for aggressive breast cancers.
Glioma represents the most common primary malignant tumor of the central nervous system. The complement system, as a key component of the tumor microenvironment (TME), participates in tumor progression by mediating inflammatory responses and immune regulation. However, the specific mechanisms whereby complement system-related genes drive glioma recurrence remain unclear, and robust molecular biomarkers for recurrence prediction are absent. Therefore, this study aims to explore how these genes facilitate glioma progression and recurrence, and to construct a gene signature for recurrence risk prediction.By analyzing data from public databases Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) and Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas (CGGA) and employing differential expression analysis, univariate Cox regression, multivariate Cox regression, and Bioinformatic regression analyses, we identified six core genes (CFI, DIABLO, DLGAP5, FANCL, FCER2, TLR2) and constructed a recurrence risk score model. Furthermore, we externally validated the risk score model using recurrence-free survival (RFS) data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database to assess its predictive performance.Patients in the high-risk group exhibited significantly shorter overall survival (OS). At the mechanistic level, the expression of core genes was potentially closely associated with the C5-C5AR1 complement axis and M2 macrophage infiltration. The observed increase in immune cell infiltration, upregulation of immune checkpoints, and enhanced chemoresistance in the high-risk group suggest that the core genes may promote tumor progression by modulating an immunosuppressive microenvironment via the complement pathway. Analysis of chemotherapeutic drug sensitivity further revealed a more pronounced drug-resistant phenotype in the high-risk group. The prognostic performance of the model was validated using a nomogram, which demonstrated strong predictive ability.This study provides a novel complement system-related gene-based predictive model for glioma recurrence, which may provide a potential biomarker for prognosis assessment and personalized treatment, as well as new insights into the role of the complement system in the immune microenvironment of glioma.© AME Publishing Company.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most aggressive primary brain malignancy, characterised by hypoxia-driven proliferation, therapeutic resistance and poor prognosis. While hypoxia-induced transcriptional changes are well documented, the temporal regulation of cell cycle genes under sustained hypoxia remains unclear.This study aimed to profile transcriptomic alterations induced by graded hypoxia and identify key hypoxia-responsive regulatory genes in GBM.U87MG cells were cultured under normoxia and graded hypoxia (1-3 days), and experimental data of U87MG and LN229 GBM cells were utilised for validation and addressing heterogeneity. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified and analysed using STRING, Cytoscape, MCODE and CytoHubba to construct protein-protein interaction networks and extract hub genes. Functional enrichment was assessed through DAVID, ClueGO and KEGG, while prognostic relevance was evaluated using GlioVis and ONCOMINE data sets. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) validated hub gene expression dynamics.A total of 275 DEGs formed two main functional modules enriched in cell cycle regulation and chemokine signalling. Eighteen hub genes (KIF20A, KIFC1, CCNB1, AURKA, EGR1, CDCA3, CENPF, CDCA2, ASPM, KIF11, CCL2, CXCL8, CCNA2, DLGAP5, RACGAP1, TPX2, PTGS2 and CTGF) were significantly associated with mitotic processes and GBM progression. Survival analysis demonstrated that 17 hub genes correlated with poor overall survival (p < .05). qRT-PCR confirmed that hub gene expression peaked during early hypoxia and declined with prolonged exposure, indicating dynamic regulatory adaptation.These findings identify key hypoxia-responsive genes governing cell cycle progression and immunomodulation in GBM, highlighting their prognostic value and therapeutic potential in GBM.© The Author(s) 2026.
Breast cancer (BC) is ranked among the most prevalent malignant tumors in the global female population. DLGAP5 is implicated in the progression of various tumors. However, the molecular mechanisms of DLGAP5 involved in BC and TAM interactions remain unclear.We investigated the expression and prognostic significance of DLGAP5 in breast cancer (BC) and its association with M2 macrophage infiltration using bioinformatics and experimental methods. DLGAP5 expression was higher in BC cells (MCF-7, MDA-MB-231) than in normal breast epithelial cells (MCF-10 A), as confirmed by qRT-PCR and Western blot. Functional assays showed that DLGAP5 promoted BC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and anti-apoptotic ability, and increased levels of PCNA, Ki67, and Bax. DLGAP5 also elevated M2 macrophage markers (Arg1, IL-10) and glycolytic enzymes (PGK1, LDHA, PKM2, HK2), and enhanced glycolysis, as indicated by ECAR and OCR measurements. Bioinformatics analysis further supported the link between DLGAP5, glycolysis, and M2 macrophage infiltration. Finally, by establishing an allograft tumor model, the regulatory effect of DLGAP5 knockdown on the malignant progression of BC was validated in vivo.Bioinformatics analysis revealed that the upregulation of DLGAP5, which is linked to poor prognosis in breast cancer (BC), promotes glycolytic reprogramming. This metabolic shift drives macrophage M2 polarization, thereby facilitating BC progression.Our work demonstrated that DLGAP5-induced glycolysis reinforces the progression of BC by promoting the polarization of macrophages towards an M2 phenotype. The study can provide a theoretical foundation for BC treatment, pinpointing DLGAP5 as a promising biomarker.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Autophagy is reported to participate in tumorigenesis and plays a vital role in tumor cell survival. Here, we aimed to elucidate the regulatory mechanism between discs large homolog-associated protein 5 (DLGAP5) and autophagy in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) development.RT-qPCR and western blot methods were utilized to assess DLGAP5 expression. Cell proliferation and apoptosis abilities were monitored utilizing Cell Counting Kit 8 (CCK-8), EdU, and flow cytometry assays. Autophagy-related proteins were quantified using western blot and immunofluorescence analysis. A xenograft tumor model was established to measure tumor growth.DLGAP5 was significantly overexpressed in LUAD cell lines compared to 16HBE cells, especially in PC-9 and A549 cells. Functional assays highlighted that loss of function of DLGAP5 repressed cell proliferation and triggered apoptosis both in vitro and in vivo, while DLGAP5 overexpression had the opposite effect. After DLGAP5 blockage, the autophagy-related LC3II/I and Beclin1 expressions declined, while p62 expression increased. Moreover, the increased proliferation and autophagy activity and suppressed apoptosis mediated by DLGAP5 overexpression were greatly restrained after 3-MA (an autophagy-specific inhibitor).To sum up, DLGAP5 could contribute to proliferation and impede apoptosis of LUAD cells by activating autophagy activity, suggesting that targeting DLGAP5 might be a promising approach for LUAD treatment.Copyright © 2026 Shuying You et al. Canadian Respiratory Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
DLGAP5 is frequently upregulated in human cancers and is associated with tumor progression. However, its biological role, regulatory mechanism, and downstream signaling in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) remain unclear.Public databases were used to analyze DLGAP5 expression, diagnostic value, and prognostic significance across cancers, especially in LUAD. Functional assays in LUAD cells and xenograft models were performed to evaluate the effects of DLGAP5 on proliferation, migration, invasion, and tumor growth. Mechanistic studies were conducted to examine cell cycle- and EMT-related proteins, as well as the transcriptional regulation of DLGAP5 by YY1.DLGAP5 was significantly upregulated in multiple cancers and showed strong diagnostic value. High DLGAP5 expression predicted poor overall survival and disease-specific survival, and was an independent prognostic factor in LUAD. DLGAP5 knockdown inhibited LUAD cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and tumor growth. Mechanistically, DLGAP5 silencing reduced CDK4 and CDK6 expression and suppressed the Wnt/β-catenin/EMT pathway, as shown by decreased N-cadherin, Slug, Snail, Twist1, and β-catenin, with increased E-cadherin. In addition, YY1 directly bound to the DLGAP5 promoter and positively regulated its expression. YY1 knockdown reduced DLGAP5 expression and impaired LUAD progression.DLGAP5 promotes LUAD progression by enhancing cell proliferation, metastasis, and EMT, while YY1 acts as its upstream transcriptional activator. The YY1/DLGAP5 axis may serve as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target in LUAD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42177067 is a review article
At present, the known genetic causes of abnormal oocyte development can only account for a minority of female infertility. In our previous study, the mutation c.1101 C > G, p.Tyr367* in discs large-associated protein 5 (DLGAP5) was identified as a novel genetic cause of human oocyte maturation abnormality and female infertility. The present study aimed to validate the function of DLGAP5 in oocyte maturation and further explore the underlying mechanism by which DLGAP5 regulates oocyte meiosis.Cell experiments elucidated that DLGAP5 participates in cell division, and its depletion induced G2/M arrest. The depletion of DLGAP5 in human oocytes by microinjection of siRNAs resulted in abnormal spindle morphology and oocyte maturation defects, exhibiting reduced germinal vesicle breakdown and polar body 1 extrusion rate. In addition, a similar phenotype of abnormal oocyte development was observed in Dlgap5-deficient mouse oocytes, which could be rescued by DLGAP5 cRNA microinjection. Furthermore, single-cell RNA Sequencing showed Dlgap5 knockout altered expression of genes involving in meiosis process in oocytes and deactivated PI3K-AKT signaling pathway. And PI3K-AKT activators facilitated the oocyte maturation resumption in Dlgap5-deficient mice.DLGAP5 has been demonstrated to regulate the process of oocyte maturation via the activation of PI3K-AKT pathway. It reinforces the significant role of DLGAP5 function in oocyte maturation regulation and reveals the underlying mechanism. It provides crucial insights into clinical consultation, genetic diagnosis, and treatment strategies among infertile patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
Microglia-mediated neuroinflammation plays a significant role in the pathogenesis of spinal cord injury (SCI). This study aimed to investigate the role of DLG associated protein 5 (DLGAP5) in SCI.DLGAP5 expression was assessed in an SCI rat model using immunofluorescence, qRT-PCR, and Western blotting. SCI rats received an intraspinal injection of adeno-associated virus (AAV) carrying shDLGAP5, and then Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan (BBB) scale was recorded, inclined plate test was performed, as well as the spinal dorsal horn tissues were stained with hematoxylin-eosin (H&E) and Cresyl violet (for marking Nissl body). KEGG pathway analysis predicted DLGAP5-related signaling pathways. The impact of DLGAP5 on microglial activation and inflammation was evaluated in primary microglia and BV2 cells using Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and qRT-PCR following lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation.SCI rats exhibited significant DLGAP5 upregulation relative to sham controls. Knocking down DLGAP5 enhanced neurological outcomes and functional recovery after SCI. This intervention concomitantly suppressed M1 microglial activation, as shown by decreased levels of Iba-1, iNOS, and pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, TNF-α, IFN-γ), alongside increased anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. KEGG analysis suggested DLGAP5 positively regulates the NF-κB pathway. Mechanistically, DLGAP5 knockdown decreased p65 phosphorylation, and in vitro experiments further demonstrated that DLGAP5 knockdown attenuated LPS-induced microglial activation and inflammation, an effect that was reversed by p65 overexpression.DLGAP5 knockdown mitigates SCI by suppressing microglial activation through limiting NF-κB activation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most prevalent primary brain tumor in adults and characterized by high therapeutic resistance and poor prognosis, in which the repair of DNA damage plays a significant role, highlighting the need to elucidate the regulatory mechanisms of DNA damage repair in GBM cells. The discs large homolog associated protein 5 (DLGAP5) is highly expressed and plays pro-tumoral activities in various cancers, however its roles in GBM remain poorly defined. Here, we report that DLGAP5 is significantly upregulated and associated with poor prognosis of GBM patients. In addition, DLGAP5 knockdown suppresses proliferation, induces apoptosis and causes DNA damage in GBM cells. Mechanistically, DLGAP5 knockdown leads to a decrease of E2F1-mediated transcription of DNA repair protein RAD51AP1, and importantly, the enforced expression of E2F1 recovers RAD51AP1 expression that largely rescues DNA damage and apoptosis of GBM cells depleted of DLGAP5. Furthermore, DLGAP5 knockdown reduces the expression of E2F1 and RAD51AP1 and induces DNA damage and suppresses tumorigenesis in xenografted GBM tumors. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that DLGAP5 protects against DNA damage in GBM cells through the E2F1/RAD51AP1 pathway, providing potential therapeutic targets in DNA damage-inducing anti-GBM modalities.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42290844 is a review article
The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) regulates skin responses to microbial, therapeutic, and pollutant ligands. While AHR activation has been linked to both the etiology and treatment of skin diseases, the comparative effects of distinct ligand classes remain understudied. Here we evaluated systemic and cutaneous effects of different AHR ligands applied topically for 28 days. C57BL/6J mice were treated with microbiota-derived indole-3-pyruvic acid (IPY 1%), indole-3-aldehyde (IAld 0.01%), therapeutic, tapinarof (TAP 1%), and pollutants, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin [TCDD 0.000003% (high) or 0.0000003% (low)] or diesel exhaust particle (DEP 0.1%). Systemic effects, skin condition and atopic dermatitis- and chloracne-like outcomes were assessed. Only high-dose TCDD resulted in minor systemic effects including early signs of hepatic injury. While DEP worsened the overall skin condition index, transepidermal water loss, ear thickness, scratching and grooming were unchanged for all chemicals. Both TAP and high-dose TCDD elevated desquamation and produced chloracne-like pathology characterized by hyperkeratosis, sebaceous gland involution and cyst-formation. TCDD caused epidermal atrophy, whereas TAP caused epidermal hyperplasia, infundibular dilatation and extended hyperkeratosis. TAP and high-dose TCDD were equally effective in increasing Cyp1a1 and Cyp1b1 mRNA, yet TAP preferentially increased Nrf2 targets, Epgn, Sprr2d, and Slpi, previously reported to drive a chloracne-like response in mice. Human keratinocytes showed similar preferential induction of EPGN and SPRR2D by TAP. These findings highlight AHR activator-specific skin effects, in part, associated with differences in selective ligand activation of modifying signaling pathways.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Pauci-immune endocapillary proliferative glomerulonephritis (GN) (Pauci-I-EPGN) is a rare glomerular disease with a heterogeneous and poorly understood etiology. Here we describe the clinicopathological features, immune cell infiltration patterns, and treatment outcomes of Pauci-I-EPGN.Fifteen patients with biopsy-proven Pauci-I-EPGN, diagnosed between January 2012 and June 2025, were studied retrospectively.Fifteen patients (7 males and 8 females) aged 50.1 ±13.0 years at renal biopsy were included. The median 24 hour urine protein was 2.00 g/d (0.30-7.77 g/d), with a median serum creatinine level of 1.14 mg/dL (0.54-5.36 mg/dL). Seven cases had prodromal infection. Light microscopy (LM) showed endocapillary proliferative lesions in glomeruli. Immunofluorescence (IF) staining was negative for IgG, IgA, IgM, component C3, component C1q, and light chains. Electron microscopy (EM) revealed no electron-dense deposits. Immunohistochemical staining showed that inflammatory cells in glomeruli were mainly cluster of differentiation CD68+ cells and a small number of CD3+ cells. Multiplex IF staining demonstrated that CD68+ CD163+ cells were the predominant infiltrating cell type in glomeruli. Extensive transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) expression was observed within glomeruli. Besides, urinary soluble CD163 levels normalized to urinary creatinine (u-Cr) were elevated in 12 patients and correlated with the number of glomerular CD68+ CD163+ macrophages. Among 11 patients with a median follow-up period of 16.4 months (0.6-80.5 months), 5 achieved complete remission, 2 achieved partial remission, 1 showed stable kidney function, and 3 had progressive renal disease (1 progressed to end-stage renal disease [ESRD]).Pauci-I-EPGN is a rare distinct entity characterized by abnormal activation of intraglomerular M2 macrophages and CD8+ T cell infiltration, with inflammation-fibrosis imbalance driven by TGF-β overexpression. Corticosteroids may offer a potential therapeutic benefit for this type of disease. The overall outcomes in this cohort were generally favorable.© 2026 International Society of Nephrology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Aniridia-associated keratopathy (AAK) leads to loss of corneal transparency because of epithelial, inflammatory, and pathological vascular changes. Here, we sought to understand this process at the transcriptomic level while evaluating an experimental pharmacotherapy for potential modulatory effects.17 Pax6+/- Small-eye (Sey) heterozygous mice with p.Gly208* Pax6 mutation and 10 wild-type 129S1/SvImJ mice at four months of age were examined to identify dysregulated genes and pathways in established AAK. We next evaluated the potential efficacy of 10 µM duloxetine administered as eye drops twice daily for 90 days, assessing outcomes at the transcriptomic level via microarray and protein level with Western blot and immunostaining.Transcriptomic analysis of the cornea revealed enrichment of Ccl21 gene family members associated with lymphangiogenesis, along with upregulation of genes involved in inflammation, cell adhesion, differentiation, motility, and keratinization, and downregulation of drug metabolism with significantly dysregulated genes emerging as potential therapeutic targets, including Gpha2, Chrnb3, Epgn, Cnfn, kallikreins and inflammation mediators Il18r1 and classical complement factors. Duloxetine therapy failed to regress AAK in adult corneas; however, transcriptomic profiling indicated duloxetine suppressed inflammatory genes and promoted anti-inflammatory and protective activity while modulating drug metabolism, suggesting potential beneficial effects in the cornea.Transcriptomics reveals multiple unexplored pathways and genes altered in the AAK mouse model. Although clinical results with duloxetine are promising, our current regimen and delivery method did not improve established disease. Duloxetine's therapeutic potential requires further study.
The natural compound paeonol exhibits therapeutic promise against cervical carcinoma, though its precise molecular mechanisms remain undefined.First, we treated human cervical cancer (HeLa) cells with different concentrations of paeonol. Cellular proliferation and apoptotic responses were evaluated via cell-counting kit 8 (CCK8) assays and flow cytometric analysis. Subsequent transcriptomic profiling employed RNA sequencing coupled with alternative splicing assessment to detect differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Protein interaction networks were established for pivotal DEGs, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment investigations. Clinical data pertinent to cervical cancer were retrieved from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Prognostic model development incorporated Kaplan-Meier survival estimation, Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression, alongside univariate and multivariate COX proportional hazards analyses, with model accuracy subsequently assessed. Finally, Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) validated DEG expression.Paeonol treatment suppressed proliferation while inducing apoptosis in HeLa cells. Transcriptomic and splicing analyses revealed 12 critical DEGs: NLRP1, FN1, NQO2, NREP, B4GALNT1, ANK3, FAM219A, ODF3B, MAPK15, EPGN, MUC1, and MEG3. Enrichment analyses indicated these DEGs principally associate with inflammatory processes and the biological regulation of cellular proliferation and apoptotic death. Analysis of clinical outcomes in 197 TCGA patients demonstrated significantly enhanced five-year survival probability within the low-risk cohort. FN1, NQO2, and ODF3B were incorporated into a prognostic signature following LASSO regression. Univariate and multivariate COX analyses identified T stage, tumor grade, and differential expression of these three genes as significant outcome predictors; the resultant prognostic model exhibited robust accuracy. qRT-PCR results corroborated the RNA sequencing data concerning DEG expression patterns.Paeonol modulates HeLa cell proliferation and apoptosis through regulation of 12 key genes, including FN1. This activity involves governing inflammatory responses alongside cellular proliferation, migration, and differentiation processes. These findings offer a theoretical foundation supporting paeonol's potential clinical utility in cervical cancer management.Copyright © 2025 Li, Gao, Xu, Ge, Jiang and Shang.
Lumbar sympathectomy improves blood flow to the lower limbs and is widely used in clinical practice to treat lower limb pain and cold. However, the therapeutic mechanisms underlying lumbar sympathectomy for limb coldness resulting from nerve injury remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the effect of lumbar sympathectomy on cold allodynia in rats with spared nerve injury (SNI) and identify potential target genes associated with its analgesic effects.A rat model of SNI was established. Mechanical and cold pain thresholds were assessed in rats with SNI to explore the analgesic effects of lumbar sympathetic neurectomy on cold allodynia. Poly(A)-seq was used to analyze the transcriptional profile of the spinal cord. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened and analyzed using bioinformatics and validated by quantitative PCR analysis.Lumbar sympathectomy improved mechanical pain, cold allodynia, and cold sensitivity in the ipsilateral hind paw of SNI rats (all p < 0.05). Poly(A)-seq identified 278 DEGs (177 upregulated and 101 downregulated) in the spinal cords of SNI model rats compared with control rats. We identified 174 DEGs in the gene expression profile of lumbar sympathectomized SNI rats, including 69 upregulated and 105 downregulated genes, compared with SNI model rats. Functional analysis of the DEGs revealed that the most significantly enriched pathways included immune-related pathways and cellular molecular components, which mediate neuroinflammation, central sensitization, and chronic pain. To explore the correlation among the DEGs, we used the STRING database to construct protein-protein interaction networks. Finally, quantitative PCR analysis revealed six potential target genes associated with cold analgesic effects epithelial mitogen gene (EPGN), histone cluster 2 H3 family member C2 (Hist2h3c2), small integral membrane protein 6 (Smim6), family with sequence similarity 187 member a (FAM187A), LOC108349650, and LOC102550818.Lumbar sympathectomy may alleviate cold allodynia in SNI model rats. We identified key genes associated with pain mitigation, offering potential therapeutic targets. These genes may serve as targets for treating nerve injury-induced cold allodynia. These findings provide valuable insights for the development of new treatments for nerve-related pain disorders.© 2025 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
To demonstrate the efficacy of machine learning models in predicting mortality in melanoma cancer, we developed an interpretability model for better understanding the survival prediction of cancer. To this end, the optimal features were identified, ten different machine learning models were utilized to predict mortality across various datasets. Then we have utilized the important features identified by those machines learning methods to construct a new model named NKECLR to forecast mortality of patient with cancer. To explicitly clarify the model's decision-making process and uncover novel findings, an interpretable technique incorporating machine learning and SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP), as well as LIME, has been employed, and four genes EPGN, PHF11, RBM34, and ZFP36 were identified from those machine learning(ML). The experimental analysis conducted on training and validation datasets demonstrated that the proposed model has a good performance com- pared to existing methods with AUC value 81.8%, and 79.3%, respectively. Moreover, when combined our NKECLR with PD-L1, PD-1, and CTLA-4 the AUC value was 83%0. Finally, these findings have been applied to comprehend the response of drugs and immunotherapy. Our research introduced an innovative predictive NKECLR model utilizing natural killer(NK) cell marker genes for cohorts with melanoma cancer. The NKECLR model can effectively predict the survival of melanoma cancer cohorts and treatment results, revealing distinct immune cell infiltration in the high-risk group.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Sunitinib, a multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor, is used as a second-line therapy for gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) resistant to imatinib. However, its impact on the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) pathway can lead to significant toxicities, including hypertension and thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA).This case report describes a unique instance of a patient with metastatic GIST who developed endocapillary proliferative glomerulonephritis (EPGN) with IgA2 deposits and TMA following sunitinib treatment. The patient presented with severe hypertension, nephrotic syndrome, and acute kidney injury. Renal biopsy confirmed the diagnosis, revealing IgA2 deposits, which are not commonly associated with TMA. Discontinuation of sunitinib led to a rapid improvement in renal function and proteinuria. The potential mechanisms underlying sunitinib-induced glomerular injury may involve the blockade of VEGFR-1, affecting immune cell recruitment and function, and the disruption of the nitric oxide and endothelin systems, leading to endothelial damage and immune dysregulation. Management of these toxicities requires a personalized approach, with options ranging from symptomatic relief to drug discontinuation. The use of endothelin receptor antagonists and other therapeutic alternatives for GIST management is discussed.This case highlights the complex interplay between the therapeutic effects of sunitinib and its potential renal and cardiovascular toxicities, emphasizing the need for close monitoring and effective management strategies to optimize patient outcomes.© 2024. The Author(s).
Cervical cancer, a prevalent gynecological malignant tumor, poses a significant threat to women's health and lives. Immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy has emerged as a promising avenue for treating cervical cancer. For patients with persistent or recurrent metastatic cervical cancer, If the sequence of dead receptor ligand-1 (PD-L1) is positive, ICI show significant clinical efficacy. PD-L1 expression serves as a valuable biomarker for assessing ICI therapeutic efficacy. However, the complex tumor immune microenvironment (TIME), encompassing immune cell composition and tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) status, also exerts a profound influence on tumor immunity and prognosis. Given the remarkable strides made by ICI treatments in improving the survival rates of cervical cancer patients, it becomes essential to identify a comprehensive biomarker that integrates various TIME aspects to enhance the effectiveness of ICI treatment. Therefore, the quest for biomarkers linked to multiple facets of TIME in cervical cancer is a vital pursuit.In this study, we have developed an Immune-Associated Gene Prognostic Index (IRGPI) with remarkable prognostic value specifically for cervical squamous cell carcinoma and endocervical adenocarcinoma (CESC). The Cancer Genome Atlas CESC dataset (n = 305) was meticulously analyzed to pinpoint key immune-related genes via weighted gene co-expression network analysis and differential gene expression assays. Subsequently, we employed Cox regression analysis to construct the IRGPI. Furthermore, the composition of immune cells and TIL status were examined using CIBERSORT and TIDE. Tumor expression of Epigen, LCN10, and P73 were determined with immunohistochemistry.The resulting IRGPI, composed of EPGN, LCN10, and TP73 genes, displayed a strong negative correlation with patient survival. The discovery was validated with a patient cohort from our hospital. The IRGPI not only predicts the composition of immune cell subtypes such as Macrophages M1, NK cells, Mast cells, Plasma cells, Neutrophils, Dendritic cells, T cells CD8, and T cells CD4 within CESC, but also indicates TIL exclusion, dysfunction, and PD-1 and PD-L1 expression. Therefore, the IRGPI emerges as a promising biomarker not only for prognostic assessment but also for characterizing multiple immune features in CESC. Additionally, our results underscored the significant associations between the IRGPI and immune cell composition, TIL exclusion, and dysfunction, along with PD-1 and PD-L1 expression in the TIME.Consequently, the IRGPI stands out as a biomarker intimately connected to both the survival and TIME status of CESC patients, offering potential insights into immunotherapy strategies for CESC.Copyright © 2024 Wang, Liu, Feng, Liu, Wang, Liu, Li and Zhang.
Tumor metastasis commonly affects pleura in advanced lung cancer and results in malignant pleural effusion (MPE). MPE is related to poor prognosis, but without systematic investigation on different cell types and their crosstalk at single cell resolution.We conducted single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq) of lung cancer patients with pleural effusion. Next, our data were integrated with 5 datasets derived from individuals under normal, non-malignant disease and lung carcinomatous conditions. Mesothelial cells were re-clustered and their interactions with epithelial cells were comprehensively analyzed. Taking advantage of inferred ligand-receptor pairs, a prediction model of prognosis was constructed. The co-culture of mesothelial cells and malignant epithelial cells in vitro and RNA-seq was performed. Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) antagonist cetuximab was utilized to prevent the lung cancer cells' invasiveness. Spatial distribution of cells in lung adenocarcinoma patients' samples were also analyzed to validate our findings.The most distinctive transcriptome profiles between tumor and control were revealed in mesothelial cells, which is the predominate cell type of pleura. Five subtypes were divided, including one predominately identified in MPE which was characterized by enriched cancer-related pathways (e.g., cell migration) along evolutionary trajectory from normal mesothelial cells. Cancer-associated mesothelial cells (CAMCs) exhibited varied interactions with different subtypes of malignant epithelial cells, and multiple ligands/receptors exhibited significant correlation with poor prognosis. Experimentally, mesothelial cells can increase the migration ability of lung cancer cells through co-culturing. EGFR was the only affected gene in cancer cells that exhibited interaction with mesothelial cells and was associated with poor prognosis. Using EGFR antagonist cetuximab prevented the lung cancer cells' increased invasiveness caused by mesothelial cells. Moreover, epithelial mitogen (EPGN)-EGFR interaction was supported through spatial distribution analysis, revealing the significant proximity between EPGN+ mesothelial cells and EGFR+ epithelial cells.Our findings highlighted the important role of mesothelial cells and their interactions with cancer cells in pleural metastasis of lung cancer, providing potential targets for treatment.2024 Translational Lung Cancer Research. All rights reserved.
Chromosomal instability (CIN), a hallmark of malignancy, remains poorly understood in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC). Here, we identify spindle and kinetochore-associated protein 3 (SKA3) as a critical regulator of CIN in ccRCC. BAP1 loss-of-function mutations, prevalent in ccRCC, drive aberrant SKA3 overexpression. Mechanistically, BAP1 deubiquitinates nuclear receptor co-repressor 1 (NCOR1) to enhance its recruitment to the SKA3 promoter, thereby repressing SKA3 transcription. Additionally, BAP1-mediated histone H2AK119 deubiquitination at the TRIM25 promoter activates the expression of TRIM25, facilitating ubiquitin-proteasome-mediated degradation of SKA3. BAP1 deficiency disrupts both regulatory pathways, leading to aberrant accumulation of SKA3, which fuels CIN and correlates with metastasis progression and poor prognosis. In conclusion, our findings establish dysfunction of the BAP1-SKA3 axis as a molecular driver of CIN in ccRCC and suggest SKA3 as a potential therapeutic target for BAP1-mutant ccRCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
The kinetochore and spindle complex (SKA) and NDC80 complexes are essential kinetochore elements that ensure highly accurate chromosome segregation and successful progression through mitosis. The SKA heterodimer complex consists of SKA1, SKA2, and SKA3 subunits, and the NDC80 complex contains NDC80, NUF2, SPC24, and SPC25 subunits. Through live cell fluorescence timelapse imaging assays and expression of RNAi-resistant SKA3 constructs, we rescue SKA complex function in cells lacking endogenous SKA3. These assays reveal a critical span within SKA3's C-terminus required for successful mitotic progression. Structural protein modeling shows that this span encompasses the majority of a roughly 40 amino acid SKA3 C-terminal structural element that promotes interaction with the coiled-coil NDC80 and NUF2 subunits of the NDC80 complex. Thus, although spindle and kinetochore concentration of the SKA complex is mediated in part by the tubulin and tip-tracking capabilities provided by the SKA1 component of the SKA complex, transition from metaphase to anaphase requires the contribution of SKA3's C-terminal structural interface to mediate interaction between the SKA and NDC80 complexes.
Overexpression of Spindle and Kinetochore Associated complex subunit 3 (SKA3) has been strongly implicated in tumor prognosis, proliferation, and metastasis in various cancers. However, its role in esophageal cancer (ESCA) remained unexplored. This study aims to investigate the function of SKA3 in ESCA.The expression and prognostic value of SKA3 in ESCA were analyzed through bioinformatics, followed by experimental validation using clinical tissue samples from our hospital. Functional assays were performed to elucidate the role of SKA3 in promoting ESCA cell proliferation and migration. Additionally, the relationship between SKA3 expression and the tumor immune microenvironment was examined.SKA3 was significantly overexpressed in ESCA, with its elevated expression strongly correlating with key clinical features such as Barrett's esophagus, deeper tumor infiltration, lymph node metastasis, advanced pathologic stage, and poor prognosis. Genes co-expressed with SKA3 were enriched in processes related to cell division, DNA replication, the cell cycle, and the p53 signaling pathway. Knockdown of SKA3 significantly reduced ESCA cell proliferation and migration. Moreover, SKA3 overexpression was associated with higher stromal, immune, and ESTIMATE scores.SKA3 contributes to poor prognosis and modulates the immune microenvironment in ESCA. Inhibition of SKA3 expression effectively suppressed tumor growth and metastasis.AJTR Copyright © 2026.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the most common subtype of non-small cell lung cancer and remains associated with poor prognosis despite therapeutic advances. Protein palmitoylation, particularly reversible S-palmitoylation, modulates oncogenic signaling, membrane localization, and immune checkpoint stability, but the prognostic landscape of palmitoylation-related genes (PRGs) in LUAD and their relationship with the tumor microenvironment are not well defined.PRGs were curated from GeneCards and integrated with transcriptomic and clinical data from The Cancer Genome Atlas Lung Adenocarcinoma (TCGA-LUAD) cohort. Differential expression and univariate Cox analyses were performed to identify prognostic PRGs, which were then used for consensus clustering to define molecular subtypes and to construct a LASSO-Cox prognostic model. Associations between the risk score and functional pathways, genomic alterations, tumor mutational burden (TMB), tumor immune dysfunction and exclusion (TIDE) scores, and immune infiltration were evaluated. Three Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) cohorts were used for external validation. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) datasets and reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) of paired LUAD and adjacent tissues were used to assess cell type-associated expression and validate key genes.We identified 201 differentially expressed PRGs in LUAD and 15 genes significantly associated with overall survival, including the protective gene ACSM5 and the risk gene SKA3. PRG-based consensus clustering defined two molecular subtypes with distinct prognoses, differential enrichment of metabolism- versus proliferation-related pathways, and divergent immune microenvironment features. A two-gene signature comprising ACSM5 and SKA3 stratified patients into high- and low-risk groups in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and three external cohorts, with time-dependent area under the curve (AUCs) of 0.717, 0.733, and 0.697 at 1, 3, and 5 years in TCGA and comparable performance in GEO validation cohorts (5-year AUC up to 0.778), indicating moderate discriminative performance. Low-risk patients generally showed higher stromal and immune scores and increased infiltration of multiple immune cell subsets, along with complex patterns in TMB and TIDE indices. Single-cell analyses indicated predominant expression of ACSM5 in macrophages and of SKA3 in proliferating CD8+ T cells and macrophages, and RT-qPCR confirmed downregulation of ACSM5 and upregulation of SKA3 in LUAD tissues.This integrated analysis outlines a palmitoylation-associated molecular framework in LUAD and supports an ACSM5/SKA3 two-gene signature as a candidate prognostic tool that stratifies patient outcomes and reflects distinct metabolic, proliferative, and immune microenvironmental states, potentially providing a palmitoylation-associated basis for risk stratification and for the design of future mechanistic and therapeutic studies in LUAD.©2026 Wu et al.
Laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC) is one of the most common types of head and neck cancer, posing a significant threat to public health. The spindle and kinetochore-associated complex subunit 3 (SKA3), a microtubule-binding subcomplex of the outer kinetochore, participates in cancer progression. However, its role in the progression of LSCC remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the regulatory effects of SKA3 on LSCC progression and its underlying mechanism. In this study, the expression levels of SKA3 and aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C1 (AKR1C1) mRNA were assessed by quantitative real-time PCR. Protein expression was evaluated using western blotting. Cell proliferation was analyzed using the cell counting kit-8 assay, while apoptosis was assessed by flow cytometry. Cell migration and invasion were measured via Transwell assays. The levels of Fe2+ and glutathione were analyzed with colorimetric assays, while reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels were determined by flow cytometry. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and dual-luciferase reporter assays were employed to explore the interaction between SOX9 and SKA3. The impact of SKA3 silencing and AKR1C1 overexpression on tumor formation was investigated using a xenograft mouse model. The results showed that SKA3 expression was elevated in LSCC tissues and cells when compared with corresponding normal tissues and human nasopharyngeal epithelial cells. Silencing SKA3 suppressed LSCC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, while promoting apoptosis and ferroptosis. SKA3 upregulated AKR1C1, a key ferroptosis-related gene, in TU177 and AMC-HN-8 cells. Overexpression of AKR1C1 mitigated the effects of SKA3 silencing on the malignant phenotypes of these cells. SOX9 was identified as a transcriptional activator of SKA3 in TU177 and AMC-HN-8 cells, and AKR1C1 overexpression reversed the inhibitory effect of SKA3 silencing on tumor growth in vivo. Thus, SKA3 played a pivotal role in the progression of LSCC through the SOX9/SKA3/AKR1C1 axis, suggesting that targeting SKA3 might have significant clinical implications for the treatment of LSCC.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Background: Familial prostate cancer (PCa) accounts for nearly 20% of all PCa cases and is associated with increased genetic susceptibility and earlier disease onset. However, early detection and risk stratification in genetically predisposed individuals remain challenging. Circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) provides a minimally invasive source of tumor-derived genomic and epigenomic information. Integrating multi-omic cfDNA analyses may enhance the discovery of biomarkers relevant to familial PCa biology. Methods: We conducted a pilot feasibility study employing whole-genome, strand-specific sequencing of cfDNA from eight patients with familial PCa. A unified analytical pipeline was used to jointly profile genomic alterations and epigenomic features. Variant calling, methylation mapping, and allele-specific methylation (ASM) analysis were performed to identify somatic mutations, characterize epigenetic dysregulation, and explore potential interactions between genetic and epigenetic mechanisms. Results: Sequencing revealed 18,878 genetic variants, including 2276 potentially pathogenic alterations. We identified 26 recurrent high-impact mutations, such as stop-gain and start-loss variants, in genes including MUC4, MCM9, and SKA3. Epigenomic profiling demonstrated widespread gene-specific hypermethylation, consistent with transcriptional repression in these loci. ASM events were detected in TTC22, TEX51, WDR89, LAIR2, and SKA3, suggesting coordinated interactions between somatic variation and epigenetic regulation in familial PCa. Conclusions: This proof-of-concept study highlights the feasibility and potential of integrating whole-genome and epigenome profiling of cfDNA to decode the molecular architecture of familial prostate cancer. By jointly capturing genomic alterations and epigenetic signatures, including allele-specific methylation, this multi-omic liquid biopsy approach supports a high-resolution exploration of biologically relevant molecular features. Moreover, this integrated profiling strategy provides a minimally invasive and clinically scalable tool that may substantially improve risk assessment. These findings offer a promising foundation for future validation studies in larger cohorts, with the aim of advancing multi-omic cfDNA analysis as a next-generation technology in the field of precision oncologic epigenetics.
The outer kinetochore (KT) physically links chromosomes to dynamic microtubule (MT) plus ends, coupling to both polymerizing and depolymerizing tips to support chromosome movements while maintaining robust attachment. In human cells, the Ska complex is thought to function analogously to the yeast Dam1 complex and to cooperate with Ndc80 at the outer KT to ensure stable KT-MT interactions. However, the molecular basis for this cooperation remains poorly understood. We have obtained structures of human Ska and Ndc80 complexes simultaneously bound to MTs, showing how Ska interacts with MT across several tubulin dimers. Ndc80 and Ska complexes engage with each other across adjacent protofilaments "sandwiching" the α-tubulin C-terminal tail in the process. We also identify an anchoring interaction between a distinct bending point within the Ndc80 coiled-coil and a tethering helix and nearby phosphorylation sites (T358/T360) in SKA3. Our findings shed light on how human outer KT components collaboratively engage dynamic MT ends to contribute to robust KT-MT attachment and fidelity during chromosome segregation in mitosis.
Late-stage lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) frequently results in distant metastasis, with liver metastasis indicating the poorest prognosis. To successfully colonize the liver, metastatic LUAD cells must overcome its relatively hypoxic microenvironment. This study explores the metabolic adaptations that facilitate LUAD liver metastasis, identifying Spindle and Kinetochore Associated Protein 3 (SKA3) as a critical mediator. Under hypoxic conditions, SKA3 expression is significantly upregulated, driving glucose metabolic reprogramming in LUAD cells to enable survival within the liver's hypoxic niche. Mechanistically, SKA3 competitively binds to prolyl hydroxylase domain-containing protein 2 (PHD2), disrupting its interaction with hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF-1α). Consequently, stabilized HIF-1α further enhances glycolytic enzyme transcription, amplifying glycolysis and enabling adaptation to liver hypoxia. Furthermore, hypoxia upregulates the E3 ubiquitin ligase MDM2, promoting p53 ubiquitination and degradation, thereby relieving p53-mediated repression of SKA3 and further reinforcing the SKA3/HIF-1α axis. Interestingly, HIF-1α directly binds to the hypoxia response element (HRE) in the SKA3 promoter, creating a positive feedback loop to maintain high SKA3 expression. Thus, SKA3-mediated metabolic reprogramming significantly contributes to LUAD cells colonization and proliferation in the liver. Finally, our findings demonstrated that the SKA3/HIF-1α axis was critical for establishing hypoxia tolerance in LUAD cells, underscoring its potential as a therapeutic target for treating liver metastasis in LUAD.© 2025. The Author(s).
Breast cancer (BC) is a major global health concern, ranking among the most common neoplasms and representing one of the leading causes of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Early recognition and classification of BC subtypes are crucial for improving patient outcomes. Therefore, identifying novel biomarkers with diagnostic and prognostic significance is of great importance. The Wnt signaling pathway plays a significant role in BC by influencing various cell cycle regulation processes and stem cell renewal. This study aims to identify novel Wnt-associated biomarker panels for BC patients, composed of multiple molecular factors. A series of bioinformatical analyses have been employed, including weighted gene co-expression network analysis, differential expression analysis, Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, logistic regression model evaluation, and receiver operating characteristic construction. Thus, this study revealed potential diagnostic and prognostic signatures based on comprehensive analyses of BC patient data sourced from The Cancer Genome Atlas database. Consequently, four gene signatures were constructed: two differentiate ER+ from ER-BC: TTC8, SLC5A7, and PLCH1 for overall survival (OS); ZNF695, SLC7A5, and PLCH1 for disease free survival (DFS), while the other two effectively distinguish tumor from normal samples: SPC25, ANLN, KPNA2, SLC7A5 for OS; SPC25, KIF20A, SKA3, DTL, CDCA3, ANLN, TTK, RAD54L, MYBL2, ZNF695, and SLC7A5 for DFS.© 2025 the author(s), published by De Gruyter.
Anorectal malformations (ARM) constitute a heterogeneous group of rare congenital anomalies affecting the cloaca. Although genetic factors are implicated in ARM pathogenesis, our understanding of the underlying molecular mechanisms remains limited for both non-syndromic and syndromic ARM. Despite recent advancements, the genes identified so far account for only about 30% of the diagnostic yield from exome sequencing. Our study aimed to identify potential novel disease-causing mutations associated with ARMs. We performed exome sequencing on 12 patients with ARM and discovered a pathogenic single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the MFHAS1 gene in two individuals with non-syndromic ARM. Additionally, we identified insertion/deletion (INDEL) and splice-site variants in five genes - SOX9, AOC4P, SKA3, KRTAP5-7, and PRSS2. Despite the insights provided by our study regarding the association of these variants with ARM occurrence, further functional and segregation studies in larger cohorts are necessary to validate these findings.© 2025. The Author(s).
Musculoskeletal complications in type 2 diabetes (T2DM) are inadequately captured by body mass index (BMI). Waist-to-BMI ratio (WBR) may better reflect adverse body composition. We examined cross-sectional and longitudinal associations between WBR and musculoskeletal disorders in T2DM.This two-phase study was conducted within an ongoing hospital-based cohort at the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical University (Fuzhou, China). The cross-sectional analysis included 4157 adults with T2DM recruited between March 2012 and August 2023 (54.3% men; mean age 59.4 ± 10.3 years), using data from their first assessment. Associations of waist circumference (WC), waist-to-height ratio (WHtR), waist-to-hip ratio (WHR), BMI and WBR with osteopenia, sarcopenia, sarcopenic osteopenia (SOs), sarcopenic obesity (SOb) and fractures were evaluated. The prospective cohort comprised a longitudinal subset enrolled between March 2012 and June 2022, ensuring at least 1 year of follow-up prior to administrative censoring in August 2023. A total of 440 individuals (57.0% men; mean age 59.7 ± 9.7 years) were followed for a median of 34.0 months (20.0-57.0). Associations between time-dependent WBR and incident outcomes were assessed using Cox models. A nested exploratory analysis was conducted within the cohort. Thirty participants with extreme annualised WBR change (ΔWBR/yr) were selected. Baseline serum samples collected at enrolment, prior to outcome occurrence, were analysed using phage immunoprecipitation sequencing (PhIP-Seq).Cross-sectionally, WBR was negatively correlated with bone mineral density and appendicular skeletal muscle mass index and positively correlated with osteopenia, sarcopenia, SOs, SOb and fractures (all p < 0.01), whereas BMI, WC, WHtR and WHR showed weaker associations. After adjustment, higher WBR was independently associated with osteopenia (men: OR 1.723, 95% CI 1.614-1.840; women: OR 1.420, 1.348-1.495), sarcopenia (men: OR 4.779, 4.165-5.484; women: OR 2.991, 2.683-3.334), SOs (men: OR 6.261, 5.314-7.377; women: OR 4.336, 3.753-5.010), SOb (men: OR 4.737, 3.975-5.646; women: OR 4.652, 3.715-5.825) and fractures (men: OR 1.236, 1.093-1.397; women: OR 1.103, 1.003-1.213; all p < 0.05). Prospectively, higher time-dependent WBR predicted incident osteopenia (HR 1.365, 95% CI 1.024-1.820), sarcopenia (HR 1.282, 1.086-1.512), SOs (HR 1.408, 1.176-1.686), SOb (HR 1.634, 1.262-2.116) and fractures (HR 1.369, 1.029-1.821). PhIP-Seq analysis identified differential autoantibody reactivity related to muscle structural organisation and cytoskeletal regulation, while bone-related differences were enriched in Wnt signalling and hormone-related pathways.Higher WBR and longitudinal increases were independently associated with osteopenia, sarcopenia, sarcopenic phenotypes and fractures in individuals with T2DM.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cachexia, Sarcopenia and Muscle published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Accurate diagnosis of periprosthetic joint infection (PJI) is critical yet challenging. The role of autoantibodies in PJI remains largely unexplored. In this study, we employed phage display immunoprecipitation sequencing (PhIP-Seq) to profile PJI-associated autoantibodies and assess their diagnostic utility in PJI.We collected plasma samples from a cohort of 45 patients, including 25 with PJI, 9 with aseptic loosening, and 11 post-primary arthroplasty without complications. Initially, PhIP-Seq screening was performed on 10 samples (five PJI and five post-primary arthroplasty) to identify significantly differentially expressed autoantibodies. Subsequently, the immunoglobulin G (IgG) levels of these specific autoantibodies were quantified in the plasma of all participants via ELISA, and statistical analysis was performed to evaluate their diagnostic performance in PJI.PhIP-Seq identified IFT80 and VPS54 as PJI-associated autoantigens. ELISA confirmed significantly elevated levels of corresponding IgG antibodies in PJI patients compared to those with aseptic loosening or post-primary arthroplasty (p < 0.01). Both autoantibodies demonstrated preliminary diagnostic performance: IFT80 achieved an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.797 (sensitivity = 56.0%, specificity = 95.0%), while VPS54 yielded an AUC of 0.776 (sensitivity = 72.0%, specificity = 75.0%). A combined diagnostic model integrating both biomarkers further enhanced the diagnostic performance (AUC = 0.810, sensitivity = 68.0%, specificity = 80.0%).This study establishes IFT80 and VPS54 as novel autoantibodies in PJI. Their corresponding autoantibodies exhibit robust diagnostic potential, offering support for the development of serological assays to improve PJI diagnosis.Copyright © 2026 Chang, Ma and Xu.
Fatigue is common and debilitating in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), but its etiology remains unclear. Phage-display immunoprecipitation sequencing (PhIP-Seq) was used to profile systemic antibodies against 344,000 rationally selected peptide antigens in 327 patients with IBD, assessing associations with fatigue severity across quartiles and in a remission sub-cohort. No individual antibody remained significant after multiple testing correction. However, aggregation-based analyses identified recurring differences involving Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), influenza virus, and Staphylococcus antigens. Higher fatigue was associated with lower responses to EBV early antigen protein D (EA-D) and higher responses to EBV nuclear antigens (EBNA-1, EBNA-3), as well as influenza M1/M2 proteins and Staphylococcus clumping factor B. These patterns were not statistically robust and may reflect random variation or disease-/exposure-related factors. Given broader evidence linking EBV-related immune responses to immune-mediated diseases, these observations warrant further investigation. Overall, this study illustrates challenges of linking high-dimensional immune data to complex clinical symptoms.© 2026 The Authors.
Defining immune dysregulation during the asymptomatic prodrome of immune-mediated diseases offers opportunities for early disease detection and interception. In inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), prodromal immune changes remain poorly characterised.To define preclinical immunological alterations by characterising longitudinal serum antibody repertoires using high-throughput phage-display immunoprecipitation sequencing (PhIP-Seq).We applied PhIP-Seq to profile antibody responses in 2000 longitudinal serum samples from 200 individuals who developed Crohn's disease (CD), 200 who developed ulcerative colitis (UC) and 100 matched healthy controls within the US military Proteomic Evaluation and Discovery in an IBD Cohort of Tri-service Subjects cohort, collected up to 10 years before diagnosis. Antibody repertoires were profiled against 357 000 microbial-associated, viral-associated, food-associated and immune-associated peptides.Antibody repertoire variability was increased up to ~4 years prediagnosis in pre-CD and pre-UC individuals. Differential analyses revealed elevated herpesvirus-directed responses (notably Epstein-Barr virus) and anti-flagellin antibodies up to 10 years prediagnosis in CD, particularly in individuals who later developed complicated or ileal disease. In contrast, responses to encapsulated bacteria (eg, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus, Neisseria) progressively declined towards diagnosis. Pre-UC was characterised by combined antimicrobial, antiviral and autoantibody signatures, including antibodies against the MAP kinase-activating death domain protein.Large-scale serological profiling of archived prediagnostic samples identified disease-specific immune trajectories years before IBD onset, providing novel insights into disease pathogenesis in its prodromal phase.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Non-hydrogenative parahydrogen-induced polarization (nh-PHIP) is an NMR sensitivity enhancement technique that is particularly suitable for studying biological samples. It can provide up to three orders of magnitude signal enhancements for a continuously expanding range of valuable analyte classes like drugs, vitamins, nucleobases, nucleosides and nucleotides, amino acids, oligopeptides, etc. The strengths of nh-PHIP lay in its modest instrumental requirements over a standard commercial NMR spectrometer, its simple operating workflow that is similar to traditional NMR spectroscopy, and its proven capability to offer quantitative information from below the sensitivity barrier of regular NMR. This tutorial will give an overview of the background, the principles, and the present application scope of nh-PHIP hyperpolarization. We provide guidelines for setting up an nh-PHIP experiment, from sample preparation to optimizing the hyperpolarization for a particular analyte class. This includes the description of the basic experimental setup and outlining the considerations for method development. An overview of different available nh-PHIP pulse sequences will be given to assist the reader in implementing nh-PHIP.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
2-Amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) is a major heat-induced contaminant in protein-rich foods, yet its effects on intestinal barrier homeostasis and luminal microecology remain insufficiently defined. In this study, adult zebrafish were exposed to dietary PhIP for 90 days at estimated intake doses of 0.006, 0.4, and 7.2 mg/kg bw/day to evaluate intestinal injury, microbial dysbiosis, and metabolic remodeling. PhIP exposure impaired growth-related indices and induced progressive intestinal lesions, accompanied by mucus barrier depletion, reduced goblet cell abundance, and downregulation of muc2. Tight junction integrity was disrupted, as indicated by decreased zo-1, occludin, and claudin1 expression, weakened ZO-1 and Claudin-1 immunofluorescence signals, and reduced tight junction-related protein levels. Serum LPS and intestinal pro-inflammatory cytokines were markedly elevated, whereas il-10 expression was suppressed, indicating increased endotoxin burden and inflammatory activation. 16S rRNA gene sequencing revealed Proteobacteria-enriched dysbiosis and exposure-associated shifts in candidate genera, including Chitinilyticum, Shewanella, Aeromonas, Acinetobacter, Microbacterium, and Reyranella. Untargeted metabolomics further identified luminal metabolic remodeling involving lipid-related compounds, organic acids, amino acid metabolism, arachidonic acid metabolism, the citrate cycle, and pathways related to choline and glycerophospholipid metabolism. Association analysis linked genus-level microbial variation and core pathway-related metabolites with LPS, inflammatory cytokines, and tight junction markers. These findings indicate that dietary PhIP exposure disrupts intestinal barrier homeostasis in parallel with Proteobacteria-related dysbiosis and luminal metabolic remodeling, providing an integrated microbiota-metabolite-barrier association framework for evaluating intestinal risks of heat-induced food contaminants.
The resurrection plant Selaginella bryopteris (Selaginellaceae), commonly known as 'Sanjeevani', exhibits remarkable desiccation tolerance and rapid recovery upon rehydration. This study investigated the physiological responses of the resurrection plant S. bryopteris during a complete desiccation-rehydration-desiccation cycle using relative water content, chlorophyll content, chlorophyll fluorescence, and JIP-test analyses. Physiological responses were evaluated using five biological replicates and three technical replicates, with statistical significance at p < 0.05. During rehydration, RWC increased from nearly 0 to 85% within 30 h, accompanied by a 214% increase in chlorophyll content. Recovery of photosynthetic activity was evidenced by approximately 10-fold and 11-fold increases in maximum fluorescence (Fm) and active reaction centre density (RC/CS), respectively. Similarly, the maximum quantum yield of primary photochemistry (φP0) and electron transport efficiency (φE0) increased by about 800% and 775%, indicating rapid restoration of PSII functionality and electron transport capacity. Performance index (PIcs) increased by more than 1700%, reflecting coordinated recovery of the photosynthetic apparatus. During subsequent dehydration, photosynthetic parameters remained relatively stable during the initial phase of water loss but declined sharply thereafter. RC/CS, φP0, φE0, and PIcs decreased progressively, whereas energy dissipation parameters (DI0/RC and φD0) increased, indicating a shift from photochemical energy utilization to thermal energy dissipation. OJIP analysis revealed that recovery was both sequential and biphasic, with rapid restoration of PSII photochemistry preceding slower recovery of downstream electron transport processes. The findings indicate that reversible PSII downregulation, preservation of reaction-centre functionality, and controlled energy dissipation collectively contribute to desiccation tolerance in S. bryopteris.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-026-04952-3.© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Hyperpolarized 13C Magnetic Resonance Imaging (HP-MRI) enables real-time, non-invasive assessment of metabolism in diseases including cancer and neurodegeneration. Broader adoption has been limited by the complexity, duration, and lack of standardization of current hyperpolarization methods. This study evaluated POLARIS Preclinical, a parahydrogen-induced polarization (PHIP) hyperpolarizer designed to streamline production of hyperpolarized 13C agents. Four POLARIS systems were deployed across eight international research centers to produce hyperpolarized [1-13C]pyruvate doses within 90 seconds. In vitro and in vivo imaging was conducted in multiple animal models using MRI systems operating at 1.4, 3, 7, and 9.4 Tesla. Metabolic conversion of pyruvate to lactate and bicarbonate was successfully measured across all sites. POLARIS enabled rapid, reproducible production of hyperpolarized [1-13C]pyruvate and demonstrated consistent performance across instruments, institutions, and field strengths. These results support standardized, high-throughput metabolic MRI for multicenter studies and translational research in oncology, neurology, and cardiovascular disease.
Magnetic resonance (MR) is a powerful non-invasive technique for probing structural, functional, and metabolic processes with high spatial and temporal resolution. However, its inherently low sensitivity restricts broader applications. The use of hyperpolarized contrast agents has thus, emerged as an attractive approach to overcome this limitation and expand the capabilities. Among the available hyperpolarization techniques, parahydrogen-induced polarization (PHIP) provides a rapid and cost-efficient means to enhance magnetic resonance signals substantially. Yet, direct hyperpolarization of biomolecules, metabolites, or pharmaceuticals in vivo remains challenging, necessitating the development of versatile molecular tags and probes for hyperpolarized magnetic resonance (HP-MR). In particular, imparting specific sensing functions-such as pH responsiveness and enzyme activity detection-to these HP molecular tags is of growing importance. Herein, we introduce pyridine N-oxides as hyperpolarizable molecular tags and present [15N, D]-labeled 2-alkenylpyridine N-oxides as highly efficient candidates for HP-MR with up to 47% 15N spin polarization. This performance opens pathways for broad potential in biomedical and preclinical HP-MR applications. The systems feature long 15N spin-lattice relaxation times (up to T1 = 477 s), broad functional-group compatibility, and excellent structural tunability. Their practical utility is exemplified by pH and H2O2 sensing and monitoring enzymatic reactions in water.© 2026 The Author(s). Angewandte Chemie International Edition published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Organic room-temperature phosphorescence (RTP) materials have attracted extensive attention for their promising applications. However, they frequently suffer from severe deactivation under extreme conditions (aqueous environment and high temperature) and rely exclusively on ultraviolet (UV) excitation, which greatly limits their reliability and utility. Herein, we present an efficient supramolecular assembly strategy to achieve visible light-activated organic phosphorescence under extreme environments, including various aqueous media (acidic, alkaline, oxidizing, or reducing solutions) and high temperature. AC@AMD is constructed via hydrogen bonds and covalent interactions between aromatic acid (AC) and ammelide (AMD), providing a rigid microenvironment. This structure effectively reduces the singlet-triplet energy gap (ΔEST) and enhances spin-orbit coupling (SOC), endowing AC@AMD with efficient RTP: phosphorescence quantum yield (ΦP) up to 34.31% and lifetime (τP) of 1094.99 ms. Moreover, the formation of hydrogen-bonding networks further enhanced the rigidity of AC@AMD, making them with the excellent phosphorescence features in aqueous solutions. More importantly, the compact lamellar structure and the strong stability of the matrix skeleton structure of AC@AMD due to the presence of abundant N─C═N and N─C═O bonds endow them with excellent tolerance to various extreme aqueous solutions and high temperature. In view of the above-mentioned advantages, information encryption, anti-counterfeiting labeling, and bioimaging applications are demonstrated.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The parasitic protozoan Trypanosoma brucei assembles an intranuclear spindle during mitosis to segregate its chromosomes through mechanisms that are distinct from its mammalian host. This parasite employs unusual nucleus- and spindle-associated proteins (NuSAPs) to regulate mitosis, but their mechanistic roles remain poorly understood. Here, we characterized NuSAP1 and analyzed the functional interplay of NuSAP1 with its interacting and proximal proteins. NuSAP1 localizes to the entire spindle with spindle pole enrichment, interacts with NuSAP4 and the spindle-associated protein SPB1 through distinct structural motifs, and regulates the stability of NuSAP4 and the localization of SPB1. Knockdown of NuSAP1 disrupts the localization of MAP103 and TbMlp2 to spindle poles, suggesting its requirement for spindle pole protein complex formation and spindle pole complex-nuclear basket association. Finally, NuSAP1 bundles microtubules in vitro, and depletion of NuSAP1 disrupts spindle assembly and kinetochore biorientation. Together, these results uncover the mechanistic role of NuSAP1 in spindle assembly by bundling spindle microtubules and promoting spindle pole complex formation, underscoring an unusual regulatory mechanism for mitosis in this unicellular eukaryote.© 2026. The Author(s).
Castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) demonstrates significant resistance to androgen deprivation therapy (ADT), presenting a substantial therapeutic challenge. Although the reactivation of androgen receptor (AR) signalling is a key driver of this resistance, the specific regulatory mechanisms involved remain unclear. Nucleolar and spindle-associated protein 1 (NUSAP1) is overexpressed in various malignancies; however, its function in mediating resistance to enzalutamide (ENZ) has yet to be elucidated. This study aims to clarify the influence of NUSAP1 on ENZ resistance in prostate cancer.Bioinformatics analyses were conducted on three GEO datasets (GSE3325, GSE27616, and GSE35988) to identify potential genes linked to metastatic CRPC. Subsequent functional experiments, such as CCK-8, colony formation, Wound-healing, and Transwell assays, were carried out to assess the impact of knockdown NUSAP1 on proliferation, migration, and invasion in ENZ-resistant prostate cancer cells (MDVR and 22Rv1). Western blot and RT-qPCR analyses were employed to explore underlying molecular mechanisms. Pharmacological interventions and rescue experiments utilizing R1881, Laduviglusib, and DK419 were executed to investigate pathway interactions. Additionally, a xenograft mouse model was established to validate the observed in vivo effects.Bioinformatics analysis revealed NUSAP1 as a pivotal prognostic gene significantly linked to overall survival (OS, P = 0.02) and disease-free survival (DFS, P = 0.0018) in prostate cancer. Elevated NUSAP1 expression was observed in ENZ-resistant prostate cancer cells. Knockdown of NUSAP1 markedly impeded cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, while increasing the cells' sensitivity to ENZ both in vitro and in vivo. Subsequent investigations illustrated that NUSAP1 promotes β-Catenin translocation to the nucleus and increased Wnt/β-Catenin signalling activity, and then amplifies downstream AR signalling.The results indicate that NUSAP1 enhanced prostate cancer ENZ resistance through activation of the Wnt/β-Catenin-AR/AR-V7 signalling pathway. Targeting NUSAP1 could offer a potential therapeutic approach to address ENZ resistance in CRPC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42322211
Thyroid cancer (TC) dedifferentiation contributes to tumor progression, treatment resistance, and poor survival, yet the underlying molecular mechanisms remain elusive. Genetic alterations, copy number variations, and epigenetic modifications may contribute to this process. Here, we conducted an integrated analysis to screen for critical molecules involved in TC dedifferentiation, identifying nucleolar and spindle-associated protein 1 (NUSAP1) as a candidate. NUSAP1 is overexpressed in TC and associated with poor prognosis. Upregulation of NUSAP1 enhances TC cell proliferation, migration, and dedifferentiation, evidenced by the suppression of thyroid differentiation genes and the induction of epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Mechanistically, branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) catabolism is a potential mechanism of dedifferentiation in TC mediated by NUSAP1 through RNA sequencing enrichment analysis. Specifically, NUSAP1 forms a transcriptional complex with bromodomain containing 4 (BRD4), which activates branched-chain amino acid transaminase 1 (BCAT1) transcription and leads to accelerated BCAA catabolism and reduced α-ketoglutarate (α-KG) levels. This metabolic shift increases histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27me3) levels by impairing histone demethylation, thereby suppressing the expression of thyroid differentiation genes. Pharmacologic inhibition of NUSAP1 with entinostat suppresses downstream target levels, suggesting a novel treatment modality. In summary, NUSAP1 promotes dedifferentiation through the BCAT1/α-KG/H3K27me3 axis by forming a transcriptional complex with BRD4, which indicates that NUSAP1 is a potential therapeutic target in TC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is driven, in part, by glioma stem cells (GSCs), which sustain therapeutic resistance and recurrence. OLIG2 is a key regulator of GSC programs but the signaling pathways that cooperate with Oligodendrocyte transcription factor 2 (OLIG2) to maintain GSC states remain incompletely defined. Although Signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signaling has been implicated in GSC biology, work to date has focused primarily on STAT3, and the contribution of STAT5 remains poorly defined. Here, we investigated whether STAT5B functionally cooperates with OLIG2 in sustaining GSC phenotypes.Transcriptomic analyses, proximity ligation assays and biochemical studies were utilized to define OLIG2-STAT5B interactions in patient-derived GSCs. Functional consequences of OLIG2, STAT5B, BIRC5, and NUSAP1 suppression were assessed using small interfering RNA/short hairpin RNA-knockdown, stemness, and migration assays in EGFRvIII-expressing GSCs. In vivo tumor growth studies were performed using orthotopic xenograft models.OLIG2 and STAT5B expression were positively correlated in GBM datasets and patient-derived models. OLIG2 physically associated with STAT5B in EGFRvIII-expressing GSCs, and loss of OLIG2 reduced STAT5 activation, supporting a functional link between these factors. OLIG2 or STAT5B suppression induced convergent transcriptional changes, including downregulation of genes associated with GSC maintenance and proliferation, notably stemness regulators BIRC5 and NUSAP1. Silencing BIRC5 or NUSAP1 impaired GSC self-renewal and migration. In orthotopic models, STAT5B knockdown prolonged survival and phenocopied OLIG2 suppression and stemness loss.These findings identify STAT5B as a functional partner of OLIG2 in GBM and define anOLIG2-STAT5B transcriptional axis that sustains GSC maintenance and malignant behavior. Targeting this axis may represent a therapeutic strategy to disrupt treatment-refractory glioma cell states.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press, the Society for Neuro-Oncology and the European Association of Neuro-Oncology.
Letrozole is a first-line aromatase inhibitor for estrogen receptor-positive (ER +) breast cancer, yet resistance occurs in 20-30% of patients, significantly limiting therapeutic benefit. The absence of reliable pretreatment biomarkers remains a major barrier to precision therapy. This study aimed to identify robust prognostic biomarkers and elucidate molecular mechanisms underlying letrozole resistance through integrative bioinformatics, molecular docking, and cell-based functional assays. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis of transcriptomic datasets revealed a module strongly associated with nonresponse. From this, seven candidate genes (BUB1B, CENPU, KIF11, RRM2, NUSAP1, TRIP13, PRC1) were identified as significantly overexpressed in tumors and consistently correlated with poor survival in ER + breast cancer. Among them, RRM2 emerged as the most clinically relevant marker. Molecular docking demonstrated a potential competitive interaction between RRM2 and letrozole, implicating disruption of aromatase inhibition and DNA replication pathways in resistance, while functional assays in ER + cell lines showed that RRM2 modulates proliferation and MYC-CCND1 signaling. Validation in an independent letrozole-treated cohort confirmed the strong prognostic value of RRM2. These findings provide novel mechanistic insights into endocrine resistance and establish RRM2 as a pivotal prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target. This work offers a strong foundation for biomarker-guided strategies to optimize treatment and overcome resistance in ER + breast cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
To determine the tissue expression of spindle kinetochore-associated complex sub-unit 1 in both oral squamous cell carcinomas and oral potentially malignant disorders, and to evaluate its association with the two lesions.he analytical, cross-sectional study was conducted at Dow University of Health Sciences, Karachi, and comprised clinically and histopathological confirmed biopsy samples of oral squamous cell carcinoma and oral dysplasia that were collected from the Otolaryngology ward/outpatient department of Dr Ruth Pfau Civil Hospital Karachi, Dr Ishrat-ul-Ebad Khan Institute of Oral Health Sciences, Karachi, and the histopathology section of Dow Diagnostic Reference and Research Laboratory, Karachi, during July 2022 and April 2023. Detailed clinical history as well as radiological and histopathological findings were noted. Tissue expression of spindle kinetochore-associated complex sub-unit 1 was analysed on the samples through immunohistochemistry. Data was analysed using SPSS 21.Of the 90 cases, 45(50%) had oral squamous cell carcinoma; 34(75.6%) males, 11(24.4%) females, 24(53.3%) aged <50 years and 21(46.7%) aged >50 years. The remaining 45(50%) cases had oral potentially malignant disorders; 35(77.8%) males, 10(22.2%) females, 24(53.3%) aged <50 years and 21(46.7%) aged >50 years. Tissue expressions of spindle kinetochore-associated complex sub-unit 1 were strongly positive in 25(55.6%) cases of oral squamous cell carcinoma and 13(28.9%) cases of oral potentially malignant disorders. Moderately positive expressions were seen in 20(44.4%) cases of oral squamous cell carcinoma and 32(71.1%) cases of oral potentially malignant disorders (p<0.05). In oral squamous cell carcinoma cases, strong tissue positivity was observed in poorly differentiated tumours compared to moderately dif ferentiated and well-differentiated tumours (p<0.05). In cases of oral potentially malignant disorders, strong positivity was seen in grade III dysplasia compared to grades I and II (p<0.05).There was a significant difference between tissue expressions of spindle kinetochore-associated complex sub unit 1 in oral squamous cell carcinoma and oral potentially malignant disorders, and this difference was more pronounced in dif ferent tumour grades of oral squamous cell carcinoma and in varying grades of dysplasia in oral potentially malignant disorders.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is a leading malignancy in men, and understanding its molecular mechanisms is crucial for advancing therapeutic strategies. Ubiquitination, a key post-translational modification, regulates protein degradation and signaling, playing a vital role in cancer progression. This study focuses on HECTD4, a HECT-type E3 ubiquitin ligase, to identify its ubiquitination targets and understand its role in PCa.HECTD4 knockdown was performed in LNCaP, PC-3, and DU145 PCa cell lines. A combination of semi-quantitative PCR and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was used to identify proteins with altered expression and ubiquitination profiles. Gene ontology analysis, pathway analysis, and a proliferation assay were conducted to explore the biological significance of HECTD4.We identified 1,605 downregulated and 1,736 upregulated proteins upon HECTD4 knockdown. Key proteins involved in tumor suppression and cell cycle regulation, such as NUSAP1, CDK6, and MED13L, were ubiquitinated by HECTD4. Functional annotations revealed that these targets are associated with critical pathways, including phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-AKT, Ras-mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), as well as immune infiltration, drug response, and survival analysis.HECTD4 regulates protein stability and activation through ubiquitination, impacting cell cycle progression, tumor suppression, and immune response in PCa. These findings suggest that HECTD4 is a promising therapeutic target, with potential applications in drug development aimed at disrupting oncogenic signaling and enhancing treatment efficacy.Copyright © 2026, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
This study aimed to identify shared molecular mechanisms and potential biomarkers linking lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) and pneumonia, conditions associated with pulmonary inflammation and cancer progression. Transcriptomic datasets for pneumonia (GSE196399 and GSE202947) and LUAD (GSE19188 and GSE31210) were analyzed using the limma package in R. Overlapping differentially expressed genes were identified, and protein-protein interaction networks were constructed via STRING. Hub genes were screened using CytoHubba and validated through ROC, survival, and genomic analyses. Functional validation included siRNA-mediated knockdown of CCNB2 and NUSAP1 in A549 and H1975 cells, followed by RT-qPCR, Western blotting, proliferation, colony formation, and wound-healing assays. Sixty-two genes were co-dysregulated in LUAD and pneumonia. Four hub genes (CCNB2, GTSE1, TK1, NUSAP1) were significantly upregulated, showed strong diagnostic accuracy (AUC 0.75-0.90), and correlated with poor survival. Knockdown of CCNB2, NUSAP1, GTSE1, and TK1 suppressed proliferation and migration in LUAD cells. CCNB2, GTSE1, TK1, and NUSAP1 are shared molecular drivers of LUAD and pneumonia, offering diagnostic, prognostic, and therapeutic potential.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10616-026-00940-w.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
The biological mechanisms underlying major neuropsychiatric disorders remain largely elusive. Given the frequent association of immune dysregulation with these conditions, we used blood-derived multi-omics data from 1,274 healthy adolescents in the IMAGEN cohort to identify transdiagnostic biomarkers and mechanisms that could inform diagnosis and treatment. We first conducted genome-wide analyses to identify single nucleotide polymorphisms associated with DNA methylation and gene expression, with findings replicated in external datasets. These quantitative trait loci were further explored through Mendelian randomization analyses across 6 neuropsychiatric disorders (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, autism spectrum disorder, bipolar disorder, major depressive disorder, schizophrenia and insomnia), leading to the identification of 73 putatively causal CpG sites and 62 genes that were either unique to individual disorders or, as in the case of MRPL2, shared among the disorders. Notably, the identified genes were significantly enriched in pathways linked to both psychiatric and autoimmune diseases, suggesting a shared genomic architecture between autoimmune and neuropsychiatric disorders. Two-step Mendelian randomization and colocalization analyses revealed potential transdiagnostic regulatory pathways, in which the expression of three genes (MAD1L1, MRPL2 and HLA-DRB1) mediated the effects of CpG methylation on schizophrenia and insomnia. Specifically, DNA methylation at cg06770790 repressed MRPL2, which was putatively causal for insomnia (β = -0.38, P = 1.29 × 10-4) and schizophrenia (β = -0.38, P = 1 × 10-4). Conversely, increased expression of MAD1L1 and HLA-DRB1, driven by methylation at several CpG sites, was potentially causal for schizophrenia. Our findings highlight key molecular mechanisms and genes implicated in neuropsychiatric disorders, offering promising new targets for therapeutic intervention.© The Author(s) 2026.
Aneuploidy accounts for over 57% of spontaneous abortions and occurs even in women of young reproductive age. Despite its major role in pregnancy loss, the genetic basis of fetal aneuploidy remains poorly characterized. This study evaluated the association of MAD1L1 and MAD2L1, two key spindle assembly checkpoint genes, with fetal aneuploidy in women younger than 36 years. Forty aborted fetuses with approved aneuploidy using array comparative genomic hybridization were enrolled in genotyping. The rs121908981 and rs121908982 pathogenic single nucleotide variants (SNVs) of exons 4 and 18 of MAD1L1 and all exons of MAD2L1 were studied in aneuploid fetuses using Sanger sequencing. Identified variants were classified based on ACMG guideline and their frequencies were compared with ethnically matched Iranome database. The effect of SNVs was predicted using the PredictSNP Webtool and Mobidetails database. No targeted pathogenic SNVs were identified in MAD1L1; however, nine other SNVs were detected. Among these, the rare Iranome variants rs1639921 and rs1481591257 were observed in the homozygous state in four and one POCs, respectively, and showed significantly different frequencies compared with Iranome (P < 0.005). The frequency of the deleterious MAD2L1 variant rs903147 did not differ from Iranome, although 15 POCs were homozygous for this variant. In addition, a novel 60-bp deletion in intron 4 of MAD1L1 was identified for the first time. Although more frequent in POCs, its frequency did not differ significantly from that in karyotypically normal controls. Collectively, the rare variants rs1639921 and rs1481591257 may be associated with aneuploidy in POCs.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Glycogen serves as the principal energy source for gonadal development in marine bivalves, such as oysters. Glycogen phosphorylase is the rate-limiting enzyme of glycogenolysis by catalyzing the first step of glycogen breakdown. In this study, two different glycogen phosphorylase genes were identified in the Kumamoto oyster (Crassostrea sikamea) genome, including the previously reported GPH and an unknown PYG. C. sikamea GPH and PYG share high mRNA and protein sequence identities, but they have distinct gene structures and show significant sequence variations in their adenine loops. Interestingly, contrary to the ubiquitous expression of GPH in various adult tissues and development stages, PYG is specifically expressed in oyster male gonads. Transcriptome and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analyses reveal differential expression levels of other glycogen metabolism enzymes between female and male gonads, including glycogen phosphorylase (GPH), glycogen debranching enzyme (AGL), glycogen synthase (GYS), and glycogen branching enzyme (GBE). Yeast one-hybrid assays suggest the sex-determining gene DMRT1 could directly bind to oyster PYG promoters. Further investigations demonstrate GPH and PYG are two conserved glycogen phosphorylases in bivalve genomes. The bivalve PYG seems to originate from the retroposition of GPH, making it the first retrogene identified in molluscs, to the best of our knowledge. In conclusion, these results characterized the second and testis-specific glycogen phosphorylase in the oyster.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Primordial germ cells (PGCs) are the earliest precursors of gametes and essential cellular materials for poultry germplasm conservation and genetic modification. In this study, PGCs isolated from 2.5-day male and female Silkie chicken embryos were defined as circulating PGCs (cPGC_M and cPGC_F), whereas PGCs isolated from 8.5-day male and female embryos were defined as gonad-derived PGCs (gPGC_M and gPGC_F). RNA sequencing with three biological replicates per group was performed to characterize developmental-stage- and sex-associated transcriptional programs. Comparative transcriptomic analyses identified stage-associated differences in pathways related to cell-matrix interaction, focal adhesion, PI3K-Akt signaling, and stem cell pluripotency, with more differentially expressed genes detected in the female than in the male stage comparison. Sex-biased expression was detectable at the circulating stage, mainly reflecting W- and Z-linked expression differences, and the number of sex-biased genes was greater after gonadal colonization, primarily because more autosomal differentially expressed genes were detected. Candidate genes and pathways, including HINTW, DMRT1, SOX2, EDNRB, LPAR4, GFRA3, ECM-receptor interaction, ribosome-related modules, and calcium signaling, were associated with these comparisons and are presented as targets for future validation rather than as confirmed regulators. Because the study used three biological replicates per group, RT-qPCR corroboration was limited to six female stage-associated genes, and no functional perturbation assays were performed, the findings are descriptive and do not establish causal mechanisms of PGC migration, gonadal colonization, or sex differentiation. Within these limitations, the dataset provides an exploratory resource for subsequent studies of chicken PGC biology and biotechnology.
Polystyrene nanoplastics (PS-NPs) are extensively present in the environment. Population studies have confirmed the presence of micro- and nanoplastics in human blood and placental tissues, and animal experiments found PS-NPs had potential developmental and reproductive toxicity. However, the continuous effects of prenatal PS-NPs exposure on testicular differentiation and development in offspring from embryo to adult are not clear. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate potential toxicity of prenatal exposure to PS-NPs on testicular development in offspring mice from embryonic day 11.5 (E11.5) to postnatal day 90 (PND90). Results showed that PS-NPs led to limited growth during embryonic period. After birth, PS-NPs caused catch-up growth, early onset of puberty, and reduced male reproductive capacity in adult mice. Moreover, we conducted further research on the possible mechanisms and found that PS-NPs might cause male reproductive developmental toxicity by inhibiting mRNA levels of genes related to testicular differentiation and development (Sry/Sox9/Fgf9, AMH, Dmrt1) from embryo to adulthood, which might have relationships with reduced number of Sertoli cells in the seminiferous tubules. Also, PS-NPs interfered with testosterone synthesis and disturbed lipid metabolism according to our proteomic analysis. This research may provide more evidence to the possible male developmental and reproductive toxicity induced by PS-NPs.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The photoperiod, an essential environmental factor influencing the growth, reproduction, and physiological functions of teleosts, exhibits effects that are highly species-specific. This study investigates the impact of five distinct photoperiod treatments on the growth performance, gonadal development, and hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis regulation in Phoxinus lagowskii, a high-latitude cold-water fish with significant aquaculture potential. Through comprehensive analyses of growth indices, serum sex hormone levels, gonadal histology, and gene expression, we demonstrate that photoperiod significantly affects the physiology of P. lagowskii. Females exhibited optimal growth and gonadal development under a 16L:8D photoperiod, with increased expression of key genes (gnrh2, gnrh3, kiss1, kiss2, cyp19a1, and foxl2) and elevated levels of gonadotropins (Fsh, Lh) and estradiol (E2). In contrast, males showed enhanced reproductive performance under an 8L:16D photoperiod, characterized by higher testosterone (T) levels and upregulated expression of dmrt1 and sox9a. The inverse relationship between the hepatosomatic index (HSI) and gonadosomatic index (GSI) suggests an energy trade-off between hepatic energy reserves and reproductive investment. Moreover, melatonin further regulates the HPG axis by affecting the synthesis and release of GnRH and kisspeptins, highlighting its role in mediating photoperiodic effects on reproduction. These findings underscore the sex-specific responses of P. lagowskii to photoperiod and provide critical insights into the physiological mechanisms underlying photoperiod regulation in cold-water fish. This study offers practical strategies for optimizing aquaculture practices to enhance growth and reproductive efficiency.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Undifferentiated embryonal sarcoma of the liver (UESL) is a rare, highly aggressive malignant mesenchymal tumor that predominantly affects children and typically carries a poor prognosis. We report a unique UESL case with long-term survival harboring a novel MAD1L1::ERG gene fusion. A 15-year-old female underwent segmentectomy for a 15-cm hepatic mass, without a precise diagnosis initially. From 2018 to 2025, she experienced multiple recurrences involving the liver, right kidney, and retroperitoneum. Histopathological examination across all recurrences consistently showed classic UESL features: pleomorphic spindle or polygonal cells in a myxoid stroma, frequent mitotic figures, bizarre multinucleated giant cells, and characteristic PAS-positive eosinophilic hyaline globules. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was positive for vimentin. Targeted DNA next-generation sequencing (NGS) identified 23 genetic alterations, most notably a novel MAD1L1::ERG gene fusion (breakpoint: MAD1L1 Intron 18 and ERG Exon 13) alongside CCND2, FGFR3, MYC, SRC amplifications, and a TP53 mutation. Despite the tumor's highly aggressive behavior, the patient achieved long-term survival through repeated multi-visceral resections and systemic chemotherapy (VAC and IE). This report expands the molecular genetic profile of UESL by identifying a previously undescribed gene rearrangement.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
This study investigated the effects of dietary 17α-methyltestosterone (MT) on gonadal differentiation and transcriptomic changes associated with partial masculinization in Trachinotus blochii. Larvae (3 days post-hatching) were fed a diet containing 100 mg/kg MT for 60 days. The results showed that MT treatment induced intersex gonadal development in 73% of genetic females, with gonads characterized by the presence of spermatogonia. Hormone assays showed increased MT levels and reduced 17β-estradiol (E2) levels in MT-treated intersex individuals compared with control females. Compared with control females, MT-treated intersex individuals showed increased expression of male-associated genes, including cyp11b1, sf1, and dmrt1, whereas cyp19a1a was reduced. However, other female-associated genes, such as hsd17β1 and foxl2, were not completely suppressed. Transcriptome profiling identified significant enrichment of FoxO-related and steroid hormone biosynthesis pathways. Trend analysis suggested that changes in oocyte meiosis-related and steroid hormone biosynthesis-related genes may be associated with MT-induced gonadal remodeling. These findings provide transcriptomic evidence for pathways potentially associated with MT-induced intersex gonadal development and may inform future studies on sex-control strategies in T. blochii, although fertility testing and reproductive validation of these intersex individuals are still required.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
The health and environmental risks associated with using 17-methyltestosterone hormone (MT) to produce all-male tilapia stocks limit the sustainability of aquaculture. As such, plant-based products with the potential to induce masculinisation in tilapia are gaining considerable attention as potentially safe, nature-based alternatives. However, the underlying mechanism for sex change induction by plant products remains unknown. The present study used pine pollen (PP) to study the processes modulating female-to-male sex change in three-day-old all-female Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus).Experimental fish were fed either a basal diet supplemented with 1,280 mg PP kg- 1 from 3 to 30 days post-hatch (dph), or the same basal diet incorporated with 60 mg MT kg- 1 (MT treatment), or the basal diet only (CT treatment. After 30 dph, fish in all treatments were fed only a basal diet up to 120 dph.Histological observations showed that female-to-male sex change occurred between 21 and 45 dph in MT and PP treatments. During this period, gonadal tissue in PP-treated fish progressively shifted from undifferentiated germ cells toward testes dominated by spermatogonia and spermatocytes. In contrast, MT treatment accelerated spermatogenic progression, with gonads exhibiting advanced germ cells, including spermatids and spermatozoa, reflecting complete masculinisation. Conversely, fish in the CT group underwent normal ovarian differentiation between 21 and 30 dph, characterised by ovarian cavity formation and oocyte-like germ cells. These gonadal histological changes were closely related to temporal changes in sex-biased gene expression and steroid hormone profiles. The PP and MT treatments significantly up-regulated male sex gene expression (dmrt1 and amh) and down-regulated female transcripts (cyp19a1a and foxl2), whereas an opposite pattern was observed in the CT group. Correspondingly, sex steroid concentrations (testosterone and 11-ketotestosterone) were also significantly elevated in both PP- and MT-treated fish, consistent with higher proportions of male individuals (PP: 77.8 ± 2.9% and MT: 97.8 ± 1.1%), unlike the CT group, where fish remained all-female with significantly higher 17β-estradiol levels.These findings imply that PP induces female-to-male sex change in Nile tilapia by disrupting the expression of sex-biased genes and, consequently, the androgen-to-estrogen balance. However, further studies are required to enhance the androgenic potency of PP.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sex-specific control of genome editing remains a significant challenge in birds. Chickens exhibit a ZW sex-determination system in which the Z and W chromosomes encode genes essential for sex differentiation and germline development, providing a rationale for sex-linked genome engineering. In this study, we established the sex chromosome-linked knock-in system for Cas9 in chicken primordial germ cells (PGCs). Donor constructs carrying Cas9-GFP were engineered to integrate into either the Z chromosome (DMRT1-DMRT3 intergenic region) or the W chromosome (5' region of HINTW locus). The targeting strategy was validated in DF-1 fibroblasts and PGCs, where site-specific integration was confirmed by junction PCR and sequencing. Functionality of the integrated Cas9 was verified by targeting two different loci, demonstrating efficient genome cleavage at NHEJ1 loci and indel-associated loss of GFP fluorescence following GFP targeting. The knock-in PGCs expressed Cas9 protein while retaining germ cell markers and migration capacity, demonstrating preservation of germline identity. Collectively, our findings establish a sex chromosome-linked Cas9 knock-in system in chicken PGCs and demonstrate that these sites support stable Cas9 expression without compromising germline characteristics, thereby providing a practical foundation for controlled, sex-specific genome engineering in avian research.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Protein S-palmitoylation is a dynamic and reversible post-translational modification (PTM) that governs diverse cellular processes, yet its study remains constrained by the indirect and ensemble-averaging nature of classical biochemical assays. Here, we report a nanopore-based platform, PALM-Scan (palmitoylation analysis via label-free monitoring and signature capture on nanopore) that directly transduces physicochemical signatures of S-palmitoylated peptides into digital electrical signals. Using an engineered Mycobacterium smegmatis porin A (M2-MspA) nanopore, PALM-Scan enables sequence-independent identification of S-palmitoylation and simultaneously differentiates S-palmitoylation from other cysteine-directed PTMs, including S-nitrosylation and S-glutathionylation, without probes or enrichment. We further demonstrate its translational potential by successfully detecting and distinguishing S-palmitoylated subpopulations of disease-relevant biomarkers, including mouse beclin-1 (BECN1)- and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-derived peptides, in complex mixtures with minimal sample input. In summary, by integrating label-free operation, single-molecule resolution, and multiplex discrimination, PALM-Scan provides a transformative tool for interrogating S-palmitoylation dynamics in both basic research and biomedical applications.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are a class of endogenous non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression and participate in various biological processes. circRNAs play a critical role in bladder cancer (BCa) development. circ_0001495, generated by back-splicing of exons 6 and 7 of the CCNB1 pre-mRNA, remains uncharacterized in BCa pathogenesis. This study explored the functional role and molecular mechanism of circ_0001495 in BCa. Using qRT-PCR, we detected circ_0001495 expression in BCa tissues and analyzed its correlation with clinical parameters. Sanger sequencing validated its circular structure, while fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) revealed predominant cytoplasmic localization. Bioinformatics analyses predicted its potential as a microRNA sponge, confirmed by dual-luciferase reporter assays showing direct binding to miR-1184. CCK-8, EdU incorporation, and colony formation assays evaluated cell proliferation and clonogenic capacity. Results showed that circ_0001495 correlated with tumor grade (p = 0.016) and was significantly upregulated in BCa tissues, exhibiting preliminary diagnostic potential for early-stage BCa (AUC = 0.739, sensitivity = 0.906, specificity = 0.562). Functional experiments demonstrated that circ_0001495 silencing inhibited BCa cell proliferation and colony formation. Mechanistically, circ_0001495 acted as a sponge for miR-1184, thereby activating key components of the MAPK signaling pathway (p-ERK, p-JUN, and p-JNK). Collectively, these findings indicate that circ_0001495 may serve as a potential diagnostic/prognostic biomarker for BCa and promotes tumor progression by activating the miR-1184/MAPK signaling axis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
This study aims to investigate the phototoxic effects of imperatorin(IMO) and its potential mechanisms of inducing skin photodamage and cellular senescence. A phototoxicity model was established on the dorsal skin of SD rats, which were randomly divided into a control group, an IMO group(0.8 mg·cm~(-2)), a long-wave ultraviolet A(UVA) group(10 J·cm~(-2)), and an IMO + UVA group. The rats were continuously observed for 72 h, and Draize skin scores were assessed. Hematoxylin-eosin(HE) staining was used to observe histopathological changes, and Verhoeff-Van Gieson(VVG) staining was utilized to evaluate changes in dermal elastic and collagen fibers. Human dermal fibroblasts(HDF) were cultured in vitro and divided into control, IMO, UVA(1 J·cm~(-2)), and groups of IMO with low, medium, and high doses(1, 2.5, and 5 μg·mL~(-1)) + UVA. The CCK-8 assay was used to assess the cell viability. Transcriptomics by RNA-seq was used to analyze the changes in gene expression. Real-time quantitative PCR(RT-qPCR) was used to detect the mRNA expressions of the top 10 senescence-associated genes. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA) was used to detect the levels of senescence-associated secretory phenotype(SASP) factors like matrix metalloproteinase-3(MMP-3), interleukin(IL)-6, and IL-8. Immunofluorescence was used to evaluate the senescence-associated heterochromatin foci(SAHF) markers like heterochromatin protein 1γ(HP1γ) and trimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 9(H3K9me3). Senescence-associated β-galactosidase(SA-β-gal) staining was performed to detect the senescent cells, and Western blot was used to detect the expression and localization of growth arrest and DNA damage-inducible alpha(GADD45A), G_2/M phase-specific cyclin B1(Cyclin B1), and cyclin-dependent kinase 1(CDK1) proteins. Flow cytometry was used to analyze the cell cycle. The siRNA was used to silence GADD45A gene to verify its function. In vivo results show that, compared to the control group, the IMO + UVA group has significantly higher skin damage scores, with stratum corneum loss, inflammatory cell infiltration, reduced collagen fiber density, and abnormal deposition of elastic fibers. In vitro results demonstrate that IMO + UVA significantly inhibits the cell viability of HDF(P&lt;0.05). RNA-seq and RT-qPCR verifications indicate that IMO + UVA significantly upregulate the expressions of senescence-associated genes, with GADD45A gene showing the most significant change. The IMO + UVA group also shows significant increases in SASP factor secretion, SA-β-gal activity, SAHF formation, and the proportion of cells in the G_2/M phase(P&lt;0.05). Western blot results demonstrate that IMO + UVA promote the expression of GADD45A protein and inhibit nuclear translocation of Cyclin B1, thereby reducing the kinase activity of the Cyclin B1-CDK1 complex. Silencing GADD45A gene effectively alleviates G_2/M phase arrest and cellular senescence phenotype. In summary, IMO in combination with UVA can induce photodamage to the skin and accelerate cellular senescence, and the mechanism may involve G_2/M phase arrest mediated by the activation of the GADD45A/Cyclin B1/CDK1 axis.
During early embryogenesis, gene expression relies on maternally loaded mRNAs whose translation is controlled by RNA binding proteins. Here, we identify a critical role for the cyclin B3-CDK1 complex, known for its function in mitosis, in driving early embryonic gene expression in C. elegans . The cyclin B3-CDK1 complex works by marking the RNA binding OMA proteins (OMA-1 and OMA-2) for degradation, which ensures the de-repression and translation of their target mRNAs. OMA protein degradation relies on cyclin B3's conserved phosphate-binding pocket, which promotes multi-site OMA phosphorylation and the generation of phospho-degrons. Notably, the phosphate-binding pocket of cyclin B3 does not substantially contribute to its mitotic roles, indicating that the mitotic and translational functions of the cyclin B3-CDK1 complex are separable. These findings establish that embryonic activation of the cyclin B3-CDK1 complex drives both mitotic divisions and mRNA de-repression, which ensures that cell division is coupled to the early gene expression program in development.
Aldosterone promotes endothelial dysfunction and cardiovascular injury through mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) activation. Autophagy is essential for endothelial homeostasis, yet its role in aldosterone-mediated vascular dysfunction remains unclear. We tested whether aldosterone impairs autophagic flux and whether restoring autophagy via Beclin1 (BCN1) activation protects vascular and cardiac function.Endothelial and vascular responses to aldosterone were assessed in wild-type mice, BCN1 gain-of-function mice (Becn1), and mice treated with spermidine or a BCN1-activating TB-peptide. Vascular function, nitric oxide (NO)/reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, autophagy markers, endothelial migration, and cardiac fibrosis were evaluated using wire myography, fluorescence assays, Western blotting, confocal microscopy, migration assays, and histology.Aldosterone impaired endothelium-dependent relaxation, decreased NO, increased ROS, and disrupted autophagic flux in an MR-dependent manner, indicated by LC3 accumulation and reduced p62 and BCN1 expression. Spermidine restored endothelial function and normalized NO and ROS levels. BCN1 gain-of-function mice were protected from aldosterone-induced endothelial dysfunction and exhibited reduced coronary and myocardial fibrosis. TB-peptide activation of BCN1 enhanced autophagic flux, improved vascular function, decreased cardiac fibrosis, and rescued endothelial migration impaired by aldosterone.Aldosterone induces endothelial dysfunction by suppressing autophagic flux through MR activation. Genetic or pharmacologic enhancement of BCN1-dependent autophagy restores endothelial homeostasis and prevents vascular and cardiac injury, identifying autophagy activation as a promising therapeutic approach for cardiovascular diseases associated with mineralocorticoid excess.
Transcriptional elongation undergoes extensive remodeling at mitotic entry, yet how elongation control is integrated into core cell-cycle kinase networks remains unclear. Here, we identify the m6A methyltransferase METTL3 as a direct substrate of the mitotic kinase CDK1 in mammalian cells. CDK1-dependent phosphorylation of METTL3 at Ser43 is sharply induced at mitotic entry and promotes m6A methylation of the noncoding RNA 7SK, resulting in release of positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb) from the inhibitory 7SK small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particle (snRNP) complex. This activation of the m6A/7SK/P-TEFb axis facilitates genome-wide clearance of RNA polymerase II and supports timely mitotic progression. Endogenous mutation of METTL3 Ser43 or disruption of 7SK methylation impairs elongation dynamics, delays mitotic exit, and increases chromosome missegregation. These findings integrate RNA methylation into the CDK1-driven mitotic program and reveal a mechanism by which transcriptional elongation is coordinated with chromosome segregation fidelity.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the most prevalent subtype of lung cancer and a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Current targeted therapies are limited by acquired resistance, highlighting the urgent need for novel therapeutic agents and targets. The aim of this study is to investigate the anti-tumor efficacy of oxypeucedanin (OPD) against LUAD and elucidate its underlying molecular mechanism.In vitro functional assays, bioinformatics prediction, molecular docking, and binding validation experiments were employed to identify the direct target of OPD. Ubiquitination assays, co-immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectrometry, and proteomic analysis were used to delineate the downstream pathway. Genetic knockdown/ overexpression rescue experiments were performed, and in vivo efficacy was evaluated using patient-derived organoids and mouse xenograft models.OPD potently suppressed LUAD cell proliferation and induced apoptosis both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, OPD directly bound to the motor protein KIF11 and promoted its ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation via the E3 ligase TRIM21. KIF11 degradation led to destabilization of its interacting partner, MCM2, consequently downregulating the CDK1/ Cyclin B1 complex and ultimately triggering G2/M phase cell cycle arrest.OPD functions as a novel molecular degrader of KIF11, exerting its anti-LUAD effects by promoting KIF11 ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation. These results highlight OPD as a promising therapeutic strategy for LUAD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Bactrian camels exhibit distinct seasonal estrus, with periodic testicular functional fluctuations regulating their reproductive activity. As a key transcription factor in reproductive modulation, the specific role of GATA4 in the testicular microenvironment of Bactrian camels remains unclear. This study investigates the expression patterns of GATA4 in the testicular tissue during estrus and anestrus phases, alongside its potential regulatory effects on Sertoli cells (SCs) function. Utilizing mRNA sequencing, we analyzed testicular samples in estrus (n = 3) and anestrus (n = 3), identifying 291 differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses revealed that GATA4 was involved in reproduction-related processes, including tight junction formation, autophagy, and cell cycle regulation. Notably, validation showed that GATA4 expression was significantly upregulated in testicular tissue during the anestrus period, with its protein localized primarily in SCs. Gain- and loss-of-function assays revealed that altered GATA4 expression is associated with changes in autophagy-related marker profiles, evidenced by a lower LC3II/LC3I ratio, decreased Beclin-1, and increased P62 expression level. Silencing GATA4 induced opposite alterations in these autophagy-associated molecular markers, and these molecular changes are associated with modified mTOR/NF-κB pathway expression. Additionally, GATA4 influences SCs apoptosis and G0/G1 cell cycle arrest and these cellular phenotypic changes are accompanied by alterations in the PI3K/AKT pathway, which correlates with changed levels of BAX, Caspase-3, BCL2, and CDK1. And moreover, GATA4 modulates the expression of the tight junction markers ZO-1 and Occludin, and these remodeling events are associated with modified WNT1/β-catenin signaling. In conclusion, GATA4 exhibits dynamic expression patterns throughout the reproductive cycle, which correlates with the modulation of multiple biological processes in SCs, including autophagy-related marker remodeling, apoptosis regulation, and tight junction marker remodeling. This study's findings provide a key molecular target for elucidating the seasonal reproductive mechanism and reproductive regulation of Bactrian camels and enrich the current understanding of reproductive regulatory mechanisms in this species.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
G protein-coupled receptor 19 (GPR19) is an orphan G protein-coupled receptor with emerging relevance in cancer; however, its role in breast cancer remains poorly understood. Given the high frequency of tumor protein p53 (TP53) alterations in aggressive breast cancer, particularly triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), we investigated the clinical significance, biological function, and molecular mechanism of GPR19 in TP53-mutant breast cancer.Public datasets (Gene Expression Omnibus and The Cancer Genome Atlas) were analyzed to assess GPR19 expression in relation to TP53 status, molecular subtype, and prognosis. Expression was validated in breast cancer cell lines, paired clinical tissues, and tissue microarrays by quantitative PCR, Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and immunohistochemistry. Stable GPR19 knockdown models in MDA-MB-231 and BT-549 cells were used to evaluate proliferation, cell cycle distribution, and apoptosis. RNA sequencing, rescue experiments with the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activator Ro 67-7476, and a nude mouse xenograft model were employed to investigate the underlying mechanism.GPR19 was significantly upregulated in TP53-mutant breast cancer, primary tumors, and especially TNBC, and its high expression was associated with poor survival. Functionally, GPR19 depletion markedly suppressed cell proliferation, colony formation, and DNA synthesis, while inducing G2/M arrest and apoptosis in TP53-mutant breast cancer cells. Mechanistically, GPR19 knockdown reduced ERK phosphorylation and downregulated forkhead box protein M1 (FOXM1) and its downstream G2/M regulators cyclin B1 (CCNB1) and polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1), whereas total ERK levels remained largely unchanged. Pharmacological activation of ERK partially restored FOXM1 expression, alleviated cell cycle disturbance and apoptosis, and reversed the growth-inhibitory effects of GPR19 depletion. In vivo, GPR19 knockdown suppressed xenograft growth, reduced Ki-67 staining, increased terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) positivity, and inhibited the ERK-FOXM1-CCNB1/PLK1 signaling cascade, all of which were partially rescued by ERK activation.GPR19 functions as a novel oncogenic driver and clinically relevant biomarker in breast cancer, particularly in TP53-mutant and TNBC subsets. By activating the ERK-FOXM1 axis, GPR19 sustains cell cycle progression and suppresses apoptosis, highlighting this pathway as a potential therapeutic vulnerability in aggressive breast cancer.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Synthetic lethality has emerged as a transformative therapeutic paradigm in precision oncology, offering unprecedented tumor selectivity while minimizing off-target toxicity-a longstanding limitation of conventional cancer therapies. PKMYT1, a key regulator of CDK1 phosphorylation, represents a promising therapeutic target for cancers with specific DNA damage response deficiencies driven by its synthetic lethal relationship with CCNE1 amplification. Herein, we report the rational design and synthesis of a novel class of PKMYT1 inhibitors via structure-based drug design, integrating three core optimization strategies: proposed water displacement to enhance direct ligand-protein binding, metabolic soft-spot shielding to mitigate metabolic liability, and steric hindrance modulation to preserve critical axial chirality. Through systematic structural refinement of the clinical-stage lead RP-6306, we identified compound 6-A as a favorable candidate featuring enhanced pharmacological profiles and improved in vitro metabolic stability, with no detectable cardiotoxic or genotoxic risks. This compound potently and selectively inhibits PKMYT1, suppresses CDK1 phosphorylation, and exerts robust antiproliferative effects in CCNE1-amplified cell lines. It exhibits favorable metabolic stability and demonstrates significant in vivo antitumor efficacy yet shows only moderate oral exposure in vivo, which warrants further structural optimization. Notably, combination therapy with gemcitabine achieved near-complete inhibition of tumor progression in OVCAR3 xenograft models, with no overt systemic toxicity. Collectively, these results validate compound 6-A as an attractive lead scaffold for further development and underscore the value of the proposed scaffold optimization approach in facilitating targeted treatment of CCNE1-amplified cancers.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
Impaired oligodendrocyte precursor cell (OPC) differentiation limits myelin renewal in aging and contributes to multiple sclerosis (MS) progression. How aging drives OPC deficits remains incompletely understood. We find dysregulation of genes associated with the circadian clock, including Bmal1, and metabolism in aged compared with young OPCs. Targeted loss of Bmal1 in OPCs drives metabolic dysfunction, leading to cellular senescence and impaired dynamics. OPC proliferation and differentiation occur at different rates throughout the day in young adult mice and become disrupted with aging. Chronotherapeutic targeting of BMAL1-controlled sirtuin signaling restores Bmal1-disrupted OPC dynamics after demyelination via sirtuin 2 (Sirt2)-dependent mechanisms. Induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived OPCs from MS patients and MS lesion oligodendroglia recapitulate BMAL1 and SIRT2 disruptions. These findings establish BMAL1 as a key regulator of OPC energy metabolism, sirtuin homeostasis, and senescence. We anticipate that this work will provide a foundation for future studies investigating the interconnected roles of aging, circadian disruption, and myelin biology.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ferroptosis, a form of regulated cell death driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, has emerged as a potential therapeutic target in various cancers, including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). This study aimed to identify and characterize ferroptosis-related panel genes with prognostic value in DLBCL.Transcriptomic data from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in DLBCL samples. Gene set variation analysis (GSVA) and network topology analysis were performed to identify key ferroptosis-related genes. Lasso regression was utilized to construct a prognostic model based on the identified panel genes. In vitro experiments, including gene silencing, overexpression, and ferroptosis induction, were conducted to evaluate the functional roles of the identified genes, NUMA1 and SLC1A5, in DLBCL cells.A panel of ferroptosis-related genes with prognostic value, including NUMA1 and SLC1A5, was identified in DLBCL samples. Silencing SLC1A5 or overexpressing NUMA1 in DLBCL cells enhanced sensitivity to ferroptosis inducers, increased intracellular labile iron and lipid peroxidation levels, promoted mitochondrial damage, and modulated the expression of key ferroptosis markers. Furthermore, SLC1A5 silencing or NUMA1 overexpression augmented radiation-induced ferroptosis in DLBCL cells.NUMA1 and SLC1A5 are potential ferroptosis regulators and therapeutic targets in DLBCL. Silencing the ferroptosis-suppressive transporter SLC1A5 or restoring NUMA1 expression promotes lipid peroxidation and ferroptotic cell death, thereby sensitizing DLBCL cells to ferroptosis and enhancing radiosensitivity-providing a rationale for novel ferroptosis-based therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Inherited bone marrow failure syndromes (IBMFS) comprise a heterogeneous group of genetic disorders and are associated with an increased risk of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). We and others recently identified pathogenic variants in SLF2 and SMC5 as the cause of Atelis Syndrome, a neurodevelopmental disorder accompanied by hematological abnormalities, including anemia and lymphopenia. However, the mechanisms underlying the associated hematopoietic dysfunction remain unclear. Through longitudinal follow-up and re-evaluation, we found that some patients developed MDS at a young age. To elucidate the bases of these hematopoietic defects, we analyzed hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs) derived from patient-specific induced pluripotent stem cells harboring compound heterozygous SLF2 mutations. Mutant HPCs exhibited impaired colony-forming capacity, defective erythroid differentiation with a myeloid bias, and markedly reduced engraftment in xenotransplantation assays. SMC5 knockdown in cord blood CD34+ cells impaired colony formation. Mechanistically, disruption of the SLF2-SMC5 axis induced genomic instability, p53/p21 activation, and a senescence-like phenotype. ATAC sequencing revealed epigenetic features characteristic of hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) aging, including increased chromatin accessibility at PU.1 motifs associated with myeloid bias. These findings demonstrate that SLF2 and SMC5 dysfunction drives premature HSC aging, bone marrow failure, and predisposition to MDS, revealing Atelis Syndrome as a previously unrecognized IBMFS.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Differentiating atypical Spitz tumors (AST) from true Spitz melanomas (SM) and conventional melanomas with spitzoid features (MSF) remains a formidable diagnostic challenge. Because current molecular epidemiological data are overwhelmingly derived from Caucasian cohorts, the genomic landscape of Asian populations remains largely unexplored. To elucidate the molecular progression landscape and refine diagnostic criteria, we performed a comprehensive multimodal analysis-integrating histomorphology, immunohistochemistry (IHC), multi-probe fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), and targeted RNA/DNA-based next-generation sequencing (NGS)-on a cohort of 140 spitzoid neoplasms. This cohort, comprising 126 ASTs, 8 SMs, and 6 MSFs, represents the largest Asian cohort to date. Malignant phenotype strongly correlated with lesional asymmetry, deep atypical mitoses, a sheet-like growth pattern, diffuse PRAME positivity, and significant loss of p16 expression (64.3% in SM/MSF vs. 9.5% in ASTs; P<0.0001). Building upon established melanoma FISH criteria, we optimized a prognostic threshold of ≥2 FISH abnormalities specifically tailored for spitzoid neoplasms. We demonstrated that isolated single chromosomal aberrations (particularly MYB loss) are relatively stable events frequent in indolent ASTs, whereas our refined ≥2 threshold yielded 100% sensitivity and 91.7% specificity for predicting regional lymph node metastasis/local recurrence. Molecularly, NGS identified mutually exclusive initiating driver alterations (comprising kinase fusions and HRAS mutations) in 89.9% of true Spitz neoplasms, a remarkably high prevalence suggesting a distinct genetic background in Asian populations. We also characterized five entirely novel kinase fusions (ZNF24::ROS1, PCBP1::ROS1, NUMA1::RET, CBWD1::ALK, and TPR::NTRK1). Furthermore, NGS definitively segregated true Spitz neoplasms from morphologic mimics (MSF), which lacked fusions and were driven by canonical genomic alterations of the conventional melanoma pathway. Integrating these genomic landscapes validated a stepwise progression model. While isolated kinase fusions drove indolent ASTs, malignant SM invariably harbored concurrent pathogenic secondary alterations, demonstrating a profound reliance on CDKN2A/B, TP53, and CDK4 aberrations. Ultimately, we propose an integrated diagnostic algorithm combining morphologic evaluation, the refined FISH threshold, and comprehensive NGS profiling, providing a precise, evidence-based framework for pathway classification and clinical management of spitzoid neoplasms.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Mammarenaviruses (MaAv) cause persistent infections in diverse rodent reservoirs worldwide and several are zoonotic pathogens with an important public-health burden in their endemic regions. Moreover, the globally distributed MaAv lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) is an underrecognized pathogen of clinical significance in congenital infections and immunocompromised individuals. The lack of FDA-approved vaccines or antivirals for MaAv infections underscores the urgent need for novel anti-MaAv therapeutic strategies. Neutral sphingomyelinase 2 (nSMase2) was recently identified as a host factor contributing to LCMV multiplication, and its inhibitor cambinol exhibits dose-dependent antiviral activity against LCMV but the underlying mechanisms remain undefined. Here, we show that cambinol disrupts multiple stages of the LCMV life cycle. Cambinol inhibits the pH-dependent fusion event mediated by MaAv glycoprotein, a step required for completion of virus cell entry. It also reduces viral ribonucleoprotein (vRNP)-directed genome replication and transcription and impairs the budding activity of the virus matrix Z protein. Cambinol also inhibits sirtuins 1 and 2 (Sirt-1 and Sirt-2), two NAD + -dependent protein deacetylases with pleiotropic roles in cellular metabolism and stress responses, raising the question of whether cambinol anti-LCMV activity reflects nSMase2 inhibition alone or also involves sirtuin-dependent pathways. LCMV multiplication was significantly reduced in SIRT1, but not SIRT2, knockout (KO) cells, uncovering a pro-viral role for Sirt-1 in the LCMV life cycle. Consistent with this finding, LCMV vRNP activity and production of infectious progeny were reduced in SIRT1 KO cells. These findings identify Sirt-1 as a host factor required for optimal LCMV multiplication. Sirt-1 inhibitors are in clinical development for oncological and neurological indications, raising the possibility of repurposing Sirt-1 inhibitors as host-directed antivirals (HDAs) against human pathogenic MaAv.
Sirtuins (SIRTs) involvement in different biological pathways opens a promising scenario for the development of related ligands to be evaluated as therapeutic agents in different diseases, such as cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, diabetes, cardiovascular and autoimmune diseases. The continuous elucidation of several SIRT2-ligand complexes fostered the discovery of novel and more selective SIRT2 inhibitors (SIRT2Is). Among them, SIRT2 in the presence of SirReal2 analogues was the most investigated. We recently reported pyrazolo-pyrimidine compounds (1-5) as SIRT2Is (1, SIRT2 % inhibition = 81.2%, at 150 μM). Herein, combined ligand- and structure-based approaches enabled us to filter a further series of pyrazolo-pyrimidine-based analogues (6-16) endowed with improved SIRT2 inhibitory activity in comparison to 1-5. The applied molecular modelling studies revealed superimposable molecular interaction fields (MIFs) and protein-ligand contacts compared with the reference SIRT2Is. Subsequent biochemical and biological assays validated the reported strategy and pointed to compounds 11 and 15 (SIRT2 IC50 = 0.3 and 0.1 μM, respectively) as the most promising SIRT2Is, to be further investigated as anticancer agent.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
In order to investigate the therapeutic mechanism of Jianpiyiqi Granule in juvenile myasthenia gravis (JMG) and find the immune-associated cytokines or signaling pathways targeted by this intervention.(1) We extracted JMG serum samples from the sample bank of the Hebei Provincial Key Laboratory of Myasthenia Gravis before and after treatment. (2) Using Olink Immune Response Panel detects serum cytokines. Data were collated and analyzed using statistical software. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were visualized using heat maps, volcano plots, and other tools. Differentially expressed cytokines were analyzed using KEGG enrichment pathway analysis to identify the relevant signaling pathways they participate in.(1) Twelve of 92 cytokines were found to be differentially expressed from 20 patients before and after treatment, namely AXIN1, CCL11, CCL13, CCL20, CCL25, CCL3, CD40, IL12B, S100A12, SIRT2, SLAMF1, and STAMBP (|log2FC| > 0.263; false discovery rate (FDR)-adjusted p < 0.05). IL12B was upregulated while AXIN1, CCL11, CCL13, CCL20, CCL25, CCL3, CD40, S100A12, SIRT2, SLAMF1 and STAMBP were downregulated after treatment. Notably, three of these-CCL11, IL12B, and STAMBP-showed stronger statistical evidence, with FDR-adjusted p < 0.01 and |log2FC| > 0.263. (2) The following pathways were obtained by KEGG enrichment analysis of 12 cytokines: cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, viral protein interaction with cytokine and cytokine receptor, chemokine signaling pathway, Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway, intestinal immune network for IgA production, IL-17 signaling pathway, NF-kappa B signaling pathway. (3) CCL11 and CCL20 were enriched in the IL-17 signaling pathway. We used enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to retest additional serum samples before and after treatment from 12 JMG patients before and after treatment. The results showed a significant decrease in CCL11 and CCL20 in after-treatment serum (p < 0.05).Drug therapy for JMG revealed 12 differentially expressed cytokines. Due to the exploratory nature and sample volume constraints, only two candidate cytokines were validated by ELISA. We found that the cytokines CCL11 and CCL20-associated with the IL-17 signaling pathway-were downregulated after treatment. The drug therapy may inhibit MG progression by reducing the expression of IL-17-associated cytokines. At the same time, the drug reduced the expression of CCL3, CCL13, CCL25, and CD40, which may play a role in the abnormal proliferation of thymocytes and chronic inflammatory response at the neuromuscular junction. Future studies with multiplex assays are needed to confirm the involvement of other differentially expressed cytokines, such as SIRT2 and AXIN1, which may contribute to disease mechanisms outside the identified pathways.Copyright © 2026 Yuanyuan Geng et al. Journal of Immunology Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
We report a 2-year-old boy with a homozygous CFAP52 mutation presenting with situs inversus totalis, severe epileptic developmental encephalopathy, and global developmental delay, expanding the phenotypic spectrum of CFAP52-related ciliopathies. Clinical findings included multifocal epileptiform discharges, thin corpus callosum, and a small subdural hematoma. Trio whole-exome sequencing also revealed a homozygous NCAPG2 variant of uncertain significance, however, its clinical significance remains unproven and no causal relationship can be established. This case highlights the diagnostic value of comprehensive genomic testing in complex neuro-visceral disorders and underscores the importance of cautious interpretation of co-inherited variants in atypical ciliopathy presentations. The report follows CARE guidelines.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
We studied the dose-dependent effects of the NAD+ precursor nicotinamide riboside (NR) on tumor angiogenesis in C57BL/6N mice with Lewis lung carcinoma. The pharmacological agent was repeatedly administered intravenously at doses of 300 and 450 mg/kg. Iimmunohistochemical analysis (CD34 class II, clone QBEnd 10) showed that the administration of NR at a dose of 450 mg/kg led to a significant increase in the density of tumor vessels in comparison with animals not treated with NR, while the area of tumor necrosis did not change significantly. These findings align with the RT-qPCR data, specifically the upregulation of Sirt2, the downregulation of Sirt1, Sirt3, and Parp1, and the absence of significant changes in the expression of Nos3 and Vegfa. These findings indicate a pro-angiogenic effect of a high dose of NR, which can be considered in the context of a "vascular normalization" strategy to enhance the delivery of chemotherapeutic agents.© 2026. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Cellular senescence is closely associated with mitochondrial dysfunction. Sirtuin 2 (Sirt2), a member of the Sirtuin deacetylases family, plays a pivotal role in regulating energy metabolism and aging in mammals. However, its function in social insect aging remains unclear. Here, using the Eastern honey bee (Apis cerana) as a model, we demonstrate that the age-related downregulation of A. cerana Sirt2 (AcSirt2) in brain tissue is coupled with progressive mitochondrial damage, reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, and a biphasic change in autophagy activity. Conversely, overexpression of AcSirt2 alleviates cellular senescence by promoting mitochondrial fusion/fission balance (via Mfn1, Mfn2, and Drp1), activating the PINK1/Parkin-mediated mitophagy pathway, improving mitochondrial integrity, reducing oxidative stress, and enhancing ATP production. In vivo, AcSirt2 knockdown shortens honey bee lifespan and impairs locomotor ability, whereas its activation reverses these aging phenotypes. Furthermore, we show that AcSirt2 interacts with the transcription factor FOXO and mediates its deacetylation. This study reveals for the first time that the AcSirt2-FOXO-mitophagy axis delays aging by maintaining mitochondrial homeostasis in a social insect, providing novel insights into the development of anti-aging strategies and the promotion of healthy beekeeping.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42527167
Transcriptional condensates anchored by chromatin readers are increasingly recognized as organizing hubs for gene expression, but how their assembly and stability are regulated remains poorly understood. Here, we identify an acetylation-dependent feed-forward circuit that controls the integrity of the Super Elongation Complex (SEC), a key driver of transcriptional elongation. We show that the SAGA histone acetyltransferase catalytic subunits KAT2A/KAT2B license acetylation of both histone H3 lysine 9 (H3K9ac) and SEC components themselves, including ENL, AFF1, and AFF3. Loss of this dual acetylation activity, achieved via a cereblon-recruiting PROTAC (GSK983/GSK699), displaces the chromatin reader ENL from target loci, dissolves ENL-anchored transcriptional condensates, and disrupts SEC-dependent transcriptional output - linking histone and non-histone acetylation to the physical integrity of a core transcriptional machine. Using genome-scale dependency data, we show that the SAGA complex is a selective chromatin dependency in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) AML and hematological malignancies and disrupting this feed-forward transcriptional circuit in AML demonstrates subtype independent antileukemia effects. KAT2A/B degradation drives potent, broad-spectrum antileukemic activity across genetically diverse AML cell lines, primary patient samples, and an isogenic KMT2A-rearranged model bearing cooperating oncogenic mutations, with H3K9ac loss concentrated asymmetrically at core AML oncogene loci such as MYC, MYB, and the HOXA cluster. Together, these findings define an acetylation-dependent circuit governing SEC integrity and establish KAT2A/B degradation as a mechanism-based, pan-AML therapeutic strategy, with implications for transcriptional condensate regulation beyond leukemia.The SAGA complex is a selectively essential chromatin dependency across hematological malignancies and particularly in AMLKAT2A/B degradation drives broad anti-leukemic activity across genetically diverse AML subtypes including chemo-refractory diseaseKAT2A/B degradation depletes H3K9ac at AML oncogene loci and dismantles ENL-anchored condensatesKAT2A/B licenses regulation of super elongation complex acetylation and ENL interaction with SEC complex components.
Latent variables derived through factor analysis reveal the underlying biological traits (UBT) in organisms. However, research on UBT development and genomic applications in beef cattle is limited. This study aimed to model previously identified economically important UBT in genome-wide association studies (GWAS) using univariate and multivariate approaches. Data on 35 traits related to the body size, reproduction, and carcass characteristics from 297 admixed beef heifers were analyzed using two models. Due to the sample-size constraints, the two models utilized were: 1) all traits included (n = 161) and 2) optimized record numbers by segregating the reproductive and body size traits (n = 297) from carcass traits (n = 161). The UBT identified from a prior study included body size (BS) and body composition (BC) in model 1 and BS, ovary size (OS), and yield grade (YG) in model 2, along with non-contributing but economically relevant traits such as body density (DENS) and intra-muscular fat (IMF). Genotypically adjusted causal networks showed that BS influenced BC (model 1) and OS (model 2). Multi-trait and structural equation modeling (SEM) GWAS approaches were used to integrate BS with BC and OS, while univariate modeling was used for unrelated UBT and direct traits, such as YG, IMF, and DENS. Across all the approaches, 1,911 SNP from nine different regions were identified and mapped to 98 features, including genes, pseudogenes, and multiple non-coding and translational RNA. Enrichment analysis highlighted extracellular matrix-receptors, HERC family genes in cellular growth, desmosomes in morphogenesis, and energy metabolism related to PIGY genes. Genes linked to muscle and carcass traits, including FAM184B, NCAPG, and LCORL, were also identified. The heritability of UBT (0.46-0.84) was higher than that of individual traits, particularly for reproductive and carcass-related traits. This study provides insights into the relationships of body and carcass-oriented traits in admixed beef heifers that are directly relevant to phenotyping and genetic evaluations being conducted in the beef industry.Copyright © 2026 Anas, Zhao, Yu, Dahlen, Swanson, Ringwall and Hulsman Hanna.
Body weight (BW) serves as a core indicator for evaluating chicken growth performance and implementing early individual selective breeding. Our previous studies have verified that 8-week body weight (BW8) exhibits a significantly positive correlation with body weights at 10 and 12 weeks of age in chickens, implying that early body weight can be used to predict late growth phenotypes; nevertheless, the underlying genetic regulatory mechanisms remain elusive. Multiple investigations on growth traits of livestock have confirmed that the NCAPG-LCORL locus acted as a critical candidate interval associated with growth-related traits. In the present study, an F2 segregating population derived from the cross of Gushi chickens and Anka broilers was used as experimental material. Single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) screening within the NCAPG-LCORL locus was performed based on GBS data, followed by the LD analysis. A total of eight SNPs were identified to be significantly associated with economic growth traits in chickens, including four tag SNPs and four non-tag SNPs. In vitro functional validation using chicken skeletal muscle satellite cells (SMSCs) revealed functional divergence between NCAPG and LCORL during myocyte development: NCAPG facilitated SMSCs proliferation while repressing SMSCs differentiation, whereas LCORL exerted positive regulatory effects on both proliferation and differentiation of SMSCs. Collectively, NCAPG modulates whole-body chicken growth by remodeling the dynamic balance between proliferation and differentiation of skeletal muscle satellite cells. In contrast, LCORL simultaneously promotes myocyte proliferation and differentiation to accelerate skeletal muscle development, thereby enhancing chicken growth performance. This study elucidates the regulatory roles of the NCAPG-LCORL locus in chicken growth at both the molecular marker and cellular functional levels, laying a theoretical foundation for marker-assisted selection of growth traits in chicken breeding.
Background: Depression-related liability is frequently accompanied by reduced physical function, yet the shared genetic architecture linking mood-related traits and physical-function decline remains incompletely characterized. Methods: We applied genomic structural equation modeling to European-ancestry GWAS summary statistics for five constituent phenotypes: depressive symptoms, depression diagnosis, grip strength, appendicular lean mass, and walking pace. A Depression-Physical Function shared genetic factor was constructed as a cross-trait genetic covariance dimension and evaluated using LDSC-based validation and leave-one-trait-out sensitivity analyses. We then performed factor GWAS, FUMA locus annotation, Bayesian fine-mapping, MAGMA gene-based analysis, transcriptome-wide association analysis, pathway enrichment, CELLECT/MAGMA cell-type specificity analysis, partitioned heritability analysis, and gsMap spatial transcriptomic mapping. Results: The shared factor showed good model fit and retained 755,397 quality-controlled variants for downstream analysis. The factor was positively genetically correlated with depression-related traits and negatively correlated with physical-function-related traits. FUMA identified 245 genome-wide significant SNPs, 44 lead SNPs, and 38 genomic risk loci, with 127 positional mapped genes. Fine-mapping prioritized one high-confidence locus. MAGMA identified 19 Bonferroni-significant genes and 326 FDR-significant genes, while TWAS identified 322 FDR-significant expression-associated genes. Integrating FUMA positional mapping, MAGMA gene-level association and TWAS expression-level association prioritized eight convergent genes: TMEM106B, CENPW, DRD2, LRFN5, NCAPG, DCAF16, SGIP1, and FAM120A. Functional enrichment highlighted postsynaptic structure, neuron spine, synaptic plasticity, and synapse organization. CELLECT/MAGMA prioritized brain non-myeloid neurons and glial populations, with additional endocrine-metabolic and immune-hematopoietic signals. Spatial transcriptomic mapping localized top signals to brain and spinal cord regions in the embryonic neuro-muscle reference. Partitioned heritability analysis showed enrichment in conserved, intronic, promoter, and chromatin-related genomic annotations. Conclusions: These findings support a shared polygenic covariance dimension linking depression-related liability with reduced physical-function-related genetic propensity. Downstream analyses prioritized candidate loci, genes, and biological contexts, with enrichment patterns consistent with neuronal, synaptic, and regulatory genomic processes.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is characterized by oxidative stress (OS). This study reveals a novel epigenetic mechanism linking lysine acetyltransferase 5 (KAT5) and thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1) in PCOS pathogenesis. A meta-analysis of 50 clinical studies demonstrated elevated systemic oxidative markers (total oxidant status, nitric oxide, malondialdehyde) and reduced paraoxonase-1 levels in PCOS patients, alongside compromised total antioxidant capacity in follicular fluid. Bioinformatic analysis identified TSP-1 as a key downregulated gene in PCOS, and the hTFtarget database predicted KAT5 as an upstream regulator of TSP-1. In vitro, H₂O₂-induced oxidative stress in KGN granulosa cells suppressed TSP-1, KAT5, and H2AK5ac levels, which were restored by N-acetylcysteine (NAC). Mechanistically, KAT5 was found to regulate TSP-1 expression via H2AK5 acetylation at its promoter. Knockdown of KAT5 exacerbated oxidative stress, apoptosis, and senescence, while TSP-1 overexpression counteracted these effects. In a letrozole-induced PCOS rat model, ovarian tissues exhibited decreased H2AK5 acetylation, reduced KAT5 and TSP-1 expression, and impaired redox homeostasis. Interventions with N-acetylcysteine or TSP-1 ameliorated ovarian pathological changes, hormonal imbalances, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and cellular senescence. Collectively, these findings establish the KAT5-TSP-1 axis as a critical regulator of ovarian redox homeostasis, unveiling a novel epigenetic mechanism and proposing a dual-target therapeutic strategy for PCOS.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Cisplatin resistance is a major barrier to effective treatment of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) including cutaneous SCC and Head and neck SCC, where resistance develops in more than half of advanced cases. Our previous work demonstrated that genetic knockdown or pharmacological inhibition of TIP60 (KAT5), a histone acetyl transferase, sensitizes cisplatin-resistant SCC cells, induces cell cycle arrest and promotes cell death, suggesting a key role for TIP60 in mediating resistance. Here, we use cisplatin-sensitive and resistant SCC cell lines, together with siRNA-mediated gene silencing, stable overexpression, pharmacological inhibition, immunodot-blot assays, and ICP-MS to demonstrate that TIP60 promotes resistance through two complementary pathways: (1) upregulation of the efflux transporter ABCC1, which reduces intracellular cisplatin accumulation, and (2) increased expression of XPC, a key component of the nucleotide excision repair pathway, involved in recognition and removal of cisplatin-DNA adducts. Elevated TIP60 levels correlate with reduced cisplatin-DNA adduct levels, enhanced removal of cisplatin-DNA adducts and increased cell survival in resistant lines. TIP60 depletion reduces ABCC1 expression and increases cisplatin-DNA adduct levels, effects similarly observed with the ABCC1 inhibitor, MK-571. In parallel, TIP60 knockdown impairs removal of cisplatin-DNA adducts and reduces expression of multiple DNA damage response (DDR) genes, including XPC. Combined inhibition of TIP60 with spironolactone (targeting XPB/NER) or with MK-571further reduces cell survival and increases cell death in resistant cells. These findings establish TIP60 as a regulator of cisplatin resistance that integrates drug efflux and DNA repair pathways, highlighting TIP60 inhibition as a promising therapeutic strategy to overcome platinum resistance in SCC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42448410 is a review article
Lysine acetyltransferase 5 (KAT5) plays a critical role in epigenetic regulation and is closely associated with the progression of various cancers, particularly hepatocellular carcinoma. However, convenient and portable methods for monitoring KAT5 activity remain limited. Herein, we report a coordination-regulated colorimetric sensing platform based on the localized surface plasmon resonance of gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) for KAT5 activity detection. In this strategy, Zn2+ coordinates with ethylenediamine (en) to form Zn(en)22+ complexes, which induce AuNPs aggregation and a distinct plasmonic color change. In the presence of coenzyme A (CoA), generated during the KAT5-catalyzed acetylation reaction, Zn2+ preferentially binds to thiol-containing CoA, suppressing Zn(en)22+ formation and inhibiting AuNPs aggregation. As a result, KAT5 activity is indirectly converted into a measurable colorimetric signal with a detection limit of 1.9 pg/mL (3σ/slope). To enable portable analysis, smartphone-based image processing was integrated, using the blue-to-red (B/R) ratio for quantification. The platform was further applied to investigate histone acetylation in cancer cells and circulating tumor cell (CTCs)-like models during epithelial-mesenchymal transition, revealing dynamic changes in KAT5 activity. This coordination-mediated AuNPs strategy provides a simple and portable tool for monitoring cancer-related enzymatic activity, with potential applications in liquid biopsy, early cancer diagnosis, and precision medicine.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The RAD18 (E3) ubiquitin ligase, a key DNA damage tolerance regulator that also functions in DNA double-strand break repair, is overexpressed in the brain cancer glioblastoma. Here, we show that RAD18 promotes glioblastoma cell proliferation in the absence of exogenous damage, independently of its catalytic activity. RAD18 downregulation arrests glioblastoma cells in the G1 phase of the cell cycle, leading to senescence onset, with no apparent increase in DNA damage. We also show that RAD18 sustains glioblastoma stem cells' self-renewal and the growth of tumor orthotropic xenografts in mice. Further, we show that increased RAD18 expression enhances the growth of non-transformed cells and induces the features of oncogenic transformation. Mechanistically, RAD18 interacts and negatively regulates the NF2 tumor suppressor through its SAP domain, thereby facilitating stabilization and nuclear retention of the YAP1 transcription factor. Altogether, these data propose RAD18 as a key target to sensitize glioblastoma to therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Microalgae-bacteria interactions represent a promising approach for improving microalgal growth and biomass productivity, with potential applications in biofuel production, wastewater remediation, and the synthesis of value-added bioproducts. In this study, enriched microalgae consortia from the Tallahassee Wastewater Treatment Facility were first characterized using shotgun metagenomic sequencing to assess their taxonomic composition and functional potential. The consortia were dominated by Chlorella species and associated with diverse bacterial communities. Subsequently, bacterial strains were isolated and characterized to evaluate their potential as natural growth enhancers for microalgae. Eight bacterial isolates, Mesorhizobium sp., Enterococcus avium, Stenotrophomonas sp., Agrobacterium tumefaciens, Citrobacter freundii, Cellulosimicrobium sp., Stenotrophomonas pavanii, and Mycobacterium sp. SMC-4 were identified through 16 S rRNA sequencing and phylogenetic analysis. The influence of these isolates on microalgae was assessed using a membrane-separated coculture system that enabled metabolite exchange without direct cell-to-cell contact. Microalgal growth, monitored through optical density (OD) at 680 nm over 18 days, showed significant enhancement across all bacterial treatments compared to the reference (microalgae without bacteria). The most pronounced effects were observed with Mesorhizobium sp., Enterococcus avium, Stenotrophomonas sp., and Agrobacterium tumefaciens, which exhibited the highest growth responses. These findings suggest that wastewater-derived bacteria can substantially enhance microalgal growth performance, likely through metabolite-mediated interactions. This study expands the repository of algal-supportive bacterial taxa and highlights the potential of targeted microalgae-bacteria consortia for scalable and sustainable bioprocessing.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is characterized by aberrant vascular remodeling driven in part by excessive proliferation of pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells (PASMCs). However, the molecular determinants underlying this cancer-like phenotype remain incompletely defined.Genomic analysis of patients with PAH revealed a significant upregulation of structural maintenance of chromosomes 4 (SMC4). In hypoxia-exposed mouse models and human PASMCs, SMC4 expression was similarly increased and localized primarily to the vascular smooth muscle layer. Functional studies demonstrated that SMC4 knockdown suppressed, whereas SMC4 overexpression enhanced, microtubule organization, cell-cycle progression, and PASMCs proliferation. Mechanistically, chromatin immunoprecipitation confirmed direct binding of HIF-1α to the SMC4 promoter, promoting its transcription under hypoxia. Co-immunoprecipitation further showed that SMC4 recruited histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6) to repress the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor P21, thereby sustaining proliferative signaling. In vivo, partial genetic deficiency of SMC4 mitigated pulmonary vascular remodeling, reduced right ventricular hypertrophy, and improved hemodynamic parameters in hypoxia-induced PAH mice.SMC4 is a key regulator of PASMCs proliferation and pulmonary vascular remodeling through an HIF-1α-SMC4-HDAC6-P21 signaling axis. Modulation of this pathway may offer a potential therapeutic approach for PAH.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42250572
Accumulation of mutant mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) heteroplasmy is among the strongest signatures of ageing1. Here we investigated the underlying mechanism by calling mtDNA sequence, mtDNA abundance and mtDNA heteroplasmic variants in human blood using whole-genome sequences from approximately 750,000 individuals. We observed that mtDNA single-nucleotide variants (mtSNVs) accumulate sharply at age 60 years, occur at low levels of heteroplasmy, exhibit little evidence of positive selection and are likely to be predominantly neutral. The mutational spectrum of mtSNVs does not reflect oxidative lesions, as is commonly invoked, but is more consistent with mtDNA replication errors. To understand why mtSNVs become detectable with age, we performed a genome-wide association study for heteroplasmic mtSNV burden, identifying germline variants near TERT, TCL1A and SMC4, all of which have been linked to clonal haematopoiesis (CH)2. Rare-variant analysis also showed that high mtSNV burden is associated with mutations in numerous CH driver genes. These genetic associations persisted even after exclusion of individuals with known CH driver mutations. Our results support a model in which 'cryptic' mtDNA mutations initially arise randomly as replication errors but are undetectable in bulk. They then become apparent only through age-related expansion of cellular clones in blood. We propose that the high copy number and mutation rate of mtDNA make it a sensitive blood-based marker of somatic mosaicism due to CH. Our work mechanistically unifies three prominent signatures of ageing: common germline variants in TERT, CH and observed accrual of mtDNA mutations.© 2026. The Author(s).
E2F7 regulates cell cycle progression and is overexpressed in multiple cancers, but its role in tumor, which macrophage crosstalk in colorectal cancer (CRC) remains unclear.E2F7 expression in CRC was analyzed by qRT-PCR, Western blot, and immunohistochemistry. Functional studies used E2F7 knockdown, followed by assays for proliferation, apoptosis, migration, and invasion. Exosomes were isolated via ultracentrifugation, and their cargo analyzed. Macrophage polarization was assessed in vitro and in CRC mouse models.E2F7 was significantly upregulated in CRC and correlated with CD163+ macrophage infiltration. E2F7 silencing suppressed tumor cell growth, migration, and invasion, and reduced M2 macrophage polarization. CRC-derived exosomes transferred E2F7 to macrophages, where it bound SMC4 to induce an immunosuppressive M2-like phenotype. In vivo, E2f7 knockdown inhibited tumor growth and decreased M2 macrophages.Exosomal E2F7 from CRC cells promotes M2 macrophage polarization in an SMC4-dependent manner, revealing a novel tumor-immune communication axis that contributes to CRC progression.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Maize (Zea mays L.) is a major cereal crop of global importance, valued not only for its nutritional importance but also for its diverse phytochemical composition. Metabolomics offers a comprehensive platform to investigate physiological and biochemical alterations caused by various factors and facilitates the analysis of metabolic alterations associated with varying temperature tolerance in maize genotypes.In the present study, we employed gas chromatography-mass spectrometry-based untargeted metabolomics, X-ray fluorescence-based elemental profiling, seedling-stage morphological assessment, and priming-mediated germination assays to evaluate three maize genotypes differing in low-temperature (LT) tolerance from the Kashmir Himalayas. A total of 68 metabolites were identified, with unique genotype-specific distributions as follows: 19 in SMC-7 (LT susceptible), 23 in SMC-4 (moderately LT tolerant), and eight in KG-3 (LT tolerant). The rest of the metabolites were shared among the genotypes. KG-3 was characterized by the accumulation of diverse secondary metabolites with potential pharmacological relevance, whereas SMC-4 showed relative enrichment in functional fatty acids and rare sugars. In contrast, SMC-7 exhibited higher levels of polyols and primary sugars that may be associated with general metabolic functions. However, the implications of all these metabolites in terms of dietary and health relevance remains to be further validated. Elemental analysis revealed significant genotype-specific differences in micronutrient allocation, with KG-3 exhibiting elevated levels of K, Fe, and Zn, which could be related to its better agronomic performance and tolerance under LT stress. Morphological evaluation further confirmed KG-3 as highly adaptable to LT conditions. In seed priming experiments, a combined treatment of 50 mmol L-1 KNO3 and 8 mmol L-1 H2O2 resulted in the highest germination rate (100%), with SMC-7 and SMC-4 responding more positively than KG-3.Collectively, these findings highlight the metabolic, nutritional, and physiological bases of differential LT tolerance in maize genotypes, and suggest that genotypes such as KG-3 hold promise for both stress-resilient cultivation and nutritional enhancement in temperate agroecosystems. © 2026 Society of Chemical Industry.© 2026 Society of Chemical Industry.
BACKGROUND: Primary high-grade lacrimal gland (LG) mucoepidermoid carcinoma (MEC) is a rare condition that presents diagnostic and treatment challenges. In this study, we aimed to elucidate the diagnosis, treatment, and mutational landscape of high-grade LG MEC. METHODS: We reviewed clinical symptoms, radiological images, treatment, prognosis, histopathology, and mutational landscape of 20 patients with high-grade LG MEC. RESULTS: Primary clinical presentation of high-grade LG MEC was proptosis (85%) with a low incidence of ocular pain (20%). CT scans showed frequent bone destruction (89.5%) and calcification (73.7%). MRI revealed hypointense areas on T2-weighted imaging (WI) in 85% of lesions and non-enhanced areas on contrast-enhanced T1WI in 95% of cases. All 20 patients with primary high-grade LG MEC underwent surgery and were stratified into 5 treatment groups. Multi-group analysis showed only the complete resection plus adjuvant radiotherapy group had significantly better RFS than the complete resection alone group (both P = 0.0016), with no significant OS differences across groups. The rates of recurrence, metastasis, and mortality for patients in T4 stage were 77.8%, 71.4%, and 100%, respectively, while those in stages T1-3 were 25%, 75%, and 62.5%. Log-rank tests demonstrated superior long-term RFS and OS in T1–3 patients (P < 0.05), whereas Gehan-Breslow-Wilcoxon tests yielded non-significant results. Whole-exome sequencing of tumors and adjacent normal tissues from 3 patients showed TP53 as the only consistent driver gene with missense mutations in all samples. Additionally, EGFR, DOCK2, GAN11, AKAP9, and SMC4 were identified as driver genes in 2 patients. CONCLUSIONS: High-grade LG MEC predominantly manifested as painless exophthalmos and the characteristic imaging included calcification, bone destruction, hypointense areas on T2WI, and non-enhanced areas on contrast-enhanced T1WI. Adjuvant radiotherapy after complete resection reduced recurrence and improved RFS but did not significantly elevate the overall survival rate of primary high-grade LG MEC patients. Prognosis is especially poor for T4 stage. Potential somatic variants identified within this small exploratory cohort, including TP53, EGFR, DOCK2, GAN11, AKAP9, and SMC4 may represent the potential therapeutic targets. Nevertheless, their clinical and prognostic relevance requires rigorous validation in larger independent patient cohorts.
Dosage compensation (DC) in Caenorhabditis elegans utilizes a condensin complex that resembles mitotic condensins but differs by 1 subunit, DPY-27. DPY-27 replaces SMC-4, one of the structural maintenance of chromosome (SMC) proteins that is responsible for hydrolyzing ATP, required for the condensation of DNA and other mitotic condensin functions. To understand whether the ATPase function is required in DC, we first demonstrated that DPY-27 is capable of hydrolyzing ATP in vitro. Then, we used CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome editing to generate an ATPase mutation in dpy-27. Although the mutant protein is expressed and is incorporated into the condensin IDC complex, this mutation results in a loss of DC. Specifically, we found that without ATPase function, DPY-27-containing condensin IDC has reduced capacity to bind DNA, condense the X chromosomes, and facilitate H4K20me1 enrichment on the X-chromosomes. Our results suggest that condensin IDC, like mitotic condensins, uses ATP hydrolysis to perform its functions, making C. elegans DC a model for how activities attributed to mitotic condensins can be used to regulate gene expression.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Genetics Society of America.
Cervical cancer remains a significant global health burden, with the molecular determinants of its progression and therapeutic resistance not fully elucidated. This study aimed to identify DNA damage-related genes with prognostic and functional significance.Four cervical cancer GEO datasets were integrated and batch-corrected. Differential expression analysis and WGCNA were performed. Machine learning algorithms (LASSO, SVM, and Random Forest) were used to refine key genes. Functional roles of the pivotal gene SMC4 were investigated using in vitro experiments, including proliferation, colony formation, 3D spheroid assays, phalloidin staining, cell-cycle analysis, immunofluorescence, and analysis of DNA damage and immune-associated pathways under ionizing radiation.Integration of transcriptomic data revealed 16 candidate genes. Machine learning convergence identified five core genes (CCNB2, CDKN2A, CHEK1, TYMS, and SMC4), all of which were significantly upregulated in tumors. Among these, SMC4 was uniquely associated with poor overall and disease-specific survival. Functional assays demonstrated that SMC4 knockdown under ionizing radiation significantly inhibited cervical cancer cell proliferation, colony formation, invasion, and reduced S-phase cells, and impaired DNA damage repair. Mechanistically, SMC4 was found to upregulate SMAD3, activate NF-κB signaling, and promote PD-L1 expression. Single-cell analysis confirmed SMC4's predominant expression in epithelial cells and its association with an altered tumor immune context.Our study identifies SMC4 as a regulator that promotes radioresistance and potentially modulates the tumor immune microenvironment in cervical cancer, likely by coordinating DNA damage repair and activating the SMAD3-NF-κB pathway. These findings suggest that SMC4 could be a potential therapeutic target for radiosensitization and a candidate biomarker for patient stratification.© 2026. The Author(s).
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a complex hematological malignancy characterized by the uncontrolled proliferation of plasma cells in the bone marrow. Emerging evidence suggests that the aberrant activation of specific gene regulatory elements known as SE plays a crucial role in driving oncogenic gene expression programs in cancer. In this study, we investigated the role of the SE-driven SMC4 in promoting myeloma growth. Depletion of SMC4 resulted in a significant impairment of myeloma cell proliferation and clonogenicity. Mechanistically, we identified that SMC4 orchestrates the epigenetic modulation of the IFI16-dependent STING signaling pathway. This epigenetic enhancement of the IFI16-STING axis led to increased production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, creating a favorable microenvironment for myeloma cell growth. Furthermore, we established a direct link between the SE-driven SMC4 and the upregulation of IFI16 and STING gene expression in MM cells. Importantly, pharmacological inhibition of the IFI16-STING pathway abrogated the oncogenic effects mediated by SMC4. Our findings uncover a novel regulatory circuit involving SMC4 and the IFI16-STING signaling axis that promotes myeloma growth. Targeting this epigenetic network may hold therapeutic potential to intervene in myeloma progression and improve patient outcomes.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Among the various histological types of thyroid cancer (TC), papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) is highly prevalent. Studies conducted in the past have revealed that the LncRNA DLEU2 is aberrantly expressed in PTC and is relevant to tumorigenesis and lymphatic metastasis. There is still uncertainty about the function and underlying mechanisms of LncRNA DLEU2 in PTC cells. Our findings indicate that DLEU2 facilitates the migration and invasion of PTC cells. Analysis from the Starbase database demonstrated a positive interaction and relationship between the RNA-binding protein (RBP) ELAVL1 and DLEU2. Fluorescence co-localization and RIP assays confirmed the binding of DLEU2 and ELAVL1 within PTC cells. ELAVL1 was found to enhance the migration and invasion of PTC cells, as demonstrated by wound healing and Transwell invasion assays. ELAVL1 preferentially binds to and stabilizes m6A-modified mRNAs. Bioinformatic analysis, western blotting, and RT-qPCR results revealed that RCC2, a downstream target of ELAVL1, was regulated by ELAVL1. MeRIP and RNA stability assays showed that ELAVL1 modulates RCC2 mRNA stability through m6A modification. Through rescue experiments, the DLEU2-ELAVL1-RCC2 axis was identified in PTC cells, demonstrating its function in cell migration and invasion. Through the Wnt5a/β-catenin signaling pathway, this axis may support epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and enhance cellular migration and invasion. Collectively, our findings elucidate the functional mechanism of the DLEU2-ELAVL1-RCC2 axis in PTC cells and provide a possible molecular target for treating PTC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Aerobic glycolysis promotes lactate accumulation and histone lactylation (Kla), yet the cell-type-specific distribution of this axis and its link to metabolically stratified intercellular signalling in asthma remain poorly defined. We aimed to map lactate/Kla-associated metabolic states across airway lineages and develop an interpretable Lactate Metabolic Biomarker Diagnosis (LMBD) framework.By integrating bulk transcriptomes (training: GSE63142; validation: GSE43696) and scRNA-seq (GSE193816), we quantified lactate metabolic activity via four gene sets and 114 metabolic pathways. We identified metabolic subtypes using consensus clustering and trained a Gaussian-mixture-model-guided logistic regression classifier with external validation. Mechanistic insights were inferred through CellChat and Monocle2, followed by functional validation of RCC2 in house dust mite (HDM)-stimulated 16HBE cells using siRNA knockdown, lactate quantification, Pan-Kla immunofluorescence, and untargeted LC-MS metabolomics.Asthma exhibited a macrophage-predominant high-lactate state. We identified a disease-associated macrophage module (Epi1) and two metabolic subtypes, in which the high-lactate group (MBC2) displayed stronger inflammatory transcriptional programs. The LMBD classifier consistently outperformed single-pathway models in the external validation cohort (AUC = 0.799), with RCC2 emerging as the top-ranked feature. Trajectory analysis linked RCC2 to terminal epithelial remodelling. Functional assays demonstrated that RCC2 knockdown significantly reduced intracellular lactate levels, suppressed the expression of glycolysis-associated proteins, and attenuated Pan-Kla signals. Metabolomics further revealed coordinated shifts in redox balance and glycerophospholipid metabolism following RCC2 depletion.This integrative study delineates lactate/Kla-associated metabolic remodelling in asthma. The LMBD framework offers a robust transcriptomic proxy for metabolic and inflammatory patient stratification, and RCC2 emerges as a candidate regulatory hub linking glycolysis to epigenetic remodelling, thus warranting further investigation in vivo and in clinical cohorts.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cellular adhesion to the extracellular matrix is essential for morphogenesis, tissue integrity and survival signalling. The best understood adhesion structures are focal adhesions (FAs). In spite of their importance, our knowledge of upstream factors that integrate FA dynamics with other cellular processes, such as metabolism, remains fragmentary. Using a genome-wide screen, we identify aldolase A, a key glycolytic enzyme that converts fructose-1,6-bisphosphate (FBP), as a regulatory switch that links metabolic flux to FA assembly and cell morphogenesis. We show that cellular FBP serves as a signalling metabolite, which transmits information about the metabolic cell state to the actin-based machinery for cell adhesion and protrusion. This mechanism involves FBP binding to the Rac1 inhibitor RCC2 and a concomitant elevation of Rac1 activity resulting in actin reorganization, increased FA assembly and elevated protrusive activity. Here we predict this mechanism to be crucial for processes ranging from development to cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is one of the most frequent solid tumor accounting for more than one million cancer deaths annually. Emerging evidence highlights the critical role of mechanical signaling in tumor progression, yet the mechanobiological interplay between extracellular matrix (ECM) stiffness and SCC pathogenesis remains poorly understood.This study aimed to investigate how matrix stiffness drives SCC progression via Piezo1-mediated mechanotransduction and its clinical implications.Atomic force microscopy quantified tissue stiffness in human cutaneous, oral, and lung SCC samples. Spatial transcriptomics and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) analyzed ECM- and mechanoreceptor-related gene expression. In vitro models using tunable-stiffness gels assessed SCC cell proliferation, invasion, and Piezo1/YAP activity. Xenograft models evaluated Piezo1's role in tumor growth and stiffness regulation. Clinical correlation studies analyzed Piezo1 expression and outcomes in a cutaneous SCC cohort (n = 53).SCC tissues exhibited elevated stiffness compared to adjacent normal tissues. Stiff matrices activated Piezo1, promoting proliferation and invasion in SCC cells via a non-canonical Hippo pathway involving RCC2. Piezo1 knockdown reduced tumor growth and stiffness in vivo. Mechanistically, Piezo1 activation induced TGFβ1 secretion, driving fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transition and collagen deposition, thereby reinforcing matrix stiffness. Clinically, high Piezo1 expression correlated with poor differentiation (p = 0.0034), recurrence (p = 0.047), and shorter disease-free survival (HR = 181.03, p = 0.01).This study identifies a self-reinforcing Piezo1-RCC2-YAP axis that translates mechanical cues into pro-tumorigenic signaling, fostering fibroblast-mediated ECM remodeling. Piezo1 emerges as a prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target to disrupt stiffness-driven SCC progression.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
CD24 promotes prostate cancer progression and metastasis by disrupting the ARF-NPM interaction and impairing p53 signaling. However, the mechanisms underlying CD24-driven metastasis remain unclear. This study identifies a novel interaction between CD24 and Regulator of Chromosome Condensation 2 (RCC2), a protein involved in cell proliferation and migration. IHC analysis of prostate adenocarcinoma samples showed frequent coexpression of CD24 (49%) and RCC2 (82%) with a positive correlation between coexpression of CD24 (49%) and RCC2 (82%). Functional assays revealed complex roles: RCC2 KO suppressed proliferation but increased migration and invasion, while CD24 KO reduced both proliferation and migration. Dual KO of CD24 and RCC2 further inhibited proliferation but had varied effects on migration. In mouse xenografts, RCC2 KO increased lung metastasis without significantly affecting primary tumor growth, while CD24 KO reduced both tumor growth and metastasis. Mechanistically, RCC2 controls migration by promoting ubiquitination and degradation of vimentin, affecting cytoskeletal dynamics. In contrast, CD24 targets RCC2 for degradation, thereby regulating β-catenin signaling. Notably, RCC2 KO enhances β-catenin activity by suppressing inhibitors AXIN2 and APC, whereas CD24 KO inhibits this pathway. These findings reveal a regulatory loop where CD24 and RCC2 reciprocally control proliferation and metastasis, positioning the CD24-RCC2 axis as a promising therapeutic target in prostate cancer.
Previous studies have identified miR-148a-3p as a regulator of both angiogenesis and osteogenesis. However, in vitro findings have been inconsistent. This study aimed to elucidate the role and mechanism of miR-148a-3p in bone physiology using miR-148a knockout (KO) mice. Compared to wild-type and heterozygous littermates, miR-148a KO mice demonstrated smaller body size but exhibited increased bone mass, enhanced type H vessel formation, and improved osteogenesis. In vitro experiments showed that miR-148a inhibited osteogenesis of ectomesenchymal stem cells and suppressed the proliferation, migration, as well as tube formation of bone endothelial cells. Multi-omics analyses of bone samples and primary bone endothelial cells, including bulk RNA-seq, proteomics, and scRNA-seq, indicated that Itga11 was regulated via mRNA degradation and identified as a key player in osteogenesis and a direct target of miR-148a-3p, as confirmed by dual-luciferase reporter assays, while Rcc2 was implicated in angiogenesis through Rac1. Both pathways converged to activate the PI3K/Akt pathway. In the bone defect model, antagomiR-148a facilitated bone repair by promoting angiogenesis-osteogenesis coupling, suggesting that miR-148a-3p suppression may serve as a potential therapeutic strategy for enhancing the bone healing process.© 2025 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) have multiple roles in the tumor microenvironment (TME), which maintain a balance between autoimmunity and immunosuppression. This research aimed to investigate the interaction between cancer stemness and Regulatory T cells (Tregs) in the breast cancer tumor immune microenvironment. Breast cancer stemness was calculated using one-class logistic regression. Twelve main cell clusters were identified, and the subsequent three subsets of Regulatory T cells with different differentiation states were identified as being closely related to immune regulation and metabolic pathways. A prognostic risk model including MEA1, MTFP1, PASK, PSENEN, PSME2, RCC2, and SH2D2A was generated through the intersection between Regulatory T cell differentiation-related genes and stemness-related genes using LASSO and univariate Cox regression. The patient's total survival times were predicted and validated with AUC of 0.96 and 0.831 in both training and validation sets, respectively; the immunotherapeutic predication efficacy of prognostic signature was confirmed in four ICI RNA-Seq cohorts. Seven drugs, including Ethinyl Estradiol, Epigallocatechin gallate, Cyclosporine, Gentamicin, Doxorubicin, Ivermectin, and Dronabinol for prognostic signature, were screened through molecular docking and found a synergistic effect among drugs with deep learning. Our prognostic signature potentially paves the way for overcoming immune resistance, and blocking the interaction between cancer stemness and Tregs may be a new approach in the treatment of breast cancer.
The experimental determination of impact polypropylene (ICP) physical properties, such as tensile modulus, flexural modulus, and impact strength, is a time-sensitive process that can delay real-time decision making during industrial production. This study explores the use of machine learning (ML) models that facilitate real-time determination of these key parameters. An industrially relevant data set containing ICP structural properties, including melt flow rate (MFR), ethylene content (C2), ethylene content in the rubber component (RCC2), and the amorphous phase indicator (R21), was leveraged to train and evaluate three ML models; linear regression, Random Forest, and a neural network. Random Forest emerged as the best-performing model, achieving R2 values of 0.78 (tensile modulus), 0.75 (flexural modulus), and 0.88 (impact strength). Feature importance analysis via Random Forest and SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) revealed that MFR and R21 captured the most critical structural variation across all physical properties and were sufficient for accurate model prediction. Retraining the model with only these two features significantly reduced model complexity and experimental overhead. These models offer a generalizable, scalable, and interpretable solution for real-world deployment across different ICP production sites, utilizing only two input parameters determined via ISO-certified methods. This ML-based approach significantly enhances process efficiency, reduces reliance on multiple characterization experiments, and supports digital product development in industrial ICP manufacturing.
Regulator of chromosome condensation 1 (RCC1) and RCC2 have been shown to play important roles in the regulation of cell cycle, DNA damage response, and nucleocytoplasmic transport.DNA (592-gene or whole exome) and RNA (whole transcriptome) sequencing was performed at Caris Life Sciences (Phoenix, AZ). Samples were stratified by RCC1 expression quartile thresholds (Q1: low, Q4: high) for small cell lung cancer (SCLC; n = 876), non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC; n = 21,603), gastric cancer (GC; n = 1,908), pancreatic cancer (PC; n = 5,071), and colorectal cancer (CRC; n = 14,892). Statistical significance was determined using chi-square and Wilcoxon rank-sum tests and adjusted for multiple comparisons (*P < .05). Corresponding analyses were run for RCC2.Median RCC1 mRNA expression was highest in SCLC (14.3 transcript per million [TPM]), followed by GC (9.9), NSCLC (9.9), CRC (9.8), and PC (6.9). Similar to RCC1, the median RCC2 expressions were highest in SCLC (36.2 TPM). Tumor mutational burden-high rates were positively associated with increasing RCC1 expression quartiles (Q1-4) in NSCLC (31%-41%), GC (7%-22%), and CRC (5%-17%) and with increasing RCC2 expression in NSCLC and CRC only. Higher expression with RCC1 and RCC2 was associated with worse overall survival in NSCLC (hazard ratio [HR] for RCC1 and RCC2 were 1.3 and 1.3, respectively), PC (HR for RCC1 and RCC2 were 1.5 and 1.12, respectively), and CRC (HR for RCC1 and RCC2 were 1.3 and 1.03, respectively).RCC1 and RCC2 expression is a negative prognostic marker in NSCLC, PC, and CRC. Further studies to investigate RCC1 and RCC2 function at the molecular level may provide opportunities for novel targeted drug development.© 2025 by American Society of Clinical Oncology.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 40261526
To investigate the effects of targeting DYNC1I1 in cellular and mouse models of Parkinson's disease (PD).The scRNA-seq dataset GSE243639 was analyzed to prioritize autophagy- and transport-related candidate genes in post-mortem substantia nigra samples from patients with PD and controls. SH-SY5Y cells were treated with 1 mM MPP⁺ for 48 h, and male C57BL/6 mice received MPTP at 30 mg/kg/day for 5 consecutive days. DYNC1I1 was silenced with siRNA in cells and targeted with AAV-DYNC1I1 in mice. Autophagic-lysosomal status was evaluated using tandem mCherry-GFP-LC3B fluorescence and autophagy- and lysosome-related markers. Motor performance was assessed using the pole and rotarod tests.DYNC1I1 was prioritized as a candidate gene on the basis of PD-associated differential expression, overlap with autophagy-related genes, enrichment in a dopaminergic neuron-related subpopulation, and biological relevance to intracellular transport. In MPP⁺-treated cells, DYNC1I1 knockdown reduced α-synuclein accumulation and phosphorylation and improved autophagic-lysosomal marker profiles. In MPTP-treated mice, AAV-DYNC1I1 treatment improved motor performance and TH-positive signal and reduced α-synuclein pathology and autophagic-lysosomal impairment. AAV-DYNC1I1 treatment was also associated with higher p-PI3K/PI3K and p-AKT/AKT ratios.DYNC1I1-targeting interventions attenuated PD-related phenotypes in cellular and mouse models. The observed effects were accompanied by improved autophagic-lysosomal marker profiles and increased PI3K/AKT phosphorylation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Impairment of axonal transport may contribute to the degeneration of dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons in the substantia nigra (SN), a key event in Parkinson's disease (PD) pathogenesis. Due to the lack of early diagnosis, changes in axonal transport at the preclinical stage can only be studied in PD models. We assessed gene expression (RT-PCR after cell sorting) and protein levels (semiquantitative immunohistochemistry) of axonal transport-related proteins in SN DAergic neurons from mice in subchronic MPTP models of PD (preclinical and clinical stages) and controls. The proteins studied included α-tubulin (Tuba1a), β-tubulin (Tubb3), kinesin (Kif5b, Klc1), dynein (Dynll1, Dync1i1), dynactin (Dctn1), microtubule affinity-regulating kinase 1 (Mark1), and tau (Mapt). In the preclinical stage, Kif5b expression and Kif5B level were increased, possibly to compensatorily preserve anterograde transport. Dynll1 and Tuba1a were upregulated, whereas Dync1i1 and Mapt were downregulated, with no change in tubulin or tau protein levels. In the clinical stage, Klc1, Dync1i1, Dctn1, Mark1, and Mapt expression and Kif5B protein levels decreased. These data indicate that transcriptional alterations in axonal transport proteins precede protein-level changes in DAergic neurons. The upregulation of Kif5B in the preclinical stage suggests that axonal transport proteins may serve as potential early therapeutic targets in PD.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a prevalent tumor in the gastrointestinal system. Non-apoptotic regulatory cell death-related genes (NARCDs) play a critical role in tumor development and progression. This research aims to explore the predictive value of NARCDs in CRC and to elucidate their possible biological roles. Transcriptome data for CRC were obtained from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). Both univariate and multivariate regression analyses, as well as Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression, were utilized to pinpoint the prognostic genes. The expression of the characterised genes in CRC cells was also examined using quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). The prognostic ability of NARCDs features was assessed using Kaplan-Meier survival curves and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. The predictive performance of the comprehensive nomogram was evaluated using calibration curves and decision curve analysis. Additionally, single-sample Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (ssGSEA) was utilized to analyze immune cell density and functional immune scores. Furthermore, the CellMiner database was applied to identify antitumor drugs that were highly correlated with the feature genes. This project developed an innovative risk model utilizing seven NARCDs characteristic genes (JMJD7-PLA2G4B, CDKN2A, PANX2, FABP4, GSDMC, NOD2, and DYNC1I1) to estimate the survival rate of CRC patients. The prognostic features were recognized as independent indicators for CRC, demonstrating satisfactory predictive efficacy in both the training and validation cohorts. The model achieved AUC values of 0.748, 0718 and 0.668 for 1-, 3- and 5-years in the TCGA training set, respectively. In the low-risk group, patients exhibited a more pronounced potential benefit from immunotherapy and showed higher levels of immune cell infiltration. Furthermore, drug sensitivity analyses indicated that individuals with reduced risk scores demonstrated greater responsiveness to pharmacological therapies. Finally, qRT-PCR results further confirmed our findings. We successfully developed a predictive feature model consisting of seven NARCDs, offering fresh insight into the prognostic evaluation of CRC patients and establishing a theoretical basis for crafting personalized treatment approaches.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Copper nanoparticles (CuNPs), owing to their high specific surface area and reactivity, are extensively applied across various fields while concurrently posing certain hazards to aquatic organisms. This study comprehensively investigated the detrimental effects of CuNPs on the reproductive system of zebrafish and emphasized the examination of the potential therapeutic role of melatonin. The research found that CuNPs interfere with zebrafish gonadal development through oxidative damage, endocrine disruption (upregulated estradiol, E2; downregulated testosterone, T), and suppression of reproduction-related genes, consequently causing impaired germ cell development and even organismal mortality. Through transcriptomic research, we discovered that CuNPs induce gonadal oxidative stress (Oxidative phosphorylation pathway) and endoplasmic reticulum stress (Protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum pathway), downregulate zgc:153,993 to activate the mitochondrial apoptosis pathway, and inhibit the hsp70l-MAPK/ERK feedback loop to amplify damage; the organism compensatorily upregulated cyp2x12 to enhance detoxification function and upregulated dync1i1/dync1li2 to activate the Phagosome pathway to clear aberrant apoptotic products. Melatonin, by antagonizing ROS and repairing stress-induced damage, modulated the expression of most key gonadal development genes to restore homeostasis. Simultaneously, it transcriptionally upregulated ribosome biogenesis gene (si:dkey-103j14.5) and lysosomal pathway gene (si:ch211-122f10.4) to alleviate nucleic acid oxidation damage and clear damaged substrates. Finally, by upregulating got2a to activate the aspartate metabolism pathway, it achieved multi-target therapeutic intervention against gonadal injury under CuNPs exposure. Our study reveals the physiological and molecular mechanisms underlying the reproductive toxicity of CuNPs; melatonin, as an endogenous protective agent, shows promise in mitigating the ecotoxicological effects of CuNPs.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Meiotic spindle organization and cytokinesis are important for mammalian oocyte maturation. CLIP-associating protein 1 (CLASP1) is a member of the microtubule plus-end-binding proteins that has been reported to regulate cytokinesis in mitosis; however, the functions of CLASP1 in meiosis are still unclear. In this study, we found that CLASP1 plays critical roles both at metaphase and telophase in mouse oocyte meiosis. Our results indicated that CLASP1 is essential for oocyte maturation. Its knockdown caused spindle organization defects and microtubule-kinetochore-attachment defects at metaphase I, which might be due to its association with polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) and/or phosphorylated mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), specifically phosphorylated MAPK1 and MAPK3. Furthermore, the levels of deacetylases, i.e. histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6) and/or NAD-dependent protein deacetylase sirtuin-1 (SIRT1), were found to be increased, which further affected tubulin acetylation levels and microtubule stability after CLASP1 knockdown. We also showed that CLASP1 can associate with PLK1 and/or protein regulator of cytokinesis 1 (PRC1)-based central spindle formation and cytokinesis at telophase I. Moreover, cytoplasmic dynein 1 intermediate chain 1 (DYNC1I1) was recognized to interact closely with CLASP1 and may function as a downstream motor protein involved in the orderly transport of PLK1. Taken together, we demonstrated that CLASP1 may associate with DYNC1I1 to play multiple roles in PLK1-mediated spindle organization and cytokinesis in mouse oocyte meiosis.© 2025. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Goose feathers have various colors, including black, white, brown, and gray, in addition to stripes and spots of different colors. The Youjiang goose is bred under specific ecological and climatic conditions in Jiangxi Province, China. Under natural circumstances, the Youjiang goose exhibits two colors of plumages, white and gray. This study employed RNA sequencing and Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) to analyze key genes of Youjiang goose feathers of white and gray colors to explore the underlying molecular mechanism of feather color synthesis. A total of 140 genes were differentially expressed in white and gray feathers. These genes were found to be associated with "Immunity, infection and inflammation" (DYNC1I1, HSPA8), "calcium ion binding" (EGFL6, PLA2G12B), "lipid and carbohydrate metabolism" (PAX3, COL3A1, COL6A1, TSHR, IGF1, NME3), and melanin metabolic process (TYRP1, EDNRB2, DCT, TYR, MLANA). The enriched gene ontology terms were "protein refolding", "extracellular region", and "signaling receptor binding". The top 3 enriched Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways included the neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction (acyg04080), melanogenesis (acyg04916), and tyrosine metabolism (acyg00350). GWAS analysis revealed four single nucleotide polymorphisms (LOC125183578, VAMP7, LOC106047492, LOC106047519) on chromosome 13. These findings provide a basis for further investigation of goose feather color formation profiles.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Gastric cancer (GC) is a malignant tumor with poor prognosis. The diverse patterns of programmed cell death (PCD) are significantly associated with the pathogenesis and progression of GC, and it has the potential to serve as prognostic and drug sensitivity indicators for GC.The sequencing data and clinical characteristics of GC patients were downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas and GEO databases. LASSO cox regression method was used to screen feature genes and develop the PCD score (PCDS). Immune cell infiltration, immune checkpoint expression, Tumor Immune Dysfunction and Exclusion (TIDE) algorithm and drug sensitivity analysis were used to explore immunotherapy response. By integrating PCDS with clinical characteristics, we constructed and validated a nomogram that demonstrated robust predictive performance.We screened nine PCD-related genes (SERPINE1, PLPPR4, CDO1, MID2, NOX4, DYNC1I1, PDK4, MYB, TUBB2A) to create the PCDS. We found that GC patients with high PCDS experienced significantly poorer prognoses, and PCDS was identified as an independent prognostic factor. Furthermore, there was a significant difference in immune profile between high PCDS and low PCDS groups. Additionally, drug sensitivity analysis indicated that patients with a high PCDS may exhibit resistance to immunotherapy and standard adjuvant chemotherapy regimens; however, they may benefit from the FDA-approved drug Dasatinib.Overall, we confirmed that the PCDS is a prognostic risk factor and a valuable predictor of immunotherapy response in GC patients, which provides new evidence for the potential application of GC.Copyright © 2025 Song, Liu, Wu and Cai.
S100A8/A9, an innate immune protein, significantly regulates inflammatory processes and immune responses. While S100A8/A9 has been linked to various diseases, its association with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) remains unclear.Samples from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) were categorized into groups with low and high expression of S100A8/A9. R software, Sangerbox, UALCAN, GEPIA2, STRING, Cytoscape, TCGC Data Portal, miRcode, OncomiR and ENCORI databases were used to comprehensively study the expression, interactome and mutational profiles of S100A8/A9 and associated mechanism in HNSCC.The proteins S100A8/A9 were found to be associated with processes of 'epithelium development', 'regulating pluripotency of stem cells' and 'regulation of immune system'. The most frequent mutation observed in the S100A8 protein was E93K (3/37, MU4401889), while for the S100A9 protein, it was R10C (4/37, MU4633862). Furthermore, the group expressing high levels of S100A8/A9 showed increased infiltration by dendritic cells and neutrophils, but decreased infiltration by M2 macrophages, compared to the group with low S100A8/A9 expression. S100A8/A9 was also found to interact with a variety of mRNA transcripts, several of which were involved in initiation and progression of HNSCC. Through LASSO-Cox method, 20 genes (CALML5, MSX1, FZD3, STC2, SLC2A3, TMEM198B, DYNC1I1, SPHK2, ALMS1.IT1, SPPL2B, PDGFA, BCORL1, TEX101, SGCE, DNAJC12, RRN3P1, HOXB9, TMEM150C, METTL7B and PSPN) were screening to construct a prognostic model to distinguish favorable and poor prognosis of HNSCC patients. Besides, our prognostic model was also validated in GSE41613 cohort.S100A8/A9 may be a promising marker for the diagnostic and prognostic assessment of the HNSCC patients. Based on these insights, we have devised a new classification model for HNSCC, which has the potential to enhance the management and personalized treatment of HNSCC patients. The model should also be further optimized through the expansion of sample size and implemented experimental studies in future research.© 2024. The Author(s).
Background/Objectives: Metastatic colorectal cancer remains a fatal disease, with a 5-year survival rate lower than 15%. The most common metastatic sites are the lungs and the liver, while skin metastases are very rare and often indicate a poor prognosis with a lower survival rate. Methods. Herein, we present the clinical case of a 62-year-old female patient with rectal cancer metastases to the skin of the anogenital and abdominal regions, diagnosed 2 years after completion of treatment of the underlying disease. Results: Histological examination of the skin lesions revealed adenocarcinoma, and expression of the same immunohistochemical markers was also found in the primary tumor and in the cutaneous metastases. However, next-generation sequencing demonstrated differences in the mutational profiles of the primary tumor and metastasis to the skin. Somatic mutations in the APC, TP53, and PTPN11 genes were revealed in primary rectal adenocarcinoma, but another pathogenic TP53 mutation and a frameshift variant in the DYNC1I1 gene were found in cutaneous metastases. The patient underwent several courses of FOLFOX6 chemotherapy in combination with bevacizumab, but the treatment was unsuccessful. An analysis of 50 clinical cases from the literature concerning various manifestations of cutaneous metastases of rectal cancer showed a median survival of 8.5 months from the time of detection of the skin lesions. Conclusions: In this regard, careful skin examination of patients with rectal cancer and timely detection of cutaneous metastases are essential steps in the follow-up of patients who have undergone treatment of the primary tumor.
The Sichuan-Yunnan region is the main production area of yaks in southwestern China, with rich genetic resources of Yaks. Nevertheless, there have been limited study on the genetic characteristics of the entire yak populations in Tibet and southwestern China. In this study, we performed whole-genome resequencing to identify genetic variation information in a total of 198 individuals from six yak breeds (populations) in Sichuan (Muli yak, Jinchuan yak, Changtai yak, Maiwa yak), Yunnan (Zhongdian yak), and Tibet (Tibetan yak). The aim was to investigate the whole-genome genetic diversity, population genetic structure, and genome selection signatures. We observed that all six populations exhibit abundant genetic diversity. Except for Tibetan yaks, which showed low nucleotide diversity (0.00104), the remaining yak populations generally displayed high nucleotide diversity (0.00129-0.00153). Population genetic structure analysis revealed that, among the six yak populations, Muli yak exhibited greater differentiation from other yak populations and formed a distinct cluster independently. The Maiwa yak population displayed a complex genetic structure and exhibited gene exchange with Jinchuan and Changtai yaks. Positive selection signals were detected in candidate genes associated with growth (GNB4, HMGA2, TRPS1, and LTBP1), reproduction (PI4KB, DYNC1I1, and GRIP1), immunity (CD200 and IL1RAP), lactation (SNX13 and CPM), hypoxia adaptation (NDUFB6, PRKN, and MRPS9), hair (KRT24, KRT25, and KRT26), meat quality (SUCLG2), digestion and absorption (CLDN1), and pigment deposition (OCA2) using the integrated Pi and F ST methods. This study provides significant insights into understanding the whole-genome genetic characteristics of yak populations in Tibet and southwestern China.Copyright © 2024 Zhang, Li, Zhao, Tang, Li, Song, An, Guan, Li and Zhang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42547646 is a review article
Accurate chromosome segregation requires kinetochores to form robust, load-bearing attachments to dynamic spindle microtubules, mediated primarily by the Ndc80 complex. Two receptors, Dsn1 and Cnn1 (CENP-T), recruit multiple copies of Ndc80c to the kinetochore, but whether they confer functional differences to Ndc80 behavior is unclear. We previously demonstrated that kinetochore components co-purifying with the yeast Dsn1 protein can maintain persistent load-bearing attachments that track with microtubule tip growth and shortening. Using an optical trapping-based assay, we show that Cnn1 purifications also sustain dynamic microtubule attachments under load. Mutation of a conserved region within the disordered N-terminal tail of Cnn1 weakened attachment strength in vitro and caused a growth defect when Dsn1 function was impaired. The Cnn1 mutation reduced Stu2 kinetochore levels without altering other kinetochore proteins. Restoring Stu2, either by direct addition in vitro or by tethering it to Ndc80c in vivo, rescued both attachment strength and cellular viability. These findings reveal a biophysical role for Cnn1 in enabling Stu2-dependent stabilization of kinetochore-microtubule attachments.
Dsn1 and Ndc80 are essential proteins of the kinetochore complex and required for chromosome segregation in dividing cells and for regulating development and microtubule dynamics in postmitotic neurons. With conditional deletion of floxed alleles, we here show that Dsn1 and Ndc80 are also required for the viability of postmitotic neurons, both in cultures of hippocampal and cortical neurons and in vivo in the retina. Loss of these proteins triggers apoptosis, as indicated by caspase cleavage and an increase in nuclear DNA breakage. The pro-survival function of the kinetochore components is distinct from that which was previously demonstrated for regulation of neuronal synaptogenesis. The microtubule-binding domain of Ndc80 is required for the synaptogenic functions but Ndc80 lacking this domain can nonetheless rescue the viability of neurons from which Ndc80 has been deleted. Similarly, whereas the synaptogenic function involves regulation of microtubules in axons and dendrites, a nucleus-localized Dsn1 is sufficient to rescue the viability of neurons from which Dsn1 has been deleted. Thus, postmitotic neurons retain a nuclear requirement for components of the kinetochore in order to prevent apoptosis.
Sex is a relevant source of variation in carcass composition in suckling lambs; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying this early sexual dimorphism remain poorly understood. Given the central role of the liver in metabolic regulation and nutrient partitioning, this study characterised sex-specific hepatic transcriptional profiles and their relationship with carcass traits in Assaf suckling lambs. Liver RNA-seq data from 12 lambs (six males and six females) harvested at commercial weight were analysed using differential expression analysis (DEA) and weighted gene co-expression network analysis. Four carcass traits were evaluated: pelvic fat percentage (PFP), muscle percentage (MP), bone percentage (BP), and muscle-to-bone ratio (MP/BP). Females showed higher MP, whereas males had higher PFP, confirming early sexual dimorphism. DEA identified 211 differentially expressed genes, including 93 upregulated in males (M-DEGs) and 118 in females (F-DEGs). M-DEGs genes were enriched in cell cycle and mitotic processes, indicating a more proliferative hepatic profile. F-DEGs were enriched in pathways related to apoptosis, oxidative stress, mitochondrial targeting, and extracellular vesicle components, suggesting a stronger stress-responsive and inter-organ communication profile, possibly linked to the ongoing brown-to-white perirenal adipose tissue transition. Network analysis revealed sex-specific co-expression modules associated with carcass traits, two of which were enriched for DEGs. In males, one of these DEG-enriched modules (green) was negatively associated with PFP, strongly enriched for cell cycle-related functions, and included NDC80 as both a hub gene and M-DEG, supporting a possible link between hepatic proliferative activity and reduced fat deposition. In females, another DEG-enriched module (pink) was negatively associated with BP and positively with MP/BP, with FYN as its top hub gene, highlighting biological processes potentially involved in bone remodelling and muscle growth. Although these results should be considered hypothesis-generating, they indicate that sex-biased hepatic gene networks may be associated with early variation in carcass composition and may support a role for liver-mediated mechanisms in the establishment of postnatal carcass sexual dimorphism in suckling lambs.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Accurate kinetochore-microtubule (K-MT) attachment is crucial for chromosome segregation in oocyte meiosis. The NDC80 complex, a subcomplex of the outer kinetochore KNL1‑MIS12‑NDC80 (KMN) network, is canonically responsible for K‑MT attachment. Here, by employing a conditional knockout (cKO) mouse model, combined with protein localization analysis for MIS12 following chromosome spreading, we demonstrate that endogenous MIS12 localizes to kinetochores in both mouse and human oocytes, and depleting MIS12 severely disrupts K-MT attachment in both meiotic divisions, independent of outer kinetochore protein NDC80. Crucially, we identified that MIS12 directly interacts with β-tubulin (including TUBB3 and TUBB5), which is essential for microtubule attachment to kinetochores, revealing a previously unknown mechanism of K-MT interaction. Furthermore, we definitively show that MIS12 is required for spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) signaling by stabilizing the KNL1 assembly. Our findings not only resolve the previous controversy by establishing the canonical and essential role of kinetochore-localized MIS12 in oocytes but also redefine its molecular function through its direct binding to microtubules, providing a new paradigm for KMN network-mediated K-MT attachment in mammalian oocyte meiosis.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Bladder cancer progression and chemoresistance remain major clinical challenges, yet the molecular determinants underlying these aggressive phenotypes are incompletely understood. Integrating TCGA transcriptomics, GEO single-cell transcriptomics, patient tissue profiling, flow cytometry-based cell sorting, functional perturbation assays, and xenograft models, we investigated the cooperative roles of NEK2, ZWINT, and the downstream effector NDC80 in bladder cancer biology. We identified a previously unrecognized NEK2/ZWINT-NDC80 regulatory axis that governs malignant cell behavior. NEK2 and ZWINT were markedly co-upregulated in high-grade tumors and strongly associated with EMT-related transcriptional programs. NEK2⁺ZWINT⁺ double-positive cells represented a stable and aggressive tumor subpopulation enriched in invasive lesions. Dual knockdown of NEK2 and ZWINT profoundly impaired proliferation, clonogenicity, motility, and in vivo tumorigenicity, whereas single-gene perturbation produced only partial effects. Mechanistically, NDC80 acted as a critical downstream effector, integrating NEK2-ZWINT signals and acting as a key downstream effector that integrates signals from NEK2 and ZWINT to drive malignant phenotypes. NDC80 depletion suppressed tumor growth and significantly increased gemcitabine sensitivity. Clinically, NDC80 expression correlated with advanced stage and chemoresistant bladder cancer tissues. Our findings reveal the NEK2-ZWINT-NDC80 axis as a central regulatory module driving bladder cancer progression and gemcitabine resistance. Targeting this axis may offer a therapeutic strategy for high-risk bladder cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
The spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) delays anaphase onset until all kinetochores are stably attached to microtubules, thus promoting error-free chromosome segregation. Multiple molecular events are implicated in SAC silencing, including removal of phospho-marks, protein (un)binding, and structural reorganization of the kinetochore-but we currently lack a quantitative map of how these events unfold through time. Here, we use the levels of the checkpoint protein MAD2 to create a pseudo-timeline of SAC silencing at single kinetochores. We demonstrate how silencing proceeds through an ordered series of molecular events where MAD2-Spindly unbinds first and then the KNL1 catalytic platform disassembles, with a pool of MPS1 retained. Coincidently, the NDC80 ensemble reconfigures, an event dependent on microtubule binding. Kinetochores next transition into a mature attachment state, marked by a switch-like recruitment of Astrin-SKAP. This then undergoes gradual further stabilization through NDC80 tail dephosphorylation. By preventing biorientation, we also define otherwise hidden kinetochore states involved in error correction cycles. These results provide a critical temporal framework for understanding the mechanisms of SAC silencing and error correction at single human kinetochores.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Successful chromosome segregation depends on robust kinetochore-microtubule attachments. The outer kinetochore load-bearers Ndc80 and Ska complexes functionally cooperate, but the molecular basis of their interaction remains elusive. Here, we combine cryo-EM and functional investigations of Ndc80:Ska on microtubules. Ndc80 forms longitudinal arrays along single protofilaments using two modules. The HEC1 N-terminal tail stabilizes interactions between microtubule-binding heads regulated by Aurora B. The HEC1 loop, away from microtubules, organizes Ndc80 coiled-coils into stacks matching the periodicity of tubulin subunits. SkaC binds to a previously unknown interface of Ndc80 as well as to microtubules, simultaneously stapling tubulin dimers longitudinally and neighboring protofilaments laterally. Our work demonstrates how several weak interactions of a small number of individual complexes are harnessed to generate a robust and regulated kinetochore coupler.
Background Occupational exposure to pesticides has been associated with a range of adverse health outcomes among agricultural workers. Genetic polymorphisms in detoxification and DNA repair pathway genes may influence individual susceptibility to these effects. Grape farmers in southwestern Maharashtra, India, represent a high-risk occupational group facing routine and intensive pesticide exposure throughout the cultivation season, yet molecular epidemiological data from this population remain limited. Methods A cross-sectional exploratory study was conducted among 204 pesticide-exposed grape farmers from Sangli and nearby districts of southwestern Maharashtra, India. Demographic characteristics, exposure patterns, and self-reported symptoms experienced following pesticide exposure were recorded using a structured questionnaire. Oxidative stress markers, including malondialdehyde (MDA) and ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP), were measured as secondary biological indicators. Genotyping of paraoxonase 1 (PON1) polymorphisms (Q192R, L55M), apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease 1 (APE1), and X-ray repair cross-complementing proteins (XRCC1, XRCC2, and XRCC3) was performed using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP). Associations between genotypes, exposure-related parameters, and self-reported symptoms were evaluated using chi-square tests and odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). A p-value ≤ 0.05 was considered statistically significant. Results The majority of participants were male, 177 (86.8%), with most falling in the 31-50 year age group, 110 (53.9%). A total of 170 (83.3%) reported daily exposure of ≥6 hours, and none reported use of personal protective equipment. The mean MDA was 5.24 ± 2.02 µmol/L, and the mean FRAP was 443.39 ± 250.90 µmol/L. Overall, 80 (39%) participants reported at least one symptom following pesticide exposure. Prolonged daily exposure (≥6 hours) was significantly associated with increased odds of symptom experience (OR = 3.5; 95% CI: 1.38-8.9; p = 0.006). PON1 L55M heterozygosity showed a borderline significant association with increased likelihood of self-reported reactions (OR = 1.79; 95% CI: 0.99-3.2; p = 0.049). The XRCC1 rs25487 variant genotype was inversely associated with symptom experience (OR = 0.25; 95% CI: 0.07-0.92; p = 0.034), though this finding requires cautious interpretation given the low variant cell count. Conclusion Prolonged daily pesticide exposure was independently associated with increased likelihood of self-reported health reactions. The borderline association of PON1 L55M and the exploratory finding for XRCC1 rs25487 represent preliminary signals requiring confirmation in larger studies with objective exposure assessment and validated clinical outcomes.Copyright © 2026, Garud et al.
Nowadays, against the backdrop of a global increase in cancer incidence, the search for prognostic markers to assess individual risks is particularly relevant. Early identification of altered DNA methylation patterns may serve as a reliable indicator of malignant transformation and be used for diagnostic purposes. The objective of this study was to assess the methylation level of CpG dinucleotides in the promoter regions of DNA repair genes (AKT1, DDB2, GADD45A, XPC and XRCC3) in the blood of chronically exposed individuals who subsequently developed cancers. The study was conducted in individuals who were affected by chronic low dose-rate exposure in 1950-1960s in the Southern Urals. The main group included exposed individuals in the latent period of cancer development-104 people, the comparison group consisted of exposed individuals without cancers-188 people. The methylation level was assessed in bisulfite-converted DNA samples using methylation-specific high-resolution melting. It was established that in exposed individuals from the main group, there was a statistically significant decrease in the methylation level in the AKT1 and GADD45A gene promoter, relative to the comparison group (4.37 versus 7.23%, p < 0.001 and 10.73 versus 19.58%, p < 0.001, respectively). As for the XRCC3 gene, there was an increase in the methylation level of CpG dinucleotides in the promoter in individuals from the main group relative to the comparison group (5.38 versus 6.18%, p < 0.001). When the prognostic potential of methylation parameters of the AKT1, GADD45A, XRCC3 gene promoters was assessed for the purposes of early diagnosis of cancer development risk, it was found that when these loci were analyzed together, the AUC was 0.89 (95% CI: 0.85-0.93) at p < 0.001.
Hexavalent chromium [Cr(VI)] is a lung carcinogen. Central to its carcinogenic mechanism are Cr(VI)-induced DNA double strand breaks and chromosome instability. While breaks are usually repaired in healthy cells, Cr(VI) inhibits homologous recombination repair by targeting RAD51. RAD51 paralogs (RAD51B, RAD51C, RAD51D, XRCC2, and XRCC3) are responsible for RAD51 loading and the stabilization of nucleoprotein filaments necessary for DNA strand exchange and repair. This study aimed to investigate the effects of Cr(VI) exposure on RAD51 paralogs. WTHBF-6 cells, a human lung cell line, were exposed to various environmentally and occupationally relevant concentrations of zinc chromate for acute (24 h) and prolonged (120 h) exposure times. After exposure to Cr(VI), we collected RNA for sequencing and assessed the ability of DNA repair proteins to form foci using immunofluorescence. Protein levels were measured with western blotting, RNA-Seq was validated with RT-qPCR, and protein-protein interactions were assessed with the Proximity Ligation Assay (PLA) assay. Cr(VI) transcriptionally repressed all RAD51 paralogs. Further functional analyses showed that Cr(VI) inhibited the foci formation of RAD51D after acute and prolonged exposures and of XRCC2 and XRCC3 after prolonged exposure. Cr(VI) also inhibited overall RAD51D protein expression, as well as its interaction with RAD51. These findings suggest that Cr(VI) inhibits all RAD51 paralogs, but RAD51D might be an early target of Cr(VI), leading to the loss of RAD51 filament formation and function and the overall inhibition of homologous recombination repair.
Genetic susceptibility is believed to contribute to leukemia development. This study aimed to systematically evaluate the association between DNA repair gene polymorphisms, particularly xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) and excision repair cross-complementing (XRCC) genes, and leukemia risk.A comprehensive search of PubMed, Web of Science, Scopus, and Cochrane Library was conducted until December 3, 2025, concerning the association between DNA repair gene polymorphisms and leukemia risk. Gene expressions were performed in Leukemia DB, GEPIA2, and BloodSpot datasets.Fifty-four studies were included in the meta-analysis. No significant associations were observed for ERCC1 C118T or XPD Asp312Asn across genetic models, whereas ERCC1 8092C>A showed significant associations in homozygous and dominant models. The XPD Lys751Gln polymorphism demonstrated significant associations across all models. Significant associations were identified for XPC Lys939Gln in allelic, homozygous, and recessive models and for XPF Arg415Gln in the heterozygous model. XPG 3507G>C showed no significant association. XRCC1 Arg194Trp, XRCC1 Arg399Gln, and XRCC3 Thr241Met polymorphisms were significantly associated with leukemia risk, while XRCC1 Arg280His was not. Gene expression analyses revealed subtype-specific alterations in DNA repair genes across leukemia datasets.Several DNA repair polymorphisms, including XPD Lys751Gln, XPC Lys939Gln, XRCC1 Arg194Trp, XRCC1 Arg399Gln, and XRCC3 Thr241Met, are associated with increased leukemia susceptibility. Differential expression patterns of DNA repair genes across leukemia subtypes suggest functional heterogeneity and highlight their potential relevance in risk stratification and biomarker development.Copyright © 2026 Ye, Fang and Jin.
Homologous recombination (HR) repairs DNA double-strand breaks and stabilizes stressed replication forks, and HR deficiency promotes genome instability and cancer. HR requires assembly of RAD51 nucleoprotein filaments on single-stranded DNA (ssDNA), a process regulated by the human RAD51 paralogs RAD51C, XRCC3, RAD51D and XRCC2. Here, using cryo-electron microscopy, we find that the RAD51-XRCC3-RAD51C complex (RAD51-X3C) assembles into an octamer in which XRCC3 engages the RAD51 DNA-binding surface and RAD51 subunits adopt a misaligned configuration incompatible with filament formation. These features define an autoinhibited RAD51-X3C state that limits nonproductive RAD51 binding to double-stranded DNA or RNA-DNA hybrids while preserving RAD51 availability for ssDNA-dependent strand exchange. We further show that the RAD51D-XRCC2 paralog complex remodels RAD51-X3C into a pentameric RAD51-X3CDX2 assembly by engaging the exposed RAD51C surface and disrupting contacts that stabilize the octamer. This remodeling exposes the RAD51 DNA-binding interface, enhances RAD51-ssDNA filament assembly, and promotes strand exchange on RPA-coated ssDNA, and yields a filament-compatible paralog assembly that integrates into ssDNA-bound RAD51 filaments. Together, these findings establish paralog exchange as a mechanism that converts an autoinhibited RAD51-X3C octamer into an activated RAD51-X3CDX2 pentamer to regulate RAD51 filament formation during HR and replication fork preservation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Laryngeal cancer (LC) is a common malignant tumor. Telomere-related genes (T-RGs) play critical roles in cellular senescence and carcinogenesis, but their prognostic relevance in LC remains to be fully elucidated. Therefore, exploring the prognostic genes related to telomeres in LC is important.Public retrospective datasets TCGA-HNSC and T-RGs were used to identify candidate genes by intersecting differentially expressed genes with T-RGs. Key analytical approaches, including machine learning algorithms and univariate Cox regression, were applied to identify prognostic genes and construct a prognostic model. A nomogram was developed to assess the prognostic value for LC based on overall survival. Disease samples were classified into high-risk and low-risk groups, and subsequent analyses included immune infiltration, immune checkpoint expression, and related evaluations. Experimental validation of prognostic genes was performed through RT-qPCR.A total of 314 candidate genes were obtained from 8961 differentially expressed genes. Four key prognostic genes (CHTF18, FANCG, NR5A1, and XRCC3) were identified. The constructed risk score model retained consistent predictive accuracy in both the training and validation datasets, with AUCs ranging from approximately 0.61 to 0.9. Enriched activated immune cells were detected in the low-risk group through immune microenvironment analysis, whereas immune suppression-related features were identified in the high-risk group, accompanied by a reduced tumor mutational burden that was detected. Finally, preliminary validation using RT-qPCR in a limited cohort of clinical samples indicated that the expression trends of three prognostic genes were elevated in LC tissues, showing concordance with the bioinformatic findings.This study identified four key prognostic T-RGs (CHTF18, FANCG, NR5A1, and XRCC3) and constructed a corresponding prognostic model for LC. Our analyses further suggest a potential link between telomere maintenance mechanisms and the tumor immune microenvironment, which may influence patient outcomes.Copyright © 2026 Yesong Cheng et al. International Journal of Genomics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and cardiovascular diseases (CVDs), including hypertension (HTN), coronary heart disease (CHD), and heart failure (HF), are major global health burdens. The shared genetic mechanisms underlying the high comorbidity between COPD and CVDs remain unclear.We integrated large-scale GWAS summary statistics for COPD and three major CVDs (HTN, CHD, HF). Several analytic approaches were applied, including linkage disequilibrium score regression (LDSC), high-definition likelihood (HDL), multi-marker analysis of genomic annotation (MAGMA), pleiotropic analysis under composite null hypothesis (PLACO), and summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR). These methods were used to evaluate genetic correlations, identify shared risk loci, and prioritize potential therapeutic targets.LDSC and HDL analyses revealed significant positive genetic correlations between COPD and the three CVDs (rg = 0.23-0.38, P < 0.05). MAGMA enrichment analysis identified 277 unique pleiotropic genes enriched in pathways such as Notch signaling and nicotinic acetylcholine receptor signaling. Tissue-specific analyses indicated that shared genetic signals were enriched not only in the lung and heart but also in neuroendocrine-related tissues such as the cerebellum and pituitary, suggesting the involvement of a potential "lung-heart-brain" multi-organ axis. PLACO identified 94 pleiotropic SNPs, with consistent colocalization signals at 15q25.1 (CHRNA3/5, IREB2) and 4q22 (SOX7). SMR analysis further prioritized 626 candidate genes, including ZNF652, XRCC3, SLC22A5, and SOX7, which may serve as potential therapeutic targets.This study provides genetic evidence for shared mechanisms linking COPD with HTN, CHD, and HF. It highlights the roles of neurotransmitter receptors, iron metabolism, vascular development, and energy metabolism in COPD-CVD comorbidity. These findings offer insights into precision prevention and therapeutic strategies targeting COPD-CVD comorbidity.© 2026 Chen et al.
The repair of DNA double-strand breaks by homologous recombination is essential for genomic integrity, and its dysregulation is a hallmark of cancer1. Central to homologous recombination is the RAD51 recombinase, whose assembly into a nucleoprotein filament is governed by five RAD51 paralogues (RAD51B, RAD51C, RAD51D, XRCC2 and XRCC3)2. Mutations in any of these proteins predispose individuals to multiple cancers or genetic disorders3-6. These paralogues are thought to form two functionally separate complexes RAD51B-RAD51C-RAD51D-XRCC2 (BCDX2) and RAD51C-XRCC3 (CX3), that act independently at different stages of homologous recombination7-11. Here we demonstrate that all five paralogues can assemble into a single, ATP-dependent BCDX2-CX3-RAD51 supercomplex. The architecture of this assembly bound to single-stranded DNA reveals a contiguous filament where the CX3 module stacks atop BCDX2, creating a protofilament template for RAD51 filament formation. We further identify a novel, RAD51B-independent DX2-CX3 complex (RAD51D-XRCC2-RAD51C-XRCC3) functioning as a stable RAD51 anchor on single-stranded DNA, and we capture it in multiple states, including capping RAD51 filament segment. These distinct assemblies are differentially regulated by ATPase activity, defining a dynamic BCDX2-CX3 'loader' and a stable DX2-CX3 'anchor' that provide functional modularity to the homologous recombination machinery. This work provides a unifying mechanism for human RAD51 paralogue function and delivers an atomic blueprint for interpreting disease-causing mutations.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Fanconi anemia (FA) is characterized by bone marrow failure, congenital abnormalities, and cancer predisposition. Mutations in RAD51 paralogs have been identified in FA-like disorders and cancers. Although the role of RAD51 paralogs is well established in homologous recombination (HR)-mediated DNA repair, little is known about their role during replication stress responses. Here, we report that the RAD51C-XRCC3 (CX3) complex of RAD51 paralogs participates in the FA pathway of R-loop tolerance mechanism. CX3 complex suppresses R-loops, transcription-replication collisions (TRCs), and associated genome instability under physiological and replication stress conditions. Mechanistically, the CX3 complex physically interacts with FANCM and facilitates its recruitment to the R-loop sites to promote its resolution. Notably, cells expressing the RAD51C R258H pathological mutant exhibit defective interaction with FANCM and display inefficient R-loop processing. The CX3 complex-mediated R-loop resolution is independent of its fork maintenance function. Collectively, we demonstrate a previously unidentified role of the CX3 complex in preventing R-loop-induced genome instability by regulating FANCM-mediated R-loop resolution.
Double-strand break (DSB) repair occurs through non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) or homologous recombination (HR). To identify non-canonical factors that influence DSB repair outcomes, we parsed data from pooled genetic screens. Through this approach, we identified the splicing factor SFPQ, which has been previously reported to associate with DSBs and promote repair. Here, we show that SFPQ depletion alters DSB repair via HR. However, in contrast to other published work, we find that SFPQ does not localize to DSBs but instead stabilizes the expression of RAD51 and its paralogs independently of p53 activation or DNA damage. Our findings suggest that SFPQ contributes to constitutive DSB repair by maintaining RAD51 paralog mRNA stability rather than through direct interaction with DSBs or RAD51 proteins. Ultimately, our results highlight indirect mechanisms by which RNA-binding proteins can influence genome stability.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Protein folding by the bacterial chaperonin GroEL/ES relies on ATP-driven conformational cycles that promote substrate encapsulation and folding. Under oxidative stress, the redox-active co-chaperone CnoX protects oxidized proteins and associates with GroEL, yet the structural basis of its interaction with the GroEL/ES remains incompletely understood. Using single-particle cryo-electron microscopy, we resolved four distinct nucleotide-bound conformational states of CnoX-associated GroEL/ES complexes. CnoX remains tethered to GroEL through its C-terminal TPR domain despite substantial rearrangements of the GroEL apical domains. We further captured a GroEL/ES-CnoX ternary assembly in which CnoX and GroES simultaneously occupy the same GroEL ring, demonstrating that their binding sites are structurally distinct and non-overlapping. Comparison of two GroES-bound states reveals how apical-domain compaction occludes the CnoX-binding surface and coincides with loss of CnoX from the cis-ring. Together, these structures define how CnoX is accommodated and excluded across distinct GroEL/ES conformations and provide a structural framework for understanding the interplay between redox co-chaperones and chaperonin assemblies.© 2026 Kim et al.
The carboxyl terminus of Hsp70-interacting protein (CHIP, encoded by STUB1) combines co-chaperone and E3 ubiquitin ligase activities to regulate protein quality control. Heterozygous mutations in STUB1 cause spinocerebellar ataxia type 48 (SCA48), a progressive cerebellar ataxia with variable extrapyramidal and cognitive features. To understand the molecular basis of this variability, we systematically analyzed 13 SCA48-associated variants spanning the TPR and U-box domains through recombinant protein biochemistry and cellular models. TPR variants retained intrinsic ligase activity but showed significantly reduced HSP70 binding, impaired substrate ubiquitination, and decreased stability. Conversely, U-box variants abolished ligase function, promoted the formation of high-molecular-weight oligomers, and often increased CHIP levels while only partially impairing co-chaperone activity. Many mutants displayed temperature-sensitive defects and defective stress-induced nuclear translocation. Principal component analysis revealed distinct biochemical clustering specific to each domain. RNA-seq following STUB1 knockdown modeled CHIP insufficiency and showed preserved HSF1-dependent transactivation, but loss of CHIP's capacity to amplify ubiquitination, chaperone function, and stress-related transcriptional programs. Meta-analysis of 87 SCA48 patients linked TPR-like biochemical signatures to upper motor neuron involvement and U-box-like profiles to prominent dysarthria. Overall, these data indicate that SCA48 results from domain-specific disruption of CHIP's dual functions, producing varying degrees of CHIP insufficiency and/or gain-of-toxic effects that together contribute to the phenotypic diversity observed across patients. This work refines the mechanistic framework for SCA48 pathogenesis and highlights strategies for therapeutic modulation of residual CHIP activity.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567391 is a review article
The lack of mutation-contextual therapeutic targets remains a major barrier in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) management. Immunohistochemical analysis of 341 human HCC specimens identified FK506-binding protein 52 (FKBP52) as a tumor grade-associated biomarker. In vitro, FKBP52 overexpression enhanced proliferation in p53-mutant liver cancer cells but suppressed it in p53-wild-type cells. Using two murine models-subcutaneous xenografts and orthotopic liver implants-genetic manipulation confirmed that FKBP52 overexpression in Huh7 accelerated tumor growth, while shRNA-mediated knockdown attenuated growth and decreased AFP/CD133 expression. Differential p53 status underpinned this disparity. In vitro EdU incorporation assays, colony formation assays and TP53-null xenografts (Hep3B cells) demonstrated that p53 knockdown abrogated the phenotype, confirming that FKBP52 promotes mutant p53-driven tumorigenesis while suppressing wild-type p53 tumors. Mechanistically, co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) revealed FKBP52 binds p53 via its FK2 and TPR domains independently of mutation status. This interaction recruited MDM2 into the FKBP52-p53 complex, impairing MDM2-mediated degradation and prolonging stability of both wild-type and mutant p53. Taken together, our findings establish FKBP52 as a novel p53 stabilizer with context-dependent oncogenic effects, critically determined by p53 mutational status. These results highlight the therapeutic potential of targeting the FKBP52-MDM2-p53 axis specifically in TP53-mutant HCC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This work systematically investigates the effect of Cu/Al ratio on NO x conversion, N2O formation, NH3 oxidation, and hydrothermal stability over Cu-SSZ-13 catalysts under simulated diesel-exhaust NH3-SCR conditions. Multiple characterization techniques, including XRD, H2-TPR, NH3-TPD, UV-vis DRS, XPS, EPR, and in situ DRIFTS, were employed to clarify the relationship between Cu-species evolution, surface intermediate reactivity, and N2O formation. The results show that the Cu/Al ratio strongly regulates the distribution of Z[Cu2+(OH)]+, Z2Cu2+, and CuO x -like species. An insufficient Cu loading limits the number of redox-active Cu species required for low-temperature SCR, whereas excessive Cu loading promotes the formation of CuO x -like species and less selective Cu environments, leading to enhanced NH3 oxidation and N2O formation. After hydrothermal aging at 800 °C for 16 h, dealumination of the zeolite framework disrupts the coordination bonds between active Cu2+ and framework Al, driving the transformation to CuO x . When the Cu/Al ratio exceeds 0.3, it further generates inert CuAlO x that lack SCR activity and strongly promote N2O formation. Since low-temperature N2O formation is closely associated with the formation and decomposition of NH4NO3-related intermediates, these results indicate that N2O suppression over Cu-SSZ-13 is not governed simply by Cu loading, but by maintaining an appropriate relative distribution of Cu species.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42546407 is a review article
American Indian and Alaska Native (AI/AN) communities experience a disproportionate burden of substance use disorders (SUDs) alongside persistent barriers to culturally responsive care and research participation. Despite this need, AI/AN populations remain underrepresented in substance use research, in part due to historical and ongoing systemic inequities, including research practices that have not adequately respected Tribal sovereignty or incorporated Indigenous knowledge systems. This commentary synthesizes research conducted within the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) Clinical Trials Network (CTN) focused on AI/AN communities, identifies key lessons learned from this body of work, and offers recommendations for future research. First, we provide an overview of CTN-supported studies involving AI/AN populations, highlighting both the diversity of substance use patterns across communities and the feasibility of conducting rigorous, culturally responsive research. Second, we synthesize lessons learned from these studies and related literature, including the importance of long-term relationship building, the need for culturally responsive research frameworks, structural barriers to implementation, and workforce and infrastructure challenges. Third, we present recommendations for the field, emphasizing the central role of community-based participatory research (CBPR) and Tribal participatory research (TPR), the integration of Indigenous knowledge systems, and the importance of Tribal data sovereignty and community-led dissemination. Collectively, this commentary argues that sustainable progress in addressing SUDs among AI/AN populations requires a fundamental shift toward community-engaged, culturally responsive, and equity-focused research partnerships. The experiences of the CTN AI/AN Special Interest Group demonstrate that such approaches are not only feasible but essential for advancing both scientific knowledge and community health.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Survival following total cavopulmonary connection (TCPC) is influenced by pre-operative haemodynamics. We developed a minimally invasive method to measure total pulmonary resistance (TPR) at the bidirectional cavopulmonary connection (BCPC) stage, reflecting the combined pulmonary impedance of the TCPC circulation. We evaluated whether TPR predicted early Fontan failure [EFF; death, TCPC take-down, emergency fenestration, or mechanical circulatory support (MCS) ≤ 6months post-TCPC] or prolonged post-operative intensive care unit (ICU) stay (>14 days).TPR was derived using jugular venous pressure as a surrogate for central venous pressure (CVP) and pulmonary blood flow (Q p) measured non-invasively from cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR). Indexed TPR (TPRi) was calculated as CVP/Q p indexed to body surface area. Logistic regression evaluated predictors of early post-TCPC outcomes. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis assessed TPRi discrimination for EFF or the composite endpoint of EFF or prolonged ICU stay [early adverse outcome (EAO)]. Of 232 patients with BCPC undergoing CMR, 96% (n = 223) proceeded to TCPC. TPR data were available in 204 patients. On multivariable analysis, TPRi (adjusted OR 1.28, P = 0.030) and isomerism [adjusted odds ratio (OR) 14.34, P = 0.002] were independently associated with EFF. Both TPRi (adjusted OR 1.37, P = 0.001) and isomerism (adjusted OR 14.53, P = 0.001) also independently predicted EAO. ROC analysis identified optimal TPRi thresholds of ≥5.78 WU·m2 for EFF (sensitivity 80%, specificity 54%) and ≥5.7 WU·m2 for EAO (sensitivity 75%, specificity 53%).TPRi, calculated by combining pressure and flow data at the BCPC stage, independently predicts early adverse post-TCPC outcomes and may help identify high-risk patients without cardiac catheterization.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.
Early postzygotic mutations (PZMs) that arise after fertilization but prior to primordial germ cell specification may be present in both somatic and germ cells, causing mosaicism in a parent and constitutive inheritance in their offspring. In clinical family-trio whole-genome sequencing (WGS), such variants are systematically missed because their sub-heterozygous variant allele fraction (VAF) prevents heterozygous calling in the parent, while residual parental allele support disqualifies the variant as a candidate germline de novo mutation (DNM) in the child. Here, we developed a bioinformatic approach to ascertain parental PZMs from unfiltered DNM candidates in standard-depth (∼30×) trio WGS and applied it to 12,015 trios from the Genomics England 100,000 Genomes Project. We identified 1,015 high-confidence early autosomal parental PZMs, a large single-source catalog of this mutation class. These exhibited a monomodal VAF distribution centered around 5% in parental blood, consistent with empirically characterized ascertainment boundaries imposed by standard-depth sequencing and germline variant calling. PZMs showed no parental age or sex bias and displayed a mutational spectrum distinct from that of DNMs, with enrichment for C>A and T>A substitutions and depletion of T>C. Mutational signature analysis revealed that both mutation types are shaped by clock-like signatures SBS1 and SBS5 in similar proportions, suggesting that spectral differences reflect shifts within shared mutagenic processes. Exploratory genomic distribution analysis revealed a negative PZM association with GC content, in contrast to the positive association for DNMs. Among these, we found variants in DYNC1H1 and WT1 with potential clinical relevance that were missed by routine diagnostic pipelines.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The DNA damage response (DDR) is a complex network of cellular pathways that ensures the faithful maintenance of our genomes upon a wide array of genomic insults. To elucidate the functional architecture of this network, we conducted unbiased genetic interaction screens using the Cas12a genome editor to disrupt 233 DDR genes frequently mutated in cancer and other genetic diseases, either individually or in pairwise combinations. This approach enabled us to assess the phenotypic effects induced by the disruption of >27,000 DDR gene pair combinations under unperturbed cell growth conditions. From this analysis, we identified over 750 high-confidence positive (buffering) or negative (synthetic lethal/sick) gene-gene interactions, along with multiple connections between previously unlinked DDR pathways and modules, allowing us to define novel aspects of the cellular response to spontaneous, DNA replication-associated DNA damage. Among the identified genetic interactions, we uncovered profound synthetic lethal interactions between genes encoding 1) the translesion polymerase REV1-Pol ζ complex and the MCM8-MCM9-HROB DNA helicase complex; 2) Fanconi Anemia (FA) proteins and the mitotic DNA repair factors GEN1, CIP2A, and RHINO; and 3) the DNA translocase SMARCAL1 and components of the FANCM complex, suggesting novel opportunities for targeted therapies in tumors carrying mutations in these genes. Additionally, we identified robust suppressor interactions between the DCLRE1B gene encoding the nuclease APOLLO and the core non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) genes XRCC4 , LIG4 , and NHEJ1 , suggesting that NHEJ impairs the fitness of APOLLO-deficient cells. This work provides a functional map of the DDR network and demonstrates the power of Cas12a-based screens for identifying synthetic lethal and buffering interactions with therapeutic potential.
To determine the diagnostic yield of comprehensive genetic testing in patients with neuroimaging findings suggestive of lissencephaly spectrum disorders and to characterize novel pathogenic variants contributing to the genetic architecture of the spectrum.We reviewed clinical and genetic findings of 23 patients with neuroimaging features suspected of the lissencephaly spectrum who underwent genetic testing at the Children's Hospital Zagreb between 2016 and 2025. Clinical data were obtained from medical records and outpatient assessments by clinical geneticists. Genetic testing included chromosomal microarray, clinical exome sequencing, and whole-exome sequencing.A molecular diagnosis was established in 15 of 23 patients (65.2%). The pathogenic variants involved genes related to microtubule function (DCX, TUBA1A, TUBB2B, DYNC1H1) and variants in transcriptional and regulatory genes (FOXG1, WDR62). Four novel (likely) pathogenic variants were detected in well-established lissencephaly genes (DCX, TUBA1A, FOXG1, and WDR62). Although most cases involved single-gene variants, three patients had pathogenic copy number variants (1q43q44, 22q11.21, and Xq22.3q23 deletions).Exome sequencing when used as a first-line test, complemented by chromosomal microarray, provides a high diagnostic yield in patients with lissencephaly spectrum disorders. This integrated approach facilitates precise diagnosis, informs prognosis, enables targeted follow-up, and supports comprehensive genetic counselling.
The GEN1 gene is involved in DNA damage repair, as are several prostate cancer susceptibility genes, and is now included in several NGS clinical testing panels. The aim of our study was to investigate the role of GEN1 mutations in the etiology of prostate cancer.First, we sequenced GEN1 in 390 Polish men with familial prostate cancer and 300 population controls using exome sequencing to identify protein-truncating variants and to analyze their possible association with prostate cancer risk. In addition, we performed a large association study of a recurrent frameshift variant of GEN1 (c.1929_1932delAAAG) among 5,857 men with unselected prostate cancer and 3,956 controls. We compared the clinical characteristics of prostate tumors in carriers of c.1929_1932delAAAG and in non-carriers. We conducted loss of heterozygosity (LOH) analysis at the GEN1 locus in prostate cancers from two men with the c.1929_1932delAAAG variant. To analyze survival, patients were followed from diagnosis to death for an average of 101 months.We detected two frameshift variants (c.2515_2519delAAGTT (p. Lys839Glufs*2), c.1539delT (p. Asp514Ilefs*13)) by sequencing the GEN1 gene of 390 Polish patients with familial prostate cancer and 300 cancer-free controls. Neither variant was associated with increased prostate cancer risk: c.2515_2519delAAGTT was detected in 20.5% of 390 cases and in 17.1% of 300 controls (p = 0.28), c.1539delT was detected in one case (0.3%) and none of the controls (p = 1.00). The GEN1 variant, c.1929_1932delAAAG (p. Lys645Cysfs*29), was observed in 13 of 5,857 (0.22%) unselected cases and 8 of 3,956 (0.20%) controls (OR = 1.10, p = 0.84). Clinical characteristics of prostate tumors in 13 carriers of c.1929_1932delAAAG and 5,844 non-carriers were similar. All-cause survival was similar for variant carriers and non-carriers (age-adjusted HR = 0.68, p = 0.76). The wild-type GEN1 allele was not lost in two prostate tumors in men with the c.1929_1932delAAAG variant.Our analysis suggests that GEN1 is not a prostate cancer susceptibility gene. The study has clinical implications for genetic counseling of men who tested positive for germline variants of GEN1.© 2026. The Author(s).
BackgroundThis study aimed to identify DNA repair-related genes causally affecting OCC risk by integrating multi-omics data using summary data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR).MethodsSMR analyses were performed using GWAS, mQTL, eQTL, and pQTL data. Causal associations were assessed via SMR and HEIDI tests, and colocalization analysis identified shared genetic variants. Findings were validated in the FinnGen_OCC cohort.ResultsThis study identified 160 methylation sites (96 genes), 30 eQTLs, and 2 pQTLs linked to OCC. Colocalization confirmed 96 mQTLs, 20 eQTLs, and 2 pQTLs (GPN1, HNRNPAB). Five mQTLs (ANK1, HLA C, TERT, TUBB, VHL) replicated in FinnGen. Integration of mQTL and eQTL data highlighted VHL, TP73, and JMJD1C, implicating DNA methylation-mediated regulation. Multi-omics and tissue analyses identified VHL as the most consistent risk gene, supported by colocalization, TCGA HNSC transcriptomic validation (P < 0.01), and DepMap functional data. GEN1 and POU5F1 expression in salivary gland tissue also associated with OCC risk.ConclusionThis multilayer SMR study reveals causal links between DNA repair-related genes and OCC, highlighting VHL as a key driver and suggesting targets for early detection and precision therapy.
Inducible control of protein activity with temporal precision is essential for understanding and engineering dynamic cellular behaviors. However, current inducible molecular tools largely rely on overexpression of target proteins, which often disrupts the signaling pathways and cellular functions under investigation. A generalizable method to achieve inducible control of endogenous proteins in mammalian cells remains an unmet need. Here, we present a versatile platform based on engineered streptavidin biomolecular condensates to trap and release endogenously tagged proteins. By tagging endogenous loci with a short streptavidin-binding peptide via CRISPR knock-in, our synthetic streptavidin condensates efficiently partition and functionally inhibit the tagged endogenous proteins. The sequestered cargo protein is rapidly released upon the addition of biotin, restoring protein activity within minutes. We demonstrated the broad applicability of this system by controlling diverse endogenous targets: the anterograde motor KIF5B and retrograde motor DYNC1H1, which regulate intracellular vesicle trafficking, and the Arp2/3 complex subunit ARPC3, which regulates actin dynamics. Furthermore, we developed a dual-inducible system based on rapamycin-dependent condensation of streptavidin, enabling both rapid sequestration and release of endogenous proteins at user-defined time points. Altogether, this engineered streptavidin condensate platform provides a robust, rapid, and scalable approach for manipulating endogenous protein function under physiologically relevant conditions in both basic and translational research.
Mutations in the cytoplasmic dynein heavy chain (DYNC1H1) underlie a range of neurodevelopmental disorders yet how individual variants perturb dynein function remains poorly understood. We characterize the disease-associated P3018S mutation, located in the AAA4 module and within the Lis1-interacting region of the motor. Dynein-dynactin-BicD2 (DDB) complexes containing P3018S dynein move at half the wild-type velocity and generate reduced stall forces but retain the ability to assume the inhibitory phi conformation that Lis1 suppresses, respond to Lis1, and assemble into higher-order force-generating states. Several Schizosaccharomyces species, which lack Lis1, naturally encode a serine at this position, suggesting evolutionary relevance for dynein activation. Using mixed wild-type-mutant assemblies, we find that the dynein occupying the trailing position on dynactin dictates ensemble velocity, and that the leading dynein's LIC enhances trailing-motor velocity by ~130%, revealing a mechanism for leading-to-trailing motor stimulation within multi-dynein assemblies.
Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory skin disease. Narrow-band ultraviolet B (NB-UVB) phototherapy is an effective, cost-efficient, and safe treatment for plaque psoriasis; however, predictors of treatment response remain limited.To develop predictive models for the efficacy and safety of NB-UVB phototherapy in patients with plaque psoriasis.A total of 252 patients with plaque psoriasis were enrolled and received 12 weeks of NB-UVB phototherapy. Baseline clinical data and blood samples for genetic analysis were collected. A genome-wide association study (GWAS) was performed to identify single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with treatment response and adverse events (AEs).Using a suggestive genome-wide significance threshold (P < 1×10-5), the SLC7A13 rs35314286 TA allele and DYNC1H1 rs941636 A allele showed suggestive associations with better efficacy after 4 weeks of NB-UVB treatment. Seven ATP2B2 SNPs and ten PSMB7 SNPs showed suggestive associations with achievement of Psoriasis area and severity index (PASI) 75 at week 12. Two KCNA2 SNPs, seven THSD7B SNPs, and one TENM4 SNP were identified as candidate markers for the occurrence of AEs.Predictive models of NB-UVB treatment response in psoriasis were subsequently established and achieved area under the curve (AUC) values ranging from 0.80 to 0.85. Further validation in independent external cohorts is needed before clinical application.© 2026 Yu et al.
Hypoxia is a hallmark of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) and plays a critical role in driving tumor progression. However, the mechanisms by which OSCC cells respond to hypoxic signaling to promote malignant phenotypes remain unclear. The present study aimed to identify the key regulatory factors governing hypoxic adaptation in OSCC. Based on bulk RNA‑sequencing (RNA‑seq) data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database, hypoxia was identified as a prognostic risk factor for OSCC. Hierarchical clustering revealed 'glycolysis' and 'hypoxia' as the most strongly associated cancer hallmarks. Using single‑cell RNA‑seq data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database, 104 hypoxia‑ and glycolysis‑associated genes were identified. Integration of bulk RNA‑seq data from TCGA and GEO databases enabled the development of an optimized prognostic model [stepwise Cox (backward) + elastic network (α=0.8)] through machine learning and highlighted four core genes: Heparan sulfate proteoglycan 2, immunoglobulin superfamily member 3, dihydrouridine synthase 1‑like and dynein cytoplasmic 1 heavy chain 1 (DYNC1H1). Further analysis of chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing data from GEO database identified DYNC1H1 as the sole super‑enhancer (SE)‑regulated gene among these candidates, characterized by hypoxia‑responsive upregulation. DYNC1H1 knockdown significantly abrogated hypoxia‑induced proliferation, invasion, glucose uptake and lactate production in OSCC cells. Hypoxia‑responsive transcription factor FOS‑like 2 (FOSL2) activated DYNC1H1 transcription by binding to enhancer regions. Functional validation established that the FOSL2/DYNC1H1 axis was a pivotal regulatory hub for hypoxia‑driven malignant phenotypes in OSCC. Overall, DYNC1H1 is an SE‑regulated hypoxia‑responsive gene that undergoes transcriptional activation via FOSL2‑specific binding to typical enhancer and SE regions. The FOSL2/DYNC1H1 axis drives the hypoxia‑induced malignant progression of OSCC. The present study therefore establishes a novel target for precision therapies targeting the hypoxic tumor microenvironment in OSCC.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder. Exercise can delay the onset of AD and improve cognitive dysfunction, but its underlying mechanism still needs further exploration. In this study, 6-month-old transgenic mice underwent a 12-week treadmill exercise intervention. The water maze experiment demonstrated that the learning and memory abilities of AD-exercise (ADE) mice were significantly superior to those of the wild-type mice. The proteomics analysis identified several proteins that were significantly upregulated or downregulated after treadmill exercise, such as SYT1, SLC25A5, and DLST in the hippocampal tissue; OPA1, NSF, DLG2, and DNM1 in the cortical tissue; and APP, APOE, MAP2, MAPT, SYP, SYN1/2, and DYNC1H1 in the cerebellar tissue. The functional enrichment analysis suggested that mitochondrial dysfunction, synaptic vesicle transport, and amyloid fibril formation in AD mice tend to recover to levels similar to those of wild-type mice. At the same time, the processes of exercise-induced axon guidance, protein stabilization, and negative regulation of apoptosis were enhanced more effectively than in wild-type animals. These results will help us understand how exercise improves cognition in AD mice.
Epithelial-to-mesenchymal transitions (EMT) require extensive cytoskeletal remodeling to enable changes in cell polarity, adhesion, and migration. Although transcriptional programs controlling EMT are well characterized, how microtubule composition is developmentally regulated during cell state transitions remains poorly understood. Here, we establish a spatially resolved resource delineating the expression of α- and β-tubulin isotypes during neural crest (NC) EMT and tissue differentiation in the chick embryo. Integration of publicly available single-cell RNA sequencing datasets reveals diverse patterns of tubulin gene expression, ranging from broadly expressed isotypes (TUBA1A and TUBA1B) to more cell-type-restricted transcripts (TUBAL3 and TUBB4B). Several tubulin genes, including TUBB3, TUBA3E, and TUBG1, are enriched within NC and NC-associated cell types. Using fluorescence in situ hybridization chain reaction (HCR) to spatiotemporally characterize transcripts encoding selected tubulin isotypes, we validate these patterns and map their expression across developmental stages. These transcript patterns provide a map of tubulin gene expression, but additional studies are needed to determine how they relate to microtubule composition. We further show expression of the microtubule motor genes KIF11 and DYNC1LI1, revealing overlapping expression patterns between tubulin and motor-associated genes during EMT. Together, these data define a cell state-resolved atlas of tubulin gene expression during vertebrate EMT.
The response of lung cancer to chemoradiotherapy (CRT) is orchestrated by the dynamic interplay between immune microenvironment remodeling and metabolic reprogramming. However, robust biomarkers for predicting patient prognosis remain elusive. In this study, we performed proteomics profiling of 22 pairs of lung cancer specimens and compared CRT-sensitive versus CRT-resistant subtypes. Functional analysis revealed distinct pathway enrichment between the two groups: the CRT-sensitive subtype was predominantly associated with fatty acid oxidation and energy metabolism, whereas the CRT-resistant subtype exhibited elevated immune activation, inflammatory responses, and stress-related signaling. Based on these findings, we developed a LASSO regression-based predictive model that pinpointed a protein signature encompassing IKBKB interacting protein (IKBIP) and citron rho-interacting serine/threonine kinase (CIT) as optimal predictors of CRT efficacy. Subsequent survival analysis further confirmed the prognostic relevance of these proteins. Collectively, our findings emphasize the critical role of the metabolic-immune axis in modulating CRT sensitivity and provide mechanistic insights into the molecular underpinnings of treatment response, thereby offering a clinically translatable tool for guiding precision therapeutic strategies in lung cancer.
Neural crest (NC) cells are dynamic embryonic stem cells that undergo an epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and alter their cell states from tightly adherent to migratory and invasive during early development. While EMT transcriptional programs are well characterized, how cytoskeletal architecture is developmentally patterned across EMT states remains poorly understood. Here, we present a spatial and temporal atlas of α- and β-tubulin isotype gene expression during NC EMT in the chick embryo. Single cell RNA-sequencing reveals diversity in tubulin isotype gene expression from ubiquitous (TUBA1A, TUBA1B) to cell type specific (TUBAL3, TUBB4B). In addition, we identified novel enrichment of several tubulin isotypes in NC and NC-associated clusters (TUBB3, TUBA3E, TUBG1). Using fluorescent in situ hybridization chain reaction (HCR), we focus on NC EMT and migration states to validate and spatially resolve these expression patterns. Additional characterization in differentiated cells reveals tubulin gene expression in specific neuronal and myogenic populations. We further identify expression of the microtubule motor genes KIF11 and DYNC1LI1 within neural tube and NC populations, suggesting coordinated regulation of microtubule composition and cargo transport capacity. Together, these data establish that vertebrate NC EMT is accompanied by systematic reprogramming of tubulin gene expression and provide a developmental resource for investigating cytoskeletal control of cell state transitions.
BACKGROUND: Remission from pre-diabetes and type 2 diabetes (T2D) is frequently observed immediately after a duodenal/jejunal bypass. This demonstrates the reversibility of T2D and involvement of the proximal small intestine in T2D pathology. This study investigates the role of the duodenum in the pathophysiology of T2D, in line with the hypothesis, that exclusion of duodenum/jejunum in T2D (for example, in RYGB surgery) prevents release of unidentified factors that impair insulin sensitivity, leading to T2D remission. The study aimed at identifying novel protein therapeutic targets in human duodenum in T2D and clarifying aetiology. METHODS: Proteome analysis using nano LC-MS/MS was performed on human duodenum surgical samples: T2D (n = 9), pre-diabetics (n = 6) and non-diabetics (n = 11). Proteins were quantified and analysed using MaxQuant and Perseus software. Linear discriminant (LDA), repeated k-fold cross-validation and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analyses were used to segregate disease groups for the highest-ranking proteins. Pilot mRNA expression of five selected protein targets was analysed using real-time RT-qPCR on duodenum from human and the pre-clinical high-fat diet C57BL/6J mouse model of pre-diabetes. RESULTS: Proteomics identified and quantified significant changes in 23 proteins (one-way-ANOVA and Holm adjusted pairwise comparisons), differentiating pre-diabetes and T2D. LDA analyses accurately distinguished disease states and identified highest ranking for 10 proteins distinguishing type 2 diabetics, pre-diabetics and non-diabetics with first linear discriminant LD1 explaining 92% of differences; of which three proteins increased in pre-diabetes (DYNC1LI1, KIF5B and MAPRE1; ROC AUC = 0.89,0.82 and 0.86) are involved in vesicle and organelle transport along microtubules to and from the periphery; and seven proteins decrease in T2D (FUBP3, TPPP, NDUFAB1, ATP2B4, NPLOC4, DHRS4, CHMP3; ROC AUC = 0.81, 0.81, 0.77, 0.83, 0.82, 0.83, 0.76) revealing disruption in gene transcription, microtubule stability, mitochondrial function, Ca2+ signalling, unfolded protein response, redox status and multivesicular body formation. Two secreted proteins (APOA4 and RBP4; ROC AUC = 0.79 and 0.80) were also increased in T2D. Modelling using k-fold cross-validation, identified predictive power for 17 of the 23 proteins. At the mRNA level only borderline significant changes in Chmp3 and Fubp3 were detected using the duodenum of the pre-clinical high-fat diet C57BL/6J mouse model of pre-diabetes. CONCLUSION: Overall, this study addresses a critical knowledge gap, supports our hypothesis, and contributes to a deeper understanding of intestinal involvement in T2D pathogenesis, by examining how changes in the duodenum proteome landscape might reveal mechanisms that contribute to metabolic imbalance in T2D. While these results are currently purely cross-sectional and associative, and their contribution to causality and pathophysiological interpretation for T2D remain to be determined, they expand the frontiers of research on gut-targeted therapies in T2D, and lay groundwork for future translational research into gut-centred drug development to treat T2D or achieve controlled prevention or medical remission of T2D.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a widespread chronic joint disorder characterized by progressive cartilage degeneration, leading to substantial impairment in quality of life for millions of individuals globally. Cellular senescence has been increasingly recognized as a central contributor to OA pathogenesis, with senescent chondrocytes exhibiting a senescence-associated secretory phenotype that promotes tissue destruction. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are known to play essential roles in maintaining cartilage homeostasis; however, their regulatory functions in OA remain poorly defined. This study aimed to elucidate the expression patterns, biological roles, and molecular mechanisms of lncRNA HOXC-AS3 in chondrocyte physiology and OA development.HOXC-AS3 expression was markedly reduced in OA-affected cartilage tissues and in human chondrocytes exposed to IL-1β. Functional analyses revealed that HOXC-AS3 knockdown suppressed chondrocyte proliferation, accelerated cellular senescence, and disrupted extracellular matrix homeostasis, whereas its overexpression ameliorated IL-1β-induced chondrocyte dysfunction. Mechanistically, HOXC-AS3 operates through two distinct pathways: acting as a competing endogenous RNA by directly sequestering miR-615-3p, and physically interacting with ribosome-binding protein 1 (RRBP1). Both pathways converge to regulate the expression of citron rho-interacting serine/threonine kinase (CIT), a critical modulator of the cell cycle. Notably, CIT knockdown mimicked the phenotypic effects of HOXC-AS3 deficiency, while HOXC-AS3 overexpression preserved chondrocyte function by sustaining CIT expression under inflammatory stress.This study establishes lncRNA HOXC-AS3 as a key regulator of chondrocyte homeostasis that mitigates OA progression via dual mechanisms-miR-615-3p sponging and RRBP1 interaction-both of which maintain CIT expression. These findings advance the understanding of the molecular networks underlying OA pathogenesis and underscore HOXC-AS3 and its downstream signaling axis as promising therapeutic targets for OA intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Citron Rho-interacting serine/threonine kinase (CIT) is a major cytosolic protein kinase essential for midbody organisation, abscission, and cytokinesis. Dysregulation and mutations in CIT are associated with multiple cancers and neurodevelopmental disorders, including microcephaly. Although global phosphoproteomic studies have identified more than 50 phosphosites in CIT, their functional relevance and the kinases regulating them remain largely unexplored.To systematically investigate the phosphoregulation of CIT, we curated and integrated global phosphoproteomic datasets, along with their associated experimental conditions, to comprehensively catalogue phosphorylation events reported for CIT. To assess the functional significance of CIT, we examined proteins that were differentially co-regulated with its predominant phosphosite.Serine 440 (S440), located outside the kinase domain (representing over 55% of CIT-associated phospho-signalling events across 100 experimental conditions, including Enterovirus A71 infection, metformin, and interleukin-33), was identified as its predominant phosphosite. Motif analysis revealed the presence of a D(S/T)P/P(S/T)D motif recognised by the CIT kinase domain, suggesting S440 as a predicted autophosphorylation site. Co-phosphoregulation analysis identified 136 interacting proteins and 82 predicted substrates that were positively co-regulated with CIT_S440. The resulting phospho-regulatory network comprised essential cell cycle and DNA repair regulators, including MDC1 and TRIP12. Significantly, over 120 co-regulated phosphosites were functionally linked to DNA repair and cell cycle regulation. Aberrant phosphorylation of CIT_S440 observed across cancers of the breast, colon, and bladder suggests CIT_S440 as a potential onco-phosphosite critically involved in cellular checkpoint signalling.These findings suggest that CIT_S440 functions as a promising therapeutic target, and the phosphosite-centric regulatory network derived in this study could serve as a platform to evaluate its phosphosite-specific therapeutic interventions.Copyright © 2026 Thomas, Lubaba, Ahmed, Mahin, John, Gopalakrishnan, Subair, Shivamurthy, Raju and Soman.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41514609 is a review article
Parkinson's disease (PD) is histopathologically defined by the presence of Lewy bodies, which are intracellular proteinaceous inclusions that contain mainly aggregated alpha-synuclein (aSyn). It is believed that oligomeric intermediates between monomeric aSyn and large aggregates are neurotoxic, which would lead to the demise of dopaminergic neurons. Therefore, novel therapies preventing aSyn-induced cell death need to be developed. Therefore, we performed a genome-wide siRNA screening in an aSyn-induced dopaminergic cell death model and found the knockdown of three transforming growth factor-beta (TGFb) pathway-related genes to be protective. Hence, we hypothesized that a reduction in TGFb signaling would protect dopaminergic neurons from aSyn-induced toxicity. Thus, we validated the results of the genome-wide knockdown screening with the use of two different types of siRNAs. We confirmed that the knockdown of Activin receptor-like kinase 5 (ALK5) and Mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 2 (SMAD2), two genes of the TGFb pathway, protected dopaminergic neurons from aSyn-induced toxicity. An increase in TGFb signaling by treatment with TGFb ligands further exacerbated aSyn-induced toxicity, whereas this effect was mitigated by knockdown of ALK5, SMAD2, or Dynein light chain roadblock type-1 (DYNLRB1). Moreover, TGFb ligand treatment induced an up-regulation of SNCA mRNA expression in aSyn-overexpressing cells. Interestingly, consistent with the literature, we identified an up-regulation of the genes of the TGFb pathway in aSyn-overexpressing cells. Altogether, we identified a potential protective role by interference with the TGFb pathway against aSyn-induced toxicity. These findings provide a rationale for the development of novel strategies against PD.© 2025. The Author(s).
Chemotherapy remains the primary treatment modality for patients with lung cancer; however, substantial inter-patient variability exists in responses to chemotherapeutic agents. Therefore, predicting individual responses is critical for optimizing treatment outcomes and improving patient prognosis.This study developed a model to predict chemotherapy response in lung cancer patients by integrating multi-omics and clinical data from the Genomics of Drug Sensitivity in Cancer database, employing 45 machine learning algorithms. Data from the Gene Expression Omnibus database were utilized to validate the model. The impact of key genes on chemotherapy response was assessed in cell lines.A model combining random forest and support vector machine algorithms exhibited superior performance in both the training and validation sets. Furthermore, patients in the sensitive group demonstrated longer overall survival compared to those in the resistant group. TMED4 and DYNLRB1 genes were identified as pivotal features in the model and exhibited higher expression levels in the chemotherapy-resistant group. SiRNA-mediated knockdown of gene expression enhanced the chemosensitivity of lung cancer cell lines to chemotherapeutic agents.This study successfully developed a high-performance machine learning model for predicting chemotherapy response in lung cancer and elucidated a strong correlation between TMED4 and DYNLRB1 gene expression and chemotherapy resistance. We further provide a user-friendly web server (available at https://smuonco.shinyapps.io/LC-DrugPortal/) to enable clinical utilization of our model, promoting personalized chemotherapy selection for lung cancer patients.© 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of Research Network of Computational and Structural Biotechnology.
Background: The presence of light-pigmented facial stripes, parallel on both sides of the cranial region, is a widespread characteristic in various goat breeds of European origin and beyond. In Italy, this phenotype is relatively common from the north to the south of the peninsula. The availability of genotypic data at single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) loci for breeds and populations characterized by such a pigmentation pattern enabled us to study the genomic regions potentially correlated with this phenotype, for simplicity referred to as "facciuto". Methods: We adopted an FST-outlier approach to detect signals of differential selection in 18 pairwise comparisons, each involving 6 genetic goat types with the "facciuto" phenotype (Facciuta Lucana, Facciuta della Valnerina, Valfortorina, Teramana, Capestrina, and Roccaverano) contrasted with each of 3 "non-facciuto" goat breeds selected as reference populations (Red Mediterranean, light brown; Saanen, white; Malagueña, mahogany solid). Results: The analysis of the region ±200 kbps upstream and downstream of the two significant signals on chromosome 13 and 15 allowed us to identify, among the annotated genes, ASIP, AHCY, ITCH, DYNLRB1, MAP1LC3A, PIGU, LOC102177263, and DTX4, whose functions could be related to several mechanisms underlying the phenotype under investigation. Conclusions: This study confirmed the fundamental role of ASIP in pigmentation, although additional pathways may concurrently contribute to the determinism of the considered "facciuto" phenotype in Italian goats.
Weight loss induced by bariatric surgery (BS) has a profound impact on several biological systems. This study aimed to identify urinary proteins reflecting kidney and systemic adaptations to weight loss in patients with obesity before and after BS. Urine samples from individuals with obesity (n = 16) were collected before and two years after BS. Untargeted high-resolution LC-MS with label-free quantification was used to assess urinary proteome changes. Among the 2347 identified proteins, 1016 depicted a significantly different abundance postsurgery (p < 0.05). In particular, 54 proteins were either upregulated (n = 42) or downregulated (n = 12) by at least 50% (≥1.5-fold). Protein functional classification revealed associations with immune function (n = 17; e.g., protein S100-A9, α-1-acid glycoproteins); cytoskeleton/cell adhesion (n = 11; e.g., supervillin, ezrin, periplakin), and kidney adaptation (n = 11; e.g., elongation factor 1-α 1, megalin, cubilin). A decrease in inflammation protein markers (α-1-acid glycoproteins), alongside an increase in proteins associated with immune modulation and oxidative stress protection (dipeptidase 1, heat shock cognate 71 kDa protein) were observed. Overall, the urinary proteome suggests changes in inflammation and oxidative stress status, as well as in kidney function and cellular organization succeeding BS. Our results reveal potential novel pathways contributing to systemic modifications and nephroprotective effects of BS-induced weight loss.
Pre-eclampsia continues to be a significant global health burden with complex pathophysiology, necessitating investigation of novel biomarkers to improve understanding, diagnosis and management of this pregnancy-specific disorder.To investigate the differential expression of Calcium Release-Activated Calcium Channel Protein 1 (ORAI1), Fibroblast Growth Factor 23 (FGF23), Placental Protein 13 (PP13), Palladin, and Supervillin in both maternal and umbilical cord blood as potential biomarkers for late-onset pre-eclampsia.This cross-sectional, case-control study included 61 women with late-onset pre-eclampsia and 61 normotensive pregnant women undergoing cesarean delivery. Maternal blood samples were collected immediately prior to cesarean delivery, and umbilical cord blood was obtained immediately after delivery of the placenta. Protein concentrations in both circulatory compartments were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The unique study design with paired maternal-cord blood sampling provided insights into maternal-fetal protein transfer dynamics in pre-eclamptic conditions.Maternal and cord blood ORAI1 concentrations were significantly elevated in pre-eclampsia (p = 0.001 and p = 0.035, respectively), while FGF23 and PP13 were significantly decreased in maternal blood (p = 0.022 and p = 0.018, respectively). Maternal-to-cord blood concentration ratios for ORAI1 and FGF23 were significantly altered in pre-eclampsia (p = 0.038 and p = 0.021, respectively). ORAI1 showed the highest diagnostic accuracy (AUC = 0.733) and correlated positively with disease severity and negatively with birth weight. Combined ORAI1 and FGF23 assessment significantly enhanced diagnostic performance (AUC = 0.782).The altered expression of ORAI1, FGF23, and PP13 in late-onset pre-eclampsia suggests disruptions in calcium signaling, phosphate metabolism, and placental function. The parallel measurement of these proteins in both maternal and cord blood provided unique insights into maternal-fetal interface dysfunction in pre-eclampsia. The superior performance of combined ORAI1 and FGF23 measurement underscores the value of a multi-marker approach in capturing pre-eclampsia's complex pathophysiology, potentially contributing to improved diagnostic strategies and therapeutic interventions.© 2025. The Author(s).
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is an important cause of morbidity and mortality with both monogenic and polygenic components. Here, we report results from a large genome-wide association study and multitrait analysis including 5,900 HCM cases, 68,359 controls and 36,083 UK Biobank participants with cardiac magnetic resonance imaging. We identified 70 loci (50 novel) associated with HCM and 62 loci (20 novel) associated with relevant left ventricular traits. Among the prioritized genes in the HCM loci, we identify a novel HCM disease gene, SVIL, which encodes the actin-binding protein supervillin, showing that rare truncating SVIL variants confer a roughly tenfold increased risk of HCM. Mendelian randomization analyses support a causal role of increased left ventricular contractility in both obstructive and nonobstructive forms of HCM, suggesting common disease mechanisms and anticipating shared response to therapy. Taken together, these findings increase our understanding of the genetic basis of HCM, with potential implications for disease management.© 2025. The Author(s).
Supervillin (SVIL), the biggest member of the villin/gelsolin superfamily, has recently been reported to promote the metastasis of hepatocellular carcinoma by stimulating epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). However, little is known about the roles of SVIL in the migration of colorectal cancer cells. Here, we investigated the effects of SVIL on the migration of cisplatin-resistant colorectal cancer cells. The model of cisplatin-resistant HCT116 cells (HCT116/DDP) was established. Migration was assessed after SVIL knockdown. Tumor metastasis was assessed using a mouse model with tail vein injection of colorectal cancer cells. The results showed that the expression of SVIL was upregulated in HCT116/DDP cells compared to that in their parental cells. Also, the HCT116/DDP cells showed increased cell migration and lung metastasis. Furthermore, we revealed that the expression of SVIL was associated with the migration of HCT116/DDP cells. Reduced SVIL expression inhibited migration and lung metastasis in HCT116/DDP cells. Further work showed that SVIL knockdown blocked cell migration by targeting zona occludens-1 (ZO-1) mediated tight-junction remodeling. The expression of ZO-1, but not occludin and cludin5, was downregulated after SVIL knockdown. Immunofluorescence indicated that the linear ZO-1 was interrupted while the SVIL knockdown reversed the interruption. This study displayed the relationship between SVIL and ZO-1 in cisplatin-resistant colon cancer cells, providing a new insight into the mechanism of colorectal cancer migration.© 2024 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) has been well documented playing a role in the regulation of cellular processes, immune responses, and inflammatory processes that can influence the occurrence and development of tumors. Supervillin (SVIL) is a membrane-associated and actin-binding protein, which is actively involved in the proliferation, spread, and migration of cancer cells. This work investigated CRH's influence on bladder cancer cells' migration and relevant mechanisms. By using human bladder cancer cells T24 and RT4 in wound healing experiments and transwell assay, we found that the migration ability of the T24 cells was significantly increased after CRH treatment. In vivo experiments showed that CRH significantly promoted the metastases of T24 cells in cell line-derived xenograft (CDX) mouse model. Interestingly, downregulation of SVIL by SVIL-specifc small hairpin RNAs significantly reduced the promoting effect of CRH on bladder cancer cell migration. Furthermore, CRH significantly increased SVIL messenger RNA and protein expression in T24 cells, accompanied with AKT and ERK phosphorylation in T24 cells. Pretreatment with AKT inhibitor (MK2206) blocked the CRH-induced SVIL expression and ERK phosphorylation. Also, inhibition of ERK signaling pathway by U0126 significantly reduced the CRH-induced SVIL expression and AKT phosphorylation. It suggested that cross-talking between AKT and ERK pathways was involved in the effect of CRH on SVIL. Taken together, we demonstrated that CRH induced migration of bladder cancer cells, in which AKT and ERK pathways -SVIL played a key role.© 2024 International Federation of Cell Biology.
In recent years, the abalone aquaculture industry has been threatened by the bacterial pathogens. The immune responses mechanisms underlying the phagocytosis of haemocytes remain unclear in Haliotis discus hannai. It is necessary to investigate the immune mechanism in response to these bacterial pathogens challenges. In this study, the phagocytic activities of haemocytes in H. discus hannai were examined by flow cytometry combined with electron microscopy and transcriptomic analyses. The results of Vibrio parahaemolyticus, Vibrio alginolyticus and Staphylococcus aureu challenge using electron microscopy showed a process during phagosome formation in haemocytes. The phagocytic rate (PP) of S. aureus was higher than the other five foreign particles, which was about 63%. The PP of Vibrio harveyi was about 43%, the PP peak of V. alginolyticus in haemocyte was 63.7% at 1.5 h. After V. parahaemolyticus and V. alginolyticus challenge, acid phosphatase, alkaline phosphatase, total superoxide dismutase, lysozyme, total antioxidant capacity, catalase, nitric oxide synthase and glutathione peroxidase activities in haemocytes were measured at different times, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by quantitative transcriptomic analysis. The identified DEGs after V. parahaemolyticus challenge included haemagglutinin/amebocyte aggregation factor-like, supervillin-like isoform X4, calmodulin-like and kyphoscoliosis peptidase-like; the identified DEGs after V. alginolyticus challenge included interleukin-6 receptor subunit beta-like, protein turtle homolog B-like, rho GTPase-activating protein 6-like isoform X2, leukocyte surface antigen CD53-like, calponin-1-like, calmodulin-like, troponin C, troponin I-like isoform X4, troponin T-like isoform X18, tumor necrosis factor ligand superfamily member 10-like, rho-related protein racA-like and haemagglutinin/amebocyte aggregation factor-like. Some immune-related KEGG pathways were significantly up-regulated or down-regulated after challenge, including thyroid hormone synthesis, Th17 cell differentiation signalling pathway, focal adhesion, melanogenesis, leukocyte transendothelial migration, inflammatory mediator regulation of TRP channels, ras signalling pathway, rap1 signalling pathway. This study is the first step towards understanding the H. discus hannai immune system by adapting several tools to gastropods and providing a first detailed morpho-functional study of their haemocytes.Copyright © 2024 Ma, Wu, Zhang, Zhang, Jiang, Shen, Wu, Chen and Di.
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) trafficking is a key process in the regulation of synaptic efficacy and brain function. However, the molecular mechanism underlying the surface transport of NMDARs is largely unknown. Here we identified myosin Va (MyoVa) as the specific motor protein that traffics NMDARs in hippocampal neurons. We found that MyoVa associates with NMDARs through its cargo binding domain. This association was increased during NMDAR surface transport. Knockdown of MyoVa suppressed NMDAR transport. We further demonstrated that Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) regulates NMDAR transport through its direct interaction with MyoVa. Furthermore, MyoVa employed Rab11 family-interacting protein 3 (Rab11/FIP3) as the adaptor proteins to couple themselves with NMDARs during their transport. Accordingly, the knockdown of FIP3 impairs hippocampal memory. Together, we conclude that in hippocampal neurons, MyoVa conducts active transport of NMDARs in a CaMKII-dependent manner.© 2024. The Author(s).
As an immune checkpoint protein expressed by diverse cancer cells, programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) facilitates immune evasion by interacting with programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) on T cells. Despite the clinical benefits observed in various cancer types, strategies targeting PD-1/PD-L1 have demonstrated limited efficacy in gastric cancer (GC). Furthermore, the regulation of PD-L1, especially at post-translational modification levels, remains largely unknown. Therefore, it is crucial to elucidate the mechanisms governing PD-L1 expression to enhance anti-tumor immunity. In this study, we have identified that IKAROS family zinc finger 4 (IKZF4) and Non-POU domain-containing octamer-binding (NONO) synergistically regulate and enhance the expression of RAB11 family-interacting protein 3 (RAB11FIP3) in GC. The IKZF4/NONO-RAB11FIP3 axis facilitates the endosomal recycling of PD-L1, particularly on the cell membrane of GC cells. Moreover, overexpression of RAB11FIP3 mitigates the hypo-expression of PD-L1 protein resulting from IKZF4 or NONO deletion. Functionally, the silencing of RAB11FIP3 or IKZF4 promotes T cell proliferation, and enhances T-cell cytotoxicity towards GC cells in vitro, which further inhibits tumor immune evasion in mice via increasing the infiltration of CD8+ T cells into the tumor microenvironment (TME) to suppress GC progression. Our study suggests that the IKZF4/NONO-RAB11FIP3 axis promotes immune evasion by facilitating PD-L1 endosome recycling, thus presenting a potential therapeutic target for GC treatment.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
SVIL is a member of the villin/gelsolin superfamily and is responsible for encoding supervillin. It has been reported to be closely related to the occurrence and development of various tumors. However, the mechanism of SVIL in bladder cancer has not been reported yet. In this research, we evaluated the relationship between SVIL expression and bladder cancer in public dataset and examined the expression of SVIL in bladder cancer cell lines, tissue microarrays and patients in our cohort. Our work determined that the expression of SVIL in bladder cancer tissue was significantly lower than that in normal tissue. However, in bladder cancer tissues, the high expression of SVIL is significantly associated with poor prognosis. This kind of duality is very novel and has great research value. The expression level of SVIL can well predict the survival time of bladder cancer patients, and is an independent risk factor of bladder cancer patients. The expression of SVIL is also closely related to the immune tumor microenvironment of bladder cancer. Our research provides a basis for personalized therapeutic targets for bladder cancer.© 2023. Springer Nature Limited.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is an important cause of morbidity and mortality with both monogenic and polygenic components. We here report results from the largest HCM genome-wide association study (GWAS) and multi-trait analysis (MTAG) including 5,900 HCM cases, 68,359 controls, and 36,083 UK Biobank (UKB) participants with cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging. We identified a total of 70 loci (50 novel) associated with HCM, and 62 loci (32 novel) associated with relevant left ventricular (LV) structural or functional traits. Amongst the common variant HCM loci, we identify a novel HCM disease gene, SVIL, which encodes the actin-binding protein supervillin, showing that rare truncating SVIL variants cause HCM. Mendelian randomization analyses support a causal role of increased LV contractility in both obstructive and non-obstructive forms of HCM, suggesting common disease mechanisms and anticipating shared response to therapy. Taken together, the findings significantly increase our understanding of the genetic basis and molecular mechanisms of HCM, with potential implications for disease management.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42512251 is a review article
Aphids are major agricultural pests that cause severe crop damage. While chemical pesticides remain the dominant control strategy, their associated environmental contamination and resistance issues necessitate the development of eco-friendly biopesticides. This study employed network pharmacology and structural biology to elucidate the molecular mechanism by which Macrolactin A protects against aphids, with validation through molecular docking, 100-ns molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, and enzymatic assays. Target prediction identified five aphid proteins as potential targets of Macrolactin A: somatostatin receptor 5 (J9JQH0), allatostatin-A receptor (J9K6V2), cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (J9JTH4), histone deacetylase Rpd3 (J9JSB6), and DNA-(apurinic or apyrimidinic) site lyase APEX-1 (J9K3U4). Molecular docking and MD simulations confirmed stable binding to all five targets, with binding free energies ranging from -43.18 to -14.12 kcal/mol. Enzymatic assays showed that APEX-1 activity was significantly suppressed in Rhopalosiphum padi and Hyalopterus amygdali after 24 h and 48 h exposure to 300 mg/L and 500 mg/L Macrolactin A. Concurrent bioassays demonstrated strong aphicidal efficacy against R. padi, with corrected mortalities reaching 76.00% and 86.67% at 48 h, respectively. Acute toxicity tests on the silkworm (Bombyx mori) and common carp (Cyprinus carpio) revealed low non-target toxicity (96-h LC50 > 500 mg/L). These findings demonstrate that network-pharmacology-based approaches can improve the accuracy of key target prediction in aphids, and provide an experimental foundation for developing Macrolactin A as an efficient and environmentally friendly microbial aphicide.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Tic disorder (TD) is a common neurodevelopmental disorder in children. Acute histamine deficiency may be involved in the pathogenesis of TDs. In this study, we demonstrate that histamine depletion exacerbates tic-like behaviors in a rat model of TD. Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into control, TD model, TD plus saline, and TD plus α-fluoromethylhistidine (α-FMH) groups. TD was induced by intraperitoneal iminodipropionitrile, and α-FMH was administered intracerebroventricularly. Behavioral assessments showed that α-FMH treatment significantly increased stereotyped and motor behavior scores compared with TD groups (p < 0.05). Immunohistochemistry revealed marked microglial activation in the striatum of TD groups, which was exacerbated by histamine deficiency. Striatal IL-6 and TNF-α levels were elevated in all TD groups; IL-6 was significantly higher in the α-FMH group than in TD groups (p < 0.05). Striatal dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2) expression was also upregulated in TD groups, with the highest levels observed after histamine depletion (p < 0.05). Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry result showed that glutamate levels were significantly reduced in the α-FMH group compared to the TD-NaCl group (p < 0.05). No significant differences were observed in the levels of dopamine, serotonin, or acetylcholine between the TD-NaCl and TD-α-FMH groups. Overall, our findings suggest that acute histamine deficiency aggravates TD-related behaviors by promoting neuroinflammation and upregulating DRD2 expression, highlighting the therapeutic potential of targeting histamine signaling in TD.
Glioblastoma (GBM) remains the most lethal primary brain tumor, with a median survival of 15 months and a 10-year survival rate of <1%. While current research into the dopaminergic system has largely focused on dopamine receptor antagonists, we aimed to investigate the potential therapeutic benefit of dopamine agonists (dopamine receptor D2) through the observation of incidental "super-survivors."We report two cases of adult GBM patients who received concurrent treatment with dopamine agonists for unrelated comorbidities. The first patient, treated with the ergot derivative bromocriptine for a prolactinoma, presented with multifocal disease and underwent subtotal resection. Despite developing a recurrence, he remains alive and progression-free for >11 years after diagnosis. The second patient, a 70-year-old male with Parkinson's disease treated with the non-ergot dopamine agonist pramipexole and with Sinemet, which increases the amount of available dopamine. He had a low Karnofsky Performance Score and received minimal adjuvant therapy. Despite these poor prognostic factors, he achieved a progression-free survival of 15 months and did not succumb to tumor progression.These observational cases suggest a hypothetical association between dopamine agonist therapy and improved survival outcomes in GBM, challenging the current paradigm that favors receptor antagonism. Given the safety, low cost, and blood-brain barrier penetrance of these Food and Drug Administration-approved drugs, we propose that dopamine agonists warrant further investigation as repurposed adjuvant agents in GBM treatment.Copyright: © 2026 Surgical Neurology International.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains difficult to treat due to challenges in early detection and the development of therapeutic resistance. Dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2) plays a critical role in regulating cell proliferation and apoptosis in various solid tumors. Given the relatively high levels of dopamine in the gastrointestinal tract, colorectal tumors may be particularly susceptible to DRD2-mediated signaling. In this study, we evaluated the anticancer activity of a newly synthesized DRD2 antagonist, SD2-2305, and investigated its underlying mechanisms in human CRC cell lines HCT116 and HT-29. SD2-2305 reduced cell viability in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Induction of apoptosis was confirmed by Annexin V/PI staining and immunoblot analysis, with activation of caspase-3, caspase-7, and caspase-9, although no significant changes were observed in the expression of Bcl-2 family proteins. Furthermore, SD2-2305 induced G1 phase cell cycle arrest, accompanied by downregulation of Cyclin A, Cyclin B, CDK1, and CDK2, and upregulation of p21. While key survival pathways (JAK2/STAT3, PI3K/Akt, and MAPK) remained relatively unaffected, SD2-2305 modulated growth factor receptors post-transcriptionally, decreasing HER2/ErbB2 and increasing TGF-beta receptor 1 expression. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that the DRD2 antagonist SD2-2305 exerts potent anticancer effects through the induction of cell cycle arrest and apoptosis, and suggest that the anticancer activity of SD2-2305 is associated with coordinated modulation of growth factor receptor signaling and cell-cycle regulators in CRC cells.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a leading cause of central vision loss worldwide. Emerging evidence suggests that targeting dopaminergic pathways may influence AMD progression. This study evaluates whether levodopa ± carbidopa or dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2) agonists are associated with reduced risk of conversion to neovascular AMD (nAMD).Population-based clinical cohort study.Adults aged ≥18 years diagnosed with non-nAMD between May 2005 and May 2025, within the TriNetX US Collaborative Network, a federated electronic health record database spanning 69 healthcare organizations.This retrospective cohort study emulated four distinct target trials comparing new users of (1) levodopa (± carbidopa) or (2) DRD2 agonists (pramipexole, ropinirole, bromocriptine, rotigotine, or cabergoline) to new users of two comparators (pantoprazole or gabapentin). Patients with prior nAMD or prescriptions of other dopamine-enhancing agents (eg, selegiline, rasagiline, tolcapone) were excluded. Each exposure group was independently matched to comparators using 1:1 propensity score matching for selected demographics, social factors, comorbidities, and AMD stage.The primary outcome was 3-year risk of conversion from non-nAMD to nAMD. Hazard ratios (HRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated. An α level of 0.05 was used to determine statistical significance.Patients prescribed levodopa ± carbidopa had a reduced 3-year risk of conversion to nAMD relative to their matched counterparts prescribed pantoprazole (levodopa n = 1312, control n = 1312; HR 0.67; 95% CI, 0.45-0.98) and gabapentin (levodopa n = 1675, control n = 1675; HR 0.69; 95% CI, 0.50-0.95). No significant difference was observed in 3-year risk of conversion to nAMD between DRD2 agonists use relative to pantoprazole (DRD2 n = 1603, control n = 1603; HR 0.81; 95% CI, 0.58-1.13) or gabapentin (DRD2 n = 2779, control n = 2779; HR 0.92; 95% CI, 0.72-1.19).In this cohort study, levodopa ± carbidopa use was associated with lower 3-year risk of conversion to nAMD in two independent matched comparisons, whereas DRD2 agonists were not associated with significant differences in risk. These findings suggest dopaminergic signaling may influence AMD progression and warrant further prospective investigation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
An acidic polysaccharide, designated GWHP, was isolated from the husk of Juglans regia L. (green walnut husk). Its protective activity and anti-inflammatory mechanisms were systematically investigated using lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced MODE-K cell model and dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis in mice. Structural characterization revealed that GWHP consisted of galacturonic acid (76.2%), galactose (8.5%), arabinose (7.4%), rhamnose (6.5%), and fucose (1.4%), with an average molecular weight of 108 kDa. GWHP administration significantly enhanced the activities of antioxidant enzymes including GSH-Px, SOD, CAT, while reduced the malondialdehyde accumulation. In LPS-induced MODE-K cells, GWHP efficiently downregulated the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, TNF-α, and IL-6) and promoted the release of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. In the DSS colitis model, GWHP administration effectively improved colonic physiological indices. Histopathological analysis further verified its dose-dependent efficacy in repairing colonic tissue damage. Furthermore, GWHP rebalanced systemic inflammatory responses by significantly reducing serum pro-inflammatory cytokines levels (TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6) and upregulating the expression of anti-inflammatory IL-10. In addition, GWHP also rescued gut microbial diversity and community structure, specifically enriching the relative abundance of Lactobacillaceae and inhibiting the growth of opportunistic pathogens in Enterobacteriaceae. Network pharmacology analysis further verified stable binding affinity between GWHP and dopamine receptor D2, providing clues to its underlying molecular mechanism. In conclusion, GWHP can efficiently alleviate intestinal inflammatory injury, maintain gut microbiota homeostasis, and restore intestinal barrier function. These findings suggest that GWHP holds great potential as a natural functional food ingredient or preventive agent for the intervention of inflammatory bowel disease.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The maternal-fetal axis plays a critical role in human development. Obesity during pregnancy may be associated with alterations in this axis, particularly the placental dopaminergic signaling, potentially affecting infant neurodevelopment.Participants (n=35) from the OBESO cohort (Mexico City) were classified by pregestational BMI as normal weight (n=20) or obese (n=15). Clinical and anthropometric variables of the mother-infant dyads were recorded. Neurodevelopment was evaluated in one-month-old infants using the Bayley-III Scales and classified as normal or altered (score ≤7 in any domain). Placental dopamine (DA) concentrations were quantified by ELISA and correlated with neurodevelopmental status. A subset of samples was analyzed by Western blot to explore the expression of key dopaminergic components: tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2), organic cation transporter 3 (OCT3), dopamine transporter (DAT), and dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2).Reduced placental DA concentrations, together with altered expression of key dopaminergic elements characterized by increased COMT and DAT, and decreased VMAT2, were observed in association with maternal obesity, inadequate gestational weight gain, and altered infant neurodevelopment.This study provides exploratory evidence that maternal obesity and inadequate GWG may be associated with early alterations in the intrauterine metabolic and neuroendocrine environment, including changes in the placental dopaminergic system. Differences in the expression of COMT, DAT, and VMAT2, together with lower placental DA concentrations, which may be linked to early neurodevelopmental variability in infants. Overall, the results suggest a potential relationship between maternal metabolic status and placental neuroendocrine pathways, warranting further investigation in larger and longitudinal studies.Copyright © 2026 Soria-Reinoso, Flores-Pliego, Solis-Paredes, Canul-Euan, Espejel-Nuñez, Hernández-Juárez, Martínez-Medina, Torres-Calapiz, Perichart-Perera, Zamora-Sánchez, Barrientos-Galeana, Borboa-Olivares, Estrada-Gutierrez and Camacho-Arroyo.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510934 is a review article
Background/Objectives: Exposure to high and sustained levels of non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA) in the peripartal period is the main cause of fatty liver disease in dairy cows. Rumen-protected choline is often fed as part of the nutritional management of peripartal cows, with in vivo and in vitro data indicating positive effects of this nutrient on alleviating liver lipid accumulation. Although hepatic molecular mechanisms associated with choline supply have been studied using a target gene, protein, or metabolite approach, application of high-throughput technologies could vastly enhance fundamental knowledge on the functional role of choline. The main objective was to challenge isolated hepatocytes with a mixture of NEFA and determine proteome- and metabolome-wide effects in response to choline supply. Methods: Three healthy female calves (1 d old, 30-45 kg) were sacrificed to harvest hepatocytes. During a 12 h incubation, isolated hepatocytes were challenged without NEFA (control), 1.2 mM NEFA (c9-18:1, 18:2, 16:0, 18:0, and c9-16:1 at 43.5%, 4.9%, 31.9%, 14.4%, and 5.3% of total NEFA, respectively), or NEFA for 6 h followed by 10 μM choline chloride for another 6 h (NEFA + Chol). iTRAQ labeling-based protein profiling and GC/MS-based metabolomics profiling were used to determine changes in proteins and metabolites. Differentially abundant proteins for each group comparison were determined at a threshold of 1.4-fold change. Differences in metabolite profiles were assessed via pairwise comparisons. A subset of differentially abundant proteins was validated via qRT-PCR and Western blotting. Results: Compared with the control, there were 90 proteins and 22 metabolites in the NEFA group, and 83 proteins and 29 metabolites in the NEFA + Chol. Compared with NEFA, there were 49 proteins and 17 metabolites in the NEFA + Chol group. Greater abundance of hexokinase-1 (HK1), fructose-bisphosphate aldolase (ALDOA), mitochondrial pyruvate carrier 1 (MPC1), and increased concentrations of lactate with high NEFA treatment alone suggested greater glycolytic and TCA cycle activity. Accumulation of triacylglycerol in the NEFA group was associated with lipotoxicity and markers of inflammation, such as greater abundance of prostaglandin reductase 1 (PTGR1), serious cell autophagy processes, such as greater abundance of cell division cycle 42 (CDC42), and NFκB-related proteins. Choline supplementation reduced TAG partly due to greater VLDL secretion driven by greater abundance of diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT1), perilipin 3 (PLIN3), and apolipoprotein C-III (APOC3). In addition, a greater abundance of carnitine O-palmitoyltransferase 1b (CPT1B) with choline suggested enhanced mitochondrial β-oxidation. Activation of the CDC42/JNK pathway and ROS/NFκB axis-related proteins, along with depressed PI3K/AKT/RAC-related proteins, indicated enhanced mitochondrial autophagy in response to NEFA. Conclusions: Overall, data confirmed published effects of choline on TAG accumulation, VLDL secretion, and fatty acid oxidation, while highlighting negative effects of NEFA on the respiratory electron transport chain, autophagy, and inflammatory processes.
Cell division cycle 42 (Cdc42) is a member of the Rho family of small GTPases, which plays crucial roles in regulating cytoskeletal remodeling, and membrane trafficking. While previous studies implicated Cdc42 in controlling intestinal epithelial homeostasis, the involvement of this small GTPase in the process of intestinal fibrogenesis remains unexplored. Our study was designed to determine whether Cdc42 regulates the fibrogenic activation of intestinal myofibroblasts in vitro . The study was conducted using a CCD-18Co normal human colonic fibroblast cell line, and primary human intestinal myofibroblasts (HIMF) isolated from Crohn's disease (CD) patients. CCD-18Co and HIMF cells were stimulated by transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1). Cdc42 was inhibited either genetically, using siRNA-mediated knockdown, or pharmacologically using specific Cdc42 inhibitors, ML141 and CASIN. Genetic and pharmacologic inhibition of Cdc42 markedly reduced TGF-β1 induced expression of the major contractile cytoskeletal proteins, α-smooth muscle actin, calponin 1 and L-caldesmon. Furthermore, Cdc42 inhibition significantly attenuated expression of key extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins, fibronectin and collagen I, in activated CCD-18Co cells and HIMF. Interestingly, decreased expression of contractile and ECM proteins in Cdc42-depleted myofibroblasts was not due to downregulation of the TGF-β1 signaling, decreased mRNA transcription or increased lysosomal or proteasomal degradation of these proteins. Such suppressed pro-fibrotic activation of Cdc42-deficient CCD-18Co cells and HIMF involved a selective inhibition of protein translation due to inactivation of the AKT-mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling module. These findings highlight Cdc42 as a key regulator of intestinal fibrosis that controls mTOR activation to enhance ECM production and contractile actomyosin cytoskeleton in intestinal myofibroblasts.Zafar et al. unravel a novel role of Cdc42 small GTPase in fibrogenic activation of human intestinal myofibroblasts. Genetic and pharmacologic inhibition of Cdc42 markedly reduced TGF-β induced expression of contractile cytoskeletal proteins and extracellular matrix proteins in activated myofibroblasts. The mechanisms underlying such profibrotic activity of Cdc42 involve regulation of de novo protein translation via activation of the AKT-mTOR signaling module.Cdc42 regulates TGF-β dependent activation of human intestinal myofibroblastsProfibrotic activity of Cdc42 involves regulation of de novo protein translationCdc42 regulates myofibroblast activation via AKT-mTOR signaling pathwayTargeting Cdc42-Akt-mTOR signaling may facilitate the development of novel antifibrotic therapies.
Osteoporosis is a systemic skeletal disease associated with reduced bone density and impaired bone quality, which leading to a greater risk of fracture. The pathogenesis of osteoporosis is closely associated with compromised osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs). The actin-cytoskeleton associated protein PALLADIN has been reported to play a central role in the remodeling of the actin-cytoskeleton. However, no studies to date have established whether PALLADIN can influence osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs or the onset of osteoporosis. Here, PALLADIN knockdown was observed to reduce osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs, confirming the involvement of the gene in osteoporosis. Knockdown also altered the cytoskeletal organization and reduced Ras homolog family member A (RhoA) activity to inhibit osteogenic differentiation. The results of the in vivo experiments showed that overexpression of Palladin reversed bone loss and marrow adipose tissue (MAT) accumulation in OVX mice, while Palladin knockdown increased both bone loss and MAT accumulation in OVX mice. Together, these results suggest a model in which Palladin protects against bone loss induced by OVX through the promotion of BMSCs osteogenesis. In human osteoporotic BMSCs, PALLADIN expression is significantly downregulated, correlating with disease status. While functional validation in primary human osteoporotic BMSCs remains to be performed, these preclinical findings establish Palladin as a novel regulator of BMSCs osteogenic differentiation and provide a foundation for future efforts to characterize the pathogenesis of osteoporosis and identify new therapeutic targets.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study investigated the protective effects and underlying mechanisms of Wuyou Decoction(WYD) against hippocampal neuronal apoptosis and mitochondrial damage in a rat model of chronic sleep deprivation(CSD). Fifty male Sprague-Dawley(SD) rats were randomly assigned to the following groups: normal, model, and WYD low-, medium-, and high-dose groups(WYD-L, WYD-M, WYD-H), respectively. Except the normal group, CSD was induced in other groups using the horizontal platform sleep deprivation method, which included 7 days of adaptive modeling followed by 21 days of formal modeling. Intragastric administration of WYD was initiated concurrently with the formal modeling phase and maintained for 28 days. Learning and memory abilities were assessed using the Morris water maze test. The morphological and quantitative changes of hippocampal neurons were evaluated by hematoxylin-eosin(HE) staining, Nissl staining, and neuron-specific nuclear protein(NeuN) immunohistochemistry. Mitochondrial ultrastructure was examined by transmission electron microscopy, and adenosine triphosphate(ATP) content in the hippocampus was measured with a commercial assay kit. Western blot was employed to detect apoptosis-related proteins B-cell lymphoma 2(Bcl-2), Bcl-2-associated X protein(Bax), caspase-3, cleaved caspase-3, cytochrome C(Cyt C), as well as Ras homolog family member A(RhoA), Rho-associated protein kinase 1(ROCK1), dynamin-related protein 1(Drp1), and p-Drp1(Ser616) in hippocampal tissues. Molecular docking was used to evaluate the interactions between active components of WYD and pathway-related proteins. The results revealed that, compared to the normal group, the model group showed significant cognitive impairment, neuronal damage, reduced neuronal count, and abnormal mitochondrial structure, including disrupted cristae and myelin-like figures. The ATP content decreased, along with increased Cyt C release, upregulation of Bax and cleaved caspase-3/caspase-3, downregulation of Bcl-2, and activation of the RhoA/ROCK1/Drp1 signaling pathway. In contrast, the WYD-M group exhibited improved cognitive performance, restored neuronal morphology and quantity, and alleviated mitochondrial damage, while the ATP levels also increased. Furthermore, WYD-M treatment significantly suppressed Cyt C release, downregulated Bax and cleaved caspase-3/caspase-3 expression, upregulated Bcl-2, and effectively inhibited the activation of the RhoA/ROCK1/Drp1 signaling pathway. Molecular docking indicated that paeoniflorin and ferulic acid, the primary active components of WYD, had strong binding affinities with the key proteins in the RhoA/ROCK1/Drp1 signaling pathway, with binding energies all below-5 kcal·mol~(-1). In conclusion, WYD may protect mitochondrial integrity, reduce Cyt C release, inhibit hippocampal neuronal apoptosis, and ultimately improve cognitive function in CSD model rats potentially by suppressing the RhoA/ROCK1/Drp1 signaling pathway.
Diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) is one of the severe complications in type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) patients with impaired cardiac function and faster progression to heart failure due to systolic malfunction. It has been demonstrated that macrophage-mediated chronic inflammation is closely associated with DCM. Cell division cycle 42 (Cdc42) plays a crucial role in regulating the polarization, migration and phagocytosis of macrophages, however, the underlying mechanism of Cdc42 in DCM remains to be elucidated.Mouse DCM models with T1DM were generated using myeloid-specific Cdc42-knockout (Cdc42Mye) and Cdc42Flox/Flox (Cdc42Flox) male mice at 10-12 weeks old by injection of streptozotocin (STZ, 50 mg/kg/day) for 6 continuous days and then following the observation of 16 weeks. Cardiac functions were assessed by echocardiography in vivo, and cardiac morphological and histopathological alterations were evaluated by hematoxylin and eosin (HE), Masson's trichrome, Picrosirius red, and immunohistochemistry staining, respectively. The infiltration of myeloid macrophages was examined by multiplex immunofluorescence tyramide signal amplification (TSA) assay or Rosa mTmG fluorescent myeloid tracking reporter in mice. Macrophage pyroptosis, cardiomyocyte damage and myofibroblast activation were evaluated by Western blot and immunofluorescence analysis. Additionally, single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq) data analysis was performed to explore macrophage-mediated signaling in DCM using publicly available GSE datasets from STZ-induced T1DM mice.Myeloid Cdc42 deletion exacerbated T1DM-induced cardiac dysfunctions and histopathological changes including cardiac fibrosis, and promoted T1DM-induced macrophage infiltration and M1 polarization of macrophages, and facilitated T1DM-induced pyroptosis by activating NLRP3 inflammasome in the hearts in mice. Notably, there were no significant differences between Cdc42Mye and Cdc42Flox mice under normal condition. In addition, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) of scRNA-seq data indicated that low Cdc42 expression in macrophages was positively associated with the NF-κB signaling pathway in DCM. Mechanistically, we demonstrated that Cdc42 deficiency or inhibition aggravated T1DM-induced cardiomyocyte injury and cardiac fibrosis by activating ERK1/2-NF-κB-interleukin-1β signaling pathway-mediated macrophage pyroptosis.This study demonstrates that myeloid Cdc42 deficiency or inhibition aggravates T1DM-induced cardiomyocyte injury and cardiac fibrosis of DCM by promoting macrophage pyroptosis and inflammatory responses, which might provide a novel therapeutic target for immunomodulatory intervention in DCM of type 1 diabetes mellitus.© 2026. The Author(s).
Tooth agenesis is a genetically heterogeneous developmental anomaly in which disturbances of morphogen signaling, cytoskeletal organization, and mineralization converge during odontogenesis. Building on a previously published clinical and exome study of two Lebanese families with familial nonsyndromic tooth agenesis that identified rare segregating missense variants in trio Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor (TRIO) and calcium voltage-gated channel auxiliary subunit alpha2delta 2 (CACNA2D2), this work examines how these genes may participate in a shared mechanistic axis during human tooth development.We performed a secondary, exclusively in silico mechanistic analysis of the originally reported variants, TRIO c.8312C>T (p.Ser2771Leu) and CACNA2D2 c.284G>A (p.Arg95His), without enrolling new participants or generating additional sequencing or clinical data. Protein domain organization was annotated from curated resources, residue-level and local-window conservation were quantified across vertebrate orthologs, and the structural context of each substituted residue was inspected using available experimental templates and full-length AlphaFold models from the AlphaFold Protein Structure Database. Population allele frequencies and clinical annotations were re-evaluated in large reference datasets, and high-confidence protein-protein interaction networks centered on TRIO, ras homolog family member A (RHOA), guanine nucleotide binding protein subunit beta 1 (GNB1), and CACNA2D2 were constructed to assess whether these genes form a common odontogenesis-relevant signaling landscape.Both substitutions localize to structured and functionally annotated regions: CACNA2D2 Arg95 lies in the extracellular N-terminal segment immediately upstream of the von Willebrand factor type A (VWA) domain, and TRIO Ser2771 lies within an immunoglobulin I-set domain adjacent to a C-terminal kinase-like region. In both cases, the affected residue is highly conserved across mammalian orthologs and falls within a locally conserved window. TRIO p.Ser2771Leu remains absent from population reference datasets, whereas CACNA2D2 p.Arg95His (reference SNP identifier, rs149979955) is a very rare allele with a non-dental Clinical Variants (ClinVar) annotation; both variants receive predominantly deleterious predictions. Structural inspection suggests possible effects on local packing, electrostatics, or interaction interfaces. Network analysis places TRIO, RHOA, GNB1, and CACNA2D2 along a high-confidence path enriched for cytoskeletal regulation, vesicle trafficking, calcium signaling, and mineralization, consistent with an ion channel-Rho guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase) coupling model in odontogenesis.This structural and network analysis suggests that the reported TRIO and CACNA2D2 variants may contribute to a testable TRIO-RHOA-GNB1-CACNA2D2 axis in human tooth development. The evidence remains hypothesis-generating and does not establish pathogenicity or causality, but it provides a coherent framework for targeted functional studies in dental and craniofacial models.Copyright © 2026, Nabbout et al.
Objective To investigate the regulatory role of Ras homolog family member A (RhoA) in the inflammatory response and migration of RAW264.7 macrophages following Listeria monocytogenes (Lm) infection. Methods RAW264.7 cells were transfected with small interfering RNA (si-RhoA) to knock down RhoA expression, followed by Lm infection at a multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 10 for 48 hours. Phagocytosis and Transwell assays were conducted to evaluate the bacterial engulfment and migratory capacities of RAW264.7 cells, respectively. The mRNA levels of interleukin 1β (IL-1β), IL-6, tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α), and IL-10 were quantified using quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). The secretion of these cytokines in the cell supernatants was measured by ELISA. Western blot was performed to assess the protein expression of ROCK1 and ROCK2. Results Knockdown of RhoA reduced the migration ability of RAW264.7 cells infected with Lm, suppresses the expression of IL-1β and IL-6 at both mRNA and protein levels, and had no significant effect on TNF-α or IL-10 expression and pahagocytosis. Additionally, ROCK2 protein expression was significantly decreased, while ROCK1 protein expression remained unchanged. Conclusion Knockdown of RhoA inhibits the inflammatory response and migratory capacity of Lm-infected RAW264.7 cells by blocking the ROCK2 signaling pathway, and targeting the RhoA/ROCK2 signaling pathway may potentially constitute a novel strategy against Lm infection.
As the innermost lining of blood vessels, endothelial cells regulate barrier function, maintain vascular tone, and limit inflammation for vessel health. Involved in various fundamental endothelial processes, RhoA (Ras homolog family member A)/ROCK (Rho-associated coiled-coil containing protein kinase) signaling has been identified as a major contributor to age-associated hypertension and vascular disease; RhoA/ROCK hyperactivation promotes vessel permeability and impairs nitric oxide (NO) production. Recent studies identify Sun1 (Sad1 and UNC84 [protein UNC-84 homolog A] domain-containing protein 1), a key component of the linker of nucleoskeleton and cytoskeleton complex, as a major repressor of RhoA/ROCK activity. Our latest studies identify endothelial loss of Nup93 (nucleoporin93), a component of the nuclear pore complex, as a hallmark of vascular aging. Insinuating a role for nuclear envelope components in vessel homeostasis, the role of Nup93 in RhoA/ROCK signal regulation, however, remains entirely unknown.Targeted Nup93 knockdown approaches were used in primary human endothelial cells to assess the role of Nup93 in endothelial RhoA/ROCK signaling and downstream readouts, including endothelial barrier function, cellular stiffness, and eNOS (endothelial NO synthase) function. Rescue studies include the use of pharmacological ROCK inhibitors and lentiviral-mediated Sun1 restoration methods. We additionally measure barrier function and vessel reactivity in our novel inducible endothelial-specific Nup93 mouse model.Targeted loss of endothelial Nup93 significantly increases RhoA/ROCK activity for consequent endothelial permeability and decreased NO bioavailability both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, we find that loss of Nup93 drastically reduces endothelial Sun1 levels for a concomitant increase in RhoA activity. Indeed, restoring Sun1 protein levels in Nup93-deficient endothelial cells mitigates RhoA activity, thereby rescuing both endothelial barrier function and eNOS expression.Taken together, we demonstrate endothelial Nup93 as a novel regulator of vascular permeability and NO-dependent vessel reactivity, contributing to the growing importance of nuclear membrane components in endothelial cell and vascular biology.
Ivabradine (IVA), a broad-spectrum inhibitor of HCN cation channels, is recognized for enhancing cardiac function in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases and may serve as a potential therapeutic agent for mitigating drug-induced cardiotoxicity. This study aimed to investigate the protective effect of IVA against cardiac damage induced by cisplatin (Cis) and to elucidate the underlying mechanisms.We investigated the impact of IVA (5 mg/kg, orally for 28 consecutive days) on Cisplatin-induced cardiac injury (7.5 mg/kg intraperitoneally on day 5) in rats. Biomarkers of oxidative stress and levels of inflammatory cytokines in cardiac tissue were assessed. H&E staining was employed to identify histopathological alterations in cardiac tissue. The molecular mechanisms of IVA in ameliorating cardiac injury were examined.The results indicated that IVA enhanced cardiac tissue structure by suppressing the pathological alterations observed in H&E staining. IVA demonstrated antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties through reducing malonaldehyde (MDA), NADPH oxidase, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and interleukins (IL-1β and IL-6) levels, while elevating superoxide dismutase (SOD), IL-10, and eNOS levels. IVA diminished the expression of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK), Protein Kinase C-epsilon (PKC epsilon), and microRNA-34a (miRNA-34a), while enhancing the expression of Protein Kinase G (PKG), Myosin Light Chain Phosphatase (MLCP), and Rapidly Accelerated Fibrosarcoma (Raf-1), as confirmed by western blotting and PCR results. Furthermore, its impact on cardiac tissue viability was supported by increased B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl2) levels and decreased caspase-3 staining in immunohistopathology.IVA may significantly mitigate cardiac injury in Cis-induced cardiotoxicity through regulating multiple pathways and miRNA-34a levels.
Pan-neddylation inhibitors exhibit potent hypoglycemic effect. The target organs and mechanisms underlying the hypoglycemia effect of pan-neddylation inhibitors are incompletely understood. We found that inhibition of cullin 3 leads to a dual insulin sensitization and insulinotropic effect. Selective inhibition of cullin 3 neddylation is a feasible approach to lower hyperglycemia.© 2026 by the American Diabetes Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42494121 is a review article
Speckle-type POZ protein (SPOP), a substrate receptor for the Cullin-3-RING (CRL3) ubiquitin ligase, is mutated in different cancers. Both activating and inactivating mutations in SPOP drive oncogenesis, underscoring the need for precise regulation. Among substrate receptors, SPOP uniquely assembles into filaments that are multivalent for substrate binding. Conversely, many substrates contain multiple SPOP-binding motifs. How this unusual reciprocal multivalent architecture regulates ubiquitination and how mutations activate SPOP are unclear. Gain-of-function mechanisms are also generally poorly understood. Here, we reveal that SPOP assemblies exist in an equilibrium between an active filament and a large, autoinhibited, circular "double-donut" state. Activating mutations shift the equilibrium, resulting in aberrant substrate turnover. Combinations of activating and inactivating mutations can produce intermediate activities, thus uncovering a tunable regulatory axis with implications for targeted cancer therapies. Therefore, SPOP's ability to assemble into long filaments is required for its regulation in human cells and underlies a gain-of-function mechanism.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the major global health challenge. As a newly discovered molecular mechanism, ferroptosis offers great potential to eliminate cancer cells. This study identified KLHL18 (Kelch-like Protein 18), an understudied adaptor of the Cullin3 E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, as a tumor suppressor in HCC. We demonstrated that KLHL18 was downregulated in HCC tissues and that its overexpression suppressed tumor growth both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, KLHL18 promotes ferroptosis by interacting with GPX4, a key glutathione peroxidase that prevents lipid peroxidation, and promoting GPX4 ubiquitination, leading to proteasomal degradation. This proteasomal degradation is associated with K48-linked ubiquitination, with lysine 191 of GPX4 identified as a major ubiquitination site. Furthermore, KLHL18 expression modulated ferroptotic and antitumor responses of HCC cells to sorafenib. Our findings reveal a novel regulatory axis in which KLHL18-mediated GPX4 degradation contributes to ferroptotic cell death and suppresses HCC progression, suggesting that KLHL18 is a potential biomarker and molecular target warranting further clinical investigation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (Keap1) acts as a repressor of nuclear factor-erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), a major transcription factor regulating cellular antioxidant response. Keap1 is the substrate adaptor subunit of the cullin 3-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase complex that specifically facilitates Nrf2 ubiquitination and its proteasomal degradation. Keap1 is rich in cysteine residues, and several of them undergo various modifications, such as sulphydration, nitrosylation and glutathionylation under cellular stress conditions. Some of these modifications alter the conformation of Keap1, preventing Nrf2 from ubiquitination and subsequent proteasome-mediated degradation. As a result, newly synthesised Nrf2 translocates to the nucleus to induce the expression of diverse genes involved in protecting cells against oxidative stress. Protein CoAlation is a reversible redox-dependent post-translational modification (PTM) in which coenzyme A (CoA) forms disulphide bonds with oxidised cysteine residues under oxidative or metabolic stress. In this study, we demonstrate for the first time that disulphide Keap1 dimer undergoes CoAlation in cellular response to oxidative stress induced by various oxidising compounds. Furthermore, glucose deprivation also induces CoAlation of the disulphide Keap1 dimer in HEK293/Pank1β cells. We also demonstrate that the Keap111 Cys-less mutant is not CoAlated in response to diamide treatment or glucose deprivation. In summary, this study uncovers a novel PTM of Keap1 by the key metabolic integrator CoA, which provides new insights into the regulation of the Keap1-Nrf2 antioxidant pathway under oxidative and metabolic stress.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) ranks among the most prevalent and deadly malignancies, characterized by a high recurrence rate. Regulator of chromosome condensation 1 (RCC1) serves as a principal guanine nucleotide exchange factor for ras-related nuclear protein guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase) and is implicated in various cancers. However, the role of RCC1 in HCC remains unexplored.To elucidate the functional significance and molecular mechanisms of RCC1 in HCC.Bioinformatics were to examine the expression levels of RCC1 in HCC and to assess its impact on the prognosis of this malignancy. The cell counting kit-8 assay and flow cytometry were utilized to evaluate the cell viability and cell cycle of HCC cells. Furthermore, quantitative reverse transcription and immunoblotting were to investigate the influence of RCC1 on cyclin associated proteins.Bioinformatics analysis revealed that RCC1 was highly expressed in HCC and correlated with poor prognosis in HCC patients. Functional studies showed that RCC1 overexpression promoted the malignant phenotype of HCC cells, especially the proliferation of HCC cells, whereas RCC1 knockdown had the opposite effect. Mechanistically, we identiﬁed cell division cycle-associated (CDCA) 8 as a downstream target of RCC1 in HCC. RCC1 overexpression markedly increased CDCA8 levels, consequently enhancing cell proliferation and survival in HCC cells. Additionally, we discovered that RCC1 contributed to the development and progression of HCC by activating the phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein kinase B/cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1a pathway through CDCA8.Our study provides profound insights into the pivotal role of RCC1 in HCC and its potential as a therapeutic target.©The Author(s) 2025. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved.
Angiogenesis plays a vital role in colon cancer growth and metastasis. The role of protein kinase N2 (PKN2) in colon cancer is rarely studied. In this study, we investigated the effect of PKN2 on angiogenesis in colon cancer. We evaluated the correlation between PKN2 expression and microvessel density (MVD) in tumor tissue of patients with colon cancer. The effect of PKN2 on tumor angiogenesis was investigated both in cultured colon cancer cells and in a mouse colon cancer model. PKN2 targeted vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) expression, and secretion were analyzed, and the specific regulatory role of PKN2 on HIF was explored. PKN2 expression was negatively correlated with tumor MVD in tumor tissue of patients with colon cancer. PKN2 inhibited angiogenesis in both in vitro and in vivo models of mouse tumors. Mechanistically, PKN2 suppressed the transcriptional activity of hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) and reduced its nuclear accumulation, leading to the inhibiting of VEGFA and bFGF transcription by preventing HIF-1α binding to their promoters. Additionally, PKN2 directly interacted with HIF-1α at the protein level and induced phosphorylation, resulting in ubiquitination-dependent degradation of HIF-1α in colon cancer cells. Our study demonstrated, for the first time, that PKN2 exerts inhibitory effects on tumor angiogenesis in colon cancer. We propose a novel mechanism by which PKN2 regulates VEGFA and bFGF expression through modulation of the dynamic equilibrium of HIF-1α protein levels.© 2025 The Author(s). The Kaohsiung Journal of Medical Sciences published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Kaohsiung Medical University.
This study identifies cancer stem cell marker genes in breast cancer through an integrated analysis of single cell RNA sequencing and bulk RNA sequencing data. The breast cancer-related single-cell RNA sequencing dataset GSE180286 was analyzed to identify cancer stem cells populations and their marker genes, which were further validated using data from The Cancer Genome Atlas breast cancer dataset. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis revealed seven co-expression modules, with the Turquoise module showing a strong association with messenger RNA stemness indices. Venn diagram analysis identified 19 cancer stem cell marker genes, among which cyclin B1, cell division cycle associated 8, and kinesin family member 4 A were highlighted as core genes. Both in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that silencing kinesin family member 4 A in breast cancer cell lines significantly reduced tumor sphere formation, proliferation, migration, and invasion. Additionally, the downregulation of kinesin family member 4 A in a nude mouse model markedly suppressed tumor growth. These findings suggest that cyclin B1, cell division cycle associated 8, and particularly kinesin family member 4 A are critical regulators of cancer stem cell properties in breast cancer and represent promising therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40056827 is a review article
The promyelocytic leukemia protein (PML) and its associated nuclear bodies have recently emerged as critical regulators of embryonic stem (ES) cell identity. Despite their recognized importance, the complete spectrum of PML-mediated molecular events in ES cells remains unclear. In this report, we study how PML is shaping the proteomic and SUMO proteomic landscape in ES cells. Proteomic profiling of PML-depleted ES cells uncovered a downregulation of self-renewal factors and an upregulation of proteins associated with translation and proteasomal activity, reflecting a cellular transition from pluripotency to differentiation. Importantly, PML promotes the sumoylation of pluripotency-related factors, chromatin organizers, and cell cycle regulators. We identified SALL1 and CDCA8 as novel PML-directed sumoylation targets, both critical for ES cell maintenance. SALL1 sumoylation increases the activation of the Wnt pathway, contributing to its ability to inhibit ES cell differentiation. Similarly, CDCA8 sumoylation enhances its capacity to promote cell proliferation. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that PML regulates ES cell identity by modulating the abundance or sumoylation of key regulators involved in pluripotency and cell cycle progression.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is a kind of lung cancer characterized by cancer stem cell (CSC) properties. Cell division cycle 6 (CDC6), a cell cycle regulator, is significantly associated with tumor progression, but its role in LUAD stemness remains unclear.CDC6 expression levels were analyzed using RNA-seq data from the TCGA database and clinical samples. Cell sphere formation assays, immunofluorescence, and western blot were performed to evaluate the impact of CDC6 on LUAD stemness. Lactate production and the extracellular acidification rate (ECAR) were measured to assess glycolysis levels. The hTFtarget database was used to screen potential upstream regulators, and the regulatory relationship between transcription factor AP-2α (TFAP2A) and CDC6 was validated by luciferase reporter assays and ChIP-qPCR. A xenograft tumor model was established to examine the result of CDC6 knockdown on LUAD tumor progression.The results indicated that CDC6 expression was markedly elevated in LUAD tissues compared with adjacent normal tissues, and high CDC6 expression was associated with poorer overall survival. In vitro experiments confirmed that CDC6 enhanced LUAD stemness by activating glycolysis. Mechanistic studies revealed that TFAP2A directly bound to the CDC6 promoter region, regulating its transcription and expression, thereby promoting glycolysis and LUAD stemness. In vivo experiments further demonstrated that knockdown of CDC6 in LUAD cells suppressed tumor growth.This study clarifies the molecular mechanism through which TFAP2A modulates CDC6-mediated glycolysis to enhance LUAD stemness, implying that targeting the TFAP2A/CDC6 axis could serve as a potential therapeutic approach for LUAD.©The Author(s) 2026. Open Access. This article is licensed under a Creative Commons CC-BY International License.
Aurora kinase B (AURKB), a key component of the chromosomal passenger complex (CPC), plays a critical role in mitosis and is aberrantly expressed in various human cancers, including acute myeloid leukemia (AML), colorectal cancer, and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Although AURKB represents an attractive therapeutic target, the clinical translation of conventional ATP-competitive inhibitors has been hindered by poor selectivity and dose-limiting toxicity. PROTAC technology offers a promising strategy to overcome these limitations by achieving selective protein degradation. Guided by molecular docking, we herein developed a series of novel AURKB-targeting PROTACs. Among them, compounds 1 and 3 emerged as potent and highly selective AURKB degraders, exhibiting DC50 values in the low nanomolar range with minimal activity against AURKA. Mechanistic studies confirmed that compound 1 forms a stable ternary complex with AURKB and the E3 ligase CRBN in cells, leading to time- and ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS)-dependent degradation. Interestingly, beyond enzymatic inhibition, targeted degradation of AURKB also led to the downregulation of other CPC components (borealin, INCENP, survivin) and the transcription factor YY1, which are stabilized through direct interaction with AURKB. In addition, compound 1 suppressed proliferation across a panel of cancer cell lines, induced G2/M phase arrest, and triggered apoptosis. Together, this study presents a highly potent and selective AURKB degrader, offering a valuable chemical probe for studying CPC biology and a promising lead for cancer therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
A new series of seven N-(isoxazol-3-yl)-4-(1,3,4-thiadiazol-3(2H)-yl)benzenesulfonamide derivatives (22-28) was designed, synthesized, and biologically evaluated as potential dual Aurora kinase A/B inhibitors. Cytotoxicity screening against MCF-7, PC-3, HepG-2, and HCT-116 cell lines revealed variable activities, with compound 25 emerging as the most potent derivative (IC50 = 7.72-9.51 μM) and exhibiting selective toxicity toward cancer cells over normal WI-38 fibroblasts. Mechanistic studies demonstrated that compound 25 significantly reduced intracellular levels of Aurora A and Aurora B kinases in MCF-7 cells, decreasing Aurora A from 53.96 to 42.21 pg/mg protein and Aurora B from 63.84 to 36.48 pg/mg protein, with a more pronounced inhibition of Aurora B. Flow cytometric analysis revealed marked induction of G2/M phase arrest (46.10% vs 26.46% in control), indicating disruption of mitotic progression. In addition, compound 25 induced significant apoptosis, increasing early and late apoptotic populations to 7.99% and 25.39%, respectively, accompanied by a substantial reduction in viable cells. This effect was further supported by activation of the intrinsic apoptotic pathway, as evidenced by a 7.6-fold increase in caspase-3 expression, upregulation of Bax, and downregulation of Bcl-2.Computational analyses were performed to rationalize the observed biological behavior. DFT calculations confirmed the structural and electronic stability of compound 25. Molecular docking revealed that compound 25 binds strongly to Aurora A and B through key hydrogen-bonding and hydrophobic interactions within the ATP-binding site. Subsequent 100 ns MD simulations, MM-GBSA analyses, Pro-LIF profiling, and PCA of trajectories collectively confirmed the dynamic stability, thermodynamic favorability, and persistence of key interactions in the complexes. In silico ADME and toxicity assessments further indicated favorable pharmacokinetic properties and low predicted toxicity for compound 25. Collectively, the experimental and computational findings establish compound 25 as a promising dual Aurora kinase A/B inhibitor, integrating potent antiproliferative activity with a mechanistically supported and computationally validated interaction profile, warranting further optimization and in vivo evaluation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Aurora kinase B (AURKB) is a key mitotic regulator frequently overexpressed in various malignancies. However, its functional link and therapeutic relevance in MYC-driven lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) have not been fully elucidated. This study aimed to investigate whether targeting AURKB could attenuate tumor growth by disrupting MYC-mediated oncogenic programs in LUAD.AURKB expression and its clinical significance were analyzed using public cancer datasets. Molecular crosstalk between AURKB and MYC signaling was evaluated via Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA). In vitro, the effects of AURKB inhibition (siRNA or AZD2811) on MYC target genes were assessed by RT-qPCR. Finally, the synergistic antitumor effect of dual AURKB (AZD2811) and MYC (MYCi361) inhibition was validated in an H1299 xenograft mouse model.High AURKB expression was associated with poor overall survival in LUAD patients and significantly correlated with the enrichment of MYC target signatures. Genetic or pharmacological inhibition of AURKB led to a significant reduction in the mRNA expression of core MYC target genes (CDC20, CCNA2, and CDC45), which themselves were identified as independent poor prognostic factors. In the xenograft model, combined treatment with AZD2811 and MYCi361 resulted in a superior reduction in tumor volume and weight compared to either monotherapy.AURKB contributes to LUAD progression by modulating MYC-driven oncogenic programs. Consequently, targeting the AURKB/MYC axis may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for MYC-dependent lung adenocarcinoma.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42138941
Prostate cancer (PCa) is a highly prevalent malignant tumor in males. Lysine β-hydroxybutyrylation (Kbhb), an emerging post-translational modification, plays a critical role in tumorigenic processes. However, its functional mechanism in PCa remains elusive. This study aims to identify Kbhb-related prognostic genes in PCa and provide novel insights for its diagnosis, prognosis and treatment.Candidate genes were obtained through differential expression analysis and intersection analysis. Univariate Cox proportional hazards model and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression were employed to screen Kbhb-related prognostic genes, and a risk model was constructed and validated. The expression levels of Kbhb modification and related prognostic genes were validated using Western blotting (WB), real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) and immunohistochemistry (IHC). Additionally, clinical correlation analysis, nomogram development and validation, immune infiltration analysis, tumor mutation burden (TMB) analysis, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), drug sensitivity prediction, molecular regulatory network analysis, drug targeting analysis, and molecular docking were performed.Three genes--kinesin family member 4A (KIF4A), TPX2 microtubule nucleation factor (TPX2), and aurora kinase B (AURKB)-were identified as Kbhb-related prognostic genes. Results of WB indicated that the butyrylation level of the H3K27 (H3K27-Bu) protein was significantly upregulated in PCa tissues. RT-qPCR and IHC results demonstrated that the expression levels of KIF4A, TPX2, and AURKB were significantly higher in the PCa than normal tissues. A risk model based on these genes demonstrated discriminatory ability (AUC >0.6) and served as an independent prognostic factor alongside prostate-specific antigen (PSA). The prognostic nomogram showed high accuracy (AUC 0.82-0.88). High-risk patients exhibited distinct immune infiltration profiles and higher mutation frequencies in tumor protein 53 (TP53), Titin (TTN), and speckle-type POZ protein (SPOP). Drug sensitivity analysis linked the risk score to 24 compounds, while molecular docking suggested that estradiol and bisphenol A could target the identified hub genes.This study identified KIF4A, TPX2, and AURKB as reliable prognostic biomarkers for PCa. These findings provide a theoretical basis for understanding Kbhb-mediated mechanisms in PCa and offer novel targets for early diagnosis and precision therapy.Copyright © 2026 Meng, He, Yan, Che, Tang and Zhang.
Pancreatic cancer remains one of the most aggressive malignancies, characterized by early metastatic spread and intrinsic resistance to chemotherapy, which ultimately results in poor treatment outcomes. While the Cell Division Cycle 6 (CDC6) protein has been extensively characterized across multiple cancer types, its functional role in the pathogenesis of pancreatic cancer remains poorly understood. In this study, we performed bioinformatics analysis using RNA-seq data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) pancreatic adenocarcinoma cohort, and identified differentially expressed genes through microarray profiling. We conducted a comprehensive functional characterization of CDC6 using CCK-8, colony formation, wound healing, Transwell assays, and flow cytometry, and assessed cellular glycolysis levels based on measurements of ATP production, lactic acid generation, and glucose content. Subcutaneous xenograft mouse models were established to evaluate the impact of CDC6 on tumor growth in vivo, while mechanistic investigations were carried out using co-immunoprecipitation, chromatin immunoprecipitation, dual-luciferase reporter assays, and nucleocytoplasmic fractionation. Our results revealed that CDC6 expression is upregulated in pancreatic cancer, and its elevated expression is significantly correlated with unfavorable patient prognosis. Functional experiments demonstrated that CDC6 promotes the proliferation, migration, and invasion of pancreatic cancer cells. Thrombospondin 1 (THBS1) was identified to be positively correlated with CDC6 expression, and differentially expressed genes were notably enriched in the glucose metabolism pathway. Mechanistically, CDC6 cooperates with E2F1 to facilitate the transcription of THBS1, and the AKT signaling pathway is activated via the CDC6/THBS1 interaction. Overexpression of CDC6 significantly promoted glycolysis and tumor progression in pancreatic cancer, whereas these pro-tumor effects were markedly abrogated by THBS1 knockdown. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that CDC6/THBS1/AKT signaling drives glycolysis and accelerates pancreatic cancer progression, suggesting that the CDC6/THBS1/AKT axis may serve as a promising therapeutic target for pancreatic cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to investigate whether plakophilin 4 (PKP4) mediates the effects of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) in promoting diabetic wound healing.Human keratinocytes were cultured under high-glucose conditions to evaluate cell function. Cell viability was assessed using the CCK-8 assay, proliferation was measured by BrdU incorporation. Cell migration was assessed by scratch wound assay, and cell polarity was quantified by GM130-based Golgi orientation. PKP4 overexpression and knockdown models were used to validate the role of PKP4 in regulating keratinocyte function. In vivo, PKP4 knockout C57BL/6 J mice were used to establish a Type 1 diabetic (T1D) mouse model and full-thickness, excisional skin-wound-healing assay was performed. Sodium hydrosulfide (NaHS) was administered to explore the effects of H2S on keratinocyte function and diabetic wound healing.High-glucose stimulation inhibited keratinocyte viability, proliferation, migration, and polarity, while increasing PKP4 expression. NaHS treatment increased keratinocyte viability, promoted proliferation, and enhanced polarity, along with a decrease in PKP4 level. PKP4 knockdown reduced cell adhesion and accelerated scratch wound healing, whereas PKP4 overexpression increased cell adhesion and inhibited scratch wound healing. In T1D mice, NaHS treatment enhanced skin wound healing, decreased TNF-α expression, and promoted collagen deposition in the dermis. PKP4 knockout diminished the effects of NaHS on skin wound healing.Elevated PKP4 levels in keratinocytes enhance cell adhesion and inhibit migration, contributing to delayed scratch wound healing under high-glucose conditions. NaHS treatment reduces PKP4 expression in keratinocytes and promotes diabetic skin wound healing. PKP4 mediates the beneficial effects of H2S in diabetic skin wound repair, providing new insights into the molecular mechanisms of diabetic skin wound healing.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The importance of the deubiquitinase ubiquitin-specific peptidase 7 (USP7) in the etiology of various cancers is well recognized; however, its specific role and mechanisms of action in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain insufficiently elucidated. Aurora kinase B (Aurora B) has been implicated in HCC progression, yet the regulation of its protein stability in this setting is poorly defined. Here, we report that USP7 directly interacts with Aurora B, stabilizing the kinase by preventing its ubiquitination and subsequent degradation. Silencing USP7 increases the ubiquitination and degradation of Aurora B, concomitant with a reduction in HCC cell proliferation, wound healing, and migratory capacities. Conversely, USP7 overexpression enhances these malignant phenotypes, which are reversed by Aurora B knockdown. Importantly, dual inhibition of USP7 and Aurora B in vivo has marked therapeutic efficacy against HCC. Moreover, high expression of the USP7-Aurora B axis is correlated with adverse outcomes in HCC patients and may serve as an independent prognostic indicator. Collectively, our findings identify a previously unrecognized substrate relationship between USP7 and Aurora B, underscoring the pivotal role of the USP7-Aurora B axis in HCC progression. These findings offer promising avenues for therapeutic intervention and prognostication in HCC.
A central objective in oncology is to identify therapeutic targets essential for the survival of proliferating malignant cells. However, a major challenge in pre-clinical research is the scarcity of robust models capable of accurately assessing therapeutic efficacy in patient-specific heterogeneous cancer cells. Here, we developed an ex vivo platform for patient-specific assessment using biomacromolecule-based targeting delivery systems for CRISPR-Cas9 mediated gene knockout and in situ mRNA profiling in patient-derived circulating malignant cells (CMCs). Using a cancer targeting vector, we conducted a personalized evaluation of the impact of Rac GTPase activating protein 1 (RACGAP1) knockout on cell growth in a cancer cell line and patient-derived heterogeneous CMCs. RACGAP1 knockout induced irreversible cytokinesis failure, leading to markedly reduced proliferation and invasion capacity, DNA damage, and increased apoptosis. Our approach establishes a promising strategy for the personalized validation of novel therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive and molecularly diverse hematologic malignancy with unfavorable clinical outcomes and limited options for targeted therapy. This study investigated whether polypyrimidine tract-binding protein 1 (PTBP1), an RNA-binding protein (RBP), affects AML progression by binding to WNK lysine-deficient protein kinase 1 (WNK1).We first determined the level of WNK1 in AML using the Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis‌ (GEPIA) database and verified it by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western blotting (WB) assay. AML cell migration and invasion were analyzed using Transwell assays following WNK1 modulation. Epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) marker level was confirmed by WB assay. The influence of WNK1 on the in vivo metastasis of AML was verified via tail vein injection of WNK1-knockdown AML cells into Non-Obese Diabetic/Severe Combined Immunodeficiency (NOD/SCID) mice. Mechanistically, RNA pull-down and RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) assays were utilized to interpret the relationship between PTBP1 and WNK1 and to determine whether PTBP1 affects AML cell migration and invasion by regulating WNK1, using rescue experiments.WNK1 was highly expressed in AML. WNK1 inhibition hindered AML cell migration, invasion, and the expression of EMT markers. WNK1 depletion markedly suppressed the metastasis of AML cells in vivo. Mechanistically, PTBP1 directly bound to WNK1 and increased its mRNA stability. Furthermore, PTBP1 facilitated AML cells migration, invasion, and the expression of EMT markers via WNK1.We demonstrate that PTBP1 promotes AML progression by modulating WNK1. PTBP1 may therefore represent a potential therapeutic target in AML.© Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Alcohol consumption is strongly associated with aggression and violence in humans, yet the underlying neurobiological mechanisms within key aggression circuits remain poorly understood. In this preclinical study, we examined the effects of intermittent alcohol intoxication on dominance and aggressive behaviors in mice, focusing on sex differences and the potential involvement of the nucleus incertus relaxin-3/relaxin-family peptide receptor 3 (RXFP3) signaling pathway. Using an intermittent ethanol-intoxication protocol, we observed that male mice displayed a transient increase in dominance and aggressive behaviors during acute abstinence, as measured by the tube-dominance and resident-intruder tests, whereas female mice displayed heightened defensive responses. Distinct patterns of neural activation across brain regions, reflected by c-Fos protein expression, were associated with aggression in males, including decreased expression in the medial amygdala (MeA) and increased expression in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH), consistent with an established MeA-VMH based aggression circuit. Additionally, the levels of relaxin-3 immunoreactivity in MeA nerve fibers increased in parallel with behavioral recovery, suggesting a modulatory role of relaxin-3/RXFP3 signaling. To test this hypothesis, we bilaterally injected an adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector expressing the selective RXFP3 agonist, R3/I5, into the MeA of male mice. Notably, this chronic localized R3/I5 treatment significantly reduced dominance and aggressive behaviors both before and after alcohol intoxication. Together, these data demonstrate that relaxin-3/RXFP3 signaling in the MeA counteracts alcohol-related aggression in male mice, pointing to this pathway as a potential target for treating impulsive violence associated with alcohol intoxication in humans.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
The clinical management of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is compromised by post-surgical recurrence and therapeutic resistance, underscoring the urgent need to uncover actionable therapeutic vulnerabilities. By integrating human genetics with multi-omics profiling and experimental validation, this study aims to systematically uncover critical molecular mediators of LUAD and delineate their therapeutic potential.We implemented a multi-modal framework to identify and characterize causal LUAD therapeutic targets. We used two-sample Mendelian randomization (2SMR) to identify plasma proteins that are causally linked to LUAD risk. The lead candidate was then investigated using multi-omics to delineate its clinical relevance, cellular drivers, and tumor microenvironment. Oncogenic mechanisms were subsequently interrogated through functional experiments in LUAD models.Our unbiased genetic screen identified Rac GTPase-activating protein 1 (RACGAP1) as a high-confidence causal risk factor for LUAD. Clinically, elevated RACGAP1 expression served as a robust, independent prognostic biomarker associated with poor survival across multiple cohorts. Single-cell profiling revealed that RACGAP1 defines a specific expanding epithelial subpopulation characterized by chromosomal instability (CIN) and apoptosis resistance. Spatially, these cells organize into "malignant proliferative niches" that drive tumor expansion. Mechanistically, RACGAP1 transcends its canonical role in cytokinesis to function as a pivotal oncogenic hub. It disables p53-mediated tumor suppression by upregulating MDM2, while concurrently activating the pro-survival PI3K/AKT and MEK/ERK signaling cascades. Crucially, pharmacological inhibition of these pathways abrogated the RACGAP1-driven malignant phenotypes, confirming the functional dependence of the tumor on this rewired signaling architecture.This study presents genetic evidence supportive of a causal contribution of RACGAP1 to LUAD, highlighting it as a promising prognostic biomarker and candidate therapeutic target. By delineating a RACGAP1-driven axis that coordinates survival signaling and suppresses tumor surveillance, our findings highlight RACGAP1 as a promising therapeutic target for novel adjuvant strategies.© AME Publishing Company.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder, related to the central insulin signaling pathway. We investigate the relationship among central insulin signaling pathway gene polymorphisms/brain functional and clinical features in early-onset OCD(EO-OCD).Candidate single nucleotide polymorphisms(SNPs) were genotyped and functional magnetic resonance imaging (FMRI) was performed EO-OCD and HCs. The MATRICS Consensus Cognitive Battery (MCCB) was used to evaluate those groups, and a mediating effect model to explore the relationship among polymorphisms-brain functional-clinical features in EO-OCD.In EO-OCD, Rac GTPase-activating protein 1(RACGAP1) rs297941 was the key polymorphism to insulin signaling pathway. The amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) in right precuneus were greater in EO-OCD patients with an A allele than the GG genotype and the ALFF in right supramarginal and postcentral was decreased. The functional connectivity (FC) between right supramarginal and left/right supplementary motor areas, between right cerebellum and left angular of inferior parietal border, and between left angular and right cerebellum was enhanced in A allele. The mediating effect model showed rs297941 influenced information processing speed and obsessive thoughts through intermediary effects of ALFF in right postcentral and enhanced FC between left angular and right cerebellum.Rs297941 was signiffcantly to EO-OCD. Abnormal FC/ALFF play a mediating role between rs297941 and information processing speed in EO-OCD.© 2026. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Relaxin-3, a neuropeptide in the insulin/relaxin superfamily, signals via the G protein-coupled receptor RXFP3 and regulates motivated behaviors such as feeding, arousal, exploration, and reward-seeking. Despite its therapeutic promise for neuropsychiatric and metabolic disorders, the complex two-chain (A and B), three-disulfide structure of relaxin-3 hampers drug development. To overcome this, simplified B-chain-only analogues have been explored and developed, including the stapled RXFP3 agonist H3B10-27-(13/17αF) and the linear antagonist H3B1-22R. Here, we report a novel stapled antagonist, H3B10-22R-(13/17αF), a 14-residue single-chain peptide with high RXFP3 selectivity and binding affinity, enhanced helicity and antagonist potency, and 12-fold improved serum stability compared to linear unstructured H3B1-22R, the current best RXFP3 antagonist. Importantly, H3B10-22R-(13/17αF) significantly inhibited RXFP3 agonist-induced food intake in rats, confirming its in vivo efficacy. These results establish H3B10-22R-(13/17αF) as a potent, stable, and drug-like RXFP3 antagonist, supporting its further development as a therapeutic candidate for feeding disorders (e.g., obesity).© 2025 American Chemical Society.
Acute kidney injury (AKI) is recognized as a critical clinical problem, and pharmacological therapeutic options for AKI remain limited. Our previous study confirmed that Rac GTPase-activating protein 1 (RacGAP1) effectively promoted the repair of tubular epithelial cells in vitro. Further investigation is needed to determine whether boosting the expression of RacGAP1 in vivo helps protect against AKI. Herein, lipid-coated calcium phosphate (LCP) nanoparticles loaded with RacGAP1 plasmids (pRacGAP1-LCP) were generated and subsequently characterized based on their size, zeta potential, and morphological features. Animal models of AKI induced by ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury (IRI) were established in C57BL/6 mice, and pRacGAP1-LCP was injected into the tail vein to explore the role of RacGAP1 on renal IRI in vivo. The therapeutic efficacy of pRacGAP1-LCP against IRI was assessed through western blotting, real-time PCR, and histological analyses. The effects of RacGAP1 on mitochondrial homeostasis were further examined in mouse renal tubular epithelial cells (mRTECs). Serial administrations of pRacGAP1-LCP led to a significant increase in RacGAP1 expression in murine kidneys. This therapeutic intervention effectively attenuated AKI, as evidenced by down-regulation of AKI biomarkers, amelioration of renal histopathological damage, and suppression of both apoptosis and inflammatory responses. Characteristic mitochondrial abnormalities, diminished ATP production, and excessive lipid droplet accumulation were observed in tubular cells of IRI mice. Notably, pRacGAP1-LCP treatment reversed these pathological alterations and up-regulated the expression of PGC-1α and CPT-1α, indicating that RacGAP1 exerted its reno-protective effects through enhanced mitochondrial biogenesis and fatty acid oxidation (FAO). To further investigate the role of RacGAP1 in mitochondrial homeostasis, we employed an ATP depletion-repletion (ATP D-R) model in mRTECs. Crucially, RacGAP1 effectively restored ATP production, mtDNA copy number, and oxygen consumption rate (OCR) in mRTECs after ATP D-R treatment. RacGAP1 overexpression also suppressed mitochondrial depolarization, fragmentation, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation. Conversely, RacGAP1 knockdown exacerbated mitochondrial defects in mRTECs exposed to ATP D-R. In summary, this study uncovers that RacGAP1 overexpression protects against renal injury and mitochondrial dysfunction, highlighting its therapeutic promise for AKI. The LCP nanoparticle exhibits potential as a precise and efficient delivery platform and presents a viable option for AKI therapy.© 2025 The Author(s).
The coordination of cellular processes such as growth and survival relies on communication between cells through gap junctions. Connexin proteins comprise gap junctions and also function to mediate protein-protein interactions and communication with the extracellular space via hemichannels. Despite their essential roles, connexin function in cancer is context dependent, with connexin 43 (Cx43) reported to both promote and suppress tumor growth in glioblastoma, the most common primary malignant brain tumor. Here, we detect primarily intracellular expression of Cx43 in glioblastoma patient-derived cancer stem cells and demonstrate that Cx43 is essential for their survival, self-renewal, and tumor initiation. Mechanistically, Cx43 depletion reduces c-MYC expression through reduced levels of the upstream mediator WNK lysine-deficient protein kinase 1 (WNK1). WNK1 depletion phenocopies Cx43 knockdown and reduces c-MYC expression and tumor initiation. Together, these results define a signaling axis downstream of Cx43 that promotes tumor growth and cancer stem cell phenotypes in glioblastoma.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Senescent cells release a senescence-associated secretory phenotype, promoting polyploid giant cancer cells (PGCCs) to emerge, fostering tumor heterogeneity and resistance. Pentagamavunone-1 (PGV-1) emerges as a promising agent inducing senescence and prometaphase arrest, resulting in permanent cytotoxicity. This study was aimed to investigate the effect of PGV-1 in dysregulating mitosis through the modulation of PGCCs and senescence in low MYCN-expressing hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells JHH4.To assess the physiological effects of PGV-1, several in vitro tests were done including the MTT assay, cell cycle assay, May-Grünwald-Giemsa staining, senescence associated-β-galactosidase (SA-β-Gal) assay, and apoptosis assay. The protein levels of the apoptosis regulatory protein were evaluated using western blot analysis. The interaction of PGV-1 toward the protein that plays a role in PGCCs formation was simulated by molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD).The cytotoxic assay revealed that PGV-1 inhibited the proliferation of JHH4 liver cancer cells permanently. Inhibition of cell proliferation by PGV-1 was associated with the modulation of G2/M phase, particularly mitotic arrest and formation of PGCCs. The SA-β-Gal verified that PGV-1 induced senescence in cells (p<0.01), inducing PGCCs formation. Apoptotic mechanisms were validated via Annexin V staining, which showed the level of cleaved poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (p<0.001). Molecular docking and MD simulations suggested that PGV-1 could interfere with the conformation of the chromosomal passenger complex (CPC) protein, particularly disrupting essential interactions within the inner centromere protein, Survivin, and Borealin.PGV-1 induced strong cytotoxicity in HCC cells by disrupting mitosis leading to PGCC formation, senescence, and subsequent apoptotic cell death.Copyright© 2025 The Author. Published by Galenos Publishing House on behalf of Turkish Pharmacists’ Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563243 is a review article
As a key component of the cytoskeleton, microtubule dynamics provide structural support for neurite growth. Spastin plays a critical role in reshaping microtubule arrangement, which is essential for axon development and regeneration. However, the mechanism by which spastin is activated and functions remains unclear. In this study, we discovered that phosphorylation of spastin at Ser210 promotes dendrite growth and surface expression of GluA1 in neurons, enhancing synaptic transmission. Conversely, dephosphorylation of spastin inhibits dendrite growth and surface expression of GluA1, weakening synaptic transmission. PTEN interacts with the MIT domain of spastin through its C-terminal region, resulting in reduced spastin phosphorylation expression levels. This process suppresses the transport of the AMPA receptor GluA1 subunit, thereby modulating neurite outgrowth and weakening synaptic transmission. In conclusion, our research indicates that PTEN is the pathway that regulates the phosphorylation of spastin, providing an important reference for the treatment of neurological diseases characterized by microtubule dysregulation.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Severing enzymes nanodamage microtubules by extracting tubulin subunits. This extraction is accompanied by spontaneous repair with soluble tubulin. Here, we show that GTP-, and not GDP-tubulin, incorporates preferentially at nanodamage sites where it recruits end binding protein-1 (EB1). Using GTP hydrolysis-defective recombinant tubulin mutants we show that the tubulin GTPase is a timer for EB1 association at repair sites. Tubulin on-rate controls both the size and lifetime of the spastin-catalyzed GTP-islands which promote rescues. Consistent with this, first, rescue rates in the presence of repair vary steeply with tubulin concentration, unlike in the absence of repair, and second, spastin-catalyzed lattice remodeling, and not passive binding of the enzyme alone, increases rescue rates. Furthermore, we show that, when overexpressed at low levels in cells, spastin catalyzes microtubule repair and affects microtubule growth. Thus, microtubule severing proceeds through GTP-tubulin repair intermediates both in vitro and in cells. Our work demonstrates that severing enzymes exert their effects on microtubule function through tubulin extraction and repair and strongly supports microtubule dynamics regulation through tubulin dimer exchange along the lattice.
Hereditary spastic paraplegia type 4 (SPG4), caused by variants in SPAST, is the most common form of HSP and exhibits a remarkable phenotypic heterogeneity ranging from late-onset pure presentations to severe, early-onset complex disease. Robust genotype-phenotype correlations and detailed natural history data are lacking, limiting clinical trial readiness. We analyzed 206 patients with genetically confirmed SPG4 enrolled across seven international centers, complemented by high-quality literature-derived cases. Deep phenotyping included standardized motor scales, spasticity ratings, developmental milestones, and patient-reported outcomes. We developed an extended essentiality-mapping framework to classify SPAST missense variants by integrating in silico pathogenicity predictions, evolutionary constraint, physicochemical residue connectivity, and variant enrichment within the human spastin hexamer structure. Plasma neurofilament light chain (pNfL) using was quantified using Simoa in 26 patients and 101 controls. We identified 136 distinct SPAST variants, including 10 novel variants. Variant class segregated strongly by inheritance, with de novo cases enriched for missense variants and inherited cases showing a variety of variant classes with enrichment for truncating variants. Longitudinal analysis revealed two latent trajectories: a rapidly progressive severe subgroup enriched for de novo missense variants, and a biphasic moderate subgroup enriched for inherited truncating variants. Patient stratification integrating spastin essentiality mapping (missense variants affecting essential, neutral, or context-dependent residues) with established genetic modifiers (biallelic pathogenic variants or modifier variants in trans) classified patients into predicted severe and moderate subgroups with divergent age at onset and clinical disease progression. The severe subgroup showed early developmental delays, rapid loss of ambulation, and declining quality of life, while the moderate subgroup displayed delayed but accelerating disease progression. pNfL levels were elevated in both subgroups, most pronounced in severe early disease. This study provides the most detailed natural history of SPG4 to date and introduces a biologically informed stratification framework that links variant class and location to divergent clinical trajectories. These data establish clinically meaningful benchmarks and offer a genotype-based framework to improve anticipatory care and optimize trial design for SPG4.Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain 2026.
The SPAST gene encodes spastin, a microtubule-severing protein. Pathogenic variants in this gene are commonly associated with autosomal dominant Spastic paraplegia type 4 (SPG4), a neurodegenerative disorder presenting with progressive lower limb spasticity. Severe phenotypes involving more extensive neurological impairment are rare.We report the first known case of an adolescent with a rare pathogenic SPAST variant (NM_014946.4: c.1507C > T; NP_055761.2: p. [Arg503Trp]) presenting with spastic quadriplegia. Additional features included severe intellectual disability, absent speech, dysphagia, and epilepsy, manifestations infrequently reported in association with SPAST mutations. He was born prematurely at 32 weeks of gestation after a complicated antenatal period due to the development of preeclampsia at 23 weeks and gestational diabetes mellitus at 26 weeks.The patient's clinical presentation represents one of the most severe phenotypes described in the literature for SPAST-related disorders. The identification of a genetic cause provided a more satisfactory and specific diagnosis than the previously presumed etiology of perinatal asphyxia. This case broadens the phenotypic spectrum of SPAST-related disease and highlights the role of genetic testing in the diagnostic workup of complex neurological conditions.We report the first case of a pathogenic variant in the SPAST gene and quadriplegia and one of the most severe clinical phenotypes described in the literature in association with variants in this gene. This report underscores the importance of considering SPAST mutations in patients with atypical or severe neurodevelopmental presentations. Genetic diagnosis enables more accurate prognosis, individualized medical care, and appropriate genetic counseling for families.Copyright © 2026 Eirini Kostopoulou et al. Case Reports in Neurological Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41956992 is a review article
Cardiac ischemia-reperfusion injury frequently induces malignant arrhythmias because of connexin 43 (Cx43) mislocalization and impaired cardiomyocyte coupling; yet, effective therapies targeting this mechanism remain scarce. Here we show that ischemic cardiomyopathy in humans and ischemia-reperfusion in mice promote the accumulation and stabilization of glutamylated microtubules, disrupting targeted Cx43 trafficking. This remodeling of the glutamylated microtubule network is mediated by the microtubule-severing enzyme spastin. Spastin overexpression in cardiomyocytes reduced microtubule density, whereas its deficiency caused accumulation of glutamylated, stabilized microtubules. Although cardiomyocyte-specific spastin knockout mice displayed normal cardiac structure and function at baseline, they were highly susceptible to stress-induced malignant arrhythmias. Mechanistically, spastin deficiency impaired microtubule plus end dynamics and Cx43 transport. Notably, genetic or pharmacological reduction of microtubule glutamylation before ischemia-reperfusion preserved Cx43 localization and mitigated oxidative stress-induced injury. Together, these findings identify microtubule glutamylation as a key regulator of cardiac electrical stability and a promising therapeutic target in ischemia-reperfusion injury.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Mutations in the SPAST gene, encoding the microtubule-severing protein Spastin, cause the most common type of hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP): SPG4, a disorder primarily characterized by length-dependent axonal degeneration. Clinically, most SPG4 patients present with a pure phenotype marked by progressive spasticity in the lower extremities. It has also been reported that complex cases exhibit demyelination and cognitive deficits. Additionally, some SPAST variants have been determined in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), indicating potential shared pathological mechanisms. Spastin is known to promote axonal regeneration by remodeling microtubules, whereas mutant Spastin disrupts microtubule dynamics and causes axonal transport defects in SPG4. However, whether Spastin dysfunction impairs regenerative processes such as myelination remains unknown. In this study, we investigated whether the SPG4-associated SPAST mutations affect axonal myelination. Using an in vitro cortical neuron-oligodendrocyte co-culture model, we found that pathogenic SPAST mutations result in a significant reduction in the myelination index. Furthermore, a cuprizone-induced demyelination mouse model revealed a decrease in Spastin protein levels in demyelinated white matter. Given Spastin's role in axonal regeneration, we hypothesized that Spastin may also protect against demyelination. Supporting this, wild-type Spastin expression protected neurons from demyelination in a cuprizone-induced cell culture demyelination model. Together, these results suggest a role for Spastin in axonal myelination, and its dysfunction may compromise myelin stability. Our findings highlight that impaired myelin stability may represent a secondary pathological feature of SPG4, contributing to disease complexity. This dual role of Spastin in axonal maintenance and myelin stability suggests its potential relevance for contributing to complex forms of SPG4.© 2026 International Society for Neurochemistry.
Understanding the biological determinants of stroke outcome is essential to improve treatment strategies. Cellular senescence may contribute to vascular dysfunction with age and has been linked to poor outcomes across a range of diseases. However, the role of senescence on stroke outcome in patients is not well defined. We sought to investigate the relationship between enriched senescence-associated gene signature expression and functional outcome after stroke.Acute ischemic stroke patients and control participants were recruited from University of Alberta Hospital. Control (non-stroke) participants had stroke risk factors and were of similar age and sex to the stroke patients. Whole-blood gene expression was measured by microarray. Senescence signature expression was evaluated to quantify senescence enrichment by gene set enrichment analysis. Outcome was determined using the modified Rankin Scale (mRS) at 90 days after stroke onset. The relationship between senescence, age, risk factors, and stroke outcome was analyzed through ordinal logistic regression.We included 129 acute ischemic stroke patients ≥60 years old, with a mean age of 77.3 ± 9.9 years and 41.9% female, and 41 control participants, with a mean age of 76.5 ± 7.9 years and 56.1% female. Patients with poor outcome (mRS > 2) had enriched senescence gene expression compared with those with good outcome (mRS ≤ 2); control participants also showed significant differences in senescence enrichment compared with the stroke outcome groups. High senescence was associated with a shift toward worse mRS scores (OR: 2.32; 95% CI 1.05-5.97) adjusted for age, sex, stroke severity, and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Senescence increased with age with variability across different ages. Among the senescence-associated genes, most differentially expressed between outcome groups were the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) ligands amphiregulin and epiregulin, and the C-C motif chemokine ligand 16.Increased senescence was associated with worse stroke outcome. These findings suggest that blood cell senescence may contribute to vascular aging and worse stroke outcome, likely by altering epidermal growth factor receptor signaling, increasing inflammation and blood-brain barrier disruption. This study provides translational evidence that measuring senescence may reflect a biological aging process that influences functional outcome after stroke.
Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are indispensable for triggering pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) progression. However, the specific biological processes and mechanisms by which circRNAs influence PDAC remain largely unknown. Here, we reported that circFOXP1 is a critical promoter of PDAC progression, exhibiting marked upregulation in patient tumour tissues that correlates with advanced TNM stage and poor prognosis. Functional studies demonstrate that circFOXP1 knockdown significantly suppresses PDAC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, circFOXP1 acts as a molecular sponge for miR-320b, leading to the upregulation of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) ligand Epiregulin (EREG) and the subsequent activation of the MAPK/ERK signalling pathway, which is crucial for maintaining the aggressive phenotype of PDAC. The blockade of EREG using neutralizing antibodies in vivo substantially abrogates circFOXP1-induced tumorigenesis. Our findings underscore the potential of circFOXP1 as a novel biomarker and propose a novel therapeutic target to improve survival in PDAC patients.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a lethal malignancy with a high recurrence rate and limited treatment options. Ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2 C (UBE2C) is implicated in various cancers, yet its impact on the HCC immune landscape remains incompletely understood. Herein, hub genes in HCC were identified, by integrating co-expression networks and protein-protein interaction analyses, from the TCGA, GEO, and CPTAC databases. Their expression was analysed using a single-cell transcriptomic database and verified in HCC tissues and cell lines via quantitative reverse transcription-PCR and immunoblotting. Functional roles of UBE2C were assessed using in vitro knockdown experiments and an in vivo subcutaneous tumour model. The tumour immune microenvironment was profiled using spatial transcriptomics, RNA-seq data, and ssGSEA. A prognostic nomogram was constructed based on multivariate Cox regression. UBE2C was identified as a significantly upregulated hub gene in HCC. Single-cell RNA-seq revealed predominant expression of UBE2C in hepatocytes, with dynamic upregulation along differentiation trajectories. UBE2C knockdown suppressed proliferation, induced apoptosis, and inhibited tumour growth. Spatial transcriptomics highlighted UBE2C-high regions within proliferative niches exhibiting immunosuppressive traits-including TGFB1 enrichment, impaired CXCL9-CXCR3 signalling, and exclusion of cytotoxic T cells-which were reduced in immunotherapy responders. UBE2C expression correlated with immune checkpoint genes and specific immune cell subsets. A UBE2C-based nomogram integrating T stage and tumour stage robustly predicted patient survival, and miR-300 and miR-381-3p were identified as potential upstream regulators. These findings establish UBE2C as a key driver of HCC progression and a biomarker for prognosis and immunotherapy stratification.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Sidedness influences colorectal cancer (CRC) prognosis and treatment response, yet the mechanism dictating differential EGFR inhibitor (EGFRI) sensitivity is unclear. This study investigated the tumor microenvironment (TME) in relation to EGFRI eligibility-clinically defined by factors such as tumor sidedness (e.g., left-sided), RAS/BRAF wild-type status, and microsatellite stability (MSS)-using integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), with bulk RNA-seq and spatial transcriptomics validation. We found cancer cell features reflected EGFRI eligibility more strongly than sidedness. EGFRI eligible tumors exhibited high Epiregulin (EREG) expression by cancer cells. Cell interaction analysis revealed a specific "EREG/EGFR/CSF axis" in EGFRI eligible CRC: EREG derived from cancer cell stimulates EGFR-expressing non-myCAF subtypes of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), which signal via CSF to M1/M2-like Tumor-Associated Macrophages/Monocytes (TAM/TAMo), potentially promoting M2 polarization. Spatial analysis confirmed the proximity of these interacting cell populations and localized EGFR pathway activation near cancer cells specifically in eligible tumors. This study provides a TME-centric view of EGFRI eligibility, identifying a key intercellular communication network driving differential responses. These findings suggest TME features could offer more precise patient stratification than sidedness alone, potentially improving CRC therapeutic strategies.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Biomarkers predicting response to trifluridine/tipiracil (FTD/TPI) with or without bevacizumab (BEV) in refractory metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) remain unclear. We identified candidate biomarkers in preclinical models and evaluated their clinical relevance.Candidate biomarkers were identified through preclinical transcriptomic analyses. Serum interleukin (IL)-8, epiregulin (EREG), amphiregulin (AREG), interferon-inducible protein 16 (IFI16), and vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) were measured in two cohorts treated with FTD/TPI+BEV or FTD/TPI alone. Samples were collected at baseline, before cycle 2, and at progression. Biomarker changes were categorized as increased or decreased. Propensity score matching was carried out, and survival outcomes were compared according to biomarker dynamics.Among 112 patients, 34 matched pairs were analyzed after propensity score matching. FTD/TPI+BEV yielded longer overall survival (OS) than FTD/TPI alone [10.5 versus 6.2 months; hazard ratio (HR) 0.53]. Increased IL-8 at cycle 2 and elevated IFI16 at progression were associated with poorer prognosis, whereas decreased AREG at cycle 2 predicted improved survival. In patients with increased IL-8, OS was longer with FTD/TPI+BEV than with FTD/TPI alone (12.8 versus 5.8 months; HR 0.43). Early EREG decrease was associated with better OS only in the FTD/TPI+BEV group. No significant interaction was observed between treatment and biomarker dynamics.On-treatment changes in IL-8, AREG, and EREG may serve as prognostic-and potentially predictive-biomarkers of FTD/TPI efficacy in mCRC. These findings support further evaluation of biomarker-guided treatment strategies.© 2026 The Author(s).
The multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) gene encodes Menin, a nuclear scaffold protein and tumor suppressor that regulates transcription. It is frequently mutated in endocrine neoplasia. MEN1-gastrinomas are aggressive neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) that arise predominantly in the submucosal Brunner's glands of the duodenum, an organelle rich in extracellular growth factors. Many duodenal NETs retain wild-type MEN1 allele and nuclear Menin, suggesting post-translational inactivation of its tumor-suppressor function. The Menin C-terminal domain (CTD) contains a conserved phosphorylation site at Ser487 within the first of three nuclear localization signals (NLS1-3). We hypothesized that extracellular signaling regulates Menin by phosphorylating the CTD at Ser487 blocking its nuclear localization. Using CTD deletion mapping, site-directed mutagenesis, and kinase activation in gastric cell lines, we show that loss of NLS1-3 reduces Menin's nuclear localization, stability, and repression of GASTRIN. Cell stimulation by epiregulin, forskolin, or phorbol ester induced Menin Ser487 phosphorylation and its nuclear translocation, relieving repression of GASTRIN. The phospho-mimetic S487D mutant remained cytoplasmic and phenocopied CTD deletion of NLS1-3 sustaining de-repression of GASTRIN. These findings showed that Ser487 phosphorylation restricts nuclear accumulation of Menin and functionally links extracellular signaling to post-translational modification of Menin that ultimately contributes to transcriptional derepression and neuroendocrine tumorigenesis.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) increases cardiovascular disease risk. Coronary artery calcification (CAC) predicts cardiovascular events and mortality in COPD. We hypothesized that plasma proteins linked to pulmonary phenotypes mediate CAC burden.Pulmonary function, emphysema, airway wall thickening, Agatston CAC scores (inverse normal transformed), and relative abundance of 1305 plasma proteins (log-transformed) were assessed in 989 Phase 1 COPDGene (Genetic Epidemiology of COPD) participants. Proteins associated with both pulmonary phenotypes (FEV1[forced expiratory volume in 1 second]%predicted, FVC [forced vital capacity], FEV1/FVC, emphysema, airway wall thickness, wall area percentage) and CAC (false discovery rate P≤0.20) were evaluated using multivariable mediation. Model adjustments included sex, age, race, body mass index, smoking, comorbidities, and medications. Adjustment for pulmonary artery-to-aortic diameter ratio-a marker of pulmonary vascular pressure-was also explored. The95% bootstrap CIs that excluded zero were considered significant.FEV1%predicted (P=0.026) and FEV1/FVC (P=0.010) were associated with CAC. After adjusting for FEV1, visual emphysema, and visual airway wall thickening remained associated with CAC. Five proteins (TSP2 [thrombospondin-2], renin, MMP-7 [matrix metalloproteinase-7], ERBB1 [epidermal growth factor receptor], MIC-1 [macrophage inhibitory cytokine-1]) mediated the FEV1%predicted and CAC association. All except MIC-1 mediated FEV1/FVC and CAC. All except renin mediated quantitative airway wall thickness or wall area percentage and CAC. Additionally, α2-antiplasmin (alpha-2 antiplasmin) mediated airway wall thickness and CAC. ERBB1 mediated visual paraseptal emphysema and CAC. Pulmonary artery-to-aortic diameter ratio adjustment reduced or eliminated some mediation effects. ERBB1 remained an independent mediator across multiple phenotypes.Six plasma proteins mediated associations between COPD phenotypes and CAC burden. These effects were partially influenced by pulmonary artery-to-aortic diameter ratio A, suggesting shared molecular pathways linking lung dysfunction to cardiovascular risk in COPD.
Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) are expanding treatment options in endometrial carcinoma, but the distribution of actionable surface targets across histologic, molecular, and genomic subgroups remains incompletely defined.This single-institution retrospective tissue microarray (TMA) study included 312 endometrial carcinomas: 158 endometrioid and 154 serous tumors. Trophoblast cell-surface antigen 2 (TROP2) was quantified by histochemical score (H-score); human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) was assessed using endometrial carcinoma-specific and gastric/DESTINY-PanTumor02 criteria; and folate receptor alpha (FRα) positivity was defined as ≥75% viable tumor cells with ≥2+ membranous staining. Molecular class was assigned using a hierarchical DNA polymerase epsilon (POLE)-mutant, microsatellite instability/mismatch repair-deficient (MSI/MMRd), p53-abnormal, and no specific molecular profile (NSMP) classifier. Tumor mutational burden (TMB) and recurrent genomic alterations were analyzed in relation to biomarker expression.TROP2 was broadly expressed, with median H-scores of 280 in endometrioid and 200 in serous carcinomas. HER2 gastric-score 2+/3+ expression and FRα positivity were enriched in serous versus endometrioid carcinoma (22.5% vs 8.9% and 20.1% vs 4.4%), restricted to FIGO grade 3 tumors, and concentrated in p53-abnormal disease. FRα positivity was absent in POLE-mutant and MSI/MMRd tumors. HER2 2+/3+ expression correlated with erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (ERBB2) alterations, whereas FRα-positive tumors were enriched for TP53 alterations and showed lower frequencies of ARID1A and PTEN alterations. Triple-negative TROP2/HER2/FRα tumors were uncommon (6/308, 1.9%).TROP2 is broadly expressed in endometrial carcinoma, whereas HER2 and FRα define a more restricted high-grade, serous/serous-like, p53-abnormal compartment, supporting biomarker-informed ADC development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567017 is a review article
Metronomic chemotherapy with oral capecitabine + vinorelbine (Cape + VNL) provides synergistic cytostatic activity and antiangiogenic and immunomodulatory effects, potentially offering prolonged disease control with limited toxicity in HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer (MBC). However, efficacy in the real-world (RW) setting, especially in late lines, and the impact of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPYD) polymorphisms on dose reduction and safety remain limited.In this retrospective study, 200 patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative MBC were treated at the ASST Cremona Hospital (2015-2023) with metronomic Cape (1000 mg twice daily, in normal metabolizers; 500 mg twice daily, in DPYD variant carriers) + VNL (20 mg/day, once daily, 5-days-on/2-days-off). All patients underwent pretreatment DPYD genotyping and dose adjustment. Treatment was administered in the second-to-fourth setting. The primary end point was time-to-next treatment or death (TNTD); secondary end points included overall survival (OS), disease control rate (DCR) ≥24 weeks, overall response rate (ORR), safety, and genotype-toxicity correlations.The median age was 61 years, and DPYD variants were present in 14.5% of patients; 34%, 41%, and 25% received therapy as second-, third-, and fourth-line treatment. The median TNTD was 22.0 weeks, and the OS was 64.0 weeks. The DCR was 38.5%, and the ORR was 22.0%. Efficacy was comparable between DPYD variant carriers and normal metabolizers (all P values > .05). In later lines, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status 2 and >2 metastatic sites were independent negative prognostic factors (all values P < .05). Overall, 7.5% grade 3 toxicities occurred, especially in variant carriers without dose reduction and grade 4-5 events.These RW data suggest that metronomic Cape + VNL may represent a clinically active and manageable option in heavily pretreated HER2-negative MBC. Our findings support prospective evaluation of DPYD-guided dose individualization as a strategy to optimize the benefit-risk balance of fluoropyrimidine-based metronomic regimens.
Leptospira interrogans is a causative agent of leptospirosis, a potentially life-threatening zoonotic disease. A major symptom of severe leptospirosis is acute kidney failure; this is characterized by the detachment of renal proximal tubule epithelial cells (RPTECs) from the basement membrane, which can lead to chronic kidney disease. The kidneys possess an intrinsic ability to self-repair following acute injury through collective cell migration; this process involves the movement of cells as cohesive units. Mechanical forces transmitted between cells via mechanosensors are important for this migration process. L. interrogans induces the displacement of mechanosensors from the plasma membrane, which can be prevented by inhibitors of eukaryotic proteolytic pathways. However, the effects of mechanosensors dysfunction on epithelial repair processes have not been investigated yet. Therefore, the aim of this study was to analyze proteasomal inhibition during epithelial barrier disruption and elucidate epithelial repair mechanisms by examining collective migration of infected RPTECs. We performed a proteome-wide analysis of protein ubiquitination in infected-RPTECs to understand the effect of proteasomal inhibitors. Moreover, we detected increased ubiquitination of ADP-ribosylation factor-like protein 2 (ARL2), a protein involved in microtubule dynamics. Immunofluorescence analysis revealed that L. interrogans induces proteasome-dependent disruption of the microtubule and F-actin cytoskeletal network. Scratch assays revealed aberrant collective cell migration and delayed wound healing in L. interrogans-infected RPTECs. Wound healing was improved by proteasomal inhibition followed by the addition of epidermal growth factor. In conclusion, our findings suggest that L. interrogans alters the circuit integrating mechanosensors at cell-cell contact junctions and the supracellular F-actin and microtubule cytoskeletal network, thereby disrupting epithelial repair responses.Copyright: © 2026 Barbee et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) is often present on the cell surface of a wide variety human malignancies, including non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), glioblastoma (GBM), pancreatic ductal carcinoma (PDC), and castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). Efforts to optimize immunotherapies targeting EGFR are limited by murine intolerance of human EGFR. To overcome this obstacle, we developed C57BL/6 mice in which a truncated variant of human EGFR (hEGFRt), lacking the ligand binding domain and cytoplasmic domain, is expressed from the CAG regulatory elements comprised of the CMV enhancer, β-actin promoter, and β-globin poly-adenylation signals. Cetuximab, a high-affinity, clinically available anti-human EGFR antibody, retains affinity for hEGFRt. The hEGFRt cDNA in the CAG-hEGFRt transgene is flanked by loxP sites to enable its excision thereby reducing interaction of hEGFRt-directed immunotherapies with normal tissues. The CAG-hEGFRt(f/f) transgene is abundantly expressed in hematopoietic lymphoid and myeloid cells, with low-level expression evident also in non-hematopoietic liver, lung, kidney, and brain. Mx1-Cre-mediated transgene excision in adult mice reduces hEGFRt ~ 5-fold in blood mononuclear cells. CAG-hEGFRt(f/f) adult mice are tolerant of syngeneic NSCLC, GBM, prostate, and PDC lines expressing hEGFRt. These mice retain hEGFRt tolerance after transgene deletion. CAG-hEGFRt(f/f) mice provide a new and important tool for the development of immunotherapies targeting hEGFR.Copyright: © 2026 Barberi et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
In hormone receptor-positive/human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative (HR+/HER2-) metastatic breast cancer (mBC), cyclin-dependent kinase 4/6 inhibitors (CDK4/6i) have transformed long-term disease control; however, survival trajectories remain markedly heterogeneous. While a subset of patients experiences early progression reflecting endocrine-resistant and biologically aggressive disease, others maintain durable endocrine-sensitive control for several years. As a result, baseline survival estimates calculated from treatment initiation become progressively less representative for patients who remain progression-free during ongoing therapy. We therefore evaluated landmark-based conditional survival outcomes in a real-world cohort of patients receiving first-line CDK4/6i-based therapy.We retrospectively evaluated 390 patients with HR+/HER2- mBC treated with first-line CDK4/6i plus endocrine therapy. Landmark analyses were performed at 6, 12, 24, and 36 months following treatment initiation. Conditional progression-free survival (cPFS), conditional overall survival (cOS), and post-landmark OS according to progression status were estimated using Kaplan-Meier analyses from each landmark time point. Baseline clinicopathological factors were additionally evaluated using landmark-specific logistic regression analyses.Median progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) from treatment initiation were 29.2 months (95% CI, 24.6-33.9) and 68.0 months (95% CI, 55.7-80.4), respectively. Disease progression had occurred in 11.5%, 26.1%, 50.8%, and 70.4% of patients by the 6-, 12-, 24-, and 36-month landmarks, respectively. Among patients remaining progression-free at these time points, median cPFS was 27.15, 28.08, 34.58, and 41.90 months, respectively, suggesting increasingly durable conditional disease control with successive progression-free milestones. Landmark progression status strongly stratified subsequent survival outcomes, with significantly inferior post-landmark OS observed among patients with progression at all evaluated landmarks (all log-rank p < 0.001). Endocrine resistance, visceral disease, and adverse tumor biology were consistently associated with an increased risk of progression. However, estimates beyond the 36-month landmark were less precise owing to the limited risk set and greater censoring.Landmark-based conditional survival analysis provides clinically meaningful, time-updated prognostic information in HR+/HER2- mBC treated with first-line CDK4/6 inhibitors. Crossing successive progression-free milestones identifies a subgroup with increasingly durable long-term disease control while maintaining favorable post-landmark survival. These findings support the integration of milestone-based conditional survival estimates alongside conventional baseline survival metrics in the CDK4/6i era.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Japanese Breast Cancer Society.
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation status plays a critical role in guiding targeted therapy for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, molecular testing in patients with stage IA NSCLC may be limited by insufficient tissue availability, procedural invasiveness, and resource constraints. Therefore, developing a non-invasive approach for EGFR mutation prediction is of substantial clinical interest. This study aimed to develop a computed tomography (CT) radiomics based model integrating clinical variables for non-invasive prediction of EGFR mutation status in stage IA NSCLC patients.A total of 375 patients with stage IA NSCLC who underwent pre-treatment chest CT and EGFR mutation testing were retrospectively enrolled. Tumor volumes of interest (VOIs) were manually segmented on CT images, and radiomic features were extracted using the pyradiomics package. Clinical and radiomic features were selected through a feature selection pipeline, and multiple machine learning algorithms were evaluated for EGFR mutation prediction. Model performance was assessed using the Area Under Curve (AUC).Predictive performance varied across feature selection strategies and machine learning algorithms. Among all evaluated combinations, the Linear Regression (LR) model built using the Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO)-30 feature set achieved the best performance, with a test-set AUC of 0.745. In this model, CT radiomic features served as the primary predictive component, while selected clinical variables provided complementary information and modestly improved predictive performance. These findings support the value of integrating radiomic and clinical features for non-invasive EGFR mutation prediction in early-stage NSCLC.A CT radiomics based model demonstrated only moderate performance for the non-invasive prediction of EGFR mutation status in patients with stage IA NSCLC. When clinical variables were incorporated, predictive performance improved, suggesting that clinical features provide complementary information beyond radiomics alone. The combined model highlights the added value of integrating CT-derived radiomics with clinical data for more accurate individualized molecular assessment, particularly when tissue-based genotyping is unavailable or limited.© 2026 Guan et al.
To assess the association between different tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE).PubMed, the Cochrane Library, Embase, WanFang Data, and CNKI were searched for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) from inception to June 2026.A total of 25 RCTs met the inclusion criteria, encompassing 9,068 patients. The risk of MACE was significantly higher in the TKI-treated group than in the control group (odds ratio [OR] = 2.13; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.11-4.07; P = 0.02). The ORs for QT prolongation, hypertension, and arrhythmias were 6.05 (95% CI, 3.70-9.89; P < 0.00001), 4.18 (95% CI, 2.19-7.95; P < 0.0001), and 5.40 (95% CI, 3.43-8.50; P < 0.00001), respectively. Subgroup analysis indicated that epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) were associated with the highest risk of cardiovascular adverse events, followed by vascular endothelial growth factor receptor inhibitors (VEGFR-TKIs), platelet-derived growth factor receptor inhibitors (PDGFR-TKIs), and stem cell factor receptor inhibitors (c-Kit TKIs).TKI therapy significantly prolongs progression-free survival. However, the incidence of cardiovascular adverse events, including QT prolongation, hypertension, and arrhythmias, is notably higher with TKI use. EGFR-TKIs show the highest cardiovascular risk, followed by VEGFR-TKIs, PDGFR-TKIs, and c-Kit TKIs. Clinicians should be aware of these risks and ensure regular cardiovascular monitoring during treatment.https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/view/CRD420251084805, identifier CRD420251084805.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Cheng, Zheng, Liu, Zhang, Gao and Li.
Third-generation epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) are widely used in the treatment of NSCLC with EGFR mutations due to their efficacy and favourable safety profile. However, drug-induced liver injury (DILI) associated with targeted therapy may occasionally present with atypical clinical and radiological features, posing diagnostic challenges. Here, we present a rare case of severe hepatotoxicity accompanied by pseudo-progressive portal lymphadenopathy that occurred following furmonertinib treatment.A 59-year-old female patient with EGFR-mutated NSCLC initiated treatment with the third-generation EGFR-TKI furmonertinib. Two months into the therapy, the patient developed jaundice and marked elevations in total bilirubin and transaminases. Extensive laboratory investigations excluded viral hepatitis and autoimmune liver diseases. Abdominal imaging revealed newly enlarged portal lymph nodes, mimicking malignant metastasis, but without clear evidence of hepatic metastasis or biliary obstruction. Furmonertinib was discontinued and systemic corticosteroid therapy was initiated. Within 2 weeks, liver function tests had improved significantly and follow-up imaging showed that the portal lymphadenopathy had regressed. Causality assessment using the RUCAMyielded a score of 9, indicating a highly probable drug-induced liver injury.This case highlights that severe hepatotoxicity associated with furmonertinib may present with portal lymphadenopathy that mimics disease progression. Clinicians should remain vigilant for this atypical hepatotoxicity when using EGFR-TKIs and promptly assess portal lymph node status upon the emergence of jaundice or abnormal liver function. The implementation of early intervention strategies may facilitate recovery and help avoid misinterpretation of imaging findings.Copyright © 2026 Zhu, Long, Zhu, Xu, Wu and Xie.
The Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) diet reduces blood pressure and cardiovascular disease risk, but its impact on later coronary artery calcium (CAC) progression is unclear. This study aimed to identify DASH score trajectories from early to middle adulthood and assess their association with CAC progression in middle age, exploring the potential mediating factors.We conducted a prospective analysis of 2238 Black and White adults who were aged 18 to 30 years at CARDIA (Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults) baseline and were followed from study year 20 to year 25. DASH score trajectories from early to middle adulthood were determined using latent class analysis. The primary end point was CAC progression, a validated measure of plaque progression, defined as a >2.5 square root increase in CAC score between years 20 and 25.Two distinct DASH score trajectories were identified: the low-increasing and high-decreasing trajectories. In the fully adjusted model, participants in the high-decreasing trajectory had a 21% lower risk of CAC progression compared with those in the low-increasing trajectory (hazard ratio, 0.79 [95% CI, 0.65-0.98]; P=0.028). The association was partially mediated by diastolic blood pressure, insulin, uric acid, and lipid profiles.DASH score trajectories vary from early to middle adulthood. Maintaining high adherence to the DASH diet from early to middle adulthood is associated with reduced CAC progression in middle age, partially mediated by cardiometabolic risk factors. These findings support the importance of long-term adherence to a healthy dietary pattern for cardiovascular disease primary prevention. REGISTRATION: URL: https://www.clinicaltrials.gov; unique identifier: NCT00005130.
Adiposity increases the risk of post-menopausal oestrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast cancer. Inflammation, insulin, and insulin-like growth factors and sex-steroid hormones may explain this effect. We performed interventional mediation analysis to estimate the effects of hypothetical interventions targeting these pathways in females with obesity on reducing their excess risk of post-menopausal ER-positive breast cancer relative to females with normal weight.The mediation analysis included 1260 post-menopausal females (352 with ER-positive breast cancer) from a case-cohort within the Melbourne Collaborative Cohort Study. A Monte Carlo g-computation approach with non-parametric bootstrapping was used to estimate the risk differences (RDs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for interventional direct and indirect effects of hypothetical interventions that shift the joint distribution of inflammation, insulin, and sex-steroid hormone biomarkers in females with obesity to the levels observed in females with normal weight.The estimated RD for the total effect of obesity relative to normal weight on post-menopausal ER-positive breast cancer was 16.1 (95% CI: 3.3, 30.4) per 1000 females. The RDs for indirect effects through inflammation, insulin, and sex-steroid hormones were 16.4 (95% CI: 4.3, 27.2), -8.4 (95% CI: -23.4, 1.2), and 13.0 (95% CI: 3.3, 23.7) per 1000 females, respectively. The - RD for the direct effect not via any of these three pathways was -5.3 (95% CI: -17.4, 10.6) per 1000 females.Inflammation and sex-steroid hormones, but not insulin, contributed to the detrimental effect of adiposity on the risk of post-menopausal ER-positive breast cancer. Interventions targeting these pathways may reduce the risk for females with obesity.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the International Epidemiological Association. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Loss of functional β cells is a hallmark of diabetes, and restoring β cell mass remains a critical goal in the quest for a specific therapy. One potential strategy is to convert non-β cells in the islet, such as α cells, into insulin-producing cells. Although several compounds have been identified to induce β cell-like features in α cells, none have been successfully translated into clinical applications. In this study, we identify PRC2 inhibitors as potent inducers of β cell-enriched gene expression in α cells, acting through modulation of the AR-ETV1 complex. AR inhibition suppresses glycogen synthesis and enhances the pentose phosphate pathway. Direct metabolic reprogramming with methyl esterified 6-phosphogluconate, an intermediate metabolite of the pentose phosphate pathway, induces β cell-like features in α cells, stimulates β cell regeneration and ameliorates diabetes. Our findings demonstrate that metabolic reprogramming drives β cell regeneration and highlight a promising therapeutic strategy for diabetes.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
The Lipid Accumulation Product (LAP) is recognized as an indicator of lipid-induced cellular stress. While its predictive value for conditions like diabetes, liver disease, and metabolic syndrome is established, its specific correlations with individual metabolic and hematological markers within the context of obesity remain less defined. This study sought to comprehensively investigate the links between LAP and a spectrum of metabolic and hematological biomarkers in individuals with obesity. This cross-sectional study involved 304 obese participants. Standard anthropometric measurements [weight, height, waist and hip circumference (WC, HC)] were taken, and dietary intake was assessed via a food frequency questionnaire. Blood samples were analyzed for glucose, insulin, hemoglobin A1C, serum lipids [total cholesterol, triglycerides, low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C)], and a complete blood cell count. LAP was calculated using WC and triglyceride levels. Participants were categorized into three tertiles based on their LAP values. Individuals in the highest LAP tertile had significantly higher body weight, body mass index, WC, and waist-to-hip ratio than those in the lowest tertile (all P < 0.05). Higher LAP tertiles were also associated with increased systolic and diastolic blood pressure, total cholesterol, triglycerides, and reduced HDL-C levels after adjustment for potential confounders. In addition, white blood cell count and mean corpuscular hemoglobin remained significantly higher across LAP tertiles in the fully adjusted models. Supplementary receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis demonstrated good discriminatory performance of LAP for identifying metabolic syndrome (AUC = 0.833; 95% CI: 0.779-0.887). Higher LAP was independently associated with an adverse cardiometabolic profile, characterized by greater adiposity, unfavorable lipid parameters, elevated blood pressure, and selected hematological alterations in adults with obesity. These findings support the potential utility of LAP as a simple and accessible marker for identifying individuals at increased cardiometabolic risk. However, prospective studies are needed to determine its predictive value and establish temporal relationships.© 2026. The Author(s).
The reliability of noninvasive methods to detect metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease and metabolic-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) or advanced liver disease remains uncertain.To test the hypothesis that routine liver biopsy (LB) during metabolic and bariatric surgery (MBS) at an academic center would identify a high prevalence of MASH with minimal operative risk.Single-center metabolic and bariatric surgery accreditation and quality improvement center in Louisiana and national metabolic and bariatric surgery accreditation and quality improvement data, 2020-2023.Institutional and national MBS cases were analyzed. Patients aged <18 years, open procedures, conversions/revisions, and missing biopsy results (institutional data) were excluded. LB characteristics and case outcomes were examined using logistic regression to determine the association of postoperative complications.A total of 980 institutional cases and 695,343 national cases were identified. Local routine LB prevalence was 48%, while national prevalence for LB was 3.5%. Routine LB locally revealed steatosis in 71.8%, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis in 31.6%, and fibrosis in 20.6%. Black race was associated with lower odds of steatosis (odds ratio [OR]: .34), MASH (OR: .28), and fibrosis (OR: .45). In contrast, hypertension (OR: 1.93) and insulin-dependent diabetes (OR: 2.66) were associated with increased nonalcoholic steatohepatitis risk. Postoperative complications were not different between routine LB and non-LB patients locally (P > .05). Cases with LB nationally had slightly lower estimates of complications, although small but significant differences were observed with the larger sample.Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease/MASH is highly prevalent in MBS. Not only is LB safe and not risk prohibitive but it also identifies advanced liver disease that is generally poorly detected preoperatively and can affect postoperative treatment and outcomes.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the long-term effectiveness of the FreeStyle Libre 2 device in reducing time below range levels 1 (TBR-1) and 2 (TBR-2), compared with the first-generation FreeStyle Libre device without alarms, in people with type 1 diabetes mellitus. A longitudinal observational pre-post study of a single cohort was conducted in a cohort of 93 people with type 1 diabetes mellitus who switched from FreeStyle Libre to FreeStyle Libre 2 in routine clinical practice. At 24 months post-switch, significant improvements were observed in TBR-1 (p = 0.001) and TBR-2 (p < 0.001). A significant direct association was identified between years with diabetes mellitus and change in total basal insulin dose from T0 to T1, with a coefficient of 0.14. Additionally, a significant inverse association was found between annual income and coefficient of variation, with a coefficient of -6.3, as well as between annual income and TBR-2, with a coefficient of -2.45. Switching to a flash glucose monitoring system with alarms was associated with improvements at 24 months in time below range, coefficient of variation, and HbA1c in individuals with type 1 diabetes mellitus.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Diabetes is characterized by impaired glucose homeostasis resulting from dysfunction and loss of insulin-producing islet β cells, with oxidative stress emerging as a contributor to β-cell injury. The polyamines (putrescine, spermidine, spermine) regulate cellular stress responses, and their metabolism can generate reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive aldehydes via catabolic enzymes such as spermine oxidase (Smox) and polyamine oxidase (Paox). Transcriptomic analyses of mouse and human islets exposed to proinflammatory cytokines revealed induction of the gene encoding Smox but no change in the gene encoding Paox, suggesting a role for Smox in amplifying inflammation-associated stress in islets. In developing zebrafish, the smox gene is expressed in the pancreas and enriched within endocrine cells. Using a β-cell-specific ROS-inducible zebrafish model, smox gene knockdown reduced intra-islet ROS and macrophage recruitment. Metabolomics of zebrafish embryos showed that Smox deficiency did not affect spermine or spermidine levels but led to accumulation of acetylated polyamines, consistent with the rerouting of polyamine flux through alternative acetylation pathways. RNA sequencing of zebrafish embryos demonstrated that Smox deficiency induces distinct transcriptional programs, with enrichment of cell cycle and RNA processing pathways at baseline and reprogramming of stress, translational, and immune-associated pathways during injury. Mechanistically, Smox is the primary polyamine pathway generating ROS in zebrafish, as reducing flux through the Paox-dependent pathway did not reduce ROS production. These findings support a model in which Smox amplifies β-cell stress through peroxide- and aldehyde-mediated toxicity and identify polyamine catabolism as a modifiable pathway in the setting of β-cell injury.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567497 is a review article
Copyright: &copy; 2026 dos Santos et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License (CC BY 4.0), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited. Ewing sarcoma (ES) is an aggressive childhood tumor. We have previously shown that tropomyosin receptor kinase (Trk) neurotrophin receptors regulate viability, and the Trk and multi-kinase inhibitor K252a restores sensitivity to chemotherapy, in ES cells. Here, we show that administration of K252a in mice transiently delays ES tumor growth and reduces expression and phosphorylation of multiple targets. BALB/c nu/nu nude mice inoculated with SK-ES-1 ES cells were given daily intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of K252a for 18 days. Immunohistochemical analysis of tumors was performed to quantify the expression and phosphorylation of Trk receptors, phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), and insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R). Treatment with K252a led to a partial and transient delay in ES tumor growth and reduced the expression and phosphorylation of TrkA, TrkB, PI3K, and IGF1R. Combined treatment with K252a and the IGF1R inhibitor NVP-ADW742 was more effective in reducing ES cell viability than each compound alone. Associations between genes encoding Trks, PI3K, and IGF1R and overall survival (OS) in patients with ES was examined. Significant associations between expression of NTRK genes and patient OS were found, indicating that NTRK genes should be further evaluated as biomarkers for prognosis in patients with ES.
The insulin signaling pathway is a core and evolutionarily conserved signal transduction network. Here we study hypomorphic mutant conditions in the sole insulin receptor gene (Inr) in the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, placed at the beginning of the signaling cascade where it mediates the effects from the seven Drosophila insulin-like peptides. As such, it sits at a nodal point where signaling must pass to ensure and carry out all the functions ascribed to this anabolic pathway. We find that these mutant flies, while viable, exhibit hyperactivity and accumulate glycogen and body lipids. The hyperactivity phenotype was characterized in detail and is significantly different from controls both measuring it in several days' spells, or when done in a more detailed fashion in shorter time periods (twenty-five minutes). The proportion of time spent sleeping is also altered, highlighting the robust role that the insulin pathway has not only regulating metabolism but also behavior. When confronted with mild pro-oxidative conditions, these flies and control wildtype flies have reduced lifespans as well. The metabolic dysregulation is rescued when the Inr mutant flies are also heterozygous for keap1, a negative regulator of the Nrf2 pathway, while the antioxidant response and the activity/sleep levels exhibit only partial and sexually dimorphic improvements. Transcriptomic analyses of Inr mutants show that many metabolism and hormonal signaling genes are dysregulated.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Insulin resistance is a deficiency in insulin-mediated regulation of glucose metabolism and is considered a cause of multiple diseases such as diabetes and hypertension. Because the insulin signaling pathway plays a central role in insulin action, it has been extensively studied in the context of insulin resistance. However, the insulin signaling pathway's contribution to insulin resistance remains incompletely understood. Insulin receptor (IR) mutations can cause insulin resistance; however, reduced IR expression in obesity may still permit sufficient signaling due to the characteristics of IR, known as the spare receptor hypothesis. Selective insulin resistance, in which glucose metabolism is impaired while other pathways remain intact, further complicates insulin resistance. Nevertheless, our understanding of how the insulin signaling pathway contributes to these unresolved issues remains limited. To elucidate these mechanisms, we developed mathematical models of the hepatic insulin signaling pathway in mice with diet-induced obesity and found that changes in protein expression levels can largely account for signal attenuation. Insulin resistance was characterized using two indices: sensitivity shift and responsiveness shift. We found a trade-off between the two, whereby loss of responsiveness from upstream decreases was compensated for by decreases in downstream sensitivity. The excess of receptors conferred robustness to receptor decreases via the signaling pathway. Incoherent-feedforward-loop regulation maintained some signaling despite attenuation, potentially explaining selective insulin resistance. These findings provide deeper insights into insulin resistance and quantitative mechanisms underlying signaling pathway regulation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Clazosentan, a selective endothelin-A (ET-A) receptor antagonist, is used to prevent cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Although pulmonary edema and fluid retention are recognized adverse effects, hypoxemia associated with atelectasis has not been described. Endothelin-1 contributes to hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction (HPV), which preserves ventilation-perfusion (V/Q) matching by diverting blood flow from poorly ventilated regions; pharmacologic ET-A blockade may attenuate HPV, increasing intrapulmonary shunt and impairing oxygenation. We report a man in his 60s with aneurysmal SAH (World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies [WFNS] I, Fisher 3) who underwent clipping surgery and postoperative clazosentan infusion (10 mg/h, standard Japanese dosage). On day 7 of infusion, hypoxemia (SpO2 < 90% room air) developed; on day 8, arterial blood gas showed PaO2 62.5 mmHg with a PaO2/FiO2 (P/F) ratio of 109. Chest computed tomography (CT) demonstrated right lower-lobe atelectasis without pulmonary edema or pleural effusion, and echocardiography showed normal cardiac function. Clazosentan was discontinued and corticosteroid therapy initiated, after which oxygenation improved and the atelectasis resolved. The patient was extubated on day 18 and discharged with good neurological recovery. This case illustrates a plausible mechanism whereby ET-A receptor blockade suppresses HPV, exacerbating V/Q mismatch in the presence of segmental atelectasis. Improvement after drug withdrawal supports this association. Clinicians should recognize that hypoxemia during clazosentan therapy may occur independently of fluid overload and warrants early respiratory evaluation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558375 is a review article
The classic paradigm of somatotropic-gonadal axis synergy in pubertal bone acquisition lacks validation in central precocious puberty (CPP), and the driver of the significant bone turnover marker (BTM) heterogeneity in this population is unknown.To investigate the independent and potential synergistic associations of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and peak luteinizing hormone (LH) with BTMs in girls with CPP.This retrospective cohort included 190 treatment-naïve girls with CPP. Participants were stratified into Low, Medium, and High bone turnover groups based on tertiles of a bone age-standardized composite Z-score of bone gla protein (BGP) and β-C-terminal telopeptide (β-CTX). We used multiple linear regression adjusted for chronological age, supplemented by E-value analysis.Marked BTM heterogeneity was confirmed (p for trend < 0.001). IGF-1 and peak LH levels exhibited significant graded increases across groups (p for trend = 0.003 and 0.030). After age-adjustment, IGF-1 independently correlated with both BGP (β = 0.069, p = 0.005) and β-CTX (β = 0.001, p = 0.030), while peak LH associated only with BGP (β = 0.411, p = 0.026). Critically, the IGF-1 × LH peak interaction was non-significant (p = 0.655 and 0.791 for BGP and β-CTX, respectively). In contrast, glucolipid metabolic parameters showed no differences, arguing against their major role and highlighting neuroendocrine specificity.In this cross-sectional study of girls with CPP, heterogeneity in bone turnover was more strongly and consistently associated with the somatotropic axis (IGF-1) than with gonadotropin activity, and no significant synergy was observed. These findings suggest a potential shift toward a somatotropic-dominant mechanism in the context of pathological pubertal acceleration, highlight IGF-1 as a pivotal biomarker for skeletal metabolism assessment, and challenge the classical paradigm of somatotropic-gonadal axis collaboration.​ The proposed mechanism requires validation in longitudinal studies.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Jiang, Li and Li.
Refractory hypoglycemia is common in malignant insulin-secreting tumors and is associated with substantial morbidity. Ersodetug is a fully human monoclonal antibody that allosterically attenuates insulin receptor signaling with the potential to treat various forms of hyperinsulinism (HI). We retrospectively report outcomes from compassionate use of ersodetug in eight individuals with refractory hypoglycemia due to tumor HI.Ersodetug was administered intravenously at 6 or 9 mg/kg every 1-2 weeks initially, followed by a frequency of every 2-5 weeks, as appropriate. Glycemic, functional, and safety outcomes were analyzed.Eight adults (4 M/4F; 24-74 years; Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) 1-3) received ersodetug for insulin-secreting tumors (metastatic insulinoma, n = 7; cervical neuroendocrine carcinoma, n = 1). No drug-related serious adverse events were observed. Most patients experienced improved glycemic control, including discontinuation of parenteral glucose in 6 of the 7 applicable patients (median, 4.5 days) and a 35.6% relative reduction from baseline in time in hypoglycemia (<70 mg/dL) by continuous glucose monitoring (mean 12.4% to 8.0%; pseudo-median paired change of -3.8 percentage points [90% CI, -8.2 to -1,1; P = 0.02). These glycemic improvements permitted hospital discharge and reductions in other antihypoglycemic therapies beyond glucose infusion rate (pseudo-median change, -2.5; 90% CI, -3.5 to -1.0; P = 0.02), with associated improvements in ECOG status. The median treatment duration with ersodetug (11.5 months, range 5-17) tended to correspond to patient lifespan in the setting of metastatic disease.Ersodetug therapy resulted in reduced hypoglycemia burden, ability to discontinue parenteral glucose infusion, allowing discharge from hospital, use of fewer antihypoglycemic therapies, and improved ECOG performance status in individuals with severe, refractory tumor HI.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
Oxidative stress and neuroinflammation are critical contributors to hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. Microglia, the CNS-resident immune cells, undergo rapid activation in response to hypoxic stress. Endothelin-1 (ET-1), a vasoconstrictor implicated in cerebrovascular pathology, is upregulated by hypoxia; however, its role in microglial activation remains poorly understood. HMC3 human microglial cells were exposed to hypoxia (1% O2) for 4 hours. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) were quantified by flow cytometry. ET-1 and interleukin-6 (IL-6) protein concentrations were measured by ELISA and mRNA levels by qPCR. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation and ET-1 localization were assessed by flow cytometry and immunofluorescence, respectively. The endothelin B receptor (ETBR) antagonist BQ788 was used to assess ET-1 signaling in hypoxia-induced responses. Hypoxia significantly upregulated ET-1 gene expression (5.0-fold increase, p < 0.001, n = 4) and elevated ET-1 protein production by 1.4-fold (p < 0.01, n = 4). IL-6 expression and secretion increased 1.5-fold under hypoxic conditions (p < 0.01, n = 4), an effect that was attenuated by BQ788 pretreatment. ROS levels increased 1.9-fold in hypoxic HMC3 cells (p < 0.01, n = 4) but were significantly reduced by ETBR inhibition. Additionally, hypoxia elevated the percentage of MAPK-activated cells compared to both normoxic and BQ788-treated groups (p < 0.01). These findings demonstrate that hypoxia induces ET-1 overexpression, ROS generation, MAPK activation, and IL-6 production in microglia, establishing a self-perpetuating cycle of neuroinflammation. ETBR blockade with BQ788 disrupts this cascade, suggesting that ET-1 signaling is a promising therapeutic target to mitigate secondary injury in hypoxic-ischemic brain conditions.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42555010
Skipped: PubMed ID 42554920 is a review article
Polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) is an established therapeutic target in cancer; however, ATP-competitive kinase inhibitors have shown limited clinical success because of toxicity, acquired resistance, and incomplete inhibition of non-catalytic PLK1 functions. Targeting the Polo-box domain (PBD), which regulates PLK1 localization and substrate recognition, represents an alternative therapeutic strategy but has been hindered by the lack of selective, cell-active small molecules. Here, the optimization and biological characterization of abbapolins, a series of non-peptidic PLK1 PBD inhibitors developed using the REPLACE strategy are described. Structure-guided optimization and screening across the NCI-60 cancer cell panel identified compounds with preferential activity against prostate cancer cells. Proteomic analyses demonstrated that cellular sensitivity correlated with PLK1 protein abundance, supporting an on-target mechanism of action. Abbapolins directly engaged PLK1 in cells, induced selective degradation of endogenous PLK1, and suppressed long-term clonogenic growth. Lead compounds demonstrated favorable pharmacokinetic properties and significantly inhibited prostate tumor growth in xenograft models without detectable systemic toxicity. PLK1 abundance was significantly reduced in treated tumors and correlated with tumor response, identifying PLK1 degradation as a potential pharmacodynamic biomarker. Abbapolins also synergized with enzalutamide in castration- resistant prostate cancer cells, supporting their potential as combination therapies for advanced disease. Collectively, these studies establish selective inhibition of the PLK1 Polo-box domain as a viable therapeutic strategy, provide in vivo proof-of-concept for the REPLACE approach, and identify abbapolins as promising leads for advanced prostate cancer.
Metabolic reprogramming is a hallmark of cancer, enabling tumor cells to meet their increased biosynthetic and energetic demands. Although cells possess the capacity for de novo serine biosynthesis, most transformed cancer cells preferentially rely on exogenous serine uptake to sustain their growth, yet the regulatory mechanisms driving this metabolic dependency remain poorly understood. Here, we uncover a mechanism by which Polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1), frequently overexpressed in prostate cancer, orchestrates a metabolic shift in serine and sphingolipid metabolism through phosphorylation of phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH), the rate-limiting enzyme of the serine synthesis pathway (SSP). Specifically, PLK1 directly phosphorylates PHGDH at S512, S513, and S517, leading to a marked reduction in its protein level and enzymatic activity. This downregulation of de novo serine biosynthesis forces cancer cells to increase their reliance on exogenous serine uptake via the ASCT2 transporter, which in turn fuels the biosynthesis of lipids, including sphingolipids essential for tumor growth and survival. Our findings suggest that targeting the SSP, serine uptake, or downstream lipid biosynthesis pathways may represent promising therapeutic strategies in advanced cancers characterized by PLK1 dysregulation.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a leading cause of cancer mortality globally, underscoring the need to identify key molecular drivers. Cell division cycle 20 (CDC20), a regulator of cell cycle progression, is frequently dysregulated in malignancies. Its specific role and mechanisms in CRC pathogenesis are poorly understood, warranting investigation to uncover novel therapeutic targets. In this study, CDC20 mRNA expression was quantified by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), while its protein levels were assessed using Western blotting. Cell proliferation was evaluated via the 5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assay. Cell apoptosis was analyzed by flow cytometry. Migration and invasion capabilities were examined using wound-healing and Transwell invasion assays, respectively. Angiogenesis was assessed using a tube formation assay. To investigate the in vivo effects of CDC20 knockdown, a xenograft mouse model was employed to monitor tumor growth. Flow cytometry was performed to quantify CD206( +) macrophages. Mechanistic studies included chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), dual-luciferase reporter, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), and methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP) assays to explore GATA binding protein 6 (GATA6) and methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) interactions with CDC20. The results showed that CDC20 expression at the mRNA and protein levels was significantly upregulated in CRC tissues in comparison with normal colorectal tissues. Moreover, its protein expression was higher in CRC cells than in human normal colonic epithelial cells. Its knockdown suppressed CRC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and tube formation, while promoting apoptosis. In addition, CDC20 depletion inhibited tumor growth and immune escape. Transcription factor GATA6 directly activated transcription of the CDC20 gene. Crucially, restoring CDC20 expression counteracted the tumor-suppressive effects of GATA6 knockdown on malignant behaviors and immune escape. METTL3 stabilized CDC20 transcripts via insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 2 (IGF2BP2)-mediated mRNA stability. Further, overexpressing CDC20 similarly reversed the inhibitory effects of METTL3 knockdown on CRC cell malignancy and immune escape. Thus, CDC20, upregulated transcriptionally by GATA6 and post-transcriptionally by METTL3, drove CRC progression, angiogenesis, and immune evasion. Targeting CDC20 or its regulators holds significant clinical promise for developing therapies in CRC patients.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Human Cell Society.
To detect the expression level of cell division cycle 20 homolog (CDC20) in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) and to study the biological function of CDC20 in ccRCC.CDC20 expression levels and clinical significance of ccRCC were determined using the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. We detected the expression level of CDC20 in ccRCC with the help of immunohistochemistry (IHC). The effect of CDC20 on the proliferation of renal cancer cells was investigated using EDU and CCK-8 proliferation assays. We used wound healing assays and Transwell assays to determine the effects of CDC20 on renal cancer cell migration and invasion and Wnt signaling pathway agonists in recovery experiments. The mechanism of CDC20 in ccRCC was detected using western blotting. Finally, the effect of CDC20 on renal cancer cells was verified in vivo in a nude mouse xenograft model.Bioinformatics analysis found that CDC20 was upregulated in ccRCC, and its high expression was associated with poor prognosis in kidney renal cell carcinoma (KIRC) patients. In addition, we detected high expression of CDC20 in KIRC tissues, consistent with the results of bioinformatics analysis. Besides, knockdown of CDC20 can inhibit the biological functions of renal cancer cells. The recovery experiment proved that the biological function of the originally inhibited renal cancer cells was restored. In vivo, low expression of CDC20 can inhibit tumor growth.As CDC20 is highly expressed in KIRC tissues, it can be used as both a therapeutic target and a prognostic marker.Copyright © 2026 YuHu Hao et al. Genetics Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) is a matter of great global public health importance; however, its current therapeutic effectiveness is deemed inadequate, and the range of therapeutic targets is limited. This study aimed to explore the efficacy of Bosutinib (BOS) in HCC and the underlying molecular mechanism.Bioinformatic analysis, machine learning, and online databases were used for screening targets and molecular docking studies. The mRNA level of mammalian polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) was identified via real-time quantitative PCR. The protein expression of PLK1, PTK2, and USP9X was detected using western blot. Cell viability, apoptosis, and migration were evaluated by MTT, flow cytometry, and transwell assay. The angiogenesis capacity was determined using tube formation assay. The glucose consumption, lactate production, and ATP/ADP ratios were analysed using commercial kits. CO-IP assay was used to confirm the interaction between PLK1 and USP9X. A mouse model was used for exploring BOS in vivo. Immunochemistry was used to examine PLK1 and USP9X expression in tumours.This study illustrated that BOS inhibited proliferation, migration, angiogenesis, and glycolysis of HCC cells. Bioinformatic analysis and machine learning identified PLK1 as a core gene related to the glycolysis of HCC. PLK1 was upregulated in HCC and correlated with an unfavourable prognosis. Further evaluation showed that the anti-tumour effects of BOS were impaired by PLK1 overexpression. In addition, BOS treatment inhibited PLK1 protein level, while its mRNA level was not affected. Moreover, Bosutinib inhibited USP9X to reduce the deubiquitination of PLK1. CO-IP assay indicated that reduced USP9X could enhance the ubiquitination of PLK1 and reduce protein stability. Finally, BOS showed anti-tumour effects in a mouse model.This study revealed that BOS inhibited cell proliferation, migration, angiogenesis, and glycolysis via suppressing USP9X, thus reducing deubiquitination of PLK1 in HCC, demonstrating the potential of BOS for the treatment of HCC.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Peripheral T-cell lymphomas (PTCLs) are aggressive malignancies with poor clinical outcomes and limited treatment options. Brentuximab vedotin (BV), a CD30-targeted antibody-drug conjugate, has shown efficacy in CD30-positive PTCLs but is frequently associated with incomplete responses and relapse. To enhance its therapeutic effect, we previously identified defects in spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) regulation as key sensitizers to BV via a genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screen. Building on this, we conducted a cell cycle-focused chemical screen and identified polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) inhibitors as potent synergistic partners for BV. Among them, volasertib consistently enhanced BV-induced cytotoxicity across multiple CD30-positive PTCL cell lines. Mechanistically, the BV-volasertib combination induced sustained mitotic arrest through activation of the SAC, followed by mitotic catastrophe, apoptosis, and DNA damage. This SAC dependence was further supported by the use of a selective Mps1 inhibitor. Importantly, the combination significantly suppressed tumor growth and prolonged survival in both cell line-derived and patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models. These findings underscore the therapeutic potential of combining BV with PLK1 inhibition, and highlight SAC activation as a key mechanism to overcome therapeutic resistance in CD30-positive PTCL.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Obstructive nephropathy is frequently associated with downregulation of key renal water and sodium transporters, resulting in impaired urinary concentration and disrupted fluid balance. The present study aimed to investigate the role of Polo-like kinase 1 (Plk1), a kinase traditionally recognized for its function in cell-cycle regulation, in modulating renal water and sodium transporters in a unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO) model, and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.Plk1 function was inhibited pharmacologically using BI6727 or genetically using heterozygous Plk1 knockout mice. In vitro, renal collecting duct M1 cells were stimulated with TGF-β to examine mechanistic pathways.Inhibition of Plk1 with BI6727 preserved the expression of aquaporin 2 (AQP2) and sodium-potassium-chloride cotransporter 2 (NKCC2) in UUO kidneys. Similarly, heterozygous Plk1 knockout mice exhibited higher AQP2 and NKCC2 levels than wild-type controls. Mechanistically, Plk1 regulated cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2) activity, leading to elevated prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production. PGE2 subsequently upregulated the E3 ubiquitin ligases NEDD4 and NEDD4L, promoting ubiquitin-proteasome-mediated degradation of AQP2 and NKCC2.These findings indicate that Plk1 contributes to the maladaptive downregulation of renal water and sodium transporters during obstruction. Pharmacological inhibition or genetic reduction of Plk1 preserves transporter expression, highlighting the Plk1-cPLA2-PGE2-NEDD4/NEDD4L axis as a potential therapeutic target for correcting water and sodium imbalance in obstructive nephropathy.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Polo-like kinase 1 (Plk1) regulates multiple steps of the cell and centrosome cycle, including mitotic entry, DNA-damage recovery, centrosome maturation and centriole disengagement. Plk1 activity depends on several independent cofactors, such as the cytoplasmic Bora, and the centrosomal proteins Cep192 and Cenexin. However, whether these Plk1 coactivators differentially regulate the Plk1-dependent processes is unknown. Here, we show that each Plk1 coactivator controls different cell and centrosome cycle transitions in human cells. We find that Plk1 already acts in S-phase, where under the control of Cep192 and Aurora A it promotes replication origin firing. Bora is the main Plk1 activator driving mitotic entry, DNA-damage recovery and centrosome maturation in G2, while centriole disengagement is mainly regulated by Cep192 and Cenexin. Our results thus uncover a complex Plk1 activation regulatory network, in which distinct upstream activators dictate its activity in a context-dependent manner.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41118761
A healthy endometrium is crucial for embryo implantation and pregnancy maintenance. Thin endometrium, reduced glands and fibrosis resulting from infection or mechanical injury, are the primary causes of long-term infertility and poor pregnancy outcomes. Unfortunately, these issues have not been resolved by conventional clinical methods. Keratinocyte growth factor-2 (KGF-2) is an epithelial mitogen that regulates proliferation and migration of epithelial cells. Nitric oxide (NO) is involved in maintaining vascular homeostasis and angiogenesis. Poloxamer-407 (P) hydrogel is a promising topical drug delivery system due to its excellent solution-gel transition properties in response to body temperature. In this study, therapeutic NO gas was first prepared into stabilized microbubbles (NO-MBs). Subsequently, KGF-2 and NO-MBs were encapsulated into micelles of P hydrogel to form a multifunctional temperature-sensitive (28.9-31.8°C) hydrogel (KGF-NO-MBs-P hydrogel). This hydrogel not only exhibited suitable apparent viscosity, bio-adhesive and mechanical properties for application in situ but also showed sustained release of KGF-2 and NO. In vivo, KGF-NO-MBs-P hydrogel effectively restored endometrial morphology, increased the number of glands and endometrial thickness, reversed endometrial fibrosis and improved pregnancy outcomes by synergistic regulation of KGF-2 and NO. Repair of endometrial injury was closely related to promoting neovascularization, inducing endometrial cell proliferation and epithelialization, inhibiting apoptosis and inflammation and balancing collagen subtypes. Therefore, KGF-NO-MBs-P hydrogel may be useful in promoting endometrial regeneration and fertility restoration through in situ microinjection. This study represented a convenient, safe and promising method for repair of endometrial injury.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.
The ability of melanoma to acquire metastasis through the induction of angiogenesis is one of the major causes of skin cancer death. Here, it is found that high transcript levels of DEP domain containing 1B (DEPDC1B) in cutaneous melanomas are significantly associated with a poor prognosis. Tissue microarray analysis indicates that DEPDC1B expression is positively correlated with SOX10 in the different stages of melanoma. Consistently, DEPDC1B is both required and sufficient for melanoma growth, metastasis, angiogenesis, and functions as a direct downstream target of SOX10 to partly mediate its oncogenic activity. In contrast to other tumor types, the DEPDC1B-mediated enhancement of melanoma metastatic potential is not dependent on the activities of RHO GTPase signaling and canonical Wnt signaling, but is acquired through secretion of signal peptide, CUB domain and EGF like domain containing 3 (SCUBE3), which is crucial for promoting angiogenesis in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, DEPDC1B regulates SCUBE3 protein stability through the competitive association with ubiquitin ligase cell division cycle 16 (CDC16) to prevent SCUBE3 from undergoing degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Importantly, expression of SOX10, DEPDC1B, and SCUBE3 are positively correlated with microvessel density in the advanced stage of melanomas. In conclusion, it is revealed that a SOX10-DEPDC1B-SCUBE3 regulatory axis promotes melanoma angiogenesis and metastasis, which suggests that targeting secreted SCUBE3 can be a therapeutic strategy against metastatic melanoma.© 2022 The Authors. Advanced Science published by Wiley-VCH GmbH.
A chicken genome has several regions with quantitative trait loci (QTLs). However, replication and confirmation of QTL effects are required particularly in African chicken populations. This study identified single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and putative genes responsible for body weight (BW) and antibody response (AbR) to Newcastle disease (ND) in Rwanda indigenous chicken (IC) using genome-wide association studies (GWAS). Multiple testing was corrected using chromosomal false detection rates of 5 and 10% for significant and suggestive thresholds, respectively. BioMart data mining and variant effect predictor tools were used to annotate SNPs and candidate genes, respectively. A total of four significant SNPs (rs74098018, rs13792572, rs314702374, and rs14123335) significantly (p ≤ 7.6E-5) associated with BW were identified on chromosomes (CHRs) 8, 11, and 19. In the vicinity of these SNPs, four genes such as pre-B-cell leukaemia homeobox 1 (PBX1), GPATCH1, MPHOSPH6, and MRM1 were identified. Four other significant SNPs (rs314787954, rs13623466, rs13910430, and rs737507850) all located on chromosome 1 were strongly (p ≤ 7.6E-5) associated with chicken antibody response to ND. The closest genes to these four SNPs were cell division cycle 16 (CDC16), zinc finger, BED-type containing 1 (ZBED1), myxovirus (influenza virus) resistance 1 (MX1), and growth factor receptor bound protein 2 (GRB2) related adaptor protein 2 (GRAP2). Besides, other SNPs and genes suggestively (p ≤ 1.5E-5) associated with BW and antibody response to ND were reported. This work offers a useful entry point for the discovery of causative genes accountable for essential QTLs regulating BW and antibody response to ND traits. Results provide auspicious genes and SNP-based markers that can be used in the improvement of growth performance and ND resistance in IC populations based on gene-based and/or marker-assisted breeding selection.Copyright © 2021 Habimana, Ngeno, Okeno, Hirwa, Keambou Tiambo and Yao.
Skipped: PubMed ID 34606789 is a review article
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) has a poor prognosis, with a 5-year survival rate below 20%, due to high recurrence and metastasis. Lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1 (LEF1) promotes ESCC progression via epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and stemness, but its downstream transcriptional targets remain unclear. This study aimed to identify novel therapeutic targets by elucidating the LEF1-mediated regulatory network in ESCC.Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) sequencing, RNA-sequencing, and single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq) analyses using the Seurat, Harmony, Slingshot, and CytoTRACE packages were performed on ESCC cell lines (Eca109 and TE-1) and 73 patient specimens. Functional assays included Cell Counting Kit 8 proliferation, colony formation, wound healing, Transwell migration and invasion, flow cytometric apoptosis analysis, Western blotting, immunohistochemistry (IHC), and co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) with mass spectrometry (MS). Xenograft mouse models (n=10) were used to assess tumor growth in vivo.LEF1 was shown to bind directly the nuclear factor erythroid 2-like 3 (NFE2L3) promoter (positions 1321-1334), upregulating its transcription. NFE2L3 was highly expressed in the ESCC tissues and cell lines, and was correlated with poor histological differentiation, advanced pathological tumor (T) stage, and higher tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) stage. Functionally, NFE2L3 promoted proliferation, migration, invasion, and EMT in vitro, and enhanced tumor growth in vivo. NFE2L3 mediated the pro-tumorigenic effects of LEF1. The scRNA-seq analysis identified NFE2L3 as a potential cancer stemness marker with high differentiation potential. Mechanistically, NFE2L3 upregulated transforming acidic coiled-coil-containing protein 1 (TACC1), which was associated with immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment characteristics including reduced CD8-positive (CD8+) T cell infiltration, increased M2-polarized (M2) macrophages, and elevated immune checkpoint expression. TACC1 was shown to bind directly to proline-rich acidic protein 1 (PARP1), inhibiting apoptosis and activating the AKT/mTOR signaling pathway to drive ESCC progression.This study established a novel LEF1/NFE2L3/TACC1/PARP1 signaling axis that promotes ESCC progression through EMT induction, stemness maintenance, and AKT/mTOR pathway activation. NFE2L3 serves as a critical mediator of LEF1 oncogenic function and represents a promising therapeutic target for ESCC treatment. The immunosuppressive role of TACC1 highlights its potential as a target for combined targeted and immunotherapy strategies.© AME Publishing Company.
We report a thirty-six-year-old woman with intellectual disability who was referred for evaluation of suspected obstructive sleep apnea. The initial clinical impression suggested a syndromic case, so comprehensive genetic testing was undertaken. Overnight polysomnography revealed a severe rapid eye movement-predominant obstructive sleep apnea syndrome with an apnea-hypopnea index of 31.9 events per hour, rapid eye movement apnea-hypopnea index of 113.8 events per hour, and lowest oxygen saturation of 66%. Treatment with continuous positive airway pressure improved respiratory and sleep quality indices and was well tolerated. Whole-exome sequencing identified a de novo splice site variant in the pleckstrin homology domain interacting protein gene (c.41-1G > A), confirming a molecular diagnosis of Chung-Jansen Syndrome. Chung-Jansen syndrome is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder caused by heterozygous pathogenic variants in the pleckstrin homology domain interacting protein gene, marked by developmental delay, intellectual disability, behavioral abnormalities, dysmorphism, and progressive obesity. PHIP influences central and peripheral pathways controlling satiety, pancreatic function, and body weight. Despite frequent reports of sleep problems, systematic evaluation of sleep-disordered breathing has been limited. This adult case provides the first polysomnographic confirmation in the syndrome, supporting proactive screening for obstructive sleep apnea-especially in those with obesity. Integrating genetic assessment into sleep care can reduce diagnostic delays and better guide therapy and prognosis.
To compare serum levels of spindle and kinetochore-associated complex subunit 1 in oral potentially malignant disorders and oral squamous cell carcinoma.The analytical, cross-sectional study was conducted from July 2022 to April 2023 at the Department of Otolaryngology of Dr Ruth Pfau Civil Hospital, Karachi, Dr Ishrat-ul-Ebad Khan Institute of Oral Health Sciences, Karachi, and the histopathological section of the Dow Diagnostic Reference and Research Laboratory at the Dow University of Health Sciences, Karachi, and comprised serum samples of patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma and oral potentially malignant disorder. The concentrations of serum spindle and kinetochore-associated complex subunit 1 were determined using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay method. Data was analysed using SPSS 21.Of the 90 patients with age ranging 30-90 years, 45(50%) had oral squamous cell carcinoma; 34(75.6%) males and 11(24.4%) females. There were 45(50%) patients with oral potentially malignant disorders; 35(77.8%) males and 10(22.2%) females (p>0.05). The median serum spindle and kinetochore associated complex subunit 1 levels were significantly elevated in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma compared to those with oral potentially malignant disorders (p<0.05).Spindle and kinetochore-associated complex subunit 1 could be a promising non-invasive serum marker for the early detection of malignant transformation in oral potentially malignant disorders and for prediction of prognosis in oral squamous cell carcinoma cases.
While normal cells are highly regulated, cancer cells take a dysregulated path which bolsters their survival. Currently, a limited number of uniform treatments are available for cancer cure. Our goal was to deprive cancer cells of the key nutrient methionine and determine what effect it would have on cell death and alterations in DNA methylation of prostate cancer cells.PC3 and other cell lines were transfected with plasmid gene constructs for methionine gamma lyase deaminase (MEGL), a methionine-degrading enzyme, targeted for expression in the cytoplasm (cMEGL) or the nucleus (nMEGL). For assessing cell death due to MEGL-mediated methionine deprivation, a standard 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay was used. PC3, and DU145 prostate cancer cells were selected for whole-methylome sequencing to determine the effects of MEGL expression. Key gene products comprising the Prolaris Molecular Score, specifically 31 cell-cycle progression genes, were chosen for assessing putative differences in methylome.Treatment with MEGL gene targeted for expression in either the cytoplasm or nucleus caused significant cell death, similar to that due to the anticancer drug methotrexate. Azacytidine showed no effect on PC3 cell death. Propargylglycine, an inhibitor of MEGL, prevented cell death. Methylome analysis showed increased methylation of two genes: Spindle and kinetochore-associated complex subunit 1 (SKA1), origin recognition complex subunit 6 (ORC6L), and reduced methylation of six promoters: BUB1 mitotic checkpoint serine/threonine kinase B (BUB1B), PDZ binding kinase (PBK), baculoviral IAP repeat-containing 5 (BIRC5), centromere protein M (CENPM), DNA topoisomerase II alpha (TOP2A), minichromosome maintenance 10 replication initiation factor (MCM10), upon forced expression of MEGL.Methionine deprivation through MEGL-targeted gene therapy may be a viable option for inducing cancer cell death compared to unrestricted levels of methionine.Copyright © 2025 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
This study explores the regulatory role of proline-rich acidic protein 1 (Prap1) effects on embryo implantation. A high estrogen model and ovariectomized mice were employed to demonstrate that estrogen regulates Prap1 expression. Uterine tissues were collected from E 1.5 (the presence of a vaginal plug was recorded as embryonal day 0.5, E 0.5) to E 7.5 to detect the Prap1 expression pattern in early pregnancy using qRT-PCR. Embryo adhesion was assessed through uterine perfusion of PRAP1 protein and Prap1 overexpression in endometrial epithelial cells (EECs). The data showed that Prap1 expression was increased in the uterus with high estrogen levels. Prap1 expression was specifically reduced during early implantation. Overexpression of Prap1 in EECs also reduced the embryo adhesions. The differentially expressed genes obtained by RNA-seq were enriched in extracellular matrix and cell adhesion. Muc1 expression was increased in EECs overexpressing Prap1 by RNA-seq and qRT-PCR. Similarly, O-glycosylation biosynthesis was enriched, and glycosylation-related genes were upregulated. Our results demonstrate that Prap1 was regulated by estrogen and an increase in PRAP1 before implantation affected embryo adhesion by regulating the expression of Muc1 and extracellular matrix-related genes, leading to embryo implantation failure. Our results provide a new insight into estrogen regulation of embryo implantation.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a common type of cancer that impacts the digestive tract, and current treatment options have limitations. Studies have confirmed that ferroptosis plays a key role in CRC progression. This research sought to clarify how Proline-rich acidic protein 1 (PRAP1) influences CRC advancement and ferroptosis, and to uncover the underlying mechanisms involved.Real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) and western blot were employed to ascertain the levels of PRAP1 in CRC cells (SW480, SW620, and LOVO) and tissues. Immunofluorescence was utilized to locate PRAP1. Biological characterization of CRC cells was determined through CCK-8 assay, EdU staining, Transwell assay, TUNEL staining and Scratch-wound assay. Iron and Fe2+ content was measured using prussian blue staining and iron assay kit. A nude mouse model of xenograft was established, and the impact of PRAP1 on tumor growth was investigated by pathological staining. Expression of ferroptosis-related proteins as well as nuclear factor-erythroid factor 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) pathway proteins was detected by Western blot.PRAP1 levels were elevated in CRC. Overexpression PRAP1 promoted cell proliferation, inhibited apoptosis and ferroptosis. Additionally, overexpression PRAP1 can activate the Nrf2 pathway. However, silencing PRAP1 had the opposite effect. In vivo tumor xenograft experiments showed that silencing PRAP1 resulted in decreased Ki67 positivity and increased TUNEL positivity in tumor tissues, and blocked Nrf2 pathway, thereby inhibited tumor growth.PRAP1 promotes CRC cell proliferation and inhibits ferroptosis by Nrf2 pathway. This study provides a conceptual framework for the development of novel targeted drugs.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Potential genetic variants associated with chicken egg production traits have been extensively identified, most of which are located in the non-coding regions of the genome. However, which functional variants really drive the egg-laying phenotype change remain elusive. In the present study, by integrating the previously screened egg-laying related candidate genetic variants, transcriptome data derived from 16 high- and low-yield Gushi chickens, and epigenomic analyses, 22 potential functional variants (PFVs) were systematically identified. These PFVs potentially drive the differences in egg production phenotypes by affecting the expression of 10 egg-laying related key candidate genes in the hypothalamus (ZNF804B, DPP10, NEO1 and GABRG1), pituitary (DPP10 and GNG7), and ovary (PHIP, OSTN, GADD45B, NFXL1 and ADAMTS17). Subsequently, the regulatory activity and function of one PFV, chr3:79510218A>T, located in the third intron of the pleckstrin homology domain interacting protein gene (PHIP), were investigated in chicken ovarian granulosa cells. Association analysis confirmed the significant association of chr3:79510218A>T with egg number from 21 to 43 week of age in Gushi chicken (P = 0.0022) and Guangxi Yao chicken (P = 0.0388), as well as with ovarian PHIP expression levels (P = 0.0010). Functional analysis indicated that the T allele of chr3:79510218A>T enhanced the transcriptional activity and upregulated PHIP expression in vitro by binding transcription factor forkhead box I1 (FOXI1). Furthermore, the knockdown of PHIP led to the inhibition of ovarian granulosa cell proliferation and a reduction in the synthesis and secretion of progesterone (PROG) hormones. Collectively, this study unveil the egg-laying related functional variants and illustrate a potential genetic regulation mechanism, and will help accelerate the molecular design breeding process of chicken egg production.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Spindle and kinetochore-associated complex subunit 3 (SKA3) contributes to tumor growth and metastasis, but its specific roles have not been clearly elucidated. In this study, we found that SKA3 contributed to lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) progression by interacting with integrin β1. The expression characteristics of SKA3 in LUAD patients were analyzed by The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets and validated in 33 paired LUAD tissues by immunohistochemistry. Our data confirmed that SKA3 was a crucial regulator of LUAD progression and was associated with worse patient survival. In vitro and in vivo studies showed that SKA3 increased cell migration and invasion. Mechanistically, it was demonstrated that SKA3 could bind to integrin β1 and promote its activation, which further promoted the activation of EGFR. As a positive feedback loop, the activation of EGFR in turn promoted the expression of SKA3 via E2F1-mediated transcriptional regulation. Inhibition of EGFR with AZD9291 blocked SKA3 signaling induced by E2F1. These results indicated that SKA3 was crucial for the activation of EGFR and its downstream signaling pathway. Our findings uncovered the oncogenic role of SKA3 in LUAD progression and elucidated a novel EGFR/E2F1/SKA3/integrin β1 signaling loop, providing a potential SKA3-directed therapeutic strategy for LUAD patients.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Nucleolar and spindle-associated protein 1 (NUSAP1), a mitotic regulator critical for cancer cell cycle progression, remains poorly characterized in endometrial carcinoma (EC). Here, we integrated bioinformatics analysis with functional assays, including flow cytometry, Transwell invasion, ER stress imaging (ER fluorescence probe), intracellular Ca2+ measurement (Fluo-4 AM), and Western blotting, to dissect the role of NUSAP1 role in EC. NUSAP1 was significantly overexpressed in EC tissues compared to normal controls. Strikingly, we identified a functional interaction between NUSAP1 and the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R), a key ER calcium release channel. Knocking down NUSAP1 suppressed EC cell proliferation and invasion while inducing mitophagy and apoptosis. These effects were accompanied by elevated cytosolic Ca2+ levels, exacerbated ER stress, and increased phosphorylated IP3R (p-IP3R). Conversely, NUSAP1 overexpression reciprocally attenuated these phenotypes. IP3R silencing alone reduced intracellular Ca2+ and ER stress without altering NUSAP1 expression, whereas NUSAP1 overexpression combined IP3R knockdown synergistically amplified these effects. Mechanistically, NUSAP1 governs IP3R phosphorylation to regulate Ca2+ homeostasis, ER stress, and mitophagy, thereby modulating apoptotic signaling in EC. Our study unveils the NUSAP1-IP3R axis as a central driver of EC progression, offering novel therapeutic targets for calcium-dependent oncogenic pathways.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
RTCB (RNA 2',3'-cyclic phosphate and 5'-OH ligase) is a unique 3'-5' RNA ligase with diverse physiological functions in metazoans. To further explore the role of RTCB in reproduction, we generated a Rtcb conditional knockout mouse model using the Ddx4-Cre system. The complete absence of viable Rtcb-/- offspring indicated embryonic lethality. Integrated analyses of histology, immunohistochemistry, quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and published single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data revealed that Rtcb is expressed throughout embryogenesis, with pronounced upregulation during gastrulation, and that Rtcb knockout resulted in gastrulation failure around embryonic day 6.5 (E6.5), which was accompanied by decreased proliferation and increased apoptosis of embryonic cells. Notably, NUSAP1 (nucleolar and spindle-associated protein 1) is vital for gastrulation as it participates in cell division. In NIH 3 T3 cells, knockdown of Rtcb led to destabilization of Nusap1 mRNA, suggesting that NUSAP1 might function downstream of RTCB. Moreover, Rtcb is a target gene of YY1 (Yin-Yang-1), a transcription factor crucial for gastrulation. Expression profiling through scRNA-seq revealed spatiotemporal coordination among Yy1, Rtcb, and Nusap1 between E3.5 and E7.5. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that RTCB is essential for early mouse embryogenesis and propose the presence of a YY1-RTCB-NUSAP1 axis that maintains proper cell proliferation for successful gastrulation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Nucleolar and spindle-associated protein 1 (NUSAP1) is critical for cancer progression. However, its function in cancers is context-dependent, and emerging evidence indicates that NUSAP1 possesses tumor suppressor functions, although the underlying mechanisms remain uncharted. In this study, NUSAP1 depletion is found to significantly increases the proliferation, migration, and invasion of triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) cells in vitro and promotes TNBC progression in vivo, suggesting that NUSAP1 is a tumor suppressor in TNBC. Mechanistically, NUSAP1 bridges HIFα and the transcriptional repressor death domain-associated protein (DAXX) through its microtubule-associated domain (MAD) to recruit the methyltransferase SETDB1, thereby attenuating HIF transcriptional activity and the expression of its target genes by depositing the H3K9me3 repressive mark on hypoxia response elements (HREs). Intriguingly, an engineered MAD of NUSAP1, designated as Tumor Suppressor-MAD (TS-MAD), is developed, which effectively abrogates HIF transcriptional activity by bridging the DAXX-HIF interaction, consequently inhibiting HIF-driven TNBC progression. Moreover, NUSAP1 is identified as a novel HIF-repressed gene in TNBC cells, and its expression level shows a negative correlation with clinical outcomes in TNBC patients. These findings establish an HIF-NUSAP1 double-negative feedback loop in TNBC and validate TS-MAD as a potential therapeutic strategy for HIF-driven cancer.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Acute lung injury (ALI) is a respiratory disease induced by uncontrolled inflammatory responses in the lungs. The pathological features of ALI include alveolar structural damage and pulmonary edema, which ultimately leads to pulmonary dysfunction. ANAPC5 (Anaphase-promoting complex subunit 5) is an E3 ubiquitin ligase known for its anti-inflammatory properties. This study aims to investigate the effects of ANAPC5 on ALI and its underlying molecular mechanism. In the lung tissue of an ALI mouse model induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) administration, we observed downregulation of ANAPC5. Through both in vivo and in vitro experiments, we assessed the effect of ANAPC5 on lung injury by conducting pathological analysis and molecular biological detection. ANAPC5 overexpression alleviated inflammatory cell infiltration, reduced alveolar wall thickening, suppressed pulmonary inflammation, and decreased the levels of inflammatory cytokines in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and lung tissue of the ALI model. Moreover, ANAPC5 inhibited M1 polarization and promoted M2 polarization of macrophages both in vitro and in vivo. We also found that ANAPC5 significantly suppressed the activation and expression of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) through inducing its ubiquitination in macrophages. In LPS-induced M1 macrophages, the presence of EGFR significantly decreased CD24 expression, followed by reversing the inhibitory effects of ANAPC5 on inflammatory responses and macrophage polarization. Collectively, our findings suggest that ANAPC5 serves as a therapeutic molecular target that mitigates ALI through regulating macrophage M1/M2 polarization via the EGFR/CD24 axis.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40605080 is a review article
Nucleolar and spindle-associated protein 1 (NUSAP1) is crucial for chromosomal segregation and spindle assembly, its expression correlates with high morbidity and mortality rates, necessitating better understanding of prognosis-related networks.The study used databases like KM Plotter, TNMplot, UALCAN, OncoMX, GEPIA2, OncoDB, ENCORI, TIMER 2.0, CancerSEA, miRNet, CellTracer, TISIDB, GSCA, and the Enrichr database to analyze NUSAP1 expression in lung cancer tumors and normal tissues.The NUSAP1 gene is overexpressed in both adenocarcinoma (LUAD) and squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC). However, LUAD has a poor prognosis for overall survival (OS) (HR = 1.94), first progression (FP) (HR = 1.96), and post-progression survival (PPS) (HR = 1.48), while LUSC showed no significant data. High NUSAP1 expression is significantly associated with adenocarcinoma smoker patients. The study also found a strong correlation between lncRNA-TMPO-AS1 overexpression and poor OS prognosis in LUAD smokers, a negative relationship between miRNA hsa-let-7b-5p and TMPO-AS1/E2F1/NUSAP1 expression, and a positive correlation between S and M phase cell cycle checkpoints, tumor infiltrating CD4 immune cells, and NUSAP1 expression in lung adenocarcinoma.Smokers with lung adenocarcinoma have worse prognoses due to higher E2F1, NUSAP1, and TMPO-AS1 levels, possibly due to TMPO-AS1 sponge formation with hsa-let-7b-5p.
Nucleolar and spindle-associated protein 1 (PLIN3), a member of the perilipin family, plays a critical role in lipid droplet dynamics and is implicated in promoting tumor progression across several cancers. However, its influence on the tumor immune microenvironment and its potential as a prognostic indicator regarding immunotherapy responses have yet to be systematically evaluated. This study leverages data retrieved from multiple databases to address these questions.PLIN3 mRNA and protein expressions were analyzed across a diverse range of normal and cancerous tissues, utilizing data retrieved from multiple databases. The potential of PLIN3 as a diagnostic and prognostic biomarker in cancers was assessed. Advanced computational algorithms were employed to examine the impact of PLIN3 on immune cell infiltration. The association between PLIN3 expression and the presence of M2 macrophages was validated through analyses incorporating bulk and single-cell transcriptomics, spatial transcriptomics, and multicolor fluorescence staining techniques. Furthermore, the effects of PLIN3 on tumor malignancy and growth were investigated in vitro in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) cells. Potential compounds targeting PLIN3 were identified using the Connectivity Map (cMap) web tool, and their efficacy was further assessed through molecular docking.PLIN3 was predominantly upregulated in various cancers, correlating with adverse prognostic outcomes. A strong positive association was observed between PLIN3 levels and M2 macrophage infiltration in several cancer types, establishing it as a potential pan-cancer marker for M2 macrophage presence. This was confirmed by integrative multi-omics analysis and multiple fluorescence staining. Additionally, PLIN3 knockdown in LUAD cells diminished their malignant traits, resulting in decreased proliferation and migration. In LUAD, clofibrate was identified as a potential inhibitor of PLIN3's pro-oncogenic functions.PLIN3 may serve as a potential biomarker and oncogene, particularly in LUAD. It plays a key role in mediating M2 macrophage infiltration in various cancers and presents a promising immunotherapeutic target.© 2025 Yang et al.
Micro RNA-490-3p (miR-490-3p) is associated with a variety of malignancies. However, the role of miR-490-3p in osteosarcoma and its underlying mechanism are not yet fully understood. This study aimed to explore the role and the mechanism of miR-490-3p in osteosarcoma.MiR-490-3p and nucleolar and spindle-associated protein 1 (NUSAP1) expression in osteosarcoma was detected using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), wound-healing, and transwell assays were used to detect cell proliferation, migration and invasion. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labelling (TUNEL) and western blot were used to evaluate the cell apoptosis. Flow cytometry was used to assess the cell cycle. In addition, luciferase reporter assay was used to confirm the binding of miR-490-3p and NUSAP1. Western blot and RT-qPCR was used to examine cell division cycle associated 8 (CDCA8) and activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3) expression.MiR-490-3p expression was significantly decreased in the osteosarcoma cells. Following the transfection with miR-490-3p mimic, it was found that 143B cell proliferation, migration, and invasion were inhibited, while the cell apoptotic levels and cell-cycle arrest were promoted, accompanied with decreased B cell lymphoma protein-2 (Bcl-2) protein expression, and increased protein expressions of Bcl-2-associated X (Bax), cleaved caspase-3, and cleaved caspase-9. In addition, miR-490-3p was found to bind to NUSAP1, and negatively regulate NUSAP1 expression. NUSAP1 upregulation reversed the inhibitory effects of miR-490-3p overexpression on cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, and the promoting effects on cell apoptosis and cell-cycle arrest in osteosarcoma. Moreover, miR-490-3p was identified to mediate CDCA8/ATF3 by targeting NUSAP1.MiR-490-3p upregulation inhibited cell proliferation and metastasis but promoted the cell apoptosis and cell-cycle arrest in osteosarcoma via the regulation of CDCA8/ATF3 by targeting NUSAP1. Thus, miR-490-3p might be a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of osteosarcoma.2024 AME Publishing Company. All rights reserved.
To establish a doxorubicin (DOX)-resistant acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell line and explore the mechanisms of its drug resistance.A DOX-resistant THP1 cell line (THP1-Rdox) was established using a low-dose, concentration-gradient intermittent induction method. The resistance effect was evaluated by calculating the resistance index (RI). The expression levels of resistance-related proteins ［P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and lung resistance-related protein (LRP)］ and cell cycle-related proteins (Cyclin A2, Cyclin B1 and Cyclin D1) were examined by Western blot. Intracellular DOX accumulation was observed using confocal laser scanning microscopy. Apoptosis rate and cell cycle distribution were analyzed by flow cytometry. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed to compare the differential gene expression profiles between DOX-sensitive parental THP1 cells and DOX-resistant THP1-Rdox cells.The DOX-resistant cell line THP1-Rdox was successfully established. The THP1-Rdox cells could stably proliferate at a DOX concentration of 500 ng/ml with a resistance index as high as 198.7. The THP1-Rdox cells exhibited cross-resistance to homoharringtonine (HHT) and paclitaxel (PTX) but no significant resistance to cytarabine (Ara-C). Compared with parental THP1 cells, the expression levels of drug resistance-related proteins P-gp and LRP in THP1-Rdox cells were significantly upregulated. Additionally, THP1-Rdox cells showed decreased uptake and increased efflux of DOX. Notably, after treatment with verapamil (Ver), a specific inhibitor of P-gp, intracellular DOX accumulation was significantly increased in THP1-Rdox cells. Compared with parental THP1 cells, the THP1-Rdox cells exhibited a significantly decreased apoptosis rate, a reduced proportion of cells in the S phase, an increased proportion of cells in the G1 phase, and a marked upregulation in the expression level of the cell cycle regulatory protein Cyclin D1. RNA-seq analysis showed that among the differentially expressed genes between THP1-Rdox and parental THP1 cells, the top 10 most significantly upregulated genes in THP1-Rdox cells were ABCB1, HNRNPA1P9, SEMA3E, MICB, JAML, FGL2, VSIG1, CLEC1B, DLGAP1-AS3, and HOOK1; the top 10 most significantly downregulated genes were MAGEB2, NPTX2, CGREF1, CDO1, GBP5, ZNF595, ZNF630, DTX3, KLHL4 and ZBED6CL.Low-dose, concentration-gradient intermittent induction method can successfully establish a DOX-resistant AML cell line, THP1-Rdox. The drug resistance of this cell line is likely attributed to enhanced drug efflux mediated by the elevated expression of P-gp and LRP, as well as cell cycle dysregulation resulting from the upregulation of Cyclin D1 protein.
Breast cancer (BC), which has complex molecular subgroups that contribute to a range of clinical outcomes, is still one of the top causes of morbidity and death among women globally. This challenge necessitates ongoing research to improve early detection, treatment strategies, and patient outcomes. Recent research has shown that circular RNAs (circRNAs) influence gene expression through various mechanisms, particularly by functioning as competing endogenous RNAs (ceRNAs). Moreover, numerous circRNAs have been implicated in the initiation and progression of various tumor types. Yet, the expression and functional roles of multiple circRNAs remain largely unexplored in specific cancers. In this study, circRNA expression data from three Gene Expression Omnibus datasets were analyzed to identify candidate circRNAs associated with BC. Reverse-transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) was performed to validate the candidate circRNAs in tissue samples from 24 BC patients. Using bioinformatic analyses, downstream target microRNAs and messenger RNAs of these circRNAs were probed for the construction of a ceRNA regulatory network. A combined number of 40 distinct circRNAs with differential expression were identified, among which hsa_circ_0000231 and hsa_circ_0011385 were selected based on their novelty and potential to function as ceRNAs, and a corresponding ceRNA network was built. RT-qPCR revealed that hsa_circ_0000231 is significantly upregulated in BC tissues compared to adjacent non-cancerous tissues. Additionally, based on bioinformatic investigations, hsa_circ_0000231/hsa-miR-5683/cyclin B1 regulatory axis was predicted. By combining cross-dataset computational screening with targeted experimental validation and diagnostic accuracy assessment, this study presents a systematic framework for translating high-throughput RNA data into quantifiable biomarker candidates with potential clinical relevance. These findings may contribute to the identification of a novel diagnostic and prognostic biomarker in BC.© 2026 The Author(s). Analytical Science Advances published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
SBA, (E)-4-(2-chloro-1-(2-chloro-benzyl)-1H-indol-3-yl)but-3-en-2-one, is a derivative of natural product, named 4,4'-dimethoxychalcone. In this study, the impact of newly synthesized SBA on cell apoptosis was investigated in human oral cancer SCC-4 cells in vitro. The results showed that SBA decreased cell viability, induced S and G2/M phase arrest, and induced apoptosis in SCC-4 cells. SBA also increased ROS production, reduced mitochondrial membrane potential, and activated caspase-9 and caspase-3 in a dose-dependent manner. SBA induced the upregulation of Chk1 and Chk2 expressions, while it resulted in a reduction of cdc2 and Cyclin B1 levels. SBA also increased the levels of Fas, FasL, FADD, caspase-8, and BID. Moreover, it increased the expression of Bad, Bax, cytochrome c, AIF, EndoG, caspase-9, and caspase-3, while reducing the expression of Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, and XIAP in SCC-4 cells. Taken together, these findings suggest that SBA induces cytotoxicity in SCC-4 cells via Fas-FasL- and mitochondria-mediated pathways.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Japan Society for Bioscience, Biotechnology, and Agrochemistry. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site-for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Background: The dysregulation of the CDK1/Cyclin B1 complex drives tumor progression in breast cancer (BC). The natural flavonoid luteolin (LT) shows anti-cancer potential, but its mechanism targeting CDK1/CCNB1 remains unclear. Methods: CDK1, CCNB1, and CCNB2 expression were profiled in normal and BC cell lines. An engineered HEK293T GST-CDK1/CCNB1 cell model was used to evaluate LT's effects on proliferation, ROS levels, and target gene transcription. Computational approaches (molecular docking, dynamics simulations, pharmacophore modeling, MM/GBSA, ADMET, and network pharmacology) assessed LT and its analogues. Results: CDK1/CCNB1 expression was lower in MCF7 BC cells than in normal cells, suggesting the loss of a growth barrier. In engineered HEK293T cells, LT suppressed CCNB1 transcription with minimal effect on CDK1 levels, correlating with anti-proliferative and ROS-modulating effects. Computational analyses confirmed stable LT binding to the CDK1/CCNB1 complex. Designed LT analogues showed improved binding and favorable ADMET profiles. Network pharmacology identified cell cycle regulation, particularly in BC stem cells, as the primary pathway targeted. Conclusions: LT and its analogues inhibit the CDK1/Cyclin B1 complex, revealing a dual mechanism that suppresses both tumor growth and BC stemness.
Background/Objectives: Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains one of the leading causes of cancer-related morbidity and mortality worldwide. Despite advances in treatment, outcomes for advanced CRC remain unsatisfactory due to uncontrolled proliferation, metastasis, and recurrence. This study investigated the anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342, an indolin-2-one-based multi-protein kinase inhibitor with previously reported anti-inflammatory properties, in human colorectal cancer models. Methods: The anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342 were evaluated in colorectal cancer cells and further investigated in three-dimensional (3D) spheroid and patient-derived organoid models. Cell proliferation, migration, apoptosis, and cell cycle progression were assessed. Kinase activity profiling and molecular docking analyses were performed to identify potential targets and characterize the underlying signaling pathways. Results: KMU-11342 significantly inhibited the proliferation and migration of CRC cells. It reduced CRC cell density by 58.9% and 83.3% at 0.5 and 1 μM, respectively. These effects were accompanied by G2/M cell cycle arrest and apoptotic cell death. In 3D models, spheroid formation was markedly reduced and stemness-related characteristics were diminished. Patient-derived CRC organoids also showed decreased viability, exhibiting 38.6% and 77.4% reductions at 1 and 2 μM, respectively. These effects were observed in a dose-dependent manner in both two-dimensional (2D) and 3D colorectal cancer models. Kinase activity profiling and molecular docking analyses identified glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) and cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1) as potential mediators of the anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342 through the p53/nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) and FoxO1 signaling axes, respectively. Conclusions: KMU-11342 exhibits potent anti-tumor activity against CRC through suppressing proliferation, migration, and stemness in both 2D and 3D models, including patient-derived organoids. Its effects may be mediated, at least in part, through modulation of GSK3β and CDK1 via the p53/NF-κB and FoxO1 signaling pathways.
Resistance to combined BRAF and MEK inhibition remains a major barrier to durable disease control in BRAF-mutant melanoma. Acyclic retinoid (ACR; peretinoin) is a clinically studied retinoid, but its activity in MAPK inhibitor-resistant melanoma remains incompletely defined. Here, we established A375P-derived dabrafenib plus trametinib-resistant clones and evaluated ACR mainly in the A375PDTR-D clone as an in vitro proof-of-concept model. Resistant clones retained higher viability and failed to suppress ERK phosphorylation under dabrafenib plus trametinib treatment. In A375PDTR-D cells, ACR reduced short-term viability and clonogenic growth and was associated with decreased STAT3 Tyr705 phosphorylation, reduced EGFR, Cyclin D1, and Cyclin B1 expression, and increased p27KIP1. ACR did not detectably suppress AKT, MEK/ERK, or basal JNK phosphorylation under the tested conditions. These findings support further investigation of ACR as a candidate non-MAPK adjunct strategy; however, generalizability to broader melanoma models, formal drug-interaction status, direct cell-cycle/apoptosis effects, clinically achievable exposure, and in vivo efficacy remain to be established.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510742 is a review article
Despite multiple therapeutic strategies, a significant proportion of psoriatic patients fail to achieve complete/sustained disease clearance, highlighting the need for effective adjuvant or alternative therapy. Melittin, the main component in bee venom, exhibits valuable anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory properties in various diseases; meanwhile, its effect on psoriasis has not been explored yet. Our study aims to investigate the anti-psoriatic effect of melittin with possible involvement of phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K/Akt) and the autophagy pathways. Mice were divided into 5 groups: Control group, Imiquimod (IMQ) group, and groups (3-5) received daily intraperitoneal injections of methotrexate (MTX, 1 mg/kg), melittin (40 mg/kg), or melittin (80 mg/kg), respectively. All groups except the control received topical IMQ for seven days. Melittin 80 demonstrated superior efficacy, significantly reducing the clinical Psoriasis Area and Severity Index score by 60% and epidermal thickening by 58.55%. Mel 80 decreased malondialdehyde by 62.32%, increased glutathione by 1.44-fold, and reduced nuclear factor-kappa B p65, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1 beta, IL-6, IL-23, and IL-17 levels by 72.10%, 83.70%, 61.54%, and 58.09%, 64.55%, and 55.19%, indicating suppression of the pathogenic IL-23/IL-17 axis. Furthermore, Melittin 80 inhibited PI3K/Akt pathway, decreasing p-Akt and PI3K by 50.88% and 57.30%, leading to downregulation of phosphorylated mammalian target of rapamycin (p-mTOR) by 58.53% and a 3.01-fold increase in Beclin-1, indicating restored autophagy. Epidermal proliferation was reduced, with a 58.80% reduction in Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor and 46.51% reduction in Ki67 expression. These results suggest that melittin may represent a promising antioxidant and anti-inflammatory agent for psoriasis, acting through PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway inhibition and autophagy restoration.© 2026. The Author(s).
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by motor deficits and debilitating non-motor symptoms (NMS), including depression, anxiety, and cognitive impairment. While current therapies alleviate motor dysfunction, NMS management remains a critical unmet need. Pramipexole (PPX), a non-ergoline dopamine agonist with high selectivity for D2/D3 receptors (particularly D3), demonstrates potential for multi-target modulation beyond motor improvement. To systematically evaluate the efficacy of PPX against NMS and elucidate its novel mechanism involving autophagy regulation, a dual neurotoxin-induced PD mouse model (MPTP and DSP-4; MPTP:1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine; DSP-4: N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine) recapitulating both motor and NMS was employed. PPX significantly improved NMS, reducing anxiety/depressive -like behavior and cognitive decline, alongside restoring motor function. Moreover, PPX administration promoted survival of dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurons and preserved synaptic integrity in a double lesion model of PD. In our molecular detection, PPX treatment was accompanied by enhanced key components of autophagy (Beclin-1/P62) and rectified deficient mitophagy (BNIP3L/PINK1/Parkin). This study identifies PPX as a dual-action therapeutic that concurrently alleviates motor/NMS in PD model mice, and this therapeutic effect may be associated with altered expression of autophagy-related proteins.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548587 is a review article
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder characterized by dopaminergic neuronal death of unclear etiology. While levodopa remains the gold standard for managing PD motor symptoms, it lacks disease-modifying efficacy, necessitating new neuroprotective therapies. Mitochondrial dysfunction and impaired autophagy are key hallmarks of PD. This study utilized 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+)-treated SH-SY5Y cells to investigate the neuroprotective mechanisms of catalpol, an iridoid glycoside derived from Rehmannia glutinosa. We found that catalpol attenuated MPP+-induced neurotoxicity, mitochondrial membrane depolarization, and ATP depletion. This protection was critically dependent on autophagy; it was enhanced by the activator rapamycin but abolished by the inhibitor wortmannin and the autophagosome-lysosome fusion inhibitor bafilomycin A1. Catalpol activated autophagy by increasing autophagosome formation, elevating Beclin 1 and LC3-II levels, and promoting p62 degradation. Furthermore, catalpol reversed MPP+-induced mitophagy suppression and restored the regulatory protein PINK1 and DJ-1 expression. Given that Akt/BDNF/Bcl-2 and TrkB/BDNF pathways promote neuronal survival, we investigated their involvement. We found that the TrkB agonist 7,8-DHF mimicked catalpol's neuroprotection against MPP+-induced neurotoxicity, whereas the pan-Trk inhibitor GNF-5837 abolished it. Western blotting demonstrated that catalpol reversed MPP+-mediated suppression of TrkB and Akt phosphorylation, as well as BDNF and Bcl-2 expression. Molecular docking indicated that catalpol may interact with the TrkB ligand-binding domain as 7,8-DHF and shares key binding residues. Our findings suggest that catalpol exerts neuroprotection via a dual mechanism: preserving mitochondrial function through PINK1/DJ-1-mediated mitophagy and activating the TrkB/Akt/BDNF/Bcl-2 survival pathway, potentially by interacting with the TrkB receptor, highlighting its therapeutic potential for PD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Pentraxin 3 (PTX3) is an inflammatory mediator involved in tumorigenesis; however, its role in tumor immune evasion remains elusive. Herein, we demonstrate that PTX3 promotes immune evasion in breast cancer by upregulating PD-L1.RT-qPCR and Western blot were performed to assess PD-L1 expression in human and murine breast cancer cells. Cell surface PD-L1 was assayed by flow cytometry. Small interfering RNA and CRISPR-Cas9 were used to inhibit PTX3 expression. Co-culture experiments were conducted to evaluate the suppressive effects of tumor cells on CD8 + T cell activation. An immunocompetent BALB/c mouse allograft model was utilized, and tumor-infiltrating CD8 + T cells were analyzed by flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry.PTX3 enhanced PD-L1 protein levels through the inhibition of autophagy. PTX3 increased the expression of the E3 ligase RNF216 and caused Beclin-1 degradation, which suppressed autophagy, thereby preventing autophagy-mediated PD-L1 degradation. Co-culture experiments demonstrate that PTX3-overexpressing breast cancer cells suppressed CD8 + T cell function, as evidenced by reduced production of IFN-γ and Granzyme B, whereas PTX3-depleted cells had the opposite effects. In vivo allograft studies revealed that depletion of PTX3 reduced PD-L1 expression, enhanced CD8 + T cell infiltration, and inhibited tumor growth in immunocompetent mice.PTX3 promotes PD-L1 expression and immune evasion in breast cancer. Therefore, targeting PTX3 may represent a potential therapeutic strategy to counteract this immune escape.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Japanese Breast Cancer Society.
Autophagy has been implicated in tissue remodeling, but its role in scleral remodeling during myopia development and in atropine-mediated myopia control remains unclear. We investigated this issue using complementary in vitro and in vivo models. Human scleral fibroblasts (HSFs) were exposed to hypoxia and treated with rapamycin (RAPA) or 3-methyladenine (3-MA). Beclin-1 knockdown and bafilomycin A1 (BafA1)-based LC3B II accumulation assays were used to assess the functional contribution of autophagy and autophagic flux. In vivo, form-deprivation myopia (FDM) was induced in guinea pigs, followed by atropine, RAPA, or 3-MA intervention. Refractive error, axial length, scleral histology, extracellular matrix remodeling, autophagy-related markers, and AMPK/mTOR/P70S6K signaling were evaluated. Hypoxia induced a remodeling phenotype in HSFs, characterized by decreased COL1A1 and increased MMP2/α-SMA, accompanied by increased autophagy. 3-MA attenuated these changes, whereas RAPA aggravated them. Beclin-1 knockdown similarly suppressed hypoxia and RAPA-associated remodeling changes and reduced autophagic flux, supporting a functional role of autophagy in hypoxia-induced scleral fibroblast remodeling. In FDM guinea pigs, scleral tissue showed increased HIF-1α expression, autophagy activation, and extracellular matrix remodeling. Both 0.05% and 1% atropine slowed myopia progression and axial elongation, improved scleral structural abnormalities, and suppressed autophagy-related changes, with no significant difference between the two concentrations. Subconjunctival RAPA exacerbated, whereas 3-MA alleviated, myopia progression and scleral remodeling. These findings suggest that excessive scleral autophagy links hypoxic stress to scleral extracellular matrix remodeling in experimental myopia. This process may also contribute to the anti-myopic action of atropine.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
To analyze the expression level of heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein U (hnRNP U) and its correlation with prognosis in patients with multiple myeloma (MM), and explore the functional role as well as molecular mechanism of hnRNP U, thereby providing a theoretical basis for development of hnRNP U as a novel therapeutic target for MM.Based on Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database, the expression of hnRNP U in plasma cell diseases and healthy controls was compared. Based on the GSE9782 dataset (n =264), patients were divided into high expression group (n =114) and low expression group (n =150) according to the median expression level of hnRNP U . Overall survival (OS) between the two groups was compared. RPMI 8226, NCI-H929 and MM.1S cell lines were selected as tool cell lines. Following knockdown of hnRNP U by shRNA, the cell proliferation was detected by CCK-8. The apoptosis of MM cells was analyzed by Annexin V/7-AAD staining, and cell cycle was detected by BrdU/DAPI staining followed by flow cytometric analysis. The effect of hnRNP U on the biological characteristics of human MM cells was explored. The effect of knockdown of hnRNP U on DNA damage response pathways was analyzed by Western blot.Analysis of GSE5900 and GSE2113 datasets showed that the mRNA level of hnRNP U rose with the increased degree of malignancy of plasma cell diseases. Survival curve analysis of GSE9782 dataset showed that the high expression group of hnRNP U had a shorter OS than that of the low expression group. Down-regulation of hnRNP U in MM cell lines RPMI 8226, NCI-H929 and MM.1S could inhibit the cell proliferation, promote cell apoptosis and arrest the cell cycle. After knocking down hnRNP U, the expression levels of cleaved PARP and p-H2A.X, as the important markers of activated DNA damage pathway, were significantly increased in MM cells.hnRNP U is highly expressed in several plasma cell diseases including MM, and the high expression of hnRNP U in MM patients predicts poor prognosis. Knocking down hnRNP U can inhibit the malignant progression of MM cells, which is possibly associated with aggravated DNA damage.
To investigate whether the anti-atherosclerotic(AS) effect of Huanglian Jiedu Decoction(HLJDD) is associated with activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 5(ERK5) and the consequent improvement of microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3(LC3)-associated phagocytosis(LAP) dysfunction in macrophages. RAW264.7 cells were randomly divided into the normal control group, oxidized low-density lipoprotein(ox-LDL) group, HLJDD group, simvastatin(simva) group, and RAW264.7-ERK5 gene knockout(ERK5-KO) group. According to the experimental protocol, cells in each group were treated for 24 h with normal control rat serum, ox-LDL, HLJDD-containing serum, or simva-containing serum. Apoptotic Jurkat cells were added to each group and co-cultured for 90 min. After removal of the supernatant, LC3-Ⅱ labeling was performed to observe LAPosomes in macrophages, and the clearance of apoptotic Jurkat cells was assessed. The expression levels of phosphorylated(p)-ERK5, ERK5, LAP-related signaling molecules [T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin-domain-containing molecule-4(TIM-4), vacuolar protein sorting 34(VPS34), Beclin-1, RUN domain Beclin-1-interacting and cysteine-rich domain-containing protein(Rubicon), autophagy-related protein 5(ATG5), and autophagy-related protein 7(ATG7)], pro-inflammatory cytokines [interleukin-1β(IL-1β), interleukin-6(IL-6)], and anti-inflammatory cytokines [interleukin-10(IL-10), transforming growth factor-β(TGF-β)] were measured. RESULTS:: showed that, compared with the control group, the ox-LDL group exhibited decreased LAPosome percentage and reduced clearance of apoptotic cells, downregulated expression of p-ERK5, TIM-4, VPS34, Beclin-1, Rubicon, ATG5, and ATG7, increased IL-1β and IL-6 levels, and no significant changes in IL-10 or TGF-β expression. Compared with the ox-LDL group, the HLJDD and simva groups showed increased LAPosome percentage and enhanced apoptotic cell clearance, upregulated expression of p-ERK5, TIM-4, VPS34, Beclin-1, Rubicon, ATG5, and ATG7, decreased IL-1β and IL-6 levels, and increased IL-10 and TGF-β expression. Compared with the HLJDD group, the ERK5-KO group exhibited significantly reduced expression of ERK5 and p-ERK5, and all other indicators were reversed. In conclusion, HLJDD may ameliorate macrophage LAP dysfunction and exert anti-AS effects by activating ERK5.
This study aims to investigate the action mechanism and target molecules of the ultrafiltration membrane extract of Angelicae Sinensis Radix and Hedysari Radix in improving renal tissue injury in rats with diabetic kidney disease(DKD) from the perspective of mitochondrial function. Ten SPF-grade male Wistar rats were selected as the control group, while 40 rats were fed a high-fat and high-sugar diet for four weeks followed by a single intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin(STZ) 35 mg·kg~(-1) to establish the DKD model. The successfully modeled rats were then randomly divided into four groups: the model group, the canagliflozin group, the Angelicae Sinensis Radix and Hedysari Radix aqueous decoction group, and the ultrafiltration membrane extract of Angelicae Sinensis Radix and Hedysari Radix group, with ten rats per group. All groups were administered via gavage for eight weeks. Renal function was assessed through 24 h urinary total protein(24-UTP) and biochemical parameters. HE staining, TUNEL staining, and transmission electron microscope were used to observe pathological morphological changes, apoptosis, and the status of intracellular organelles in cells. ELISA and Western blot were employed to measure adenosine triphosphate(ATP) content and the expression of mitochondrial function-related proteins, including optic atrophy 1(OPA1), mitofusin 2(Mfn2), dynamin-related protein 1(Drp1), ubiquitin-binding protein P62(P62), B-cell lymphoma/leukemia-2(Bcl-2), Bcl-2 interacting protein1(Beclin-1), and Bcl-2-associated X protein(Bax) in renal tissue. The results show that, compared to those in the control group, the rats in the model group exhibit a significant decrease in body weight(P&lt;0.01), along with elevated levels of blood glucose, 24-UTP, blood urea nitrogen(BUN), and serum creatinine(Scr)(P&lt;0.01). Renal tubular dilation, vacuolar changes in renal tissue cells, and a significant increase in apoptosis rate(P&lt;0.01) are observed, accompanied by mitochondrial swelling, cristae disappearance, and rupture. ATP levels in renal tissue are significantly reduced(P&lt;0.01), while the protein expressions of OPA1, Mfn2, Drp1, Beclin-1, and Bax are significantly increased(P&lt;0.05, P&lt;0.01). The expression levels of P62 and Bcl-2 are significantly decreased(P&lt;0.01). Compared to those in the model group, the rats in the ultrafiltration membrane extract group show an upward trend in body weight, with reductions in 24-UTP, BUN, and Scr levels(P&lt;0.01). Renal tubular dilation and glomerular cell vacuolation are alleviated, and the apoptosis rate of renal tissue cells is significantly reduced(P&lt;0.01). Mitochondria exhibit mild swelling but remain largely intact. ATP levels in renal tissue are significantly increased(P&lt;0.01), while the expressions of OPA1, Mfn2, Drp1, Beclin-1, and Bax are significantly decreased(P&lt;0.01). The expression of Bcl-2 is significantly increased(P&lt;0.01). In conclusion, ultrafiltration membrane extract of Angelicae Sinensis Radix and Hedysari Radix may attenuate renal tissue injury and delay disease progression in DKD rats by restoring mitochondrial dynamics, controlling mitochondrial fission-fusion balance, and improving mitochondrial function.
Current therapies for Alzheimer's disease (AD) offer only symptomatic relief, highlighting the urgent need for disease-modifying approaches capable of halting or reversing neurodegeneration. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have attracted growing interest as therapeutic vehicles owing to their inherent capacity to bypass the blood-brain barrier and deliver complex biological cargo to the central nervous system.Here, we examined whether large EVs (LEVs) derived from microglia with stable Sirtuin-2 knockdown (SIRT2-KD) confer the neuroprotective effects associated with SIRT2 inhibition. LEVs harvested from SIRT2-KD microglia were administered intranasally to APP/PS1 mice. We assessed microglial uptake of LEVs, along with subsequent changes in cellular metabolism, migration toward amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaques, phagocytic activity, and downstream pathological and behavioral outcomes. Proteomic and acetylomic profiling were employed to characterize the molecular cargo of LEVs-SIRT2-KD.LEVs-SIRT2-KD were readily internalized by microglia in vivo following intranasal delivery. Uptake of these vesicles markedly enhanced microglial bioenergetics, driving coordinated upregulation of both oxidative phosphorylation and glycolysis. This metabolic shift was accompanied by improved microglial recruitment to Aβ plaques and increased phagocytic clearance. Consequently, treated mice showed reduced Aβ plaque deposition, restored synaptic integrity, and reversal of cognitive deficits. Proteomic and acetylomic analyses revealed that LEVs-SIRT2-KD are selectively enriched in proteins and acetylation modifications linked to energy metabolism and phagocytic function, offering a mechanistic basis for the observed metabolic reprogramming.Together, these results identify LEVs as a critical vesicle subtype mediating the effects of SIRT2 knockdown and support a cell-free therapeutic strategy for AD centered on EVs-driven metabolic reprogramming of microglia.© 2026. The Author(s).
Inflammation is a key driver of age-related disease and has been associated with social conditions. We examined how cumulative community-level social and structural disadvantage is associated with inflammatory proteomic profiles in older Black adults.We employed data from the Minority Aging Research Study and the Rush Clinical Core, including the Social Vulnerability Index (SVI; global score and four domains) and 92 plasma inflammatory proteins (Olink® Target-96 Inflammation). Cross-sectional associations between each SVI metric and inflammatory proteins (principal component (PC)-derived global proteomic profile and protein-specific) were assessed using multivariable linear models (demographic, behavioral, and individual-level socioeconomic factors adjusted), with additional sex-by-SVI interaction terms. In a secondary analysis, we replaced SVI with the Index of Concentration at the Extremes (ICE) for household income (ICEincome).A total of 580 participants (mean (SD) age of 74.9 (6.50) years; 79.7% women) had global SVI and proteomics assessed. Lower household composition (SVIHHC) was associated with the primary global proteomic profile, represented by the 1st proteomic PC (beta = -0.429, p-value = 0.019). A secondary exploratory analysis using the first five proteomic PCs showed that higher minority status/language (SVIMSL) and socioeconomic status (SVISES) were associated with an inflammatory proteomic profile (SVIMSL-PC3: beta=0.160, p-value = 0.048; SVISES-PC2: beta = 0.286, p-value = 0.012). In protein-specific analyses, no SVI-protein associations were found. We found an SVIHHC-by-sex interaction for interleukin-10 receptor alpha (IL-10RA; beta = -0.258, p-value = 5.01×10-4), and among men, SVIMSL was associated with Sirtuin 2 (beta = -0.397, p-value = 8.51×10-04) and STAM binding protein (beta = -0.304, p-value = 9.87×10-04). ICEincome was inversely associated with the global proteomic profile (beta = -0.233, p-value = 0.051), and an ICEincome-by-sex interaction was found for IL-10RA (beta=0.279, p-value = 4.66×10-04).By analyzing associations between community-level factors and inflammation-related proteins, our study provides new molecular insights into how social context may relate to biological risk, identifies proteomic patterns that could inform the development of community-level interventions, and underscores the utility of integrating multi-omics approaches to investigate biological pathways relevant to health disparities research.© 2026. The Author(s).
SIRT2 (Sirtuin 2) is an NAD+-dependent deacetylase that exerts crucial regulatory effects on immune homeostasis and macrophage activation. While chronic cold exposure is a known predisposing factor for pulmonary dysfunction, the precise mechanisms by which SIRT2 potentially modulates lung macrophage polarization under cold stress remains poorly understood. In this study, we evaluated the protective capacity of SIRT2 using both wild-type (WT) and Sirt2-knockout (Sirt2-/-) murine models subjected to chronic cold exposure (4 °C for 3 h daily over 21 days). Our results demonstrated that Sirt2 deficiency significantly exacerbated cold-induced pulmonary histopathological damage and increased the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6) (p < 0.05). Furthermore, chronic cold stress triggered a macrophage-centered inflammatory response, a process wherein SIRT2 was found to curtail M1 pro-inflammatory polarization. To further investigate these mechanisms, in vitro experiments were conducted using the mouse alveolar macrophage cell line MH-S. While LPS was utilized as a canonical inflammatory stimulus to mimic the injury environment, SIRT2 overexpression was found to reverse the LPS-induced increase in M1 markers and attenuate inflammatory cytokine secretion. These findings suggest that SIRT2 maintains intracellular homeostasis by modulating macrophage plasticity and plays a protective role in the development of chronic cold stimulus-induced lung injury. Consequently, SIRT2 activation may represent a potential therapeutic pathway for the treatment of environment-related respiratory diseases.
Aversive memories formed during drug withdrawal can potentiate compulsive drug-seeking behavior. Dynamic rearrangement of the actin cytoskeleton in dendritic spines is crucial for aversive memory formation. We previously discovered that actin polymerization in the dorsal hippocampus plays a key role in this process, but the molecular mechanisms governing this reorganization remain unclear.Conditioned morphine withdrawal-induced conditioned place aversion behavior in male Sprague Dawley rats was developed to evaluate aversive memory associated with opioid withdrawal. Contextual fear conditioning and appetitive conditioning paradigms were used to assess the behavioral specificity of the identified mechanisms. Western blots and dendritic spine imaging detected actin rearrangement and spine density. Co-immunoprecipitation, genetic manipulation, and pharmacological approaches were used to investigate sirtuin 2 (Sirt 2) and its downstream signaling.We demonstrate that Sirt 2, an NAD+-dependent deacetylase, critically regulates dorsal hippocampal actin polymerization and opioid withdrawal-associated aversive memory through modification of microtubules (MTs). Sirt 2-induced tubulin deacetylation triggers EB3 dephosphorylation by promoting translocation of Ca2+-dependent phosphatase calcineurin to MTs. This enhances EB3-drebrin interaction, driving actin remodeling through the p140Cap/Src/cortactin/cofilin pathway. Furthermore, pharmacological inhibition of Sirt 2 also attenuated contextual fear conditioning and showed a trend toward reducing appetitive conditioning, indicating a shared role across multiple memory processes.The current study elucidates the molecular mechanisms by which Sirt 2 regulates dorsal hippocampal actin dynamics and drives opioid withdrawal memory and associative learning. Our findings reveal a broader role for Sirt 2 in multiple forms of associative memory, offering potential therapeutic insights for withdrawal-induced compulsive behaviors and other memory-related disorders.Copyright © 2026 Society of Biological Psychiatry. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Negative frequency-dependent selection (FDS) can increase both genetic diversity and population-level mean fitness. While the dual consequence of negative FDS has been theoretically recognized, its genomic basis remains unknown. To explore a genetic link between negative FDS and overyielding, I conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of neighbour genotypic effects on the growth of 98 Arabidopsis thaliana genotypes. By incorporating neighbour genotypic similarity, this GWAS analysis detected the most significant single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) on the fifth chromosome of A. thaliana, which was 6 kbp from a known locus responsible for indirect genetic effects. I found negative FDS on the most significant SNP, where individual plants increased their biomass in the presence of neighbours with a dissimilar allele. I also observed overyielding in which a biallelic mixture of the most significant SNP showed a 3% increase in biomass compared with monoallelic conditions. Furthermore, I focused on the genomic region near the most significant SNP and found a signature of balancing selection near a negative regulator of ethylene responses, SIRTUIN 2. The present analysis uncovered a quantitative trait locus linking balanced polymorphisms and overyielding in A. thaliana, providing a proof of principle to understand the maintenance of polymorphism and its positive impact on population productivity. This article is part of the theme issue 'Exploring negative frequency-dependent selection across levels: from genetics to ecology and back again'.© 2026 The Author(s).
In aquatic invertebrates, hemolymph is critical for host-environment interaction. Although maintaining microbial homeostasis in hemolymph is significant for disease pathogenesis, the key regulatory mechanisms remain elusive. This study investigates the essential role of the respiratory glycoprotein hemocyanin (HMC) in modulating hemolymph microbial composition in penaeid shrimp. Hemocyanin-depleted shrimp infected with Vibrio parahaemolyticus (Vp) exhibited disruptions in the niacinamide (NAM) salvage pathway, attenuated plasma niacinamide and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) levels, and reduced transcripts of key enzymes. These alterations correlated with an increased total bacterial load and a higher abundance of opportunistic pathogens like Vibrio and Shewanella. Hemocyanin likely modulates niacinamide metabolism through interactions with Litopenaeus vannamei nicotinamide riboside kinase 1 (LvNRK1), sirtuin 2 (LvSIRT2), and sirtuin 6 (LvSIRT6). Remarkably, niacinamide supplementation after hemocyanin knockdown restored hemolymph microbial balance, reduced Vibrio dominance, and improved shrimp survival against V. parahaemolyticus infection, but not Gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus (Sa). These findings provide novel insights into the pivotal role of niacinamide metabolism in regulating shrimp hemolymph microbial composition via hemocyanin.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the International Society for Microbial Ecology.
Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma (OSCC) is one of the most occurred cancer types with yearly 377,713 cases and 177,000 deaths. Traditional risk factors of OSCC include smoking, alcohol consumption, excessive sun exposure, family history of cancer, and human papillomavirus (HPV). Last few years, the prevalence of OSCC is growing big in numbers particularly among younger people for their lifestyle. From the Gene Expression Omnibus, 2 gene-expression profiles (GSE23558 and GSE146483) were identified based on some conditions. The GEO2R tool was used to analyze those datasets to extract all the genes. Statistical cut-off criteria were applied to find out DEGs from both datasets, and after that common DEGs were identified by comparing both datasets. Common DEGs were used to perform bioinformatics analysis such as gene ontology and pathway analysis, protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction, and generating Transcription factor - miRNA network. 265 common DEGs were identified from the datasets including 69 up-regulated and 196 down-regulated DEGs. Using the STRING database and a strong combine score > 0.70, a PPI network is generated including 92 nodes and 226 interactions. Using 3 different hub DEGs seeking algorithm, we identified 9 top hub DEGs. The hub genes are Kinesin Family Member 23 (KIF23), Aurora Kinase A (AURKA), Centromere Protein F (CENPF), Cell Division Cycle 20 (CDC20), Discs Large Associated Protein 5 (DLGAP5), Centrosomal Protein 55 (CEP55), Anillin Actin Binding Protein (ANLN), Non-SMC Condensin I Complex Subunit G (NCAPG), and Kinesin Family Member 14 (KIF14). 3 significant clusters also identified from the PPI network. Previous study shows KIF23 takes part in raising Cell Proliferation in Hepatocellular carcinoma cells and AURKA shows notable overexpression in cancer tissues, which indicates that KIF23 and AURKA showed promising character to become possible biomarkers for OSCC. Further analysis needed to justify the statement.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cattle breeds are optimized either for milk or meat production and secrete consumed nutrients in the form of milk or accrete nutrients as skeletal muscle tissue, respectively. Surplus energy is usually stored in the form of fat in adipose tissues. To gain more insight into the physiological and genetic background of nutrient accretion as either protein or fat, an experimental F2 population was generated crossing Charolais (CH) bulls and German Holstein (GH) cows. Mutations in two genes with known, profound effects on growth were segregating in this population: the I442M mutation in the non-SMC condensin I complex, subunit G (NCAPG) gene, and the Q204X mutation in the myostatin (MSTN) gene. The major aim of this study was to close the gap between the described effects of the NCAPG/LCORL region and MSTN SNPs on carcass and meat quality traits, as well as on the structure and composition of the underlying tissues. Whole carcass data, meat quality traits, composition of major cuts and their dominating muscles, including muscle and fat cell structure, were analyzed as well as chemical and fatty acid composition. Mutant alleles of both loci were associated with higher weights, increased muscularity, and reduced fatness, e.g., each explaining about 15% of the observed variance. However, both loci apparently affect traits in a specific manner, influencing either dimensional traits or mass accretion.
Inhibiting the malignant proliferation is crucial for managing the cancer progression. NCAPG (Non-SMC condensin I complex subunit G) is a main component in cell proliferation, which is highly expressed in liver tumors and negatively correlated with the overall survival of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients. In this study, we identified bufalin as a molecular glue for the first time that specifically degraded NCAPG by coupling it to cathepsin V (CTSV). Distinguished from traditional PROTACs, bufalin served as a molecular glue with the distinct advantages of a smaller molecular weight and superior bioavailability. This degradation inhibited the proliferation of HCC cells by inducing G2/M phase cell cycle arrest at low doses (20-40 nM), but did not trigger the apoptosis signaling. Using co-immunoprecipitation and confocal microscopy, we confirmed the interaction between CTSV and NCAPG by bufalin. Knockdown of CTSV or NCAPG attenuated the anti-proliferation effects of bufalin in HCC cells. Cell cycle analysis also showed significantly reduced G2/M arrest in knockdown cells. The downstream proliferation regulators Cyclin D1 and CDK1 were also regulated by bufalin in a CTSV/NCAPG-dependent manner. Our study not only identified the CTSV-NCAPG complex as a novel therapeutic target but also discovered a potential molecular glue, bufalin, which exerts anti-proliferation effects through cell cycle regulation. These findings highlight the potential clinical translational value of bufalin as a promising, bioavailable therapeutic agent for the targeted treatment of liver cancer.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Ferroptosis is considered as a promising strategy for treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) due to its susceptibility. However, ferroptosis-based treatment is rarely discussed in clinical application, which is closely correlated with insufficient exploration toward the upstream mechanisms of ferroptosis and corresponding biomarkers. Non-SMC condensin I complex subunit G (NCAPG) is an oncogene in many human cancer types, including HCC, while its effect on HCC ferroptosis is still unknown. In the present study, we reported NCAPG promoted ferroptosis resistance of HCC in vivo and in vitro. Further, NCAPG conferred ferroptosis resistance by regulating GPX4 expression both in mRNA and protein level. Mechanistically, NCAPG protein interacted with NSUN2 protein at its 446aa-460aa and inhibited its protein degradation. NSUN2 stimulated GPX4 mRNA stability and GPX4 expression through enhancing the m5C modification of GPX4 mRNA at coding sequence (CDS). Moreover, NCAPG promoted GPX4 expression in a NSUN2-dependent manner, which also promoted resistance to ferroptosis in HCC. Collectively, the current study identified NCAPG protected HCC cells from undergoing ferroptosis, emphasizing NCAPG as an optional target for potentially developing anti-cancer therapy and improving the effects of ferroptosis in HCC treatment.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The growth of livestock is influenced by both genetic and environmental factors, with genes like Non-SMC Condensin I complex subunit G (NCAPG) playing key roles in regulating growth. Previous studies have suggested that NCAPG is associated with growth traits in species such as cattle, sheep, and chickens. In this study, we comprehensively assessed NCAPG polymorphisms and their association with body weight (BW), chest circumference (CC), body height (BH), and body length (BL) at six stages (from newborn to 30 months) in 469 Nanjiang Yellow goats, utilizing the Generalized Linear Mixed Models (GLMM). Pearson correlation analysis revealed the strongest correlation between BW and CC (R = 0.91), followed by BW and BL (R = 0.87), and BW and BH (R = 0.89). Additionally, 24 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within the NCAPG gene were identified, which were relatively conserved across closely related species. A notable missense mutation (g.5705 A > G) in exon 6 resulted in an amino acid substitution (281 Ile > Met), which may alter the physicochemical properties and conformation of the NCAPG protein. The resulting impairment in condensin function delays chromosome segregation, prolongs metaphase in growth plate stem cells, and enhances proliferative signaling, ultimately leading to variations in body size. Correlation analysis revealed that 13 of these SNPs were concurrently associated with multiple growth traits, including BH, BL, and CC. These polymorphisms in the NCAPG gene represent potential candidates for marker-assisted selection (MAS) to improve body size in Nanjiang Yellow goats.
Gliomas, particularly glioblastoma, are aggressive brain tumors with poor prognosis and unmet therapeutic needs. Structural maintenance of chromosomes 4 (SMC4), a core component of the condensin complex, is dysregulated in multiple cancers, but its role in glioma metabolism and metastasis remains unclear.Using integrated multi-omics analyses of glioma datasets, we assessed SMC4 expression and its correlation with clinical outcomes. Functional studies in U-251MG and LN229 glioma cells including CCK-8, EdU, cell cycle, Transwell, and wound-healing assays were combined with subcutaneous xenograft and tail-vein metastasis mouse models to evaluate SMC4's effects on proliferation, migration, invasion, and metastasis. ECAR/OCR and rescue experiments validated SMC4's role in glycolysis. Luciferase reporter and ChIP assays identified nuclear factor I A (NFIA) as an upstream transcriptional regulator of SMC4. A prognostic model (SRRS) was developed via LASSO regression and validated across cohorts.SMC4 was significantly overexpressed in glioma tissues, with higher expression correlating with advanced tumor grades and poorer patient survival (AUC > 0.82). Mechanistically, SMC4 promoted G1/S cell cycle transition and proliferation in vitro/in vivo. It enhanced metastasis by activating TGF-β/SMAD signaling, evidenced by upregulated p-SMAD2/3, N-cadherin, SNAI1, and ZEB1, and increased lung metastases in mice. SMC4 also facilitated aerobic glycolysis by upregulating LDHA, shown via increased glucose uptake, lactate production, and ECAR, with rescue experiments confirming LDHA dependency. NFIA directly bound two motifs in the SMC4 promoter (-1379 bp and -354 bp), driving transcription, validated by dual-luciferase and ChIP assays. The SRRS, integrating 15 SMC4-coexpressed genes, stratified patients into high/low-risk groups with distinct survival (AUC > 0.7 for 1-, 3-, 5-year OS). A nomogram combining SRRS and clinical parameters improved accuracy (AUC > 0.88). Pharmacogenomic analysis linked SRRS to sensitivity to erlotinib and other agents.SMC4 drives glioma progression through dual mechanisms TGF-β/SMAD-mediated metastasis and LDHA-dependent glycolysis regulated by NFIA. This extends beyond its known role in TGF-β activation by identifying NFIA as an upstream regulator and metabolic reprogramming as a novel function. The SRRS and nomogram provide robust tools for prognosis and personalized therapy, supporting the NFIA/SMC4 axis and downstream effectors as potential therapeutic targets for glioma.Copyright © 2025 Li, Zhao, He, Qian, Li, Song and Liu.
Growing studies have shown that non-SMC condensin I complex subunit G (NCAPG) was highly expressed in a variety of tumors and was involved in the progression of multitumors, but the role of NCAPG in tumorigenesis is not fully understood. Our study purposed to systematically investigate the role of NCAPG across cancer types. Interacting molecules with NCAPG were analyzed using searching bioinformatics websites including Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins, GeneMANIA, and Global Positioning System-Prot. NCAPG-related diseases were acquired using the Open Targets Platform. The interaction of NCAPG and 14 cancer functional states was achieved using the CancerSEA website. The databases including the University of California Santa Cruz Xena, Genotype-Tissue Expression, The Cancer Genome Atlas Program, Human Protein Atlas, and XIANTAO Academic were used to interpret the expression of NCAPG. Correlations between NCAPG expression and immune infiltration and immune-related molecules were analyzed by using Tumor Immune Estimation Resource Version 2 and Tumor and Immune System Interaction Database databases. NCAPG expression was significantly upregulated in most cancer types. NCAPG was identified as a marker of diagnostic value and prognostic significance in most cancer types. NCAPG expression was related to immune cell infiltration and immune-related molecules across various cancers, especially kidney renal clear cell carcinoma and thyroid carcinoma. Furthermore, NCAPG expression could affect the enrichment and decrease immune cell infiltration to influence prognosis in kidney renal clear cell carcinoma but was devoid of evidence in thyroid carcinoma. NCAPG was a prospective marker for the diagnosis and prognosis of pan-cancer. Our results suggested that NCAPG was a potential cancer biomarker for the diagnosis and prognosis of pan-cancer. NCAPG might affect the immune microenvironment, which could be applied in the development of new-targeted drugs for immunotherapy.Copyright © 2025 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Swedish Warmblood horses (SWB) are bred for show jumping and/or dressage with young horse test scores as indicator traits. This study aimed to investigate possible candidate genes and regions of importance for evaluated and linearly scored young horse test traits. A single-step genome-wide association study (ssGWAS) was done using the BLUPF90 suite of programs for factors scores from factor analysis of traits assessed at young horse tests together with height at withers. The ssGWAS included 20,814 SWB with factors scores for four factors for evaluated traits. A total of 6436 of these horses also had factor scores for 13 factors for linearly scored traits. Genotypes from a 670K SNP array were available for 380 of the horses in this study. All genotyped horses had factor scores for evaluated traits, and 379 also had factors scores for linearly scored traits. Significant SNPs associated with three factors related to size were located on ECA3 within or nearby a well-known region, including the genes ligand dependent nuclear receptor corepressor like (LCORL), non-SMC condensin I complex subunit G (NCAPG), DDB1 and CUL4 Associated Factor 16 (DCAF16), and the Family with Sequence Similarity 184 Member B (FAM184B). Significant SNPs were also detected for two factors for evaluated traits representing conformation and jumping, and four factors for linearly scored traits related to body length, neck conformation, walk and trot (hindleg position and activity), respectively. Among nearby genes, calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase type 1D (CAMK1D) for the factor for linearly scored traits related to neck conformation and GLI Family Zinc Finger 2 (GLI2) for the factor for evaluated jumping traits, were most promising. For these, top associated SNPs were detected within the genes, and the known gene functions seems to be related to the phenotypes. In conclusion, ssGWAS is beneficial to detect plausible candidate genes/regions for desired traits in warmblood horses.© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Animal Breeding and Genetics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Incomplete regeneration of the junctional epithelium (JE) following periodontal therapy is associated with persistent alveolar bone resorption and disease recurrence. While pathogen clearance is essential, the host-intrinsic mechanisms dictating epithelial recovery remain obscure. Here, we reveal that Porphyromonas gingivalis challenge induces an aberrant jamming-like phase transition in the epithelium during the early recovery window, mechanically restricting the epithelial remodeling required for proper JE reconstruction. Through a genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screen, we identified Dynein Light Chain LC8-Type 1 (DYNLL1) as a central mediator of this pathological transition. Mechanistically, DYNLL1 regulates the abundance and membrane localization of the junction-associated protein JUP, whose overaccumulation strengthens intercellular adhesion and restricts epithelial motility. Partial DYNLL1 deficiency not only reduces junctional rigidity but also enhances Wnt/β-catenin signaling, thereby preserving a more dynamically responsive epithelial state conducive to repair. In a murine periodontitis model, Dynll1 haploinsufficiency facilitated the restoration of JE morphology, improved barrier function, and mitigated bone loss. These findings suggest that modulating epithelial biophysical properties may complement antimicrobial therapies to enhance periodontal healing. Overall, this work provides novel insights into host-intrinsic mechanisms that contribute to impaired periodontal repair and identifies potential therapeutic targets for early-stage intervention.
Lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC), a major subtype of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), is associated with poor prognosis due to late-stage diagnosis and limited treatment options. Dynein light chain Tctex-type 3 (DYNLT3) participates in cellular processes such as mitosis and intracellular transport and has been suggested as a potential tumor suppressor in various cancers. However, its role in LUSC remains unclear. This study investigates the expression of DYNLT3 in LUSC and explores its potential as a tumor suppressor. Additionally, we utilized molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and CETSA to assess quercetin (QUE) as a DYNLT3-modulating small molecule, aiming to identify novel therapeutic strategies for LUSC. Our analysis using public databases and experimental validation revealed significantly reduced DYNLT3 expression in LUSC tissues, cell lines, peripheral blood, and patient plasma, with lower expression correlating with poor prognosis. Functional assays, including CCK-8, colony formation, flow cytometry, Transwell migration, wound healing, and Western blotting, demonstrated that DYNLT3 knockdown promoted cell proliferation, migration, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Additionally, it inhibited apoptosis. Conversely, DYNLT3 overexpression suppressed these malignant phenotypes and inhibited tumor growth in nude mice. Treatment with QUE upregulated DYNLT3 in a dose-dependent manner, reversing the malignant phenotype, while DYNLT3 knockdown partially abrogated QUE's anticancer effects. Moreover, bioinformatic analyses suggested that low DYNLT3 expression may be associated with immune checkpoint activation, increased chemokine and receptor levels, and drug resistance, though experimental validation is still required. In conclusion, DYNLT3 acts as a tumor suppressor in LUSC, and the antitumor effects of QUE are partially dependent on the upregulation of DYNLT3. These findings support the potential of DYNLT3 as a diagnostic/prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for LUSC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) is a slow-growing malignant tumour that primarily originates from the major and minor salivary glands. The relationship between the NDC80 kinetochore complex component (NUF2) and ACC remains to be elucidated. The present study obtained gene expression information from the Gene Expression Omnibus database (GSE88804 and GSE153002). Differentially expressed genes were identified by using the 'limma' package in R. A protein-protein interaction network was constructed with the Search Tool for Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins database and key genes were extracted using Cytoscape software. Analysis of differential expression levels of hub genes in tumour and normal tissue was performed using Tumour Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER) and GSE36820 profiles. Gene Ontology enrichment was subsequently analysed based on differences in NUF2 expression in tumour tissues. In addition, single sample Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (ssGSEA) was used for the quantitative analysis of immune cell infiltration in ACC. Western blotting and immunohistochemistry were used to assess NUF2 expression levels in tumour and adjacent non-tumour tissues. Small interfering RNA (siRNA) was used to decrease NUF2 expression in ACC cell lines. The biological functions of NUF2 were analysed using Cell Counting Kit-8 and wound healing assays. A total of 248 differential genes were identified by differential expression analyses, with 113 genes upregulated and 135 downregulated. A total of 7 hub genes, namely, CDK1, budding uninhibited by benzimidazoles 1 mitotic checkpoint serine/threonine kinase B, DNA topoisomerase II α, cyclin B2, NUF2, budding uninhibited by benzimidazoles 1 and centromere protein F, were obtained using the 'cytoHubba' plugin. The TIMER, standardized and GSE36820 databases revealed that the expression levels of NUF2 were higher in ACC tissues compared with normal tissue samples. Western blotting and immunohistochemical staining of ACC tissues provided evidence of NUF2 upregulation in ACC tissue compared with normal tissue. NUF2-related genes were enriched in 'ameboidal-type cell migration', 'collagen-containing extracellular matrix' and 'actin binding'. ssGSEA analysis revealed that the expression level of NUF2 was notably associated with activated CD4+ T cells, memory B cell and plasmacytoid dendritic cell. ACC cells transfected with NUF2 siRNA exhibited decreased proliferation and migration compared with the control. In conclusion, NUF2 is upregulated in ACC and is associated with immune cell infiltration. Functional studies demonstrated that NUF2 promotes ACC cell proliferation and migration, suggesting its potential as a therapeutic target for ACC.Copyright: © 2026 Yan et al.
The emerging perception that the mammalian dermis encloses fibroblasts with differing functional identities has profound implications for understanding a wide range of genetic pathological states, including aging. MDPL syndrome (mandibular hypoplasia, deafness, progeroid characteristics, and lipodystrophy; MIM #615381) is an extremely rare, genetic progeroid disorder. Patients reported variants in the POLD1 gene (NM_002691.3), encoding for the evolutionarily conserved catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase delta (Polδ). The protein is a critical enzyme reliable for synthesizing nascent DNA strands in the eukaryotic genome. Importantly, Polδ also serves to repair DNA lesions due to mutagen exposure. As the natural history of MDPL still remains poorly known, we have performed RNA sequencing analyses on human dermal fibroblasts (HDFs) of two MDPL patients, heterozygotes for p.Ser605del, compared to WT HDFs. The bioinformatic analyses identify differentially expressed transcripts related to the extracellular matrix of connective tissue and transduction signal markers. Successively, we shed light on the capacity of MDPL cells to respond to and repair DNA damage by comparing transcript levels between X-irradiated MDPL HDFs and non-irradiated ones. Importantly, the results allowed us to identify specific downregulated molecular traits in irradiated MDPL HDFs, including those genes closely involved in the mechanisms of DNA replication and repair. These data were further validated at the functional level, choosing four pivotal proteins (CDC6 (Cell Division Cycle 6), CLSPN (Claspin), XRCC3 (X-Ray Repair Cross Complementing 3), RAD51 (DNA repair protein RAD51 homolog 1)) involved in interconnected pathways ensuring genomic stability. This work provides critical insights into the pathogenesis and the regulatory mechanisms of MDPL syndrome and related diseases, paving the way for future therapeutic interventions. KEY MESSAGES: We identified a molecular signature in MDPL human dermal fibroblasts by transcriptomic profiling. We identified specific markers linked to the extracellular matrix of connective tissue and transduction signal markers. We ascertained in irradiated MDPL human dermal fibroblasts specific downregulated molecular traits, involved in the mechanisms of DNA replication and repair. We validated at functional and biochemical level specific those proteins involved in pathways ensuring genomic stability. The markers identified could be targeted for therapeutic intervention in MDPL syndrome and aging-related diseases.© 2025. The Author(s).
Ovarian cancer is highly lethal malignancy. Previous studies have indicated that Ndc80 kinetochore complex component (NUF2) exhibited oncogenic properties in ovarian cancer. This study aimed to investigate the underlying mechanisms by which NUF2 contributes to ovarian cancer progression.Reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) was conducted to measure the mRNA expression levels of NUF2 and solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11). The protein expression of NUF2, ubiquitin-specific protease 7 (USP7) and SLC7A11 was examined through Western blot. Cell proliferation was determined using 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl-2 H-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) and 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assays. Cell apoptosis and invasion were detected by flow cytometry and transwell invasion assay, respectively. Ferroptosis was assessed through detecting ferrous ion (Fe2+), reactive oxygen species (ROS) and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels. Immunoprecipitation (IP) and ubiquitination assays were conducted to prove the relationship between NUF2 and USP7. In vivo, the role of NUF2 in ovarian cancer was examined using xenograft mouse models, followed by immunohistochemistry (IHC) analysis.NUF2 was significantly elevated in ovarian cancer cells. Knockdown of NUF2 markedly inhibited ovarian cancer cell proliferation and invasion while promoting apoptosis and ferroptosis. Mechanistically, USP7 stabilized NUF2 by mediating its deubiquitination. USP7 depletion inhibited cell proliferation and invasion, and promoted cell apoptosis and ferroptosis in ovarian cancer cells, effects that were mediated through NUF2 downregulation. Furthermore, SLC7A11 was overexpressed in ovarian cancer, and NUF2 positively regulated its expression. NUF2 depletion decreased SLC7A11 expression, thereby suppressing ovarian cancer progression. Additionally, SLC7A11 overexpression could reverse the inhibitory effects of USP7 knockdown on ovarian cancer progression.USP7 stabilized NUF2 expression via deubiquitination to accelerate ovarian cancer progression through regulating SLC7A11 expression.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is a chronic metabolic disease defined by sustained hyperglycemia, leading to oxidative stress (OS) and systemic complications, including male subfertility. This study investigates the potential impact of T1D-induced OS on microtubule (MTs) dynamics and microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) in the testis and spermatozoa (SPZ). Using a streptozotocin-induced T1D rat model, we examined the expression and localization of key MAPs, including Microtubule Affinity-Regulating Kinase 4 (MARK4), Microtubule-Associated Protein 1A (MAP1A), Dynein Light Chain LC8-Type 1 (DYNLL1), Prolyl Endopeptidase (PREP), and Radial Spoke Head 6 Homolog A (RSPH6A), alongside sperm functional parameters. Our findings showed that T1D significantly impaired the expression and distribution of these proteins, which may affect MTs organization and be associated with cytoskeletal disorganization, and impaired germ cell differentiation. Moreover, T1D rats exhibited reduced sperm count, viability, and motility, accompanied by increased DNA fragmentation and chromatin defects. Elevated levels of 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4-HNE), a marker of OS, were detected in SPZ, particularly in the acrosome and flagellum, correlating with mitochondrial dysfunction and ATP depletion. Additionally, decreased intracellular Ca2+ levels, downregulation of Cation Channel of Sperm (CATSPER) and Voltage-Dependent Anion Channel 3 (VDAC3), and altered tubulin acetylation, possibly due to imbalanced Alpha-Tubulin N-Acetyltransferase 1 (ATAT1) and Histone Deacetylase 6 (HDAC6) expression, were also associated with impaired sperm motility. The combined data suggest that T1D-induced OS is linked to disrupted MTs dynamics, which may contribute to testicular dysfunction and reduced sperm quality, potentially affecting male fertility. A better understanding of these associations may support the development of therapeutic strategies to mitigate the reproductive consequences of T1D and improve male fertility outcomes.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is a major contributor to global mortality. Grounded onto bioinformatics insights, this study probes the functions of dynein light chain LC8-type 1 (DYNLL1) in LUAD progression.DYNLL1 levels in LUAD and normal cells were determined using qPCR and western blotting analyses. Lentiviral plasmids-mediated DYNLL1 silencing was induced in LUAD cells, followed by functional assays to investigate DYNLL1's impacts on proliferation, mobility, apoptosis, and cell cycle distribution. KY19382, a Wnt/β-catenin agonist, was employed to analyze the involvement of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway in DYNLL1's effects. Upstream regulator of DYNLL1 was queried using bioinformatics. Mouse LUAD cells LA795 were implanted into BALB/c nude mice to establish animal tumor models.DYNLL1 exhibited heightened expression in LUAD cells. Its artificial silencing reduced proliferation and dissemination of cancer cells, promoted cell apoptosis, and induced G0/G1 cell cycle arrest. DYNLL1 silencing reduced β-catenin levels in cancer cells, and KY19382 treatment diminished the effects induced by DYNLL1 silencing. TEA domain transcription factor 4 (TEAD4), upregulated in LUAD cells, binds to the DUNLL1 promoter for transcriptional activation. TEAD4 silencing in LUAD cells reduced DYNLL1 transcription and β-catenin levels, thus suppressing proliferation while promoting apoptosis, senescence, and cell cycle arrest. In vivo, TEAD4 silencing weakened tumorigenesis of LA795 cells. Nevertheless, these phenomena were counteracted by the artificial DYNLL1 restoration in LUAD cells.This investigation demonstrates a TEAD4-DYNLL1 axis that accelerates cell cycle progression and augments malignant properties of LUAD cells via the Wnt/β-catenin pathway.© 2025. The Author(s).
Breast cancer is the predominant form of malignancy among women. Polymorphisms in DNA repair genes, such as X-ray repair cross complementing 3 (XRCC3), can influence an individual's capability to repair damaged DNA. This can result in genetic instability and potentially contribute to the development of cancer. This study investigates the correlation between the XRCC3 Thr241Met genetic variants and the risk of breast cancer.This study is considered the first study in Iraq that sheds light on studying the effect of the XRCC3 Thr241Met genotype variants and their relationship with increased risk of breast cancer. The blood of 75 Iraqi women who had been diagnosed with breast cancer was used in this study to extract DNA, in addition to using 50 blood samples from women who appeared to be healthy and without a family history of any other cancer, as a control group. Genotyping of the XRCC3 Thr241Met gene was studied by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP). The single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotypes were determined in all participants.The findings of this study demonstrated that the Met/Met allele occurred more frequently in patients than controls (OR = 3.3, 95% CI: 1.8-6.04; p = 0.0001), particularly in patients with positive lymph node metastases, grade II and III, and stages III/IV.These findings established the association of the Thr241Met genotype with breast cancer among Iraqi women; specifically, the homozygous (Met/Met) genotype appeared to be correlated with risk of breast cancer and cancer prognosis. This genotype was notably more prevalent among women diagnosed with high-grade tumours, as well as advanced stage and metastatic breast cancer.Copyright © 2024 Termedia.
Berberine (BBR) has been proved to inhibit the malignant progression of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), but the underlying molecular mechanism still needs to be further revealed. NSCLC cells (A549 and H1299) were treated with BBR. CCK8 assay, colony formation assay, flow cytometry, TUNEL staining and transwell assay were used to examine cell proliferation, apoptosis and invasion. The levels of spindle pole body component 25 (SPC25) and NDC80 kinetochore complex component (NUF2) were detected by qRT-PCR or western blot. The interaction between SPC25 and NUF2 was confirmed by Co-IP assay and FISH assay. Xenograft tumors were constructed to assess the anti-tumor role of BBR in vivo. BBR inhibited NSCLC cell growth, invasion and glycolysis. SPC25 was upregulated in NSCLC tissues, and BBR could reduce SPC25 expression in NSCLC cells. SPC25 knockdown repressed NSCLC cell growth, invasion and glycolysis, and its overexpression also reversed the anti-tumor effect of BBR. SPC25 could interact with NUF2, and NUF2 overexpression abolished the inhibitory effect of SPC25 knockdown or BBR on NSCLC cell behaviors. In animal experiments, BBR could suppress NSCLC tumor growth by inhibiting SPC25/NUF2 axis in vivo. BBR mainly played an anti-NSCLC role by targeting SPC25/NUF2 axis, which provided a new idea for NSCLC treatment.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Breast cancer is the most common malignancy and the leading cause of cancer death among women. NDC80 kinetochore complex component (NUF2) is demonstrated to implicate the progression of human cancer. But the role of NUF2 in breast cancer progression is unclear. Here, we aimed to study the role and regulatory mechanisms of NUF2 in breast cancer metastasis.Immunohistochemistry was used to determine UNF2 expression in clinical samples. Transwell assas were used to determine the role of NUF2 in breast cancer migration and invasion. Animal model in vivo was used to determine the rold of NUF2 in breast cancer metastasis.NUF2 was upregulated significantly in breast cancer tissues and cells. Worse prognosis was noted in patients with high NUF2 levels compared with that in patients with low NUF2 levels. NUF2 overexpression markedly enhanced, while NUF2 knockdown inhibited, breast cancer cell invasion and migration. Mechanistically, NUF2 was observed to upregulate Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway activity. The promoting effect of NUF2 on cell migration and invasion were blocked by inhibition of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway.We revealed that NUF2 promotes breast cancer progression via activating Wnt/β-catenin signaling, suggesting that NUF2 might be a new potential target for breast cancer treatment.© 2024 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
We report the generation of a human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC) line from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of a 14-year-old male with Autism Spectrum Disorder carrying a de novo heterozygous likely-pathogenic variation c.4067C>T (p.Pro1356Leu) in Dynein Cytoplasmic 1 Heavy Chain 1 (DYNC1H1) gene. Variation in this gene that encodes a motor protein may affect retrograde transport of neurotrophic signals, synaptic vesicles, organelles like golgi complex and mitochondria. Therefore, this iPSC line will be an invaluable tool to study the effects of this high-risk autism-related variant on disease manifestation and cellular functions.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
To explore the mechanism by which alpha-lipoic acid (ALA) regulates mitochondrial axonal transport to protect the sciatic nerve in diabetic rats.Among 55 healthy male Sprague‒Dawley rats, 40 were randomly selected, fed a high-carbohydrate/high-fat diet and intraperitoneally injected with streptozotocin (STZ) to induce diabetes. Diabetic rats were randomly divided into diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) and alpha lipoic acid (ALA) groups, with 15 rats in each group, excluding the rats in which diabetes failed to be induced and the dead rats. The other 15 rats were used as the control group. The rats in the ALA group were administered an ALA suspension (60 mg/kg/day) by gavage for 12 weeks. The rats in the control group and DPN group were gavaged with an equal volume of distilled water every day for 12 weeks. After the intervention was complete, the motor nerve conduction velocity (MNCV) and paw withdrawal threshold (PWT) were measured. Morphological changes in the sciatic nerve were observed by HE staining. Immunofluorescence staining and Western blotting were performed to measure protein expression levels. In vitro, a model of NSC34 cell injury was established by treating cells with high concentrations of glucose and palmitic acid sodium. NSC34 cells were randomly divided into the control group, DPN group and ALA group. The ALA group was treated with ALA for 24 hours. Changes in the axons of NSC34 cells were assessed by measuring the length of the axons. Immunofluorescence staining was performed to determine the fluorescence intensity of the cells, and Western blotting was performed to determine the grayscale value of each band.ALA increased the MNCV and PWT in DPN rats and increased the levels of phosphorylated AMP-activated protein kinase (p-AMPK) and phosphorylated cAMP-response element-binding protein (p-CREB). The expression of a motor protein involved in anterograde axonal mitochondrial transport, kinesin family member 5A (KIF5A), was upregulated, whereas the expression of a dynein protein involved in mitochondrial retrograde transport, Dynein cytoplasmic 1 intermediate chain 2 (DYNC1I2), was downregulated by ALA.The results of this study suggest that ALA alleviates peripheral nerve injury in diabetic rats by promoting the anterograde axonal transport of mitochondria, which may be related to AMPK/CREB signaling.Copyright: © 2026 Tian et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Background/Objectives: Factors modulating phenotypic variability in Rett syndrome (RTT, OMIM 312750) include X chromosome inactivation (XCI), type of MECP2 variant, and/or disease modifiers. Emerging evidence also points to multi-locus genetic variants. Understanding the phenotypic variability associated with multi-locus genetic diagnoses in individuals with RTT and MECP2-related disorders would be important not only for accurate diagnosis, risk stratification and clinical management but also to explain symptoms that might not be typically associated with RTT. Methods: We present a case series of five individuals with a diagnosis of RTT or an MECP2-related disorder with co-occurring genetic findings, including pathogenic variants, variants of unknown significance and chromosome duplications. Clinical features such as neurodevelopmental history and comorbid medical conditions were assessed alongside the genetic findings. Results: A review of 200 cases with RTT identified five cases (all females aged 7-27 years) with a co-occurring genetic finding. Each case harboured at least one additional genetic variant that included a beta thalassaemia trait, Calmodulin 3 (CALM3) missense variant, maternally inherited 22q12.3 to q13.1 duplication, 7p14.3 and Dynein Cytoplasmic 1 Heavy Chain 1 (DYNC1H1) variants of uncertain significance and a pathogenic Set Domain-containing protein 5 (SETD5) variant. A rare triple genetic finding was illustrated in a single case, combining MECP2, CALM3, and DYNC1H1 variants. Conclusions: This case series supports the premise that RTT and MECP2-related disorders exist in a more complex neurogenetic spectrum than previously defined. It also emphasises the complexity within MECP2-related disorders. They are not static, and in the context of severe treatment resistant epilepsy, MECP2 disorders can evolve over time, necessitating diagnostic reclassification. Although the co-occurrence of multiple genetic disorders in RTT and MECP2-related disorders is rare, these cases underscore the importance of considering cumulative genetic burden when evaluating individuals with atypical features or evolving neurodevelopmental phenotypes.
<p>Glioblastoma remains a lethal malignancy with limited therapeutic advancements. Emerging evidence implicates cell cycle dysregulation in glioma pathogenesis, yet the mechanistic role of cyclin‑dependent kinase 1 (CDK1) remains underexplored. The present study systematically evaluated the clinical relevance and functional impact of CDK1 in glioma progression through multi‑modal experimental approaches. CDK1 expression was analyzed using public datasets and then verified by western blotting using patient tissue samples (n=37) from the Second Hospital of Hebei Medical University (Shijiazhuang, China). Survival analysis was performed using Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas and The Cancer Genome Atlas datasets, alongside multivariate Cox regression to evaluate prognostic independence. Functional assays, including small interfering RNA‑mediated CDK1 knockdown, were conducted in glioma cell lines to assess proliferation (Cell Counting Kit‑8 and EdU), migration/invasion (Transwell), apoptosis (acridine orange/ethidium bromide staining and flow cytometry) and radiosensitivity (γ‑H2AX foci quantification post‑irradiation). The expression levels of downstream cell cycle regulators were quantified via quantitative PCR. The results indicated that CDK1 was significantly upregulated in glioma tissues compared with normal controls, with expression levels escalating with tumor grade. High CDK1 expression correlated with a reduced overall survival and served as an independent prognostic marker. CDK1 knockdown attenuated glioma cell proliferation, migration and invasion, while enhancing apoptosis and radiosensitivity. Mechanistically, CDK1 knockdown downregulated cell cycle regulators proliferating cell nuclear antigen, minichromosome maintenance complex component 2‑4 (MCM2‑4), MCM6, polo‑like kinase 1, TTK protein kinase and mitotic arrest deficient 2 like 1, implicating mitotic dysregulation as a central pathway. The present study established CDK1 as a master regulator of glioma progression through coordinated control of proliferation, DNA repair and metastatic potential. The robust association between CDK1 expression, tumor grade and survival, coupled with functional validation across complementary assays, positions CDK1 inhibition as a promising therapeutic strategy. The mechanistic elucidation of its cell cycle network provides a novel framework for targeting glioma‑specific therapeutic targets.</p>.
BACKGROUND: Hereditary spastic paraplegias (HSPs) are a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative diseases. To date, at least 84 distinct loci (SPGs) and 67 causative genes have been identified. Even though the number of known causative genes is constantly increasing, a substantial portion of patients remains without a molecular diagnosis. Variants in the dynein, cytoplasmic 1, heavy chain 1(DYNC1H1)gene have been reported to cause a range of neurogenetic diseases, including spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT), and cortical malformations. This study aims to characterize the clinical spectrum of DYNC1H1-related disorders by reporting a rare missense variant (c.13763 C > T, p.Thr4588Met) identified in a Chinese family with autosomal dominant (AD) complex HSP. METHODS: The affected individuals underwent a comprehensive neurological evaluation, including assessment of clinical features, laboratory testing, brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and electrophysiological studies. The repetition/deletions in the SPAST, ATL1 gene were detected using multiplex ligation-dependent probe analysis (MLPA). Whole-exome sequencing (WES) was performed to identify the disease-causing mutation in the proband, which was subsequently validated by Sanger sequencing in the proband and his parents. In silico analysis was performed to predict the pathogenicity of the identified mutations. RESULTS: A heterozygous missense variant (c.13763 C > T, p.Thr4588Met) in the DYNC1H1 gene was identified, which was classified as likely pathogenic according to ACMG guidelines. The family was affected by autosomal dominant complex HSP, presenting with marked spastic paraplegia and ataxia. In silico analyses (e.g., using PolyPhen-2, PROVEAN, Mutation Taster, and CADD) indicated a deleterious effect on protein function. CONCLUSIONS: This study reports a rare DYNC1H1 variant associated with autosomal dominant (AD) complex HSP, expanding the mutational and phenotypic spectrum of DYNC1H1-related disorders.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is a common and fatal malignancy. This study aimed to elucidate the mechanism of Kruppel-like factor (KLF1) in NSCLC progression. Clinical samples were collected, after which the expression levels of KLF1, LINC02159, and dynein cytoplasmic 1 heavy chain 1 (DYNC1H1) in tissues and cells were initially detected, and NSCLC cell proliferation and invasion were measured when KLF1 was up- or downregulated. The binding relationships among KLF1, the LINC02159 promoter, DYNC1H1, and serine and arginine-rich splicing factor 1 (SRSF1) were analyzed. The colocalization of LINC02159 and SRSF1 was verified. DYNC1H1 stability upon actinomycin D treatment was assessed. Combined experiments were designed to confirm the interaction of the LINC02159/DYNC1H1 pathway in NSCLC development. Finally, xenograft tumors were generated in nude mice to validate the mechanism involved. KLF1, LINC02159, and DYNC1H1 were upregulated in NSCLC tissues and cells. KLF1 overexpression promoted NSCLC cell proliferation and invasion, whereas KLF1 knockdown inhibited NSCLC cell proliferation and invasion. Mechanistically, KLF1 transcriptionally activated LINC02159, which could recruit the SRSF1 protein and increase DYNC1H1 mRNA stability in the cytoplasm. Combined experiments revealed that LINC02159 and DYNC1H1 overexpression could counteract the inhibitory effect of KLF1 silencing on NSCLC cell proliferation and invasion. KLF1 silencing inhibited tumor growth in vivo by downregulating the LINC02159\DYNC1H1 pathway.© 2025 The Author(s). The Kaohsiung Journal of Medical Sciences published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Kaohsiung Medical University.
This study investigates the function of Mitotic Arrest Deficient 2 Like 1 (MAD2L1) and its role in facilitating NANOG nuclear localization, contributing to chemoresistance in lung cancer. Using both in vivo and in vitro models, we examined MAD2L1 expression in Carboplatin-resistant lung cancer cell lines. The study utilized gene knockdown and overexpression techniques to assess MAD2L1's role in chemoresistance and cell stemness, alongside co-expression analysis and fluorescence staining and CO-IP to explore MAD2L1 and NANOG interactions. Results showed a marked increase in MAD2L1 expression in resistant lung cancer cells, correlating with enhanced cell stemness. MAD2L1 knockdown heightened sensitivity to Carboplatin and reduced NANOG expression, while MAD2L1 overexpression led to increased resistance and stemness. Mechanistically, MAD2L1 facilitated NANOG's nuclear localization, with their co-expression linked to increased cell resistance and metastasis in vivo. These findings suggest that MAD2L1 enhances chemoresistance by promoting NANOG localization, offering insights into potential therapeutic targets for overcoming lung cancer chemoresistance.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Multiple myeloma is a clonal plasma cell (PC) dyscrasia that arises from precursors and has been studied utilizing approaches focused on CD138+ cells. By combining single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) with scB-cell receptor sequencing (scBCR-seq), we differentiate monoclonal/neoplastic from polyclonal/normal PCs and find more dysregulated genes, especially in precursor patients, than we would have by analyzing bulk PCs. To determine whether this approach can identify oncogenes that contribute to disease pathobiology, mitotic arrest deficient-2 like-1 (MAD2L1) and S-adenosylmethionine synthase isoform type-2 (MAT2A) are validated as targets with drug-like molecules that suppress myeloma growth in preclinical models. Moreover, functional studies show a role of lysosomal-associated membrane protein family member-5 (LAMP5), which is uniquely expressed in neoplastic PCs, in tumor progression and aggressiveness via interactions with c-MYC. Finally, a monoclonal antibody recognizing cell-surface LAMP5 shows efficacy as an antibody-drug conjugate and in a chimeric antigen receptor-guided T-cell format. These studies provide additional insights into myeloma biology and identify potential targeted therapeutic approaches that can be applied to reverse myeloma progression.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Dynein Cytoplasmic 1 Heavy chain 1 (DYNC1H1)-related disorders are a spectrum of conditions including neurodevelopmental disorders, congenital brain malformations, and neuromuscular diseases. These clinical features may co-occur, with four main disease entities including epilepsy with developmental epileptic encephalopathy such as infantile epileptic spasms syndrome (IESS) and Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS), axonal Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2O, spinal muscular atrophy with lower extremity-predominance (SMALED), and congenital cortical malformations. Epilepsy associated with this disorder often becomes drug-resistant and requires multiple medications and, in some cases, non-pharmacological treatments. To date, there is no specific epilepsy treatment that is particularly effective in this disorder. We report our experience in a case of a 3-year-old girl with a pathogenic variant in DYNC1H1 who presented with a developmental epileptic encephalopathy consistent with IESS and achieved seizure freedom on classic ketogenic diet (KD) after failing Adrenocorticotropic Hormone (ACTH), vigabatrin, and clobazam. The patient remained seizure free for more than 2 years on dietary monotherapy and had reported improvement in alertness, cognitive ability, muscle tone, and a normalized EEG. The ketogenic diet therapy, therefore, has shown to be highly effective in this case with DYNC1H1-related epilepsy.© 2024 The Authors.
Sepsis, a life-threatening syndrome caused by dysregulated host responses to infection, lacks effective therapeutic strategies due to its complex immune pathophysiology. Here, we identify Dynein Light Chain LC8-Type 2 (DYNLL2) as a critical risk gene driving sepsis progression through bioinformatics and machine learning analysis of clinical datasets. Elevated DYNLL2 expression correlates with poor prognosis and monocyte expansion in sepsis patients. Mechanistically, DYNLL2 interacts with p21-Activated Kinase 1 (PAK1) to regulate the endocytosis of Gram-negative bacterial outer membrane vesicles (OMVs), facilitating cytosolic lipopolysaccharide (LPS) release and subsequent Caspase-11 inflammasome activation, thereby triggering pyroptosis. Depletion of DYNLL2 or PAK1 suppresses OMV internalization, Caspase-11/Gasdermin D (GSDMD) cleavage, and proinflammatory cytokine release without affecting bacterial clearance. Virtual screening identifies Oroxylin A, a flavonoid compound, as a potent inhibitor of the DYNLL2-PAK1 interaction. In vitro, Oroxylin A blocks Caspase-11-dependent pyroptosis by reducing cytosolic LPS levels. In murine endotoxemia models, Oroxylin A improves survival, mitigates multi-organ damage, and suppresses systemic inflammation. Our findings reveal the DYNLL2-PAK1 axis as a pivotal regulator of sepsis pathogenesis and propose Oroxylin A as a promising therapeutic candidate to disrupt pyroptosis and restore immune homeostasis in sepsis.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Dynein cytoplasmic 1 light intermediate chain 1 (LIC1, DYNC1LI1) is a core subunit of the dynein motor complex. The LIC1 subunit also interacts with various cargo adaptors to regulate Rab-mediated endosomal recycling and lysosomal degradation. Defects in this gene are predicted to alter dynein motor function, Rab binding capabilities, and cytoplasmic cargo trafficking. Here, we have identified a dync1li1 zebrafish mutant, harboring a premature stop codon at the exon 12/13 splice acceptor site, that displays increased angiogenesis. In vitro, LIC1-deficient human endothelial cells display increases in cell surface levels of the pro-angiogenic receptor VEGFR2, SRC phosphorylation, and Rab11-mediated endosomal recycling. In vivo, endothelial-specific expression of constitutively active Rab11a leads to excessive angiogenesis, similar to the dync1li1 mutants. Increased angiogenesis is also evident in zebrafish harboring mutations in rilpl1/2, the adaptor proteins that promote Rab docking to Lic1 to mediate lysosomal targeting. These findings suggest that LIC1 and the Rab-adaptor proteins RILPL1 and 2 restrict angiogenesis by promoting degradation of VEGFR2-containing recycling endosomes. Disruption of LIC1- and RILPL1/2-mediated lysosomal targeting increases Rab11-mediated recycling endosome activity, promoting excessive SRC signaling and angiogenesis.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Dynein cytoplasmic 1 light intermediate chain 1 (LIC1, DYNC1LI1) is a core subunit of the dynein motor complex. The LIC1 subunit also interacts with various cargo adaptors to regulate Rab-mediated endosomal recycling and lysosomal degradation. Defects in this gene are predicted to alter dynein motor function, Rab binding capabilities, and cytoplasmic cargo trafficking. Here, we have identified a dync1li1 zebrafish mutant, harboring a premature stop codon at the exon 12/13 splice acceptor site, that displays increased angiogenesis. In vitro, LIC1-deficient human endothelial cells display increases in cell surface levels of the pro-angiogenic receptor VEGFR2, SRC phosphorylation, and Rab11-mediated endosomal recycling. In vivo, endothelial-specific expression of constitutively active Rab11a leads to excessive angiogenesis, similar to the dync1li1 mutants. Increased angiogenesis is also evident in zebrafish harboring mutations in rilpl1/2, the adaptor proteins that promote Rab docking to Lic1 to mediate lysosomal targeting. These findings suggest that LIC1 and the Rab-adaptor proteins RILPL1 and 2 restrict angiogenesis by promoting degradation of VEGFR2-containing recycling endosomes. Disruption of LIC1- and RILPL1/2-mediated lysosomal targeting increases Rab11-mediated recycling endosome activity, promoting excessive SRC signaling and angiogenesis.
N-acetylglucosamine kinase (NAGK) has been identified as an anchor protein that facilitates neurodevelopment with its non-canonical structural role. Similarly, small nuclear ribonucleoprotein polypeptide N (SNRPN) regulates neurodevelopment and cognitive ability. In our previous study, we revealed the interaction between NAGK and SNRPN in the neuron. However, the precise role in neurodevelopment is elusive. In this study, we investigate the role of NAGK and SNRPN in the axodendritic development of neurons. NAGK and SNRPN interaction is significantly increased in neurons at the crucial stages of neurodevelopment. Furthermore, overexpression of the NAGK and SNRPN proteins increases axodendritic branching and neuronal complexity, whereas the knockdown inhibits neurodevelopment. We also observe the interaction of NAGK and SNRPN with the dynein light-chain roadblock type 1 (DYNLRB1) protein variably during neurodevelopment, revealing the microtubule-associated delivery of the complex. Interestingly, NAGK and SNRPN proteins rescued impaired axodendritic development in an SNRPN depletion model of Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cell neurons. Taken together, these findings are crucial in developing therapeutic approaches for neurodegenerative diseases.
Spindle formation in male meiosis relies on the canonical centrosome system, which is distinct from acentrosomal oocyte meiosis, but its specific regulatory mechanisms remain unknown. Herein, we report that DYNLRB2 (Dynein light chain roadblock-type-2) is a male meiosis-upregulated dynein light chain that is indispensable for spindle formation in meiosis I. In Dynlrb2 KO mouse testes, meiosis progression is arrested in metaphase I due to the formation of multipolar spindles with fragmented pericentriolar material (PCM). DYNLRB2 inhibits PCM fragmentation through two distinct pathways; suppressing premature centriole disengagement and targeting NuMA (nuclear mitotic apparatus) to spindle poles. The ubiquitously expressed mitotic counterpart, DYNLRB1, has similar roles in mitotic cells and maintains spindle bipolarity by targeting NuMA and suppressing centriole overduplication. Our work demonstrates that two distinct dynein complexes containing DYNLRB1 or DYNLRB2 are separately used in mitotic and meiotic spindle formations, respectively, and that both have NuMA as a common target.© 2023. The Author(s).
Reduced brain volume including atrophy in grey and white matter is commonly seen in myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1). DM1 is caused by an expansion of CTG trinucleotide repeats in the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of the Dystrophia Myotonica Protein Kinase (DMPK) gene. Mutant DMPK mRNA containing expanded CUG RNA (DMPK-CUGexp) sequesters cytoplasmic MBNL1, resulting in morphological impairment. How DMPK-CUGexp and loss of MBNL1 cause histopathological phenotypes in the DM1 brain remains elusive. Here, we show that BDNF-TrkB retrograde transport is impaired in neurons expressing DMPK-CUGexp due to loss of cytoplasmic MBNL1 function. We reveal that mature BDNF protein levels are reduced in the brain of the DM1 mouse model EpA960/CaMKII-Cre. Exogenous BDNF treatment did not rescue impaired neurite outgrowth in neurons expressing DMPK-CUGexp, whereas overexpression of the cytoplasmic MBNL1 isoform in DMPK-CUGexp-expressing neurons improved their responsiveness to exogenous BDNF. We identify dynein light chain LC8-type 2, DYNLL2, as an MBNL1-interacting protein and demonstrate that their interaction is RNA-independent. Using time-lapse imaging, we show that overexpressed MBNL1 and DYNLL2 move along axonal processes together and that MBNL1-knockdown impairs the motility of mCherry-tagged DYNLL2, resulting in a reduced percentage of retrograde DYNLL2 movement. Examination of the distribution of DYNLL2 and activated phospho-TrkB (pTrkB) receptor in EpA960/CaMKII-Cre brains revealed an increase in the postsynaptic membrane fraction (LP1), indicating impaired retrograde transport. Finally, our neuropathological analysis of postmortem DM1 tissue reveals that reduced cytoplasmic MBNL1 expression is associated with an increase in DYNLL2 and activated pTrkB receptor levels in the synaptosomal fraction. Together, our results support that impaired MBNL1-mediated retrograde BDNF-TrkB signaling may contribute to the histopathological phenotypes of DM1.© 2023. The Author(s).
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the most common gastrointestinal malignancy worldwide. The poor specificity and sensitivity of the fecal occult blood test has prompted the development of CRC-related genetic markers for CRC screening and treatment. Gene expression profiles in stool specimens are effective, sensitive and clinically applicable. Herein, a novel advantage of using cells shed from the colon is presented for cost-effective CRC screening. Molecular panels were generated through a series of leave-one-out cross-validation and discriminant analyses. A logistic regression model following reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and immunohistochemistry was used to validate a specific panel for CRC prediction. The panel, consisting of ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2 N (UBE2N), inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase 1 (IMPDH1), dynein cytoplasmic 1 light intermediate chain 1 (DYNC1LI1) and phospholipase A and acyltransferase 2 (HRASLS2), accurately recognized patients with CRC and could thus be further investigated as a potential prognostic and predictive biomarker for CRC. UBE2N, IMPDH1 and DYNC1LI1 expression levels were upregulated and HRASLS2 expression was downregulated in CRC tissues. The predictive power of the panel was 96.6% [95% confidence interval (CI), 88.1-99.6%] sensitivity and 89.7% (95% CI, 72.6-97.8%) specificity at a predicted cut-off value at 0.540, suggesting that this four-gene panel testing of stool specimens can faithfully mirror the state of the colon. On the whole, the present study demonstrates that screening for CRC or cancer detection in stool specimens collected non-invasively does not require the inclusion of an excessive number of genes, and colonic defects can be identified via the detection of an aberrant protein in the mucosa or submucosa.Copyright: © Chen et al.
Alpha-herpesvirus causes lifelong infections and serious diseases in a wide range of hosts and has developed multiple strategies to counteract the host defense. Here, we demonstrate that the tegument protein UL21 (unique long region 21) in pseudorabies virus (PRV) dampens type I interferon signaling by triggering the degradation of CGAS (cyclic GMP-AMP synthase) through the macroautophagy/autophagy-lysosome pathway. Mechanistically, the UL21 protein scaffolds the E3 ligase UBE3C (ubiquitin protein ligase E3C) to catalyze the K27-linked ubiquitination of CGAS at Lys384, which is recognized by the cargo receptor TOLLIP (toll interacting protein) and degraded in the lysosome. Additionally, we show that the N terminus of UL21 in PRV is dominant in destabilizing CGAS-mediated innate immunity. Moreover, viral tegument protein UL21 in herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) also displays the conserved inhibitory mechanisms. Furthermore, by using PRV, we demonstrate the roles of UL21 in degrading CGAS to promote viral infection in vivo. Altogether, these findings describe a distinct pathway where alpha-herpesvirus exploits TOLLIP-mediated selective autophagy to evade host antiviral immunity, highlighting a new interface of interplay between the host and DNA virus.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ACTB: actin beta; AHV-1: anatid herpesvirus 1; ATG7: autophagy related 7; ATG13: autophagy related 13; ATG101: autophagy related 101; BHV-1: bovine alphaherpesvirus 1; BNIP3L/Nix: BCL2 interacting protein 3 like; CALCOCO2/NDP52: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CCDC50: coiled-coil domain containing 50; CCT2: chaperonin containing TCP1 subunit 2; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; CHV-2: cercopithecine herpesvirus 2; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; CRISPR: clustered regulatory interspaced short palindromic repeat; Cas9: CRISPR-associated system 9; CTD: C-terminal domain; Ctrl: control; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DBD: N-terminal DNA binding domain; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; DYNLRB1: dynein light chain roadblock-type 1; EHV-1: equine herpesvirus 1; gB: glycoprotein B; GFP: green fluorescent protein; H&E: hematoxylin and eosin; HSV-1: herpes simplex virus 1; HSV-2: herpes simplex virus 2; IB: immunoblotting; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; lenti: lentivirus; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MARCHF9: membrane associated ring-CH-type finger 9; MG132: cbz-leu-leu-leucinal; NBR1: NBR1 autophagy cargo receptor; NC: negative control; NEDD4L: NEDD4 like E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; NH4Cl: ammonium chloride; OPTN: optineurin; p-: phosphorylated; PFU: plaque-forming unit; Poly(dA:dT): Poly(deoxyadenylic-deoxythymidylic) acid; PPP1: protein phosphatase 1; PRV: pseudorabies virus; RB1CC1/FIP200: RB1 inducible coiled-coil 1; RNF126: ring finger protein 126; RT-PCR: real-time polymerase chain reaction; sgRNA: single guide RNA; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TOLLIP: toll interacting protein; TRIM33: tripartite motif containing 33; UL16: unique long region 16; UL21: unique long region 21; UL54: unique long region 54; Ub: ubiquitin; UBE3C: ubiquitin protein ligase E3C; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; Vec: vector; VSV: vesicular stomatitis virus; VZV: varicella-zoster virus; WCL: whole-cell lysate; WT: wild-type; Z-VAD: carbobenzoxy-valyl-alanyl-aspartyl-[O-methyl]-fluoromethylketone.
The dynein motor protein complex is required for retrograde transport but the functions of the intermediate-light chains that form the cargo-binding complex are not elucidated and the importance of individual subunits in maintaining cellular homeostasis is unknown. Here, using mRNA arrays and protein analysis, we show that the dynein subunit, DYNC1LI2 (dynein, cytoplasmic 1 light intermediate chain 2) is downregulated in cystinosis, a lysosomal storage disorder caused by genetic defects in CTNS (cystinosin, lysosomal cystine transporter). Reconstitution of DYNC1LI2 expression in ctns-/- cells reestablished endolysosomal dynamics. Defective vesicular trafficking in cystinotic cells was rescued by DYNC1LI2 expression which correlated with decreased endoplasmic reticulum stress manifested as decreased expression levels of the chaperone HSPA5/GRP78, and the transcription factors ATF4 and DDIT3/CHOP. Mitochondrial fragmentation, membrane potential and endolysosomal-mitochondrial association in cystinotic cells were rescued by DYNC1LI2. Survival of cystinotic cells to oxidative stress was increased by DYNC1LI2 reconstitution but not by its paralog DYNC1LI1, which also failed to decrease ER stress and mitochondrial fragmentation. DYNC1LI2 expression rescued the localization of the chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) receptor LAMP2A, CMA activity, cellular homeostasis and LRP2/megalin expression in cystinotic proximal tubule cells, the primary cell type affected in cystinosis. DYNC1LI2 failed to rescue phenotypes in cystinotic cells when LAMP2A was downregulated or when co-expressed with dominant negative (DN) RAB7 or DN-RAB11, which impaired LAMP2A trafficking. DYNC1LI2 emerges as a regulator of cellular homeostasis and potential target to repair underlying trafficking and CMA in cystinosis, a mechanism that is not restored by lysosomal cystine depletion therapies.Abbreviations: ACTB: actin, beta; ATF4: activating transcription factor 4; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; DYNC1LI1: dynein cytoplasmic 1 light intermediate chain 1; DYNC1LI2: dynein cytoplasmic 1 light intermediate chain 2; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; LAMP1: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; LAMP2A: lysosomal associated membrane protein 2A; LIC: light-intermediate chains; LRP2/Megalin: LDL receptor related protein 2; PTCs: proximal tubule cells; RAB: RAB, member RAS oncogene family; RAB11FIP3: RAB11 family interacting protein 3; RILP: Rab interacting lysosomal protein.
