Gene network analysis is critically implicated in disease research for uncovering functional modules and interaction-driven pathways underlying biological and disease processes. However, the interpretation of large inferred networks remains challenging. Although functional gene network analysis allows the interpretation of large inferred networks, challenges such as reduction of multiple network-level features to a single composite score often limit their application. This data reduction can mask the important multivariate characteristics of gene networks, hindering efficient differentiation of individual contributions of distinct network components. Hence, this study aimed to investigate a novel computational strategy called Multivariate Framework for Functional Gene Network Enrichment Analysis (mFGNA). This framework incorporated diverse network-level features from a graph-theoretical perspective, including node properties (centrality), edge connectivity patterns (Jaccard distance), interaction strengths (edge weights), alongside traditional expression levels. Notably, mFGNA preserved these multidimensional characteristics, capturing complex rewiring of gene networks across different phenotypic states. Furthermore, mFGNA adopted a gene-level permutation strategy to evaluate the enrichment hypothesis, ensuring effective statistical inference and reduced computational complexity compared with phenotype-based permutations. Extensive Monte Carlo simulations validated mFGNA through both undirected and directed gene networks, showing consistently improved performance over existing approaches across diverse pathway settings. We also applied mFGNA to investigate immune pathway perturbations in cancer cell lines and identified significant network-level dysregulation in pancreatic and non-small cell lung cancers. Cancer-specific interaction modules were dominated by human leukocyte antigen class II genes. Meanwhile, normal cell networks were characterized by hub genes such as MMP1 and MMP3 that were implicated in tissue maintenance, highlighting immune remodeling in tumors and the potential molecular targets for developing diagnostic and therapeutic interventions. Overall, the study shows that mFGNA enables effective functional pathway discovery in complex gene networks, providing mechanistic insights and potential translational targets in disease contexts.Copyright © 2026 Park and Imoto.
Helicobacter pylori (H.pylori) infection is a primary driver of chronic gastric inflammation and carcinogenesis, yet the molecular networks bridging bacterial infection and malignant transformation are not fully characterized. This study aimed to identify H.pylori-associated hub genes through integrated systems biology and to functionally validate their roles in gastric cancer progression.Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was applied to GEO datasets (GSE60427 and GSE60662) to identify phenotype-associated modules. Genomic alterations, promoter methylation, and immune infiltration patterns were analyzed using TCGA-STAD, cBioPortal, and UALCAN. Experimental validation was performed in AGS and MKN45 cells. Two independent 2 × 2 factorial designs were used to evaluate hub-gene knockdown and overexpression separately in the presence or absence of H. pylori infection. Mechanistic insights were gained through virulence factor mutants (Δ-cagA and Δ-vacA), pathway inhibitors, and dual-luciferase reporter assays for miRNA-targeting validation.WGCNA identified CXCL8, CXCL1, CCL20, and MMP1 as central hub genes, all of which exhibited significantly elevated mRNA expression in gastric cancer tissues and cell lines. These genes exhibited frequent copy number amplifications and significant promoter hypomethylation. Functional assays showed that hub-gene silencing attenuated H. pylori-associated proliferation, migration, and invasion, whereas hub-gene overexpression promoted these malignant phenotypes and further enhanced the effects associated with infection. Mechanistically, H.pylori infection upregulates these genes via a CagA-dependent activation of the NF-κB and MAPK signaling pathways. Furthermore, specific miRNAs (e.g., miR-302c-3p, miR-203a-3p) were identified as direct post-transcriptional regulators of this axis.CXCL8, CXCL1, CCL20, and MMP1 constitute a unified transcriptional axis driven by H.pylori infection that promotes malignant progression. This CagA-responsive gene set serves as a robust biomarker panel for gastric cancer prognosis and represents a promising therapeutic target for disrupting the infection-inflammation-cancer sequence.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Age gelation remains a challenge limiting the shelf-life and stability of direct ultra-high-temperature (dUHT) milk. This study investigated the effects of dUHT treatments (142 °C/147 °C for 0.25/3/6 s) on protein stability and gelation behavior by evaluating particle size, casein hydrolysis, plasmin (PL) and plasminogen (PLG)-derived activities and gel microstructure. Gel-derived peptides were identified, and their interactions with urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA) were assessed. Treatments at 142 °C for 3 s or 147 °C for 6 s induced gel formation after prolonged storage associated with moderate proteolysis and aggregation. Conversely, 0.25 s treatments caused rapid clarification due to high PL activity. Treatment at 142 °C for 6 s maintained colloidal stability with minimal protein degradation. NAVPITPTLNR and EKVNELSK were identified as u-PA inhibitors, suppressing PLG-to-PL conversion. These findings provide evidence that casein-derived peptides may participate in the regulation of PL system in dUHT milk, although their practical effects require further validation in real milk matrices.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Although extracellular matrix (ECM) maturation during articular cartilage development is well recognized, quantitative, temporally resolved characterizations in large-animal models remain scarce. Here, we systematically characterized porcine femoral condyle cartilage from embryonic day 45 (E45) to postnatal month 10 (P10M) using integrated morphological, biochemical, and ultrastructural approaches. Knee joint width increased from 2.5 mm at E45 and 11 mm at E100 and 46 mm at P10M, whereas chondrocyte density declined markedly after E75 (p < 0.05). The change was not statistically significant in collagen content until E75 (3.2 μg/mg), but rose significantly at E100 (6.7 μg/mg, p < 0.05). Glycosaminoglycan (GAG) content remained stable prenatally but increased markedly postnatally at P1M (163 μg/mg, p < 0.05), while water content decreased significantly at P10M (p < 0.05). Type II collagen gradually increased from E60 to P1M, whereas types III, XI, and IX accumulated from E60 onward. Collagen fibril diameter increased progressively from approximately 25 nm at E45 to approximately 80 nm at P10M (p < 0.05). Matrix metalloproteinase 1 (MMP-1) and cathepsin K exhibited elevated expression at both E45 and P1M, suggesting two distinct phases of ECM remodeling. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that cartilage ECM maturation follows a temporally ordered sequence, beginning with the establishment of a collagen framework, followed by GAG accumulation and fibril thickening. This high-resolution temporal map established in a large-animal model provides a critical reference for cartilage regeneration strategies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Acetyl tributyl citrate (ATBC) is a widely used environmentally friendly plasticizer, and exposure via the respiratory tract is common in the general population. However, its pulmonary toxicity and underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood.An integrative strategy combining compound target prediction, IPF transcriptome screening, Bootstrap LASSO stability selection, and protein‑protein interaction network topological analysis was used to identify core targets. Single-cell transcriptomics was applied to dissect the cellular localization and functional roles of these targets. A bleomycin‑induced mouse pulmonary fibrosis model was employed to assess the effects of intratracheal instillation exposure to ATBC.Two core targets, MMP1(matrix metalloproteinase-1) and CTSB(cathepsin B), were identified from 17 candidate genes. Single-cell analysis revealed that MMP1 exhibits an "off-on" regulatory pattern in airway epithelial club cells-it is not expressed under steady‑state conditions but is specifically induced upon activation. In contrast, CTSB is highly expressed in macrophages and enhances pro‑fibrotic communication. The two targets exert complementary functions: MMP1⁺club cells enter a translationally hyperactive state involved in basement membrane remodeling, while CTSB⁺ macrophages amplify pro‑fibrotic signaling. Animal experiments showed that ATBC dose‑dependently exacerbates pulmonary fibrosis and upregulates MMP1 protein expression.Intratracheal instillation exposure to ATBC may aggravate fibrosis progression on the basis of pre‑existing lung injury, with MMP1 serving as a core effector molecule. These findings offer preliminary experimental support for the safety assessment of plasticizers following respiratory tract exposure.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skin aging is a complex biological process driven by collagen degradation and oxidative damage, often exacerbated by UV exposure. While resveratrol is a premier antioxidant for anti-aging, its topical efficacy is historically limited by poor water solubility and weak skin penetration. This study addresses these barriers by developing optimized polyethylene glycol-based liposomes (PEG-liposomes) as novel deformable liposome derivative. The uncoated vesicles demonstrated high stability and uniformity, with a size of 320.17 ± 0.25 nm and a zeta potential of -35.2 ± 0.4 mV. By coating these vesicles with 0.1% hyaluronic acid (HA), successful surface functionalization and improved size stability was achieved. Ex vivo and confocal studies confirmed that these PEG-liposomes successfully reached the deep dermis; notably, a sequential application strategy of the coated and uncoated PEG-liposomes showed that uncoated vesicles could transiently disrupt lipid structures to facilitate deeper penetration for the HA-coated versions. When integrated with micro-needling via a derma roller, the system triggered significant collagen remodeling and a surge in antioxidant enzymes like SOD, while simultaneously reducing oxidative stress markers such as MDA, MMP-1, and the aging indicator beta-galactosidase. The cooperative effect of this dual-vesicle system not only restored the structural integrity of the dermal-epidermal junction but also significantly outperformed existing commercial resveratrol products. Our findings demonstrate that this novel PEG-liposomal system provides a transformative approach to deep-tissue rejuvenation. Through its unique synergistic mechanism with micro-needling, it achieves biological remodeling and dermal restoration that surpasses the efficacy of current market-leading standards.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
To optimize the extraction-purification process of Dendrobium officinale polysaccharides (DOPs) and characterize the fine structures of two homogeneous fractions (DOP-1, DOP-2), as well as to evaluate their anti-photoaging activity on HFF cells.An integrated process including petroleum ether defatting, cellulase hydrolysis, water extraction-ethanol precipitation, trypsin-Sevag deproteinization, activated carbon decolorization, and dialysis was used. DOP-1 and DOP-2 were separated by DEAE-52 and Sephadex G-100 chromatography. Their structures were analyzed by FT-IR, methylation-GC/MS, NMR, and SEM. Anti-photoaging effects were assessed via CCK-8, SA-β-Gal staining, and qPCR of TGF-β/Smad pathway genes.The optimized process increased crude polysaccharide yield from 30.34% to 35.03% and polysaccharide content from 31.23% to 49.34%. DOP-1 (Mn 989 Da, PDI 1.15) was a linear oligosaccharide composed of →4)-β-D-Manp (72.32%) and →4)-β-D-Glcp (23.78%) in an alternating pattern. DOP-2 (Mn 2970 Da, PDI 1.67) was a branched polysaccharide with a backbone of →6)-α-D-Glcp (58.06%) and branches at →2,6)-Manp and →4,6)-Glcp. Both DOP-1 and DOP-2 (62.5 μg/mL) protected HFF cells from UVA-induced photoaging, upregulated TGF-β1, Smad3, Smad4, and Collagen I, and downregulated Smad7 and MMP-1, with DOP-2 showing dose-dependent effects.The optimized process enables efficient preparation of DOPs. DOP-1 and DOP-2 possess distinct structural features and exert anti-photoaging effects via regulation of the TGF-β/Smad signaling pathway.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Currently, no targeted therapy exists for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). The hallmark pathological feature of excessive extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition severely undermines the efficacy of mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-based treatments. While existing MSC therapeutic strategies primarily focus on modulating inflammation in early stages, they have not yet established precise interventions addressing the core pathological mechanism-ECM dysregulation. Previous studies demonstrated the therapeutic potential of human embryonic stem cell (hESCs)-derived immunity-and-matrix-regulatory cells (IMRCs) in lung injury and fibrosis models. However, the critical biomarkers and underlying mechanisms mediating IMRCs' efficacy in IPF remain poorly understood. In this study, we generated MMP1 knockout IMRCs (IMRCs-MMP1 KO) using CRISPR-based gene editing. We then characterized whether MMP1 ablation affected key properties of IMRCs, including cell morphology, proliferation, migration, marker protein expression, transcriptomic profile, and cytokine secretion. Subsequently, the ability of IMRCs-MMP1 KO to degrade collagen was tested using in vivo and in vitro pulmonary fibrosis models. MMP1 knockout was successfully achieved and did not compromise typical IMRC characteristics or impair their immunomodulatory capacity. However, MMP1 deficiency significantly attenuated the ability of IMRCs to degrade TGF-β1-induced collagen I deposition in A549 cells. Importantly, wild-type IMRCs demonstrated superior therapeutic efficacy in ameliorating bleomycin-induced lung injury and fibrosis in mice compared with IMRCs-MMP1 KO. Furthermore, IMRCs exhibited significantly greater capability to directly degrade the pericellular collagen I and modulate fibroblasts' activation progression within fibrotic lung tissues in a MMP1-dependent manner. In summary, our data establish that MMP1 plays an essential functional role in IMRC-mediated attenuation of PF. MMP1 thus represents a key therapeutic biomarker for IMRC-based treatment. This work provides a foundation for developing stem cell therapies tailored to the pathological features of IPF, potentially enabling adaptive treatment strategies.© 2026 The Author(s). Cell Proliferation published by Beijing Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Cardiovascular health depends critically on the integrity of the vascular extracellular matrix (ECM) and the behavior of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs), both of which can be adversely affected in vascular diseases. This study quantitatively evaluates the therapeutic potential of conditioned medium (CM) derived from bone marrow (BM-MSCs) and adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) in an elastase-injured human aortic smooth muscle cell (HASMC) model. We systematically varied seeding densities (2000, 5000, and 10,000 cells/cm2) and serum conditions to optimize the SC-SMC secretome for vascular repair. Our results indicate that neither BM-SMC nor AD-SMC CM significantly enhanced lysyl oxidase (LOX) activity. In fact, serum-supplemented BM-SMC CM significantly suppressed LOX activity at seeding densities of 2000 cells/cm2 (p = 0.0378) and 10,000 cells/cm2 (p = 0.0080) compared to injured untreated controls. High-density AD-SMC CM (10,000 cells/cm2) also resulted in a significant decrease in elastin levels (p < 0.05). In addition, serum presence was critical for maintaining the reparative phenotype. Serum-free (SF) conditions for both cell sources led to widespread, statistically significant reductions (p < 0.0001) in key repair and inflammatory biomarkers, including PDGF-AA, Leptin, Lipocalin-2, Osteopontin, RBP4, MMP-1, and IL-6. IL-11 emerged as a primary discriminatory biomarker, showing significant differences between BM and AD treatments at high seeding densities, with both sources causing a significant decrease (p < 0.0001) compared to injured untreated controls. These findings demonstrate that seeding density and serum conditions are critical variables that quantitatively modulate the efficacy of SC-SMC-CM. The study highlights that BM-SMC-derived CM offers a more stable platform for elastin maintenance under serum-free conditions, providing a foundation for developing tailored, cell-free regenerative therapies for cardiovascular disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
The exposure to ultraviolet (UV) radiation is one of the key exogenous processes that contribute to photoaging, oxidative stress, and barrier dysfunction. Naematelia aurantialba is a very rare medicinal and edible fungus which is an organism with a large pharmacological potential, yet there is a gap in understanding the molecular processes involved in the anti-photoaging and soothing repair actions that the fermentation product is known to possess. The aim of this study was to understand the protective role of Naematelia aurantialba fermentation broth (NAF) against UV-induced skin cells damage and the possible molecular mechanisms of damage. The fermentation of Lactobacillus plantarum was used to prepare NAF. Its physicochemical characteristics were measured by use of DPPH, hydroxyl radical scavenging, and elastase inhibition and its biocompatibility by use of erythrocyte hemolysis experiment. We created UVA induced HFF-1 photoaging model, UVB induced HaCaT barrier damage model, and capsaicin induced sensitive model in order to measure cell viability and expression of factors associated with them. It was found that NAF had a large free radical scavenging capacity and elastase activity, and had a great biocompatibility over its interesting concentration (hemolysis rate < 5%). Molecularly, NAF activates mitochondrial homeostasis, boosting the gene and protein expression of the SIRT1 and SIRT3 proteins, and thereby strongly prevents the release of the enzyme, matrix metalloproteinase-1 (MMP-1) and suppressed collagenase degradation. At the same time, NAF prevents the capsaicin-induced overexpression of TRPV1 substantially preventing neurogenic inflammation, and increases aquaporin 3 (AQP3) and claudin-1 (CLDN1), mending the skin barrier. The NAF can produce various anti-photoaging, soothing, and barrier repair effects by activating the dermal SIRT1/3- MMP -1 axis, and blocking the epidermal TRP V1 pathway, which justifies its potential as an innovative functional plant raw material.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Intervertebral disc (IVD) degeneration is associated with severe clinical symptoms including chronic back pain. Galectins are a family of carbohydrate-binding proteins, some of which can induce functional disease markers in IVD cells and other musculoskeletal tissues. Galectin-4 and -8 were shown to trigger disease-promoting activity in chondrocytes, but their effects on IVD cells have not been investigated yet.IVD specimens from 36 patients with spondylosis, spondylolisthesis, and scoliosis were assessed immunohistochemically for the presence of galectin-4 and -8. The degrees of radiological (Pfirrmann grade) and histopathological (Rutges score) degeneration of all specimens were correlated with histological galectin scores. To assess galectin functions, separate cell cultures of annulus fibrosus (AF) and nucleus pulposus (NP) (n = 21) were established. Cell cultures were treated with recombinant galectin-4, -8 (24 μg/mL), or Interleukin-1β (IL-1β) (10 ng/mL) and analyzed using RT-qPCR and In-Cell Western (ICW). Potential binding sites for galectins including sialylated N-glycans and LacdiNAc structures were determined in AF and NP cells using liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS).The immunohistochemical presence of galectin-4 in IVD specimens correlated with histopathological and clinical degeneration scores of patients, whereas galectin-8 did not show significant correlations. Both galectins were detected across IVD compartments except for the endplate. In vitro, both galectins activated the nuclear factor-kB pathway and induced functional disease markers (Interleukin-8 (CXCL8) and matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP3) mRNA). NP cells were more responsive to galectins and IL-1β than AF cells, indicating region-specific differences in galectin sensitivity.This study identifies galectin-4 as a novel molecular player in the pathogenesis of IVD degeneration.© 2026 The Author(s). JOR Spine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Orthopaedic Research Society.
Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is a prevalent condition characterized by weakened pelvic floor tissues, significantly impacting women's quality of life. Current treatments, including synthetic meshes and native tissue repair, face challenges of high recurrence rates and complications. This study developed a novel tissue-engineered strategy utilizing a decellularized human amniotic membrane (HAAM) scaffold seeded with autologous adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (ADSCs) and vaginal wall fibroblasts (HVFs) to construct a bioactive pelvic ligament equivalent. We first validated the successful preparation of HAAM with preserved extracellular matrix integrity and characterized the phenotypic markers of ADSCs and HVFs. In a rat abdominal wall defect model, the HAAM+ADSCs+HVFs composite demonstrated superior tissue regeneration and integration, reduced fibrosis, and effective modulation of the host immune microenvironment -evidenced by enhanced repair and decreased infiltration of pro-inflammatory cells -compared to all control groups (including HAAM alone and single-cell groups). Transcriptomic analysis revealed that the composite treatment promoted extracellular matrix organization and collagen synthesis while suppressing matrix degradation (MMP2/MMP9) and inflammatory pathways. Most importantly, mechanistic studies identified TGFB2 as the key paracrine mediator through which ADSCs exert their effects: TGFB2 inhibition abolished ADSCs-induced improvements in HVFs proliferation, migration, and anti-apoptosis, while its overexpression replicated these benefits. Western blot confirmed that TGFB2 coordinately upregulates COL1A1/COL3A1 and downregulates MMP2/MMP9 to restore ECM homeostasis. These comprehensive findings demonstrate that the HAAM-based ADSCs-HVFs composite promotes functional tissue regeneration via TGFB2-mediated mechanisms, offering a safe, effective, and regenerative therapeutic strategy with strong translational potential for POP.Copyright © 2026 Dong, Zhang, Duan and Xia.
Numerous studies have reported the biological activities of tilapia skin oligopeptides, which exhibit diverse physiological effects. However, research on the relationship between peptide structural characteristics and their activities remains relatively scarce. In this study, we combined computational simulations with biological experiments to investigate the anti-metastatic mechanism of the tilapia skin oligopeptide LSGYG. Computational analyses supported recurrent Zn-neighboring and pocket-associated recognition modes of LSGYG in the catalytic region of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) and identified a dynamically retained pocket-stabilized state with near-Zn anchoring features. Pulling-guided umbrella-window screening further provided qualitative support for a local metastable region near the Zn-adjacent catalytic microenvironment. Subsequent in vitro evaluations demonstrated that LSGYG significantly suppressed migration and invasion in phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA)-induced HT1080 cells and reduced metastasis-related molecular signaling in both HT1080 and 143B cells. Mechanistically, LSGYG substantially disrupted extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-like changes by downregulating MMP-2, MMP-9, N-cadherin, Vimentin, and the upstream regulator hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α), while restoring E-cadherin expression. These phenotypic reversals were associated with suppression of reactive oxygen species (ROS), mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K/AKT), and nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) signaling pathways. These findings support LSGYG as a tilapia-derived bioactive peptide candidate for anti-metastatic functional-food or nutraceutical development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Distal necrosis remains a common postoperative complication of perforator flaps, largely due to insufficient perfusion and inadequate angiogenesis in ischemic flap tissue. Transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) has been implicated in vascular regulation through calcium-dependent signaling pathways; however, whether pharmacological blockade of TRPV1 affects angiogenesis in perforator flaps remains unclear. In this study, capsazepine was used to pharmacologically block TRPV1 in a rat perforator flap model. The results showed that capsazepine treatment significantly reduced flap survival compared with vehicle treatment (64.5 ± 1.2 % vs. 79.0 ± 1.7 %) and impaired angiogenesis, as indicated by reduced vascular density and decreased expression of VEGF-A, eNOS, and MMP2. Capsazepine also reduced the phosphorylation of CaMKII, CaMKKβ, and AMPK, together with decreased Beclin1 expression, a reduced LC3-II/I ratio, and induced pro-apoptotic changes, as evidenced by increased Bax and cleaved caspase-3 expression and decreased Bcl-2 expression. Notably, pharmacological enhancement of autophagy with rapamycin reduced Bax expression and increased MMP2 expression. Collectively, these findings indicate that capsazepine-mediated TRPV1 blockade impairs perforator flap survival and angiogenesis, at least in part, through reduced CaMKII/CaMKKβ/AMPK activation and attenuation of autophagy. The rapamycin rescue findings position autophagy as an important functional intermediary between TRPV1-associated signaling and the regulation of apoptosis and angiogenesis in perforator flaps.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Male infertility is significant, and part of it is associated with prenatal drug exposure. While prenatal glucocorticoid treatment is widely used, its long-term effects on male offspring fertility and the underlying programming mechanisms remain unclear.Based on a clinical-based PDE rat model (0.4 mg/kg dexamethasone, b.i.d.) during late pregnancy (gestational day 18-19), the fertility of male offspring was evaluated. Transcriptome sequencing was employed to identify potential targets. The epigenetic regulation of lysosomal protease Cathepsin L (CTSL) was analyzed using chromatin immunoprecipitation (Ch-IP) and co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP). Rescue experiments were performed using the TRPML1 agonist ML-SA1 and genetic CTSL overexpression to validate the signaling pathway. Multiple prenatal exposure models were used to verify the generalizability of this mechanism.The subfertility of PDE male offspring originated in the fetal period. Then, a specific autophagic flux blockade in spermatogonia was identified, and was driven by the persistent downregulation of CTSL. Mechanistically, the activated Glucocorticoid Receptor (GR) recruited Histone Deacetylase 6 (HDAC6) to the Ctsl promoter, leading to reduced H3K27 acetylation and subsequent transcriptional silencing. Importantly, reactivating lysosomal signaling via ML-SA1 or genetically restoring CTSL expression reversed the autophagic flux blockade and rescued fertility outcomes. Furthermore, this GR/HDAC6/CTSL axis might be a shared pathway underlying a subset of other glucocorticoid-related prenatal exposures.These findings provide potential intervention targets for the early prevention and treatment of fetal-origin male subfertility and offer a theoretical basis for guiding rational drug use and healthy lifestyles during pregnancy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
SIRT3, a key mitochondrial deacetylase that regulates metabolic adaptation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis in cancer cells, has emerged as a promising therapeutic target in cancer treatment. 4,4'-dimethoxychalcone (DMC) is a natural chalcone derivative extracted from Angelica keiskei. In this study, we demonstrated that DMC induces thermosensitive impairment in SIRT3-associated mitochondrial signaling. A non-lethal temperature (42 °C) facilitates the interaction between DMC and the catalytic pocket of SIRT3, leading to preferential suppression of SIRT3 activity and consequently sensitizing HeLa cells to robust apoptotic signaling. This inhibition was accompanied by increased SOD2 acetylation and reduced SOD2 abundance, driving accumulation of oxidative stress, which triggers loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨm), and pronounced caspase activation. Concomitantly, γ-H2AX nuclear foci formation and dual-phase cell-cycle arrest at the G1/S and G2/M checkpoints were associated with activation of p53/p21 and ATM/Chk2 signaling. In addition, cell migratory capacity was significantly impaired, as evidenced by reduced expression of MMP2 and MMP9. Notably, this inhibition impairs autophagic and mitophagic flux as well as lysosomal function, thereby preventing cytoprotective responses and facilitating cell death. Importantly, enforced SIRT3 overexpression reverses these effects, restores mitochondrial function, reactivates autophagic activity, and attenuates apoptotic cell death. Collectively, our findings identify DMC as a thermosensitive inhibitor of SIRT3 and provide mechanistic insights into its potential to disrupt mitochondrial homeostasis for targeted cancer therapy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Calotropis gigantea (L.) Dryand. has long been used in traditional medicine to treat various disorders. However, its effects on tumor angiogenesis and the underlying molecular mechanisms in hepatocellular carcinoma remain unclear, limiting understanding of its therapeutic significance.This study aimed to investigate the anti-tumor and anti-angiogenic effects of the dichloromethane fraction of C. gigantea stem bark extract (CGD) and its associated molecular changes in a HepG2 xenograft nude mouse model.BALB/c nude mice bearing HepG2 xenografts received intraperitoneal injections of CGD at doses of 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg three times weekly for 4 weeks. Tumor growth was monitored. Tumor angiogenesis was assessed by immunohistochemical staining for CD31 as an index of tumor microvascular density. The expression levels of HIF-1α, VEGF, VEGFR-2, EGFR, MMP-2, MMP-9, and VE-cadherin, as well as phosphorylated ERK1/2 and AKT, were evaluated by immunohistochemistry.CGD treatment significantly suppressed tumor growth compared to the control group. It reduced the CD31-positive area, indicating decreased tumor vascularization. CGD significantly downregulated the expression of HIF-1α, VEGF, VEGFR-2, EGFR, MMP-2, MMP-9, and VE-cadherin. CGD decreased phosphorylated ERK1/2 and AKT levels, indicating modulation of signaling related to tumor angiogenesis and progression.CGD demonstrates significant anti-tumor and anti-angiogenic effects in HepG2 xenograft mice. The observed effects are associated with the modulation of HIF-1α/VEGF-related angiogenic signaling and reduced phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and AKT. Collectively, these results suggest that CGD has potential as an anti-angiogenic agent for hepatocellular carcinoma.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Nicotinamide (NAM), a precursor for nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+), is widely used as a supplement during different cells culturing. Although its antioxidative and anti-apoptotic properties, the specific effects on bovine embryo quality and implantation potential remain partly explored. The current study aimed to investigate the impact of NAM on developmental competence and quality of bovine embryos, focusing on cell apoptosis, survival, and trophoblast invasion. NAM was treated during in vitro maturation (IVM) and late-stage embryo culture (IVC3; the morula stage embryo), the cleavage and blastocyst formation rates were evaluated on Days 4 and 8 post-fertilization, respectively. Underlying mechanisms affecting embryo quality and invasion potential were examined in developed blastocysts using RT-qPCR, immunofluorescence, reactive oxygen species (ROS) measurement, TUNEL and trophoblast invasion assays. Results showed that the cleavage and blastocyst formation rates were significantly increased in the NAM-treated group relative to controls (83.62 ± 1.38% vs. 80.08 ± 0.52%, and 37.54 ± 1.15% vs. 28.74 ± 0.70%, respectively). Additionally, the in vitro-developed embryos supplemented with NAM during IVM and IVC3 exhibited lower levels of ROS and mRNA of caspase-3, and higher mRNA levels of the survival genes SOD1 and SOD2. Similarly, the DNA fragmentation rate was lower, and the total cell counts and inner cell mass to trophectoderm (ICM:TE) ratios were higher in embryos supplemented with NAM compared to untreated embryos. Furthermore, the MMP2 and MMP9 protein expression and trophoblast invasion rate of blastocysts treated with NAM were enhanced. These findings highlight the potential role of NAM in improving bovine embryo quality and enhancing trophoblast invasive capacity, thereby suggesting an improved implantation potential.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Zhigancao Decoction (ZGCT), also known as Fumai Decoction, is a classical traditional Chinese medicine formula recorded in Shanghan Lun and has long been used for the treatment of "palpitations" and "irregular pulse," corresponding to arrhythmias in modern medicine. Although ZGCT has shown beneficial effects against cardiac arrhythmias, its absorbed bioactive constituents and the underlying mechanisms involved in ischemic heart failure (IHF)-related ventricular arrhythmias (VAs) remain unclear.This study aimed to characterize the chemical profile of ZGCT and identify its circulating and cardiac constituents using ultra-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-Q-TOF-MS), to identify key pathways through transcriptomic analysis, and evaluate the effects of ZGCT on IHF-related VAs in rats while exploring the potential involvement of myocardial fibrosis and TGF-β/Smad signaling.UPLC-Q-TOF-MS was employed to characterize the chemical constituents of ZGCT extract and to identify its absorbed components in rat serum and myocardial tissue after administration, thereby defining its in vivo bioactive basis. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq)-based transcriptomic profiling was then performed on myocardial tissues from the control, model, and ZGCT-treated groups to identify differentially expressed genes, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses to screen candidate signaling pathways underlying ZGCT activity. In addition, a rat model of IHF was established by permanent ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Rats were randomly assigned to the control, model, low-, medium-, and high-dose ZGCT, metoprolol, SB-431542(a selective TGF-β receptor type I inhibitor), and SB-431542 plus ZGCT groups. Cardiac function was evaluated by echocardiography; ventricular arrhythmia susceptibility, conduction velocity, and electrical conduction dispersion were assessed by burst pacing and multichannel electrical mapping; infarct size and myocardial fibrosis were determined by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC), hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), and Masson's trichrome staining; and the expression of TGF-β1, phosphorylated Smad3 (p-Smad3), Smad7, and matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP2) was measured by Western blotting and RT-qPCR.UPLC-Q-TOF-MS identified 113 constituents in the ZGCT extract in vitro, of which 80 were detected in serum and 53 were distributed in myocardial tissue after administration. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that ZGCT predominantly regulated the extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction and TGF-β signaling pathways, with the TGF-β pathway emerging as a putative key target. In IHF rats, ZGCT significantly improved cardiac function and reduced both the incidence and duration of ventricular arrhythmias. Multichannel electrical mapping further demonstrated that ZGCT reversed IHF-induced slowing of conduction velocity and increased conduction dispersion. Mechanistically, ZGCT downregulated the expression of TGF-β1, p-Smad3, and MMP2, while upregulating Smad7. SB-431542 elicited anti-fibrotic and pathway-related molecular changes comparable to those of ZGCT, further supporting a role for TGF-β/Smad signaling in the anti-fibrotic effects of ZGCT.ZGCT reduced ventricular arrhythmia susceptibility and improved conduction abnormalities in IHF rats in association with attenuation of myocardial fibrosis and modulation of transforming growth factor-β/Smad-related signaling. However, these findings were obtained from a single batch of ZGCT, and further multi-batch validation is required to confirm its chemical consistency and pharmacological reproducibility.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) increases cardiovascular disease risk. Coronary artery calcification (CAC) predicts cardiovascular events and mortality in COPD. We hypothesized that plasma proteins linked to pulmonary phenotypes mediate CAC burden.Pulmonary function, emphysema, airway wall thickening, Agatston CAC scores (inverse normal transformed), and relative abundance of 1305 plasma proteins (log-transformed) were assessed in 989 Phase 1 COPDGene (Genetic Epidemiology of COPD) participants. Proteins associated with both pulmonary phenotypes (FEV1[forced expiratory volume in 1 second]%predicted, FVC [forced vital capacity], FEV1/FVC, emphysema, airway wall thickness, wall area percentage) and CAC (false discovery rate P≤0.20) were evaluated using multivariable mediation. Model adjustments included sex, age, race, body mass index, smoking, comorbidities, and medications. Adjustment for pulmonary artery-to-aortic diameter ratio-a marker of pulmonary vascular pressure-was also explored. The95% bootstrap CIs that excluded zero were considered significant.FEV1%predicted (P=0.026) and FEV1/FVC (P=0.010) were associated with CAC. After adjusting for FEV1, visual emphysema, and visual airway wall thickening remained associated with CAC. Five proteins (TSP2 [thrombospondin-2], renin, MMP-7 [matrix metalloproteinase-7], ERBB1 [epidermal growth factor receptor], MIC-1 [macrophage inhibitory cytokine-1]) mediated the FEV1%predicted and CAC association. All except MIC-1 mediated FEV1/FVC and CAC. All except renin mediated quantitative airway wall thickness or wall area percentage and CAC. Additionally, α2-antiplasmin (alpha-2 antiplasmin) mediated airway wall thickness and CAC. ERBB1 mediated visual paraseptal emphysema and CAC. Pulmonary artery-to-aortic diameter ratio adjustment reduced or eliminated some mediation effects. ERBB1 remained an independent mediator across multiple phenotypes.Six plasma proteins mediated associations between COPD phenotypes and CAC burden. These effects were partially influenced by pulmonary artery-to-aortic diameter ratio A, suggesting shared molecular pathways linking lung dysfunction to cardiovascular risk in COPD.
The gene fusion KIAA1549::BRAF is a common oncogenic driver in pediatric pilocytic astrocytoma. The chimeric fusion protein that comprises most of the type 1 transmembrane KIAA1549 protein fused in its C-terminal cytosolic domain to the truncated BRAF oncogene without its N-terminal autoinhibitory domains. KIAA1549 has a large N-terminal ectodomain that undergoes extensive O-mannosylation directed by the POMT1/2 protein O-mannosyltransferase complex localized in the ER. Here, we investigated how posttranslational modifications contribute to KIAA1549 protein maturation in the secretory pathway. Using a panel of KIAA1549 expression constructs and glycoengineered HEK293 cells, we provide evidence that O-mannosylation of the KIAA1549 ectodomain is required for ER exit, acquisition of complex N-glycans, and subsequent furin-like cleavage in the Golgi. In the absence of POMT1/2 O-mannosylation KIAA1549 is retained in ER and fails to undergo proprotein processing. Our findings confirm and extend our previous studies with the KIAA1549::BRAF fusion protein, where oncogenic transformation was dependent on POMT1/2 O-mannosylation and affected on furin processing. Thus, these intrinsic posttranslational modifications of the KIAA1549 ectodomain are critical determinants of the cellular trafficking that lead to activation of the BRAF oncogene, potentially involving a cascade of cleavage events in the Golgi that ultimately release a truncated but fully active BRAF kinase domain into the cytosol.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Wound healing remains a major clinical challenge, often requiring treatments that combine antimicrobial, antioxidant, and anti-inflammatory properties. In the present study, a novel topical ointment containing curcumin functionalized copper nanoparticles (Cur-CuNPs) was developed and evaluated for wound-healing. Copper nanoparticles were green synthesized using Crossandra infundibuliformis leaf extract, followed by curcumin functionalization to enhance the stability, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and wound healing activities. The formulated ointments were characterized and evaluated in Wistar albino rats with topical application daily for 16 days significantly accelerated wound contraction, enhanced re-epithelialization, and promoted organized collagen deposition in treated groups. Biochemical analysis revealed elevated antioxidant enzyme activities (superoxide dismutase and catalase) and reduced lipid peroxidation levels. ELISA-based cytokine profiling showed reduced levels of pro-inflammatory mediators (TNF-α and IL-6). Gene expression analysis showed increased VEGF expression together with reduced MMP-9 and IL-6 expression, while immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated increased Ki-67 and CD31 in Cur-CuNP-treated wounds. Collectively, these findings suggest that Cur- CuNP ointment promote wound healing with antioxidant activity, reduced inflammation, enhanced cellular proliferation, angiogenesis, and extracellular matrix remodeling, highlighting their potential as multifunctional topical therapeutics.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Utilizing single-cell RNA sequencing and network pharmacology, this study explored the mechanism by which Bletilla striata polysaccharide (BSP) mitigates peri-implantitis-associated osteolysis. Integrated analyses revealed a significant expansion of pro-inflammatory macrophages and osteoclasts in diseased tissues, with differentially expressed genes enriched in glycolytic pathways. Mechanistic exploration indicated that BSP suppresses osteoclastogenesis primarily by targeting matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP9), thereby inhibiting proteolytic activity and cytoskeletal remodeling. Preliminary rescue experiments supported this notion, showing that while BSP effectively downregulated LPS-induced MMP9 upregulation and suppressed macrophage glycolytic metabolism, forced overexpression of MMP9 partially restored MMP9 levels and reversed the inhibitory effect of BSP on osteoclast formation. These findings suggest a potential "metabolism-protease" interplay, where BSP concurrently modulates immune metabolism and protease activity to alleviate inflammatory bone loss, providing a foundational basis for developing plant-derived polysaccharide therapeutics.© 2026. The Society for In Vitro Biology.
As a possible target for pro- or anti-angiogenic therapy, the process of angiogenesis has become more widely recognized in disease and is essential in normal growth and development. The current study examined the immunological activities of macrophages during angiogenesis in quail embryos. CD68 was used to identify perivascular macrophages, which also retained expression of some stem cell markers, including CD34 and CD117, and also CD21. The macrophages also expressed vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a key promoter of angiogenesis, and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), which degrades matrix components to facilitate the formation of new blood vessels. The growth factor bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) and platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha (PDGF-α), which are often associated with mesenchymal cell recruitment and vascularization, were also expressed in the perivascular macrophages. More recently, studies investigating macrophages have become more prominent due to their proposed effects on endothelial cells. Macrophages are also increasingly considered potential targets for pro- or anti-angiogenic therapies, and this research provides insights into protein expression and roles in angiogenesis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) is a heterogeneous inflammatory disease with variable outcomes following functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS). Predictive biomarkers for post-FESS CRSwNP recurrence remain poorly defined.Identify tissue-based predictors of CRSwNP recurrence after FESS and assess dupilumab-induced modifications.From a cohort of patients with CRSwNP (including NSAID-exacerbated respiratory disease [NSAID-ERD]) who underwent FESS, we retrospectively identified 91 who could be dichotomized by clinical outcome as post-FESS "rapid recurrence" (<1 year) or "slow/no recurrence" (>2 years without recurrence). Nasal polyp tissue was analyzed for 69 inflammatory mediators using proteomics and ELISA. Logistic regression with LASSO feature selection identified candidate predictors. In an independent, second prospective cohort of 17 CRSwNP patients initiating dupilumab, nasal fluid was collected at baseline and after two months of dupilumab and profiled for the same mediators.Twenty-three tissue mediators strongly predicted rapid CRSwNP recurrence (AUC >0.70), including markers of type (T) 2 inflammation (IL-4, IL-13, IL-5Rα, ECP, IgE) and innate inflammation and/or myeloid involvement (CCL3/4/7/8/13, CSF2, IL-1β, IL-6, OSM, MMP12, HIF-1α, TNF-α, TNFSF14). Of these, dupilumab significantly reduced IL-5Rα and several chemokines (CCL3, CCL4, CCL13) but had no effect on key myeloid mediators (CCL8, CSF2, IL-1β, MMP12, HIF-1α).Both T2 and non-T2 mediators play a role in rapid post-FESS recurrence in CRSwNP. T2 blockade with dupilumab reduces T2-associated mediators but does not suppress a parallel innate/myeloid inflammatory axis. The persistence of this axis during treatment suggests that innate and myeloid mediators may underlie severe CRSwNP and could influence disease recurrence once T2 signaling is no longer inhibited, representing potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets to improve long-term disease control.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
D-dopachrome tautomerase (D-DT, or MIF-2) is a homolog of the macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF), which shares receptor usage and downstream signaling. Although MIF is known to mediate UV-induced inflammation and matrix remodeling, the role of D-DT in cutaneous photoaging remains unclear. Therefore, we investigated whether D-DT contributes to UVB-induced skin photoaging by modulating the expression of MMP-13. Using D-DT knockout (Ddt-/-) and wild-type (Ddt+/+) mice exposed to chronic UVB, we assessed collagen degradation and immune cell infiltration in the skin. We also used primary dermal fibroblasts from Ddt+/+ mice to examine the recombinant D-DT (rD-DT)-induced MMP-13 expression and the signaling pathways. UVB exposure markedly increased the D-DT expression in epidermal keratinocytes both in vivo and in vitro. In addition to attenuated skin inflammation, Ddt-/- mice exhibited reduced UVB-induced MMP-13 expression levels, preserved type I collagen levels, and diminished leukocyte and neutrophil infiltration, comparing with WT mice. rD-DT directly upregulated MMP-13 in fibroblasts, and this effect was suppressed by ERK and JNK inhibitors. Furthermore, rD-DT induced the phosphorylation of ERK and JNK in fibroblasts. In conclusion, UVB-induced skin photoaging is accelerated by the expression of MMP-13 in dermal fibroblasts following the epidermal expression of D-DT. These findings identified D-DT as a novel regulator of UVB-induced dermal remodeling and suggest its potential as a therapeutic target for photoaging.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chemoradiotherapy (CRT) is a standard treatment for rectal cancer, yet patients show marked variability in response. Identifying reliable biomarkers that predict CRT response remains an unmet clinical need.Pretreatment biopsy samples from patients who received neoadjuvant CRT were analyzed using RNA sequencing. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified between responders and nonresponders, followed by functional enrichment analysis using Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes databases. To complement DEG-based results, gene-set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was performed to assess pathway activity across the ranked transcriptome and to prioritize biologically relevant pathways. Pathway-derived gene signatures were evaluated using receiver operating characteristic curves and validated in three independent data sets.A total of 1,477 DEGs were detected, including 729 upregulated and 748 downregulated genes in responders. Functional enrichment analysis indicated immune activation and epithelial polarity in responders, whereas nonresponders showed enrichment of extracellular matrix organization, focal adhesion, and phosphoinositide 3-kinase-protein kinase B signaling. GSEA further identified four pathways associated with CRT response: antigen presentation, extracellular matrix-receptor interaction, focal adhesion, and drug metabolism. Among these, the antigen presentation pathway consistently predicted treatment response across data sets. Elastic net regression defined a six-gene signature (KLRC1, CTSS, HLA-DMA, HLA-DQB1, HLA-DQB2, and CIITA) with strong predictive performance, with area under the curve values ranging from 0.76 to 0.81.These genes participate in major histocompatibility complex class II antigen-processing and immune-regulatory pathways that enhance CD4 T-cell activation. Overall, the findings indicate that an immune-active, antigen presentation phenotype underlies radiosensitivity in rectal cancer and that the six-gene signature may serve as a biomarker to guide personalized treatment strategies.
This study aimed to identify a candidate immune-related biomarker for lumbar disc herniation (LDH) and examine the functional relevance of ARG1 in intervertebral disc degeneration. Bioinformatics analysis was performed using the GSE146904 transcriptomic dataset to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and determine the core target. A puncture-induced rat disc degeneration model was then established, followed by in vivo ARG1 gain- and loss-of-function interventions. In vitro assays were used to evaluate the effects of ARG1 on chondrocyte biological behavior, extracellular matrix metabolism, inflammatory responses, and arginine metabolism. In addition, 57 patients with LDH and 68 healthy controls were retrospectively enrolled to assess the diagnostic value of serum ARG1. After multidimensional screening of the high-effect candidate DEGs, ARG1 was the only gene that met the prespecified immune-process, immune-pathway, and skeletal-system annotation criteria and was therefore prioritized for experimental validation. ARG1 was expressed at a low level in degenerated intervertebral disc tissues. ARG1 up-regulation attenuated puncture-induced disc injury and pain sensitization, promoted chondrocyte proliferation, inhibited apoptosis, increased SOX9 and COL2A1 expression, and reduced MMP13 and ADAMTS5 expression. Clinical testing showed that serum ARG1 levels were reduced in patients with LDH and were negatively correlated with Pfirrmann grade and VAS pain score. The area under the curve of serum ARG1 for distinguishing patients with LDH from healthy controls was 0.818. ARG1 was associated with attenuation of puncture-induced disc injury and early degenerative changes and may serve as a candidate auxiliary serum biomarker for LDH assessment and a potential target for future studies of immune-metabolic regulation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Bone remodeling depends on the coordinated balance between osteoclast-mediated resorption and osteoblast-mediated formation. Although Indian hedgehog (Ihh) is known to regulate skeletal development and bone homeostasis, its direct involvement in osteoclastogenesis remains unclear.We generated a novel mouse model, Ctsk-CreERT2; Ihhfl/fl, to investigate the role of Ihh in osteoclast lineage cells. Skeletal phenotypes were assessed by radiography, micro-CT, histology, dynamic histomorphometry, and three-point bending tests. Bone marrow macrophages were isolated to assess osteoclast precursor viability, RANKL-induced osteoclast differentiation, F-actin ring formation, and bone resorptive activity using CCK-8 assays, TRAP staining, phalloidin staining, and resorption pit assays. Osteoclastogenic gene expression and signaling pathway activation were examined by RT-qPCR and Western blotting.IhhCKO mice exhibited reduced body weight and an osteosclerotic phenotype, characterized by increased metaphyseal trabecular bone mass, improved femoral peak load and stiffness, and reduced cortical bone parameters. Histological analyses revealed fewer TRAP-positive osteoclasts on trabecular surfaces, increased osteoblast-related parameters, and decreased cortical bone formation indices. In vitro, Ihh deficiency reduced osteoclast precursor viability, impaired RANKL-induced osteoclast formation, decreased F-actin ring number/size and nuclei per osteoclast, and markedly reduced resorption pit formation. Mechanistically, Ihh loss suppressed osteoclast marker and fusion-related genes and diminished RANKL-induced JNK phosphorylation, c-Fos, NFATc1, and CTSK expression.Osteoclast-lineage-derived Ihh is required for efficient RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis and bone resorption, at least in part by sustaining the JNK/c-Fos/NFATc1 axis. These findings identify Ihh as an osteoclast-intrinsic regulator of postnatal bone remodeling.
Age at menarche (AAM) is influenced by genetic and environmental factors and is associated with reproductive health outcomes. Therefore, understanding its genetic basis may help predict risks to women's health. This study aimed to identify genetic variants associated with AAM in the Korean population through a genome-wide association study (GWAS) and investigate the relationship between AAM and early menopause.In total, 6,150,556 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were generated from full genotyping data of the Health Examinee and Korea Association Resource cohorts, and analyses were conducted on 40,570 selected participants. A GWAS was performed using linear regression analysis with age and body mass index as covariates. A polygenic risk score (PRS) for AAM was constructed and categorized into quartiles, and logistic regression analysis was conducted to assess the association between the PRS for AAM and early menopause.The GWAS identified 30 significant SNPs associated with AAM. The most significant SNP was rs314275 (beta = 0.0925, p = 2.74 × 10-12) in the Lin-28 homolog B (LIN28B) gene and the SNP with the largest effect estimate was rs67367692 (beta = 0.1238, p = 5.06 × 10-8) in the matrix metallopeptidase 12 (MMP12) gene. Individuals with a higher PRS for AAM showed an increased risk of early menopause.Genetic determinants influence AAM and early menopause in the Korean population. These findings suggest that the genetic factors contributing to late menarche may also increase the risk of early menopause, highlighting the importance of considering genetic risks in women's health strategies.© 2025 Korean Society of Biological Nursing Science.
Estrogen deficiency-induced osteoporosis is largely driven by excessive osteoclast formation and bone resorption, but the direct pharmacological targets of flavonoid derivatives in osteoclast differentiation remain unclear. Here, we investigated the anti-osteoclastogenic activity and molecular mechanism of 2'-O-Galloylhyperin (2'-O-GH), a structurally defined flavonoid derivative. The effects of 2'-O-GH on RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis were evaluated in bone marrow-derived macrophages and RAW264.7 cells using TRAP staining, qPCR, western blotting, F-actin staining, immunofluorescence, and bone resorption assays. Target identification was performed using a biotinylated 2'-O-GH probe coupled with pull-down and LC-MS/MS analysis, followed by molecular docking and microscale thermophoresis. In vivo efficacy was assessed in an ovariectomy-induced osteoporosis mouse model. 2'-O-GH inhibited RANKL-induced formation of TRAP-positive multinucleated osteoclasts without evident cytotoxicity at effective concentrations. It downregulated osteoclast-related markers, including NFATc1, c-FOS, SRC, ACP5, ATP6V0D2, and CTSK, and impaired F-actin ring formation and bone resorption. Mechanistically, 2'-O-GH restrained RANKL-induced NF-κB p65 nuclear translocation. Chemical proteomics identified MAP3K11/MLK3 as a candidate target, and molecular docking and microscale thermophoresis supported its direct interaction with 2'-O-GH. 2'-O-GH further suppressed RANKL-induced phosphorylation of MLK3 and IKKα/β, whereas MLK3 overexpression partially rescued NF-κB activation and osteoclast differentiation. In ovariectomized mice, 2'-O-GH attenuated bone loss without obvious effects on body or uterine weight. These findings identify MLK3 as a pharmacological target of 2'-O-GH and suggest that 2'-O-GH suppresses osteoclastogenesis through the MLK3/IKK/NF-κB axis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Oxidative stress and mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation are central drivers of nucleus pulposus (NP) cell senescence and intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD), yet the transcriptional programs that maintain mitochondrial redox homeostasis in NP cells remain poorly defined. In this study, we investigated the role of forkhead box O3 (FOXO3) in regulating NP cell senescence and mitophagy during IVDD. We found that FOXO3 expression was significantly reduced in degenerated disc tissues and in senescent NP cells. In vitro, FOXO3 overexpression markedly alleviated H2O2-induced senescence, as shown by reduced SA-β-gal positivity, downregulation of p16 and senescence-associated catabolic factors, and partial restoration of extracellular matrix-related proteins. Transcriptomic profiling revealed that FOXO3 suppressed senescence-, NF-κB-, and matrix degradation-associated pathways while activating autophagy-related programs. Mechanistically, FOXO3 enhanced autophagic flux and promoted BNIP3-dependent mitophagy, accompanied by improved mitochondrial ultrastructure, preservation of mitochondrial membrane potential, and reduced mitochondrial reactive oxygen species accumulation. Importantly, BNIP3 knockdown partially abolished the anti-senescent effects of FOXO3, supporting BNIP3-mediated mitophagy as a key downstream mechanism. In vivo, adeno-associated virus-mediated FOXO3 overexpression attenuated puncture-induced disc degeneration, reduced p16 and MMP13 expression, and restored aggrecan and collagen II levels. Collectively, these findings identify FOXO3 as a critical regulator of mitochondrial quality control and NP cell senescence, and suggest that targeting the FOXO3-BNIP3-mitophagy axis may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for IVDD.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The study aimed to explore the therapeutic effect of catalpol on articular chondrocyte senescence and osteoarthritis through cell experiments, and to explore the role of NF-κB and its upstream and downstream pathways in the therapeutic process. Rat primary chondrocytes were isolated. catalpol was added to evaluate cytotoxicity and cell viability, and the optimal catalpol concentration was determined accordingly. IL-1β was added to simulate OA inflammation, establish a cellular senescence model and detect senescence-associated β-galactosidase activity. The proportion of senescent cells, cell cycle distribution, and ROS levels in each group were measured and compared. Western blotting was used to detect the expression of Type II collagen, ADAMTS-5, MMP-13, IL-6, p16, p21, PI3K, p-PI3K, AKT, p-AKT, p65, and p-p65 proteins. After catalpol treatment, the proportion of positive chondrocytes decreased, the proportion of chondrocytes in G0-G1 phase decreased significantly, and the ROS levels of chondrocytes in the inflammatory rat model decreased significantly. IL-1β significantly elevated the expression of IL-6, p16, and p21. However, this effect of IL-1β was inhibited by catalpol. catalpol could significantly inhibit the expression of MMP-13, IL-6, ADAMTS-5, p16, and p21, significantly increased the expression of type II collagen, and significantly inhibited the activation of PI3K/AKT and NF-κB signaling pathways. Catalpol attenuated chondrocyte senescence in an IL-1β-induced in vitro OA model, suppressed PI3K/AKT/NF-κB signaling, and decreased SASP expression. These in vitro findings suggest a potential mechanistic basis for the anti-senescence effects of catalpol on chondrocytes, which requires further validation in animal models and clinical studies before any therapeutic conclusions can be drawn.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559138 is a review article
Hypertensive retinopathy is a microvascular complication caused by systemic hypertension and can lead to severe visual impairment. At present, the molecular mechanisms of this disease remain incompletely understood, particularly the global expression profiles and regulatory networks of non-coding RNA (ncRNA). This study aims to comprehensively analyze the genome-wide differential expression profiles of messenger RNA (mRNA), microRNA (miRNA), long non-coding RNA (lncRNA), and circular RNA (circRNA) in retinal tissues from a spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) model of hypertensive retinopathy, and to observe transcriptomic changes after treatment with the calcium channel blocker lacidipine, thereby revealing their potential roles in disease pathogenesis and identifying possible therapeutic targets.SHRs were used as a model of hypertensive retinopathy, and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were used as controls. Rats were divided into 3 groups: A control group (WKY), a model group (SHR), and a treatment group (SHR+lacidipine). Rats in the treatment group received lacidipine by gavage at 0.5 mg/(kg·d) for 8 consecutive weeks. At the end of the experiment, retinal tissues were collected for histopathological examination by hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and for high-throughput sequencing. The lncRNA library was used to analyze mRNA, lncRNA, and circRNA expression profiles, and the small RNA (sRNA) library was used to analyze miRNA expression profiles. Differential expression analysis was performed using DESeq2. The screening criteria were |log2 fold change (FC)|≥1 and false discovery rate (FDR) significance criteria for mRNAs and lncRNAs, and |log2FC|≥1 and P<0.05 for miRNAs and circRNAs as exploratory candidates. Differentially expressed RNAs were subjected to Gene Ontology (GO) functional annotation and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis. Competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) regulatory networks involving lncRNA/circRNA-miRNA-mRNA were constructed through target prediction and co‑expression analysis. Ten mRNAs whose expression changes were reversed after treatment were selected for validation by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (real-time RT-PCR; n=6 per group). Comparisons among multiple groups were performed using one-way analysis of variance and post hoc multiple-comparison tests.1) Verification of the animal model: Blood pressure was significantly higher in the model group than in the control group. The model group exhibited edema of the retinal nerve fiber layer, dilation of vascular lumens, and increased retinal thickness. Lacidipine treatment reduced blood pressure and alleviated these pathological changes. 2) Differential expression of mRNAs: Compared with the control group, 870 mRNAs were significantly downregulated and 1 018 mRNAs were significantly upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 2 644 mRNAs were significantly downregulated and 186 mRNAs were significantly upregulated in the treatment group. GO analysis showed that upregulated mRNAs in the model group were enriched in immune-inflammatory processes, such as leukocyte activation, chemotaxis, defense response, and regulation of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) production, whereas downregulated mRNAs were enriched in G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling, glycoprotein synthesis, ion channel activity, and related processes. KEGG analysis revealed that upregulated mRNAs in the model group were enriched in interleukin-17 (IL-17), TNF, oxidative stress, and lipid inflammatory mediator metabolic pathways, whereas downregulated mRNAs were enriched in phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-protein kinase B (AKT) signaling, vascular smooth muscle contraction, extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction, and related pathways. In the treatment group, the downregulated mRNAs were mainly enriched in pathways related to immune-inflammatory activation, such as mast cell degranulation and leukocyte degranulation. 3) Treatment-reversed mRNAs: A total of 67 genes that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment were identified; these genes were mainly enriched in endoplasmic reticulum stress-associated apoptotic signaling, mitophagy, ubiquitin ligase activity, and related processes. In addition, 54 genes that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment were identified; these genes were mainly enriched in amino acid transport, integrin complex, focal adhesion, glutamate transport activity, and related processes. Real-time RT-PCR validated the expression changes of Med22, Rmt1, Sytl3, Itgb7, and Slc1a3 which were decreased in the model group and increased after treatment, as well as Rnf183, Lrrc29, Lat2, Hist1h4m, and Dpm3, which were increased in the model group and decreased after treatment. These findings were consistent with the sequencing results. 4) Differential expression of miRNAs: Compared with the control group, 30 miRNAs were downregulated and 26 miRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 14 miRNAs were downregulated and 53 miRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. Treatment-reversed miRNAs were identified: Rno-miR-1-3p, novel_miR_1203, and novel_miR_1417 were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, whereas novel_miR_107 and novel_miR_905 were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment. Their target genes were enriched in regulation of retinal cone/rod cell differentiation, ECM remodeling, the Notch pathway, fatty acid synthesis, and related processes. 5) Differential expression of lncRNAs: Compared with the control group, 786 lncRNAs were downregulated and 764 lncRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 217 lncRNAs were downregulated and 230 lncRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. A total of 55 lncRNAs that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, and 76 lncRNAs that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment, were identified. Their target genes were enriched in immune regulation, wound healing, vascular remodeling, retinol metabolism related to rod-mediated scotopic vision, glutamatergic neuron differentiation, the forkhead box O (FoxO) pathway, retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I)-like receptor signaling, and related processes. 6) Differential expression of circRNAs: Compared with the control group, 45 circRNAs were downregulated and 47 circRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 25 circRNAs were downregulated and 22 circRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. Eleven circRNAs that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment, and 10 circRNAs that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, were identified. Their host genes were enriched in regulation of synaptic neural signaling, second messenger transmission, calcium signaling, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signaling pathways. 7) Construction of ceRNA networks: Based on expression patterns and target prediction, multiple lncRNA/circRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory networks were constructed. For example, the networks composed of rno_circ_Rims2_10, rno-miR-1-3p, and related mRNAs, such as Mmp14 and Fasn, as well as the novel_miR_1417 related network, may be involved in retinal stress responses, inflammatory regulation, and neurovascular remodeling.This study is the first to integrate and analyze retinal transcriptomic profiles of mRNAs, miRNAs, lncRNAs, and circRNAs in an SHR model of hypertensive retinopathy, and it reveals RNA expression changes associated with lacidipine treatment. The results suggest that immune-inflammatory activation, neurovascular dysfunction, and ncRNA-mediated ceRNA regulatory networks may participate in the pathogenesis of hypertensive retinopathy. The identified differentially expressed molecules and predicted regulatory axes provide a candidate molecular basis for further mechanistic validation and screening of potential therapeutic targets.
Alcohol consumption has been a risk factor for more than 200 diseases, including esophageal cancer. Cell communication network 1 (CCN1), a matricellular protein, is highly expressed in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) but is barely detectable in esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC). Alcohol consumption has been identified as a major contributor to ESCC development, but its role in EAC is uncertain. This study examines the impact of acute (30 min) or prolonged (12 h) alcohol exposure (5, 100, and 500 mM) on CCN1 expression and function in esophageal epithelial cells, including normal (HEEC), ESCC (KYSE150 and KYSE410), and EAC (OE19 and OE33), in association with the activity of MMP2, MMP9, and MMP14. It was found that alcohol exposure promoted CCN1 expression in both normal and tumor cells but induced CCN1 cleavage exclusively in EAC cells, generating an 18-kDa fragment that promotes tumor growth. MMP9, which was active only in EAC cells, was found to mediate this cleavage. Forced activation of MMP9 in either normal or ESCC cells improved cell viability, whereas inhibition of MMP9 in EAC cells attenuated cell survival. Taken together, alcohol exposure promotes MMP9-mediated CCN1 cleavage in EAC, converting CCN1 from a pro-death to a pro-survival factor for EAC. This makes alcohol consumption a risk factor not only for ESCC development but also for EAC progression. A preprint can be found at d197for5662m48.cloudfront.net.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cell Communication and Signaling published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis(IPF) is a fatal interstitial lung disease with limited clinical therapeutic options. Traditional Chinese medicine formulas, characterized by multi-component, multi-target, and holistic regulatory properties, have shown unique potential in the prevention and treatment of IPF. Yangyin Yifei Tongluo Pills(YF) is a TCM formula with demonstrated clinical efficacy. However, its modern pharmacological mechanism against IPF remains to be systematically elucidated. In this study, ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole-Orbitrap high-resolution mass spectrometry(UHPLC-Q Exactive Orbitrap-HRMS) was employed to identify the chemical constituents of YF. A total of 76 potential bioactive compounds were characterized, including flavonoids, phenylpropanoids and other chemicals. By integrating network pharmacology and bioinformatics analyses, drug-related targets, IPF-associated targets, differentially expressed genes, and WGCNA-derived key module genes were intersected, yielding 15 potential targets. Based on a systematic evaluation using nine machine learning algorithms, arginase 1(ARG1) and matrix metalloproteinase 14(MMP14) were identified as key core targets. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses indicated that these targets were mainly involved in inflammatory regulation, signal transduction, and extracellular matrix(ECM) remodeling, with significant enrichment in key signaling pathways such as the TNF signaling pathway. Immune microenvironment analysis revealed that the expression levels of ARG1 and MMP14 were closely associated with immune and stromal cell infiltration characteristics. Molecular docking demonstrated favorable binding affinities between ARG1/MMP14 and several core components, including miltirone, peimine, cryptotanshinone, and sec-O-glucosylhamaudol, while molecular dynamics simulations further confirmed the conformational stability of miltirone and sec-O-glucosylhamaudol, as core potential bioactive components, with the targets under dynamic conditions. Collectively, these findings suggest that YF may exert anti-IPF effects by targeting ARG1 and MMP14 through its core potential bioactive components, synergistically modulating key processes including the immune microenvironment, fibroblast activation, and extracellular matrix remodeling. By integrating LC-MS, bioinformatics, machine learning, immune infiltration analysis, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulation, this study systematically elucidates the multi-component and multi-target mechanisms of YF, providing new insights and a foundation for the intervention and treatment of IPF and the mechanistic study of TCM formulas.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42540599
The aim was to determine the transcriptomic features of tumor and stromal cells in direct contact within tumor nodules in luminal and triple-negative breast cancer.Spatial transcriptomic profiling was performed using the Visium 10x platform on FFPE tumor tissue sections from 10 patients with luminal breast cancer and 9 patients with triple-negative breast cancer. Manual morphological annotation of spots and evaluation of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in identified spot clusters were performed using Loupe Browser v8.0.0 (10X Genomics, USA). Activated biological processes were assessed using the Enrichr online resource and the GO Biological Process 2025 database. Ligand-receptor pairs were identified using the CellChat package (v2.0) in R (v4.4.2).In luminal breast cancer, mixed cluster (tumor cells colocalized with stromal cells) was characterized by overexpression of genes encoding S100A family Ca2+-binding proteins (S100A4, S100A8, S100A9), matrix metalloproteinases (MMP2, MMP7, MMP14), cytokeratins (KRT5, KRT7, KRT15, KRT23, KRT81), the mesenchymal marker VIM, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-associated genes (ICAM1, PRRX1) compared to tumor-only cluster. In triple-negative breast cancer, mixed cluster showed overexpression of S100A2, S100A8, S100A9, the epithelial gene KRT6B, the cancer stem cell marker CD44, and NOTCH2, which is associated with negative regulation of EMT. In both breast cancer subtypes, mixed cluster showed transcriptomic enrichment of gene sets associated with regulation of the ERK/MAPK cascade, apoptosis, and cell adhesion and migration. Ligand-receptor pairs associated with cell-cell contact, EMT, and immune response were also detected in colocalized cells, with a broader spectrum of these pairs observed in luminal breast cancer.This study assessed the transcriptomic characteristics of directly contacting tumor and stromal cells and identified the spectrum of ligand-receptor pairs mediating their interactions. Characterizing the properties of cells at the tumor-stroma interface helps unravel mechanisms of breast cancer progression and identify novel diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets.© The Author(s) 2026.
Anthracyclines are a widely used and effective class of chemotherapy. However, a major limitation for their use is cardiotoxicity, manifesting as systolic dysfunction, congestive heart failure, and arrhythmias. The objective of this study was to identify genes and genetic risk variants for doxorubicin-induced arrhythmia.We performed genome-wide association studies and meta-analysis across 2 independent nonoverlapping, genetically homogenous data sets from the Molecular Epidemiology Resource (cases N=77, controls N=1184) and Tapestry (cases N=13, controls N=172). Doxorubicin-related arrhythmia was the primary cardiac outcome, followed by investigation of a broader phenotype of cardiac events. Effects of doxorubicin on top-associated genes were assessed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction on RNA extracted from human cardiomyocytes following treatment with doxorubicin and by echocardiography in a zebrafish model of doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy.In the meta-analysis, rs12151014 at the KCTD15 locus was associated with doxorubicin-related arrhythmia at the genome-wide significance (minor allele frequency in Molecular Epidemiology Resource cases 0.195 versus 0.069 in controls; Tapestry cases 0.192 versus 0.079 in controls) P=9.01×10-9; odds ratio, 3.61. MMP16 rs1094199 was associated with the broader phenotype of arrhythmia and heart failure (minor allele frequency in Molecular Epidemiology Resource cases 0.079 versus 0.019 in controls; Tapestry cases 0.038 versus 0.015) P=1.98×10-8; odds ratio=6.15. In human cardiomyocytes, MMP16 and KCTD15 gene expression was significantly downregulated by doxorubicin, and in a zebrafish MMP16 knockout was protective of doxorubicin-induced decline in left ventricular ejection fraction.Genetic variants at KCTD15 and MMP16 are associated with doxorubicin-related arrhythmia and cardiac events. MMP16 is a potential cardioprotective therapeutic target.
Background: Available data indicate that the development of refractory schizophrenia may result from neuroinflammation, dysregulation of neurotrophins and metalloproteinases (MMPs), oxidative stress (OS), and hormonal imbalance. Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is an effective therapeutic option for drug resistance, but its impact on brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and MMPs remains underinvestigated. This study evaluates the influence of ECT on serum BDNF, MMPs (MMP-7, MMP-9, MMP-14), and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMP-1, TIMP-2, TIMP-3) in patients with treatment-resistant schizophrenia (TRS). Another goal of this study is an assessment of the relationships between these biomarkers and the intensity of schizophrenia symptoms. Methods: Serum concentrations of the aforementioned biomarkers were measured prior to and after ECT in eight patients and 13 healthy controls. The severity of schizophrenia symptoms was evaluated with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS). Results: Bayesian analysis comparing pre-ECT serum concentrations of BDNF, MMPs, and their inhibitors in TRS patients with a control group showed a significant difference only for MMP-9. Furthermore, convincing evidence of a correlation between MMP-9 and MMP-14 was found in TRS patients. Although the ECT therapy did not result in changes in the serum concentrations of the studied biomarkers, substantial improvement in schizophrenia symptoms on the PANSS was observed. Conclusions: No significant biomarker changes (post- versus pre-treatment) were detected in this small exploratory cohort. Whether these biomarkers are involved in neuroinflammation (as possible contributors to the development of TRS) remains an open question, and therefore, further research on biomarkers in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) may be suggested.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509741 is a review article
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) exhibits dense fibrosis and immune exclusion. While fibrosis has been studied globally and at the region-of-interest level, its impact on stromal-ductal architecture and immune cell localization remains unknown. Here, we establish cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF)-stratified ductal spatial architecture as a fundamental determinant of immune exclusion in PDAC. Focusing on malignant PDAC epithelial ductal regions, the critical interface where immune cells must access tumor epithelium, we demonstrate that periductal fibroblast organization dictates leukocyte proximity. Through integrative analysis of treatment-naïve patient samples from three independent cohorts - including imaging mass cytometry, multiplex immunohistochemistry, and single-cell RNA sequencing - we uncover that activated, pro-inflammatory leukocytes preferentially localize near malignant ducts in regions with low fibroblast density. Stratifying epithelial-ductal regions by CAF abundance reveal a graded constraint: increasing fibroblast content corresponds to reduced leukocyte-epithelial proximity and elevated collagen I deposition. Despite their exclusion in high-CAF ducts, leukocytes in low-CAF ducts retain functional competence. Mechanistically, ligand-receptor inference implicates collagen-CD44 signaling as an adhesion axis anchoring immune cells within fibroblast-rich zones. CD44 blockade augments natural killer cell motility in vitro, while enhancing lymphocyte collagenase activity through MMP14 overexpression promotes infiltration by overcoming αSMA+ CAF-mediated stromal barriers in vivo. Thus, by establishing ductal regions as critical spatial units of immune exclusion, these findings provide a framework for dissecting stromal-immune interactions, reveal targetable "stromal checkpoints", and provide complementary strategies to overcome CAF-driven barriers to leukocyte motility and infiltration in PDAC.
The rational design of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) inhibitors, such as those targeted for MMP-14, prioritizes the native Zn(II) cofactor. The elevated levels of Cu(II), which are characteristic of the tumor microenvironment, are often overlooked. In this study, we investigated the Cu(II) coordination chemistry of selected MMP-14 inhibitors using potentiometric titrations, UV-Vis spectroscopy, circular dichroism, and density functional theory. Our findings reveal a striking inversion of metal selectivity in comparison with previously studied Zn(II) complexes. While Inhibitor 1 (Inh1) retains high specificity for the native Zn(II) active site, Inhibitor 4 (Inh4) exhibits exceptional thermodynamic stability with Cu(II) (pKd = 11.87). Inh4 favors copper over zinc by more than six orders of magnitude. This remarkable stability comes from a highly pre-organized, histamine-like mixed N/O donor environment and an extended poly-glycine tail. This tail adopts a 310-helical conformation that additionally stabilizes the coordination site and minimizes the entropic penalty of complexation. These results demonstrate that while Inh1 remains a highly specific candidate for targeted MMP-14 inhibition, the pronounced selectivity gap of Inh4 transforms it into a highly specific Cu(II) scavenger. This study highlights the critical risk of off-target metal sequestration in the tumor microenvironment while simultaneously opening the door to the potential repurposing of Inh4 as a targeted, copper-depleting agent in anti-angiogenic therapies.
Schizophrenia often features low-grade neuroinflammation. Because latent toxoplasmosis (LT) is more prevalent among individuals with schizophrenia, we tested whether LT yields a biomarker pattern resembling that reported in schizophrenia. We quantified 15 cytokines and 15 blood markers of brain injury in 65 LT-positive individuals and 103 matched LT-negative controls using multiplex immunoassays. Multivariate effects of infection, age, sex, and their interaction were assessed by MANCOVA and PERMANOVA. Effects on individual biomarkers were tested by partial Kendall correlation (controlling for age and sex). Differences in the internal correlation structure were evaluated with Mantel tests on dissimilarity matrices derived from partial correlations. LT was associated with higher KLK6, S100B, and TDP-43, and lower MIF; several other markers showed nonsignificant but sizable trends. Cytokines showed reduced IFN-γ, IL-1β, and MCP-1, and elevated IL-13 and IL-17 in the infected group. Sex-stratified analyses suggested stronger effects on brain-injury markers in women and on cytokines in men. Correlation structure also diverged: infected individuals exhibited more negative links between brain-injury markers and cytokines, whereas controls showed predominantly positive associations (Mantel r = 0.461, p = 0.043). The LT profile overlapped with schizophrenia in elevated KLK6 and S100B and, in men, reduced GDNF, but contrasted for MIF and for the overall cytokine pattern (no consistent IL-6/TNF-α elevation). LT entails neuroinflammatory and neuroimmune alterations that only partly recapitulate schizophrenia; the biomarker pattern and interrelationships differ, arguing against LT as the main driver of schizophrenia-related neuroinflammation.
The deficiency of trace element selenium is a global nutritional issue. Selenium exerts its biological functions in the human body through selenoproteins, which play crucial roles in bone and cartilage development. Selenoprotein S (SelS), a key selenoprotein involved in the regulation of oxidative stress and inflammation, has not been fully elucidated in cartilage development. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of SelS deficiency on cartilage matrix degradation. Chondrocytes with SelS gene knockdown (sh-Sels) and mice with SelS gene knockout were constructed. The mRNA and protein levels of type II collagen (COL II), matrix metalloproteinases (MMP3, MMP10 and MMP13) were measured by RT-qPCR and western blotting, respectively. Changes in cartilage morphology and matrix composition were evaluated using histological staining techniques, including toluidine blue (TB), safranin O-fast green, and sirius red staining. The expression levels of MMP3, MMP13, MMP19 and COL II in the knee joints of mice were detected by immunohistochemical (IHC) staining. A TGF-β pathway inhibitor (GW788388) was administered to SelS knockdown chondrocytes to verify whether the TGF-β signaling pathway was involved in the matrix degradation induced by SelS deficiency. Compared with the negative vector control (sh-NC) group, the mRNA and protein levels of COL II were decreased in the sh-Sels group. The expression levels of Mmp3, Mmp10 and Mmp13 were also increased significantly, while the metallopeptidase inhibitor Timp2 was downregulated in the sh-Sels group. SelS gene knockout in mice did not affect body length or weight but resulted in reduced proteoglycan and collagen content in articular cartilage. Compared with wild-type mice, the expression of COL II was decreased, while the expressions of MMP3, MMP13, and MMP19 were increased in the articular cartilage of SelS knockout mice. Furthermore, treatment with the TGF-β pathway inhibitor (GW788388) partially rescued the reduction in Col2a1 expression induced by SelS deficiency. SelS plays a crucial role in maintaining cartilage homeostasis, and its deficiency results in cartilage matrix degradation. The TGF-β signaling pathway is involved in the degradation of cartilage matrix caused by SelS silencing. This study provides novel insights into the treatment of fibrotic and degenerative cartilage diseases by focusing on selenoproteins.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
This study aimed to determine the prognostic significance of circulating proteins and the effects of nintedanib on these proteins in patients with systemic sclerosis-associated interstitial lung disease (SSc-ILD) in the safety and efficacy of nintedanib in systemic sclerosis study (SENSCIS) trial.Patients had SSc with ≤7 years since their first non-Raynaud symptom. Candidate biomarkers of inflammation, epithelial dysfunction, extracellular matrix (ECM) synthesis, and ECM turnover were measured in serum/plasma. We assessed associations between baseline biomarker levels and decline in forced vital capacity (FVC) over 52 weeks and change in modified Rodnan Skin Score (mRSS) at week 52 in the placebo group, and changes in biomarker levels in nintedanib and placebo groups.Baseline Krebs von den Lungen-6 (KL-6) and citrullinated vimentin (VICM) degraded by MMP-2/8 levels were significantly associated with the rate of decline in FVC over 52 weeks in uncorrected analyses. A baseline KL-6 concentration of >1000 vs ≤1000 U/mL was associated with a greater rate of decline in FVC (mL) over 52 weeks (estimates: -132.5 [95% CI: -174.1, -91.0] vs -56.4 [-95.2, -17.6]; P = .009). Higher baseline N-terminal propeptide of type III collagen (Pro-C3), chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 2, and C-reactive protein levels were significantly associated with less improvement in mRSS at week 52 in analyses corrected for multiple comparisons. Decreases in cancer antigen (CA)-125 and N-terminal propeptide of type VI collagen (pro-C6) over 52 weeks were observed in patients who received nintedanib vs placebo. In mediation analysis, 48.0% of the effect of nintedanib on change in FVC at week 52 was attributed to the treatment-related decrease in CA-125 at week 24.Applying a dichotomised threshold for KL-6 can aid in identifying patients with SSc-ILD with more progressive ILD. Nintedanib reduced levels of the epithelial dysfunction marker, CA-125, and collagen synthesis epitope, pro-C6.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Microarray and Next Generation Sequencing studies offer insight into gene regulation in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, analysing vast numbers of genes can make the interpretation of data difficult when considering the platforms and techniques used across different studies. In this study, transcript expression, restricted to genes related to G-protein coupled receptors, activating agonists, agonist precursors, synthesis enzymes and transduction processes, as well as stress-related chaperones and solute carriers, was assessed across nine microarray platforms and two RNAseq studies of the substantia nigra (nigral volume). Changes in gene expression associated with PD were assessed by differential expression analysis while RNAseq studies were also used to calculate transcript per million values for each of the genes within the nigral volume. This analysis showed extensive changes in nigral volume signalling for several robustly expressed signal-related transcripts including tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), WNT signalling components (SFRP1, RSPO2 and DKK3), Kallikrein Related Peptidase 6 (KLK6), neurexins (NRXN1, NRXN3), prostaglandin synthases (PTGES2, PTGES3) and fractalkine (CX3CL1). The nigral volume signalling ligand data was then cross-referenced to the most abundant G-protein coupled receptor and signal transduction transcripts in the pigmented neurons using two RNAseq and two microarray studies. There were 32 significant changes in G-protein coupled receptor and associated signalling genes in pigmented neurons from PD tissue. Of these, 30 genes were upregulated. Analysis of the transcription factors likely regulating the 30 upregulated genes indicates a stimulation of cell stress pathways, particularly the JNK-MAP kinase pathway. Following this pathway back to changes in nigral signalling transcripts indicates that deficits in at least two autocrine/paracrine signalling systems; dopamine, via Gαo-coupled dopamine D2 receptors and Dickkopf-3 (DKK3) appear likely to contribute to pigmented neuron stress in PD.Copyright: © 2026 John M. Haynes. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Deep mutational scanning (DMS) has proven effective for mapping protein-protein interactions (PPIs), but it cannot provide complete coverage of the mutation landscape, particularly for multi-mutant variants. To address this limitation, we trained machine-learning (ML) models on previously generated DMS data for a stabilized amyloid precursor protein inhibitor (APPI) binding to either of two serine proteases, mesotrypsin and kallikrein-6 (KLK6), which are implicated in various human disorders. We combined the models to accurately predict the binding selectivity of APPI variants, including double-mutant variants, for the two serine proteases. We achieved a Pearson correlation of 0.937 between predicted log2 selectivity enrichment ratios and DMS-derived values. We further validated the predictions of our combined model by yeast-surface-display measurements and inhibition assays of purified APPI variants and revealed epistatic interactions that shape protease selectivity. Guided by binding selectivity predictions, we identified highly selective APPI variants, including the most selective mesotrypsin inhibitor reported to date. Together, these findings support the use of DMS and ML as a framework for predicting PPI selectivity and prioritizing selective therapeutic protein variants.© 2026 The Author(s). Protein Science published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Protein Society.
Aim: Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have shown therapeutic potential in acute lung injury (ALI); however, the key functional components and their roles in regulating pulmonary vascular endothelial permeability remain unclear. This study aimed to identify functional proteins within MSC-derived exosomes (MSC-Exo) and elucidate their roles in regulating pulmonary vascular endothelial permeability to enhance MSC-Exo-based therapy. Methods: Proteomic analysis identified neuropilin-1 (NRP1) as a candidate functional protein in MSC-Exo. Functional assays, including annexin V flow cytometry for apoptosis, colony formation assays for proliferation, and Transwell migration and wound healing assays, were performed to assess these processes in injured pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (PMVECs). Immunofluorescence and Western blotting were used to evaluate NRP1 localization, p130Cas phosphorylation and matrix metalloproteinases 1 (MMP1)/9 expression. In ALI rat models, histopathology, Evans blue extravasation, and immunohistochemistry were used to assess lung injury and vascular permeability. Results: NRP1-enriched MSC-Exo reduced apoptosis, enhanced colony formation, and promoted migration in PMVECs. Mechanistically, NRP1 modulated the Bcl-2/Bax ratio, inhibited caspase 3/9 activation, and promoted p130Cas phosphorylation with increased MMP1/9 expression. NRP1 also colocalized with PDGFR-α, suggesting a potential role in PDGF-BB signaling. In vivo, NRP1-overexpressing exosome showed superior efficacy in reducing pulmonary edema, vascular leakage, and restoring tight junction proteins, whereas NRP1 depletion impaired these effects. Conclusion: NRP1 in MSC-Exo enhances endothelial repair by promoting proliferation and migration while inhibiting apoptosis. In vivo, NRP1-enriched MSC-Exo improve vascular barrier function and attenuate lung injury, supporting their therapeutic potential in ALI.© The Author(s) 2026.
The incidence of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) has increased in recent years. Kallikrein related peptidase 6 (KLK6), a member of the serine protease family, is found to be aberrantly overexpressed in various solid tumors. This gene functions as a driver of tumor progression, mediating growth, invasion and migration through diverse mechanisms. This study aimed to explore how KLK6 affects the proliferation, invasion, and migration of LUAD by regulating ferroptosis through its influence on Yes-associated protein (YAP) and Transcriptional coactivator with PDZ-binding motif (TAZ), the central transcriptional modules of the Hippo pathway.We utilized The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) (https://www.cancer.gov/ccg/research/genome-sequencing/tcga) and Western blot analysis to assess KLK6 expression in human LUAD tissues and related cell lines. A series of functional experiments were conducted to explore the impact of KLK6 on the proliferation, invasion, and migration of LUAD. Ferroptosis levels were detected by measuring iron ions, malondialdehyde, JC-1 staining, and Western blot analysis.KLK6 is highly expressed in LUAD. It promotes the proliferation, invasion, and migration of LUAD and inhibits ferroptosis. Mechanistically, KLK6 affects ferroptosis and the malignant behaviors of LUAD by influencing the interaction between YAP and transcription factors within the Hippo pathway.The experimental results show that knocking down KLK6 in LUAD inhibits the expression levels of YAP and TAZ in the Hippo pathway and promotes ferroptosis.© AME Publishing Company.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42394776 is a review article
Protease activity mapping plays a vital role in understanding tumor microenvironments and developing diagnostic tools. However, simultaneous quantification of multiple protease activities in complex biological systems remains challenging due to probe instability, signal overlap, and limited analytical throughput. Here, we present a dual-enzyme-responsive Au-Se nanoprobe functionalized with two orthogonally labeled peptide substrates for kallikrein 6 (KLK6) and urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA), two proteases implicated in nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The use of gold-selenium bonds enhances resistance to glutathione-induced degradation and maintains fluorescence quenching stability in physiological conditions. To augment signal analysis, we integrate deep learning-based segmentation using Cellpose and U-Net to extract quantitative data from single-cell and in vivo imaging, respectively. This AI-assisted workflow significantly improved measurement reproducibility and enabled high-content quantification of protease activity distributions and tumor-to-background ratios, establishing a robust platform for dual-protease sensing in complex biological systems.
Negative affective signs are induced during withdrawal from acute opioid injection and increase in magnitude over repeated injections. Recent evidence indicates that opioid use also causes alterations in oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelination. To investigate these phenomena in mice, we examined spontaneous withdrawal following 10 days of oxycodone administration (30 mg/kg/day). Following a single injection, oxycodone increased exploratory locomotion and elevated thermal pain thresholds, consistent with the acute effect of opioid drugs. Twenty-four hours after oxycodone injection, mice interacted less in an open field, but did not differ from controls in the three-chamber social preference task. The following day (i.e., at the 48-h withdrawal point), oxycodone-withdrawn animals showed decreased marble burying. Tissue harvested from the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) after this test was analyzed for expression for 5 genes associated with regulation of oligodendrocyte cell lineage progression. RT-qPCR revealed decreased expression of Tcf7l2 and Klk6. These findings indicate behavioral and neurobiological alterations in response to oxycodone. The increased locomotion and antinociception seen following an acute oxycodone dose corroborates past rodent studies. Decreased marble burying during withdrawal represents a novel finding and may reflect anhedonia. The observed changes suggest that alterations in myelin-related gene expression accompany affective signs of acute withdrawal after repeated opioid exposure.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Quinalphos pesticide (QP) exposure can lead to various human health effects, including anaemia, leucocytosis with neutrophilia, hepatic damage and oxidative stress. Acute poisoning symptoms include weakness, sweating, impaired vision and neurological distress. Additionally, neurological and reproductive abnormalities have been reported in specific exposure scenarios. This study identified 16 differentially expressed genes from clinical exposure research. Integrating omics data using network biology approaches has shown that QP significantly alters the expression of 16 genes predicted to be regulated by 26 transcription factors and 41 miRNAs. The molecular docking predicted AR, ESR1, NR1I2, ESR2, CYP19A1 and JUN to have the highest binding affinity with QP. Gene ontology analysis of the DEGs revealed enrichment in pathways related to genital development, oestrogen receptor signalling, prostate gland development and response to vitamin A. The three most influential pathways by these DEGs are detected with significant enrichment in diseases, and they are linked to Cytochrome P450, arranged by substrate type, nuclear receptor transcription pathway and SUMOylation of intracellular receptors. The analysis identified 1445 drugs for 15 genes for potential drug repurposing. The network was pruned by applying the threshold value 0.1 STITCH database and score value 0.1 of the DGIdb database, resulting in the identification of 446 drug (approved and non-approved) therapeutic targets. This analysis provides a comprehensive understanding of the mechanisms of QP-induced toxicity, focusing on humans, and underscores the need for further studies on exposure to QP, providing valuable insights for toxicological risk assessment and regulatory evaluation.© 2026 The Author(s). IET Systems Biology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Institution of Engineering and Technology.
Palbociclib is the more extensively evaluated CDK4-6 inhibitor in term of safety, efficacy and sources of pharmacokinetic variability. However, real-life data on the correlation between palbociclib plasma concentration, drug-drug interactions, gene polymorphisms and efficacy remain scarce. We previously characterized the effects of co-medications (CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein inhibitors and antacid drugs) on palbociclib plasma concentration, and here we wanted to identify factors that influence progression-free survival in the same cohort of patients.This multicentric prospective clinical trial included patients with metastatic breast cancer treated with first-line palbociclib and an aromatase inhibitor. Efficacy (progression-free survival) and safety (high-grade neutropenia during the first two cycles) were reported, and the influence of covariates, such as drug-drug interactions, palbociclib plasma concentration and specific gene variants, were analyzed.In the 58 included patients, drug-drug interactions (antacid drugs) and pregnane X receptor (NR1I2) single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) were identified as survival prognostic factors, but not palbociclib concentration and high-grade neutropenia (p = 0.4 and p = 0.5). Concomitant antacid treatment reduced progression-free survival (26.2 vs. 32.6 months, p = 0.059) and the NR1I2 rs10934498 and rs2276707 SNPs affected survival (p = 0.002 and 0.004).This study consolidated the data on palbociclib as first-line metastatic breast cancer treatment and identified factors that negatively influence survival (co-treatment with antacid drugs and NR1I2 SNPs).NCT04025541, Registration Date 2019-07-16.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
A lectin from Pinellia ternata tubers (PTL, 12 kDa) with potent pro-inflammatory activity binds to the plasma membrane and translocates into the cytoplasm. However, its cellular entry route and inflammatory toxicity mechanisms remain unclear. Here, confocal microscopy showed that fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-labeled PTL (50 μg/mL) accumulated on the cell surface and was endocytosed by RAW264.7 cells time-dependently. Pharmacological inhibition revealed that PTL uptake was mediated by the mannose receptor C-type 2 (MRC2) and predominantly via clathrin-mediated endocytosis. After endocytosis, PTL translocated to mitochondria with marked co-localization, inducing mitochondrial damage characterized by membrane potential dissipation, calcium overload, and excessive mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mtROS) generation. These alterations promoted intracellular ROS accumulation and amplified inflammatory responses. Co-immunoprecipitation with mass spectrometry identified ATP synthase subunit beta (ATP5B) as a mitochondrial interacting protein of PTL. Their interaction was validated by molecular docking, co-localization, and microscale thermophoresis (MST). ATP5B knockdown markedly attenuated PTL (50 μg/mL)-induced ROS production, inflammatory cytokine expression, and mitochondrial injury, indicating ATP5B is a critical mediator of PTL's inflammatory toxicity. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that PTL induces mitochondrial damage and pro-inflammatory responses in RAW264.7 cells through MRC2-mediated, clathrin-dependent endocytosis and subsequent ATP5B interaction. This study establishes a mechanistic link between lectin endocytosis, mitochondrial targeting, and inflammatory toxicity, providing new insight into plant lectin-mediated immunotoxicity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Matrilysins and stromelysins play a vital role in cancer, facilitating tumor invasion and metastasis. The aim of this study was to investigate the diagnostic significance of selected matrilysins and stromelysins in comparison to routine tumor markers in gynecological malignancies, relative to a control group (benign tumors and healthy women). Preoperative plasma levels of selected metalloproteinases were determined using ELISA, while levels of CA125, SCC-Ag, and HE4 by CMIA. In endometrial and cervical cancers, matrilysins (MMP-7 and MMP-26) exhibited higher diagnostic utility than routine markers. Similarly, all stromelysins in cervical cancer outperformed CA125; furthermore, MMP-10 also outperformed SCC-Ag, achieving the highest diagnostic utility among all parameters tested in cervical cancer. For ovarian cancer, diagnostic utility remained highest for routine markers. In endometrial and cervical cancers, the AUCs for all studied parameters exceeded those of standard markers, while in ovarian cancer, MMP-7 had an AUC higher than HE4 and comparable to CA 125. Combined analysis of the studied parameters in diagnostic panels demonstrated that their introduction into routine diagnostics could provide tangible benefits in the detection of malignant gynecological lesions, especially the combination of MMP-7 or MMP-10 with routine markers. These results indicate the usefulness and high diagnostic power of selected MMPs in the detection of these malignancies.
We evaluated the therapeutic effect of psoralidin combined with cisplatin in a mouse model of breast cancer by H&E, immunohistochemistry and TUNEL staining. Transcriptome analysis, bioinformatics analysis and molecular docking analysis were used to explore the mechanism of psoralidin and cisplatin in improving breast cancer. The results showed that psoralidin could synergistically enhance the inhibitory effect of cisplatin on the proliferation of 4T1 breast cancer cells, promote the apoptosis of 4T1 cells, increase DNA damage and ROS expression. It also inhibited the expression of breast cancer cell proliferation-related molecules and energy metabolism factors related to tumor cell growth. Psoralidin could also synergistically enhance its inhibitory effect on tumor growth in breast cancer mice. Further molecular docking analysis revealed that psoralidin enhanced the killing effect of cisplatin on tumor cells by binding to Nr1i2. These findings provide a clear scientific basis for the enhancement of anticancer sensitivity to cisplatin by psoralidin.© 2026. The Author(s).
Membrane type 5-matrix metalloproteinase (MT5-MMP, MMP-24), an η-secretase involved in amyloid precursor protein processing, is a promising but unexplored target in Alzheimer's disease. We report here the identification of a first nonpeptidic hit for MT5-MMP through a structure-guided approach. A homology model of the MT5-MMP catalytic domain was built from the MT3-MMP/batimastat structure and validated by both docking and experimental inhibition data obtained with batimastat (IC50 = 3 nM). To account for binding-site plasticity, especially that of the S1' pocket, molecular dynamics and ensemble docking were applied to a zinc-binding group (ZBG)-focused library of 3851 compounds. Although the initial screening campaign yielded only weakly active candidates, analysis of docking poses identified a relevant scaffold for optimization. Replacement of a carboxylic acid ZBG by a hydroxamic acid led to compound 17, which inhibited MT5-MMP with an IC50 of 6 μM and established a first nonpeptidic hit for future optimization.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Prostate Cancer (PCa) is the most common male malignancy, and its initiation and progression may be influenced by environmental pollutants such as di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP).Potential targets of DEHP were retrieved from ChEMBL, SwissTargetPrediction, and PharmMapper databases. DEHP-related genes correlated with PCa were identified by intersecting the DEHP target gene set with PCa-associated genes. Machine learning approaches were employed to identify and characterize the core genes linked to PCa. SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) analysis was used to evaluate model interpretability. Molecular docking was performed to assess the binding interactions between DEHP and the key target proteins. Cellular validation was performed using CCK-8 assay, quantitative reverse transcription PCR (RT-qPCR), and western blot analysis.A total of 53 genes were identified as potential actionable targets of DEHP in PCa pathobiology. Through machine learning, these genes were reduced to 12 genes (ACACB, CD200, FERMT2, GCNT1, GNAI2, GSTM2, IMPDH2, ITGA2, MMP26, PMM2, PRKCA, and SRD5A2), which exhibited distinct dysregulation patterns in PCa tissues. Furthermore, molecular simulation docking simulations demonstrated its robust binding interactions with key targets, including PMM2, ITGA2, GSTM2, IMPDH2, and PRKCA, warranting further experimental validation.DEHP, an industrial chemical, may contribute to PCa via multiple pathways. A 12-gene model for DEHP-associated PCa was identified, among which PMM2 may play a key role in mediating oncogenic effects via metabolic, redox, and signaling reprogramming.The findings indicated that DEHP can influence the development of PCarelated pathways through targeting specific genes and signaling, exhibiting the potential to serve as a biomarker to assess the risk of PCa related to DEHP exposure.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42291549 is a review article
Glioma remains a lethal malignancy of the central nervous system, and additional biomarkers that improve prognostic stratification and inform therapeutic exploration are still needed. This study evaluated mannose receptor C-type 2 (MRC2/Endo180) by integrating public transcriptomic cohorts with in vitro validation. Expression profiles and matched clinical annotations were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) project for tumor-normal comparisons and pan-cancer screening, and prognostic associations were further examined in the Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas (CGGA) cohort. MRC2 expression was assessed in glioma cell lines by reverse transcription quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) and immunoblotting, and stable MRC2 knockdown was established in U87 and U251 cells using lentiviral short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs). Cell growth and clonogenicity were evaluated using CCK-8 and colony formation assays, whereas migration and invasion were assessed using porous-membrane insert assays. CDK4, CDK6, and β-catenin/epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-related markers were analyzed by immunoblotting. Across datasets, MRC2 was elevated in glioma, and higher expression was associated with worse overall survival, disease-specific survival, and progression-free interval. In vitro, MRC2 depletion reduced proliferation, clonogenicity, migration, and invasion, accompanied by decreased CDK4 and CDK6 protein levels and changes in β-catenin and EMT-related markers. Together, these findings support MRC2 as a candidate prognostic biomarker associated with aggressive glioma phenotypes and warrant further mechanistic and in vivo investigation.
Liver fibrosis is characterized by excessive collagen accumulation, the principal component of the extracellular matrix (ECM), produced by activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). While the catabolic role of mannose receptor C-type 2 (MRC2) in binding and degradation of collagen is established, its role in regulating pro-fibrotic signaling remains undefined. We investigated the novel, non-canonical signaling function of the collagen receptor MRC2 as a regulator of HSC activation. Using doxycycline-inducible knockdown and overexpression systems in human HSCs, we show that MRC2 deficiency enhances activation phenotypes, including proliferation, migration, contraction, and collagen overproduction. Conversely, MRC2 overexpression suppressed these effects. Transcriptomic analysis of MRC2 knockdown cells revealed a pro-fibrotic transcriptional shift, with enrichment of pathways related to ECM organization, collagen biosynthesis, and the PI3K/AKT signaling axis. Mechanistically, MRC2 depletion induced transcriptional upregulation of ECM genes and components of the integrin/PI3K/AKT axis, accompanied by increased AKT phosphorylation. Pharmacological inhibition of either PI3K or integrins reversed ECM gene expression and collagen phenotypes induced by MRC2 depletion, establishing these pathways as required mediators. Our findings identify a novel, non-canonical signaling function of MRC2 as a negative regulator of HSC activation.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42568100 is a review article
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has a poor prognosis and limited treatment options. This study investigated the role and mechanism of Jiedu Xiaozheng Yin (JXY) in HCC using network pharmacology and in vivo/in vitro experiments. Active components of JXY and their potential therapeutic targets for HCC were identified via network pharmacology. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed to identify core targets, and bioinformatics analysis confirmed their association with HCC. LC-MS/MS was used to isolate major components, which were then subjected to molecular docking with core targets. The effects of JXY on HCC were further validated through in vivo and in vitro experiments. Analysis of 171 core target genes was performed using PPI network screening and enrichment analysis. Quercetin was identified as the primary active component of JXY. Molecular docking confirmed its interaction with CYP1A2, which is overexpressed in HCC tissues. In vivo, JXY and quercetin significantly increased CYP1A2 and PTEN expression, while decreasing p-PI3K and p-Akt levels in HCC-bearing mice, thereby suppressing tumor growth and lung metastasis and promoting apoptosis. In vitro, both JXY and quercetin inhibited HCC cell proliferation and migration. CYP1A2 knockdown partially reversed, while its overexpression enhanced, these inhibitory effects. Quercetin, the main active component of JXY, upregulates CYP1A2 to promote PTEN expression, thereby inhibiting the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway and suppressing HCC progression.© 2026. The Society for In Vitro Biology.
The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of many drugs vary with the time of administration, reflecting circadian rhythms in drug-target sensitivity and in drug concentrations at target sites. Cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4), which metabolizes approximately half of all clinically used drugs, exhibits circadian oscillations in expression and activity driven in part by transcriptional regulation via the clock output factors DBP and E4BP4. However, the amplitude of its enzymatic activity substantially exceeds that of its mRNA, implying additional post-transcriptional control, but the underlying mechanism remains largely unknown. Herein, we report that the endoplasmic reticulum-associated E3 ubiquitin ligase gp78 acts as a key regulator of circadian CYP3A4 activity in human hepatocytes. In clock-synchronized HepaRG cells, CYP3A4 protein and enzymatic activity oscillated in phase despite the absence of mRNA rhythms. Using HepaRG cells stably expressing CYP3A4 from a constitutive CMV promoter, CYP3A4 protein stability varied with the time of day, further supporting post-transcriptional control of its circadian rhythm. The protein levels of gp78 oscillated antiphasic to those of CYP3A4, and overexpression of wild-type gp78, but not its catalytically inactive RING-finger mutant, reduced CYP3A4 levels and abolished the rhythmicity, indicating that the ubiquitin ligase activity of gp78 is required for rhythmic CYP3A4 degradation. Our findings reveal gp78-mediated proteolysis as a key contributor to circadian CYP3A4 activity and provide a mechanistic basis for the dosing-time dependence of CYP3A4 substrate pharmacokinetics.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566738 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566613 is a review article
Amodiaquine (AQ), an antimalarial drug, is metabolized by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) to quinoneimine forms, which are proposed to cause liver injury; however, the underlying mechanism remains unclear. Ferroptosis, a type of regulated cell death driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, has been implicated in certain cases of drug-induced liver injury. Arylacetamide deacetylase (AADAC), a drug-metabolizing hydrolase, regulates hepatic iron homeostasis through non-enzymatic mechanisms and may protect against ferroptosis-associated drug-induced liver injury. This study aimed to elucidate the involvement of ferroptosis in AQ-induced liver injury and to assess the impact of AADAC deficiency. Oral administration of 150 mg/kg AQ with l-buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine, a glutathione synthesis inhibitor, induced liver injury in 42% of female C57BL/6J mice, as indicated by plasma alanine aminotransferase levels exceeding 1,000 U/L-these were defined as high-responders. Pretreatment with either a P450 inhibitor (1-aminobenzotriazole) or a ferroptosis inhibitor (deferoxamine) resulted in no mice with high plasma alanine aminotransferase levels by AQ treatment, suggesting that quinoneimine formations lead to ferroptosis-associated liver injury. Furthermore, Aadac knockout mice had a higher proportion of high-responders compared to wild-type mice, reinforcing the involvement of ferroptosis in AQ-induced liver injury. In human hepatocarcinoma-derived HepG2 cells overexpressing CYP3A4, pretreatment with deferoxamine effectively prevented AQ-induced cytotoxicity. Overexpression of AADAC also attenuated AQ-induced cytotoxicity in CYP3A4-expressing HepG2 cells, indicating a protective role for AADAC against AQ-induced ferroptosis in humans. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that AQ-induced liver injury is mediated by ferroptosis through P450-dependent metabolism and highlights a protective function of AADAC against AQ-induced ferroptosis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Fine particulate matter (PM2.5), a prevalent air pollutant, reaches pulmonary alveoli and triggers lung inflammation and systemic vascular dysfunction. The alveolar-vascular barrier enables local lung damage to spread to endothelium through soluble factors, making this model fit to analyze lung-systemic interactions. TNF-α and EGF separately dominate inflammatory cascades and endothelial regulation, yet their combined effects during PM2.5 toxicity are unclear. This research constructed a 3D alveolar-vascular barrier model with BEAS-2B, THP-1, and EA. hy926 cells were treated with 0 or 100 μg/mL SRM2786 PM2.5 for 24 h. PM2.5 enters alveolar epithelial cells via endocytosis, causing mitochondrial damage, cell apoptosis, and upregulated TNF-α, EGF, IL-8, TGF-α, and IL-1β. Extracellular TNF-α and EGF cross the barrier and activate the endothelial PI3K-Akt pathway. Increased Nrf2 and CYP1A1 verify progressive oxidative stress. This study illustrates inflammation- and oxidation-dependent crosstalk between alveolar injury and endothelial impairment, clarifying PM2.5 toxic mechanisms and aiding environmental toxicology studies and drug screening.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
An immune-competent, metabolically active gut-liver microphysiological platform (iGLoC) was engineered to investigate the pharmacokinetics, metabolism, hepatotoxicity, and drug-drug interaction (DDI) liabilities of the oral CDK4/6 inhibitor abemaciclib. The system integrates a mucus-secreting Caco-2/HT-29 intestinal epithelium co-cultured with THP-1-derived macrophages and 3D HepG2 spheroids in interconnected PMMA/PDMS microfluidic chips linked by a controlled-flow bridging channel. Intestinal barrier morphology, tight-junction integrity, transepithelial electrical resistance, P-glycoprotein transport, and paracellular permeability were functionally validated, while hepatic spheroids exhibited stable albumin and urea secretion and pharmacologically inducible CYP3A4 activity relative to 2D HepG2 monolayers, while remaining less CYP3A4-competent than primary hepatocytes. Following apical dosing with abemaciclib, serial sampling from apical, basolateral, and hepatic chambers combined with a validated UPLC-MS/MS assay enabled time-resolved quantification of parent drug and major metabolites (M2, M20). The platform reproduced an oral-like disposition profile characterized by luminal depletion, a transient basolateral peak, and delayed hepatic appearance, along with formation of clinically relevant metabolites. Pre-treatment with rifampicin (CYP3A4/P-gp inducer) or clarithromycin (CYP3A4/P-gp inhibitor) and induction of colitis-like injury with dextran sulfate sodium generated distinct, mechanistically consistent alterations in intestinal permeability, metabolite output, and hepatic exposure that mirrored reported clinical DDIs and inflammation-associated variability. Abemaciclib also elicited concentration-dependent hepatocellular injury and modulation of gut-immune cytokine responses at clinically relevant levels. iGLoC innovates through immune-competent gut-liver integration under flow, quantitative clinical PK validation for abemaciclib, and mechanistic resolution of CYP3A4/P-gp DDIs and inflammation effects. Collectively, these data demonstrate that iGLoC represents a human-relevant organ-on-a-chip platform capable of evaluating oral bioavailability, first-pass metabolism, metabolite formation, hepatotoxicity, and drug interaction potential. The system shows promise for preclinical assessment of small-molecule therapeutics, including those used in precision oncology applications.
Ovine species inhabiting harsh environments frequently develop enhanced functional adaptations. This study aims to (1) characterize rumen epithelial modifications in lactating Hulunbeier ewes under alpine conditions, and (2) elucidate how these adaptive responses are modulated by micronutrient supplementation and varying concentrate feed levels. Thirty lactating Hulunbeier ewes were randomly assigned to one of the three dietary groups and fed the same roughages with one of the following concentrates: 1) 550 g/d of local concentrate (LF) as the control, 2) 550 g/d of formulated concentrate (FF), and 3) 700 g/d of formulated concentrate (FS). Daily feed intake were recorded, and rumen epithelial tissues were collected for transcriptome analysis after slaughter on day 37 of the experiment. Transcriptomic analyses were performed on a subset of 11 ewes (LF, n = 4; FF, n = 4; FS, n = 3). No independent qPCR validation was conducted; results are therefore preliminary. In the exploratory cross-breed comparison, Hulunbeier sheep showed a suggestive trend toward enhanced expression of energy metabolism genes (ATP5MC2, ATP5PO, UQCRH) and genes encoding mitochondrial respiratory chain components relative to lowland Hu sheep. Supplementation with micronutrient premix upregulated key detoxification genes (CYP1A1, LOC101119706) and modulated immune-related pathways. In contrast, high concentrate levels promoted biosynthetic processes while suppressing cellular signaling functions. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis further indicated activation of thermogenesis pathways in the high-concentrate group, accompanied by altered expression of electron transport chain genes. PPARA may be involved in volatile fatty acid metabolism in response to micronutrient supplementation, but this requires direct experimental testing. Collectively, with the caveat of small sample size and lack of qPCR validation, these pilot-scale transcriptomic findings generate hypotheses that may underlie nutritional modulation of rumen function in alpine-adapted sheep; however, further validation with larger sample sizes and correlated phenotypic measurements is warranted. These results provide preliminary insights for developing targeted nutritional strategies to enhance ruminant production in breeds adapted to extreme environments.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mavacamten, a cardiac myosin inhibitor for symptomatic obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HOCM), carries a risk of excessive negative inotropy. Because mavacamten is metabolized primarily by the cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes CYP2C19 and CYP3A4, concomitant CYP inhibitors may increase mavacamten exposure. We evaluated real-world heart failure-related reporting patterns associated with concomitant CYP inhibitor exposure in mavacamten-treated HOCM reports.We conducted a retrospective pharmacovigilance study using the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) from the second quarter (Q2) of 2022 to the fourth quarter (Q4) of 2025. Mavacamten-treated HOCM reports were screened for concomitant exposure to ten prespecified CYP2C19 and/or CYP3A4 inhibitors. Heart failure-related signals were defined using seven Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) Preferred Terms. Severe outcomes were extracted from FAERS outcome fields; hospitalization was defined as initial or prolonged hospitalization, and death as a reported fatal outcome. Analyses included the reporting odds ratio (ROR), additive signal amplification index (S), time-to-onset modeling, multivariable logistic regression, and 1:4 propensity score matching (PSM).Among 3,570 mavacamten-treated HOCM reports, 347 involved concomitant CYP inhibitor exposure. Combination therapy showed an elevated heart failure-related reporting signal (ROR = 25.08; 95% confidence interval [CI], 18.63-33.76) and potential reporting signal amplification (S = 2.71). Agent-specific reporting signals were heterogeneous across prespecified inhibitors. Weibull modeling showed an early-failure pattern (β = 0.88; median onset, 80 days). Compared with mavacamten monotherapy, combination therapy had higher reported proportions of hospitalization (28.5% vs. 13.5%) and death (5.5% vs. 2.3%). Concomitant CYP inhibitor exposure showed higher heart failure-related reporting odds after multivariable adjustment (adjusted odds ratio [aOR], 2.52; 95% CI, 1.10-5.62) and in the PSM sensitivity cohort (aOR, 1.99; P < 0.001).Concomitant use of mavacamten with selected CYP inhibitors was associated with increased heart failure-related reporting in FAERS. Careful medication reconciliation and clinical vigilance are warranted, while recognizing that spontaneous reporting data cannot establish causality.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Wu, Xie, Qiu, Huang, Xu and Luo.
We previously reported that various metabolites were detected in mice, monkeys, and humans after oral administration of radiolabeled DS-1971a. Among these metabolites, mono- (M6) and di-oxidized (M12 and M13) forms were recognized as being specific to monkeys. Here, we report the definitive structures and formation mechanisms of these metabolites to elucidate the monkey-specific metabolism of DS-1971a. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis indicated that mass fragments of standard compounds for M6, M12 and M13, which were biosynthesized by a microorganism, were identical to those of in vivo samples from monkeys, but their full structures could not be identified. Therefore, M6, M12, and M13 were additionally subjected to UV, nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and X-ray crystal structure analyses, revealing that these metabolites possess 4-hydroxy (M6), and 4-hydroxy and 5-oxo pyrazole ring moieties (M12 and M13). Notably, M12 and M13 were rearranged stereoisomers of each other. Incubation study with recombinant monkey cytochrome P450s (P450s) suggested that monkey CYP2C8 is responsible for producing not only M6 from DS-1971a but also M12 and M13, both of which are further oxidized metabolites of M6. These results demonstrate novel and unusual metabolism of the pyrazole ring moiety of DS-1971a via monkey CYP2C8-mediated oxidation and rearrangement.Copyright © 2026 The Japanese Society for the Study of Xenobiotics. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Oxidative stress-induced disruption of glutathione metabolism triggers ferroptosis in airway epithelial cells, thereby exacerbating type 2-high acute asthma. Loki Zupa (LKZP) is a classic Uyghur formula used for asthma with confirmed anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects, but its mechanism via the glutathione-ferroptosis axis remains unclear.This study aimed to characterize LKZP's efficacy against type 2-high acute asthma and to elucidate its mechanism, focusing on the glutathione metabolism-ferroptosis axis.An OVA-induced type 2-high acute asthma mouse model was established to evaluate the anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects of LKZP. UHPLCHRMS was used to identify its active components, and network pharmacology combined with proteomics and metabolomics was applied to predict the underlying mechanisms. An RSL3-induced ferroptosis cell model was employed to verify LKZP's protective effects on cell viability, glutathione (GSH) and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, as well as the expression of ferroptosis-related proteins. Molecular docking and surface plasmon resonance (SPR) assay were performed to collectively evaluated the binding affinity between Linarin (an active component of LKZP) and GSTM1/GSTM2.LKZP significantly alleviated airway inflammation and oxidative stress injury in asthmatic mice. Its anti-asthmatic effect was linked to the glutathione metabolism-ferroptosis axis. In vivo and in vitro experiments confirmed that LKZP restored glutathione metabolic homeostasis, scavenged excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS), reduced iron overload and lipid peroxidation, and inhibited ferroptosis in lung tissue and airway epithelial cells. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation predicted stable binding of Linarin to GSTM1 and GSTM2. SPR analysis further confirmed these interactions and demonstrated a higher binding affinity of Linarin toward GSTM1 than GSTM2.LKZP alleviated airway inflammation and oxidative stress in type 2-high acute asthma by regulating the glutathione metabolism-ferroptosis axis, providing novel mechanistic insights for its asthma therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Periodontitis is a prevalent inflammatory disease influenced by both genetic and environmental factors. Among genetic determinants, polymorphisms in oxidative stress-related g e n e s - p a r t i c u l a r l y GSTM1, GSTT1, and GSTP1 (rs1695)-have been suggested as contributors to disease susceptibility. This systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to evaluate the association between GSTM1, GSTT1, and GSTP1 (rs1695) gene polymorphisms and the risk of periodontitis.Following PRISMA 2020 guidelines, a comprehensive literature search was conducted in four databases (PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science, and Google Scholar) from inception to October 2025 for eligible case‒control studies. Pooled odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated. Heterogeneity was assessed using I2 and Q tests (with P-values), and publication bias was evaluated using Egger's test and funnel plots. Evidence certainty was assessed with GRADE.Seven studies with 1,525 participants were included. The GSTM1-null polymorphism was significantly associated with periodontitis (OR=2.94, 95% CI: 1.13-7.63, I2=93.5%) in subgroup analyses, particularly among Asians, in larger studies, and among heavy smokers. GSTT1-null polymorphism showed no significant effect (OR=0.64, 95% CI: 0.38-1.09, I2=69.7%). Initial pooled analyses indicated significant associations across all GSTP1 (rs1695) genetic models; however, these associations were not robust and lost statistical significance after exclusion of a study that deviated from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. No publication bias was detected.This meta-analysis supports a potential role for the GSTM1-null polymorphism in increasing susceptibility to periodontitis. Associations for GSTP1 (rs1695) were less consistent and sensitive to study quality, while the GSTT1-null polymorphism showed no clear effect. According to GRADE, the certainty of evidence was moderate for GSTM1 and low for GSTT1 and GSTP1; the results are therefore suggestive and require confirmation in larger multi-ethnic studies.© 2026 The Author(s).
Cytochrome P450 2C8 (CYP2C8) is known to cause drug interactions via pharmacokinetic alterations of drugs, but it's also explicitly crucial for endogenous metabolism, like the generation of epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs) from arachidonic acid. CYP2C8 expression is reported to be altered in various cancers, where CYP2C8-mediated EETs promote tumorigenesis. Conversely, thymoquinone, an extensively used complementary medicine, has emerged as a promising candidate against cancer due to its ability to curb tumorigenesis. Nevertheless, to date, limited information is available about the impact of thymoquinone on CYP2C8 inhibition. Therefore, we planned to explore the same using in silico, in vitro, and in vivo approaches. The current results reveal the followings: (a) thymoquinone could markedly inhibit CYP2C8 based on study using amodiaquine N-deethylation in human liver microsomes (HLM); (b) thymoquinone could strongly interact with the active site of the human CYP2C8 as demonstrated by molecular docking analysis; (c) thymoquinone could restrict the metabolic depletion of repaglinide (a CYP2C8 substrate) in rat liver microsomes; (d) thymoquinone altered the pharmacokinetic profile of repaglinide (a CYP2C8 substrate) in rats, resulting in repaglinide's increased systemic exposure and reduced clearance; (e) thymoquinone could retard EET's formation in HLM. Further studies are warranted to evaluate the biological significance of thymoquinone-mediated modulation of the CYP2C8/EET axis in relevant cancer models.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552418 is a review article
Cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) plays a pivotal role in the metabolism and detoxification of low molecular-weight xenobiotics, as well as in their bioactivation into toxic and DNA-reactive intermediates. Prominent examples include drugs and chemicals like acetaminophen and N-nitrosamines. Chlorzoxazone and 4-nitrophenol are widely used as probe substrates to assess CYP2E1 activity, however, their specificity remains controversial. This study aimed to reevaluate the selectivity of chlorzoxazone and 4-nitrophenol toward CYP2E1 using recombinant Supersomes™ expressing individual human CYP isoforms. Incubations were performed with chlorzoxazone and 4-nitrophenol at 100 and 500 µM, followed by quantification of 6-hydroxychlorzoxazone and 4-nitrocatechol via UPLC-MS/MS. Chlorzoxazone turnover was detected across nearly all major liver CYP isoforms, with CYP1A1 showing the highest contribution (39%), followed by CYP2D6 (14%), CYP1A2 (10%), and CYP2E1 (10%). Similarly, 4-nitrophenol hydroxylation was not limited to CYP2E1, with significant contributions from CYP1A2 (20%), CYP2A6 (19%), and CYP2D6 (16%), while CYP2E1 accounted for 26% of total activity. In conclusion, our results underscore the limited selectivity of chlorzoxazone and 4-nitrophenol and highlight the need for more specific substrates for accurate CYP2E1 enzyme characterization.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Fluvastatin is extensively metabolized by CYP2C9, which is induced by rifampin over several weeks, leading to a concentration decline. However, since rifampin is a potent inhibitor of the primary first-pass hepatic statin uptake transporter, the organic anion transporting polypeptide 1B1 (OATP1B1), simultaneous administration has been shown to significantly increase statin exposure. We report a previously fluvastatin-tolerant 63-year-old woman with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis who developed statin-induced rhabdomyolysis four weeks after the initiation and co-administration of rifampin for tuberculosis. After both medications were stopped, the patient showed clinical and biochemical improvement. While this report is the first to describe a clinical outcome of this interaction, multiple pharmacokinetic studies have demonstrated opposing, time-dependent rifampin effects on statin concentrations. Safe management of this challenging interaction includes statin dose reduction and/or separate administration upon rifampin initiation until the anticipated onset of CYP induction, followed by careful and gradual dose titration with monitoring of both effectiveness and toxicity.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
To investigate the role of CYP2D6 and its pharmacogenetic variability in the association between anticholinergic burden and cognitive function in older adults.We conducted a cross-sectional analysis of 872 community-dwelling adults ≥ 65 years from the ActiFE-Ulm cohort. Cognitive performance was assessed using the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). Anticholinergic burden scores deriving from CYP2D6-metabolised drugs (ABS2D6) were calculated for all regularly scheduled medications. CYP2D6 metaboliser status was determined via genotyping and categorised as poor (PM), intermediate (IM), normal (NM), or ultrarapid (UM). The 25th, 50th, and 75th percentiles of the MMSE score distribution were studied using quantile regression to examine the association between ABS2D6 and cognition, including interaction and stratified analyses by metaboliser status.ABS2D6 was significantly associated with lower MMSE scores at the 50th and 75th percentiles in early models, but not after additional adjustment for age and sex. A consistent effect modification by IM status was observed at the 75th percentile, with IMs showing a significant negative association between ABS2D6 and MMSE in stratified analyses (β = -0.34 [95% CI: -0.64, -0.05]). After excluding participants with use of CYP2D6 inhibitors, this effect became more pronounced (β = -0.50 [95% CI: -0.82, -0.18]). Findings among PMs remained uncertain due to limited subgroup size.These exploratory findings suggest that CYP2D6 metaboliser status may contribute to interindividual susceptibility to anticholinergic burden-related lower cognitive performance. If confirmed in larger longitudinal studies, pharmacogenetic information may support more individualised anticholinergic risk assessment and safer prescribing in older adults.© 2026. The Author(s).
Dicloxacillin is a penicillinase-resistant beta-lactam antibiotic and potent activator of the Pregnane X receptor (PXR), known to induce CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4 activity. Clinical data suggest it reduces anticoagulation in warfarin-treated patients and increases the risk of thromboembolic events. This open-label, sequential drug-drug interaction study quantitatively evaluated the effect of dicloxacillin on the pharmacokinetics of warfarin and phenytoin, two prototype CYP2C9 substrates with narrow therapeutic indices, and possible impact of CYP2C9 polymorphisms on the extent of this interaction. Twenty-eight healthy non-smoker subjects, 15 carriers of CYP2C9*1/*1, and 13 carriers of a single CYP2C9*2 or CYP2C9*3 allele, received single doses of warfarin (20 mg) and 1 week later, phenytoin (300 mg) before and during a 21-day course of dicloxacillin 500 mg four times daily. Plasma concentration of warfarin enantiomers and phenytoin and urine concentration of p-HPPH were measured using validated HPLC methods. Warfarin pharmacodynamics was monitored via serial INR measurements for up to 120 hours. Dicloxacillin increased oral clearance of (S)-warfarin and (R)-warfarin by 53.2% and 63.2%, respectively (P < 0.001). The area under the INR-time curve decreased by 15.5% (P < 0.001). Phenytoin oral clearance and p-HPPH formation clearance increased by 42.4% and 40.5%, respectively (P < 0.001). CYP2C9 induction was significantly greater in carriers of CYP2C9*1/*1 genotype and INR reduction was more pronounced among VKORC1 AA haplotype carriers. Dicloxacillin substantially induces the metabolism of warfarin and phenytoin. Whenever dicloxacillin is initiated, the dose of CYP2C9 substrates characterized by a narrow therapeutic window should be increased and drug levels and/or pharmacodynamic response should be closely monitored.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Pharmacology & Therapeutics published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics.
Cyclophosphamide (CP) is a common alkylating anticancer drug. Artemisinin (ART), an antimalarial agent metabolized by hepatic CYP450s, exhibits promising antitumor activity. This study established a rapid and accurate LC-MS/MS method for the quantitative analysis of CP and its metabolite in mouse plasma, as well as to apply this method in assessing how ART influences the pharmacokinetics of CP. Given the instability of 4-OH-CP, 4-keto-CP was selected as a surrogate metabolite for detection. The effect of ART on the mRNA expression and activity of CYP450 enzymes were assessed by RT-qPCR and substrate cocktail assay. The results indicated that CP and 4-keto-CP were linear in the range of 1-2000 and 2-2000 ng/mL, respectively. The accuracy, precision, extraction recovery, stability, and matrix effect of CP and 4-keto-CP are complied with the Bioanalytical Method Validation Guidelines. ART significantly reduced the AUC0-t of CP by 26.6%, while increasing CL/F by 1.35-fold. Concurrently, the AUC0-t and Cmax of 4-keto-CP increased by 1.42- and 1.45-fold, respectively. Furthermore, ART can markedly upregulate the mRNA expression and activity of CAR/CYP2B6. The results showed that pretreatment with ART could induce CP metabolism to its active metabolite. This study provides implications for the rational use of the ART-CP combination in clinical practice.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Calcium channel blockers (CCBs) show notable interindividual variability in antihypertensive response. This study evaluated the association of a pharmacogenomics (PGx)-guided antihypertensive strategy incorporating CACNA1C rs2238032 and CYP3A5 rs776746 with short-term blood pressure (BP) outcomes among Chinese patients with hypertension receiving CCB-containing regimens.This secondary exploratory analysis included patients receiving CCB-containing regimens from two previously completed multicenter randomized cohorts conducted in Hunan and Fujian provinces, China. The Hunan cohort assessed a 4-week PGx-guided strategy combined with structured management, while the Fujian cohort evaluated genotype-guided treatment during 4-8 weeks after an initial standardized management phase. The primary endpoint was BP control at the last follow-up; secondary endpoints included changes in systolic BP (SBP) and diastolic BP (DBP), medication use, and short-term safety outcomes. Multivariable regression models were used to adjust for prespecified clinical covariates.A total of 4608 patients in Hunan and 418 patients in Fujian were included. In the Hunan cohort, the genotype-guided group had higher 4‑week BP control (81.83% vs 25.07%; adjusted OR = 14.56, P < 0.001) and greater SBP/DBP decreases. In the Fujian cohort, genotype-guided therapy was associated with higher 8‑week BP control (81.74% vs 77.39%; adjusted OR = 2.43, P = 0.003) and greater DBP decrease. Associations were stronger among patients whose BP remained uncontrolled after standardized management. No short-term safety concerns were identified.A genotype-guided antihypertensive strategy incorporating CCB-related PGx information, including CACNA1C rs2238032 and CYP3A5 rs776746, was associated with improved short-term BP control among Chinese patients with hypertension receiving CCB-containing regimens, without an apparent short-term safety disadvantage. However, these findings should be interpreted as exploratory associations rather than proof of causal benefit. Further prospective randomized studies are needed to confirm these findings.© 2026 Deng et al.
Chemotherapy-related toxicities remain a major barrier to optimal outcomes in pediatric cancer care in low-resource settings. Genetic variation in drug-metabolizing and transport pathways contributes to interindividual differences in toxicity risk; however, pharmacogenomic data from African pediatric populations are limited. This study assessed the distribution of selected pharmacogenomic variants and chemotherapy-related toxicities profiles in Tanzanian children with cancer.A cross-sectional study was conducted among 155 pediatric patients with cancer (1-17 years) receiving chemotherapy at Bugando Medical Centre, Tanzania. Clinical data, clinician-reported toxicities, and patient-reported outcomes were collected. Eleven pharmacogenomic variants in genes involved in drug metabolism, transport, and detoxification pathways (CYP3A5, SLC19A1, TPMT, NUDT15, GSTP1, NCF4, CYBA, and CEP72), selected based on prior evidence of functional relevance and reported associations with chemotherapy response, were genotyped using the Agena MassARRAY® platform. Toxicities were graded using CTCAE version 5.0.Hematologic toxicities, including anemia (50.3%) and leukopenia (37.4%), and mucocutaneous toxicities such as alopecia (38.1%) and oral ulcers (24.5%) were common. Reduced muscle strength was observed in 78.1% of patients. Reduced-function CYP3A5 variants were frequent (CYP3A5*6: 38.1%; CYP3A5*3: 27.7%). Variants in GSTP1 rs1695 (MAF 0.46), CYBA rs4673 (MAF 0.44), and SLC19A1 rs1051296 (MAF 0.49) demonstrated substantial variability, indicating potential interindividual differences in drug metabolism and transport. However, no genotype-toxicity associations were assessed in this study.This study provides baseline data on pharmacogenomic variability among Tanzanian pediatric patients with cancer. The observed genetic diversity in pharmacogenes involved in drug metabolism and transport may be relevant to variability in chemotherapy-related toxicities, as reported in previous studies. These findings highlight the need for further research to evaluate genotype-toxicity relationships and to inform the future integration of pharmacogenomics into pediatric oncology care in resource-limited settings.Copyright © 2026 Katabalo, Fundo, Minja, Kashaigiri, Mwita, Liwa, Schroeder and Kidenya.
Pharmacogenomic (PGx) data in Thailand remain limited, and genetics-only surveys rarely quantify "realized actionability"-the overlap between actionable PGx phenotypes and real-world medication exposure. We profiled 4,662 Thai adults using SNP-array data and a pre-specified PGx panel (11 genes; 26 markers) with a hybrid required/optional calling policy for diplotype/phenotype assignment. CPIC level A/B gene-drug relationships were linked to hospital electronic medical record (EMR) prescription/dispensation data to quantify drug-specific realized actionability. Overall callability across gene-results was 98.62%, exceeding 99% for most genes and lower for CYP2C19 (95.99%) and NUDT15 (90.28%). Across nine phenotype-coded genes, 95.99% carried ≥1 CPIC-actionable result (median 2; IQR 2-3). Actionable prevalence among callable individuals was highest for CYP3A5 (58.54%) and CYP2C19 (56.67%), followed by ABCG2 (45.10%) and UGT1A1 (27.37%). EMR linkage identified 1,529 (32.58%) participants exposed to ≥1 study medication; omeprazole (n = 658) and statins were most common (atorvastatin n = 606; simvastatin n = 603). Among users, actionable phenotypes were frequent for CYP2C19-omeprazole (55.02%) and SLCO1B1-statins (21.95-23.05%). In conclusion, an Asian-optimized SNP array supports scalable PGx phenotyping in Thai adults. EMR linkage quantifies realized actionability and highlights high-yield targets (CYP2C19-proton pump inhibitors; SLCO1B1-statins) for pre-emptive implementation.Copyright: © 2026 Pasookhush et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42542138 is a review article
The intestine plays essential roles in digestion, immunity, and metabolism, but is highly sensitive to ionizing radiation during cancer treatment or environmental exposure. Although three-dimensional intestinal models more accurately replicate tissue architecture than conventional monolayers, they are frequently limited by insufficient oxygen delivery, leading to hypoxia-associated functional impairment. Incorporating physiologically relevant oxygenation strategies remains a key challenge in advanced in vitro systems. This study aimed to establish a physiologically relevant in vitro intestinal model by improving oxygen mass transfer within three-dimensional tissue constructs, thereby enhancing structural organization and functional maturation, and subsequently applying the system to investigate radiation-related mechanisms and evaluate potential protective agents.Based on a microengineered 3D cell-assembly platform, intestinal epithelial cells, endothelial cells, and fibroblasts were spatially organized to form a structured intestinal tissue model. The composition of the cells was optimised to improve tissue uniformity and the function of the epithelial barrier. To alleviate hypoxia in the three-dimensional construct, an oxygen-permeable microwell system was employed to enhance oxygen diffusion and promote epithelial differentiation, as evidenced by the upregulation of Isx, Cyp3a5, and Tff3. A vascularized chip that recapitulated the in vivo intestinal-stromal-vascular interface was created by incorporating microvascular networks self-assembled from endothelial cells within a hydrogel matrix.Following radiation exposure, the model exhibited characteristic symptoms of intestinal injury, such as decreased cell viability, impaired E-cadherin signaling, and compromised epithelial barrier integrity. Treatment with dimethyloxalylglycine (DMOG) mitigated these effects, confirming it's utility for assessing radioprotective drugs.This vascularized intestinal-on-a-chip model closely mimics the structure and function of the human intestinal microenvironment. It serves as a robust in vitro platform for studying radiation-induced intestinal injury and for screening candidate protective agents, offering valuable applications in radiation protection and regenerative medicine research.Copyright © 2026 Guo, Fu and Pang.
Tacrolimus (TAC) exhibits substantial interindividual pharmacokinetic variability, complicating early dose optimization after kidney transplantation. This study evaluated the effects of CYP3A5 rs776746 (6986A > G), CYP3A4 rs4646437 (G > A), and ABCB1 rs1045642 (3435C > T) genetic variations on TAC metabolism during the first post-transplant month. In 120 kidney transplant recipients, TAC exposure was assessed using dose-normalized trough concentrations (C0/D), and patients with a low C0/D ratio (<1.05 ng/mL per mg/day) were classified as fast metabolizers, whereas those with a high C0/D ratio (≥1.05 ng/mL per mg/day) were classified as slow metabolizers. Fast metabolizers (48.3%) had lower TAC trough levels, required higher doses, and showed reduced C0/D ratios compared with slow metabolizers (0.95 ± 0.12 vs 2.39 ± 0.53 ng/mL per mg/day; p < 0.001). CYP3A5 rs776746 was the primary determinant, with each A allele strongly associated with fast metabolism (adjusted OR 44.11, 95% CI 11.70-166.36; p < 0.001). CYP3A4 rs4646437 provided additional stratification, whereas ABCB1 rs1045642 showed modest effects. Combined CYP3A5/CYP3A4 risk genotypes identified fast metabolizers in 88.2% of cases. These findings support genotype-informed TAC dosing to improve early post-transplant exposure.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Long-acting injectable cabotegravir and rilpivirine (LAI-CAB/RPV) has transformed human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) treatment by providing durable viral suppression without daily oral antiretroviral therapy (ART). Although clinical trials have demonstrated excellent efficacy, real-world experience has identified rare cases of viral blips, persistent low-level viremia, and virologic rebound, with underlying mechanisms remaining unclear.We conducted a retrospective case series of ten adolescents and young adults with HIV who developed virologic abnormalities after transitioning from suppressive oral ART to LAI-CAB/RPV. Among 76 patients receiving LAI-CAB/RPV during the study period, 11 developed virologic abnormalities and 10 underwent pharmacogenomic (PGx) testing. Clinical, virologic, and PGx findings were reviewed.All patients experienced viral suppression before initiating LAI-CAB/RPV. Following the transition, all experienced viral blips, six developed persistent low-level viremia, and one progressed to virologic failure. Eight patients had CYP2B6 intermediate or poor metabolizer phenotypes, seven had clinically relevant CYP2C19 variants, and nine had CYP3A5 variants. All patients demonstrated at least one non-normal metabolizer phenotype, and most exhibited variability across multiple metabolic pathways.This case series identifies clustering of multiple pharmacogenomic variants among patients experiencing virologic abnormalities while receiving LAI-CAB/RPV. Although these variants are relatively common individually, their combined occurrence warrants further investigation. Prospective pharmacokinetic and pharmacogenomic studies are needed to determine whether host genetic variability contributes to long-acting ART outcomes.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Voriconazole is commonly used for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis. Its metabolism is influenced by pharmacogenetic polymorphisms of CYP2C19 as well as by inflammatory states. We report a case of a 49-year-old Chinese woman with essential thrombocythaemia who was treated with voriconazole for possible invasive pulmonary aspergillosis. Despite possessing a CYP2C19 *1/*1 normal metaboliser genotype, she required unusually high doses (14.5 mg/kg/day), nearly twice the standard dose, to achieve therapeutic voriconazole concentrations without apparent adverse effects under therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM). Notably, increased C-reactive protein (CRP) levels are associated with decreased CYP2C19 activity and can inform cautious dose titration. Although pharmacogenetics plays an important role in voriconazole metabolism, this report highlights the lack of correlation between genotype and clinical pharmacokinetics, as reflected by TDM results.© European Association of Hospital Pharmacists 2026. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Dioscorea bulbifera L. (DBL) is a traditional medicinal herb, but its clinical use is often limited by its potential to cause herb-induced liver injury. 8-Epidiosbulbin E acetate (EEA) is recognized as the major hepatotoxic constituent in DBL; however, the mechanisms underlying the drug transport and metabolic activation of EEA leading to hepatotoxicity are unclear, which severely impedes the understanding of its toxicity risk and safety control measures.This study aimed to identify the key EEA transporters and P450 enzymes mediating EEA metabolic activation in vivo to systematically clarify the contribution of transport and metabolism in DBL/EEA-induced hepatotoxicity.Transporter and P450-overexpressing cell models were used, combined with CCK-8, apoptosis, and cell cycle assays and LC-MS/MS technology, to evaluate EEA cytotoxicity, intracellular content, and EEA-GSH conjugate formation. In animal experiments, mice were pretreated with ticlopidine, probenecid, novobiocin, or verapamil to examine the roles of CYP2C19-mediated metabolic activation, OAT-sensitive uptake, and P-gp-mediated efflux in EEA- and DBL extract-induced hepatotoxicity. EEA or DBL extract was then administered orally, and the extent of liver injury was evaluated by histopathological examination and serum aminotransferase measurements.CYP2C19 metabolically activated EEA, leading to decreased cell viability, increased apoptosis, cell cycle arrest, and increased EEA-GSH conjugate levels. OAT3 overexpression increased EEA cellular uptake, whereas P-gp overexpression promoted EEA efflux. In mice, CYP2C19 or OAT3 inhibition attenuated DBL/EEA-induced liver injury, whereas P-gp inhibition exacerbated hepatotoxicity.These findings suggest that OAT3-sensitive cellular uptake, P-gp-mediated efflux, and CYP2C19-mediated bioactivation are important determinants of EEA hepatotoxicity, which is characterized by GSH depletion, cell-cycle perturbations, and apoptosis. This study provides a mechanistic explanation for DBL/EEA-induced hepatotoxicity and highlights that the interplay between metabolism and transport is a key determinant of its toxicity.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
We evaluated the effect of CYP2C19 genotype on SSRI response in 114,627 research participants. We graded metabolizer status (0 for ultrarapid metabolizers to 4 for poor metabolizers), and regressed drug response outcomes on these grades. Among participants taking escitalopram or citalopram, slower metabolizers experienced side effects significantly more often than faster metabolizers (OR = 1.04 per grade, 95%CI = [1.02-1.06] and OR = 1.05 per grade, 95%CI = [1.02-1.07]) and were more likely to discontinue treatment due to side effects (OR = 1.05, 95%CI = [1.03-1.08], e.g. 29.7% of poor vs. 21.6% of ultrarapid metabolizers, and OR = 1.07, 95%CI = [1.04-1.11], e.g. 25.7% vs. 20.2%). Slower metabolizers taking escitalopram were more likely to suffer from sleep problems and sexual problems. Slower metabolizers taking sertraline reported tremor more often than faster metabolizers. Overall, we find substantial differences in side effect risk with different CYP2C19 genotypes, supporting the notion that individuals seeking depression treatment may benefit from pharmacogenetic-guided treatment selection to minimize side effects and reduce discontinuations.© 2026. The Author(s).
Voriconazole is a first-line therapy for invasive aspergillosis, but its use is complicated by pronounced pharmacokinetic variability, largely driven by CYP2C19 polymorphisms. We aimed to evaluate whether preemptive CYP2C19 genotyping improves early target attainment and clinical management in pediatric hematology patients compared with standard practice.We conducted a pragmatic, randomized, single-blind trial (EudraCT: 2019-000376-41; ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT04238884). Pediatric hematology patients at high risk of aspergillosis were randomized (1:1) to receive either standard weight-based dosing (Control) or preemptive CYP2C19 (*1, *2, *3, *17 alleles) genotype-guided dosing (Experimental). The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients achieving a therapeutic voriconazole trough concentration (Cmin: 1.0-5.0 mg/L) at Day 5 (±1). The analysis was conducted using a modified intention-to-treat approach.Thirty-two patients (16 per arm) were evaluated. The experimental arm had a higher proportion of patients achieving the therapeutic range compared to the control arm, but not statistically significant (37.5% vs. 12.5%, p = 0.200). The proportion of patients with subtherapeutic exposure (<1.0 mg/L) was lower in the genotype-guided arm than in the standard-of-care arm (31.3% vs. 68.8%, p = 0.034). Supratherapeutic levels were comparable between groups (25% vs. 18.8%, p > 0.900). An exploratory cost-consequence analysis was associated with a mean difference in direct medical costs of €5,819 per patient in favour of the genotype-guided arm, although this difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.300).Preemptive CYP2C19 genotyping was associated with a lower proportion of early subtherapeutic voriconazole exposure compared with standard care, with no signal of increased toxicity.https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT04238884; https://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu/ctr-search/trial/2019-000376-41/ES, identifier EudraCT: 2019-000376-41; NCT04238884.Copyright © 2026 Monserrat-Villatoro, Bueno, Estébanez, Mozo, Rosas-Alonso, Antón, Otero, Guerra-García, Díaz-Villamarín, Arias, Pérez-Martínez, Abad-Santos, Carcas, García-García and Borobia.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42550189 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42544431 is a review article
Cytochrome P450 family 2 subfamily C member 19 (CYP2C19) loss-of-function (LOF) polymorphisms reduce the metabolic activation of clopidogrel and contribute to interindividual variability in antiplatelet response. Diabetes mellitus is associated with increased platelet reactivity and adverse cardiovascular outcomes; however, its association with CYP2C19 LOF allele carriage among patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) remains incompletely understood. This study aimed to evaluate the association between diabetes mellitus and CYP2C19 LOF allele carriage among patients undergoing CABG and to describe the distribution of CYP2C19 genotypes and metabolizer phenotypes in this population. This analytical cross-sectional study included 100 consecutive patients undergoing elective CABG. CYP2C19 genotyping (*1, *2, *3, and *17 alleles) was performed using real-time polymerase chain reaction. LOF allele carriage was defined as the presence of at least one reduced-function allele (*2 or *3). Because platelet function testing was not performed, the study evaluated genetically predicted reduced clopidogrel metabolism rather than laboratory-confirmed clopidogrel resistance. Associations between diabetes mellitus and LOF allele carriage were examined using multivariable logistic regression adjusted for age, sex, smoking history, hypertension, and dyslipidemia. The mean age of participants was 58.6 ± 9.3 years, and 72% were male participants. Overall, 46 of 100 patients (46.0%) carried at least one CYP2C19 LOF allele. LOF allele carriage was more common among patients with diabetes mellitus than among those without diabetes (58.0% vs. 34.0%; odds ratio (OR), 2.68; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.19-6.02; p = 0.016). After adjustment for potential confounders, diabetes mellitus remained independently associated with LOF allele carriage (adjusted OR, 1.95; 95% CI, 1.04-3.65; p = 0.037). Other clinical variables, including age, sex, smoking history, hypertension, and dyslipidemia, were not significantly associated with LOF allele carriage. In this cross-sectional study, diabetes mellitus was associated with a higher prevalence of CYP2C19 LOF allele carriage among patients undergoing CABG. Because platelet function testing was not performed, these findings reflect genetically predicted reduced clopidogrel metabolism rather than confirmed clopidogrel resistance. Larger prospective studies incorporating platelet function testing and clinical outcome assessment are required to confirm these findings and determine their clinical significance.Copyright © 2026, Bin-Te Shawkat et al.
The Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium (CPIC) TPMT/NUDT15 Pharmacogene Curation Expert Panel (PCEP) conducted a comprehensive review of clinical, laboratory, and computational evidence to determine the clinical function assignments for TPMT and NUDT15 star alleles. These genes are critical for the metabolism of thiopurines, which are widely used in the treatment of cancer and autoimmune disorders. Standardized allele function assignment is essential for predicting metabolizer phenotypes and pharmacogenetics-guided thiopurine dosing. The work presented here includes the first designation of decreased function alleles for both TPMT and NUDT15, reflecting new clinical data that demonstrate partial loss of enzymatic activity and reduced dose tolerance. The panel also reclassified several alleles previously assigned uncertain or unknown function. The functional assignments were informed by a standardized framework incorporating clinical data, such as thiopurine tolerance and toxicity, as well as in vitro protein activity, ex vivo enzymatic measurements, and in silico variant effect prediction tools. These updates enhance the precision of genotype-to-phenotype mapping and support more personalized thiopurine therapy across diverse patient populations.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Pharmacology & Therapeutics published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560047 is a review article
To characterize tear proteome changes in male non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice with Sjögren's disease (SjD)-like autoimmune dacryoadenitis and determine whether identified tear proteins are associated with lacrimal gland (LG) pathogenesis.Tears were collected from 14-week-old male NOD mice and age-matched male BALB/c controls and analyzed by tandem mass tag (TMT)-based liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were defined using adjusted P < 0.05 and absolute fold change > 1.5. Functional enrichment analysis was performed using Enrichr. Selected upregulated DEPs were further examined in tear and LG samples from independent mouse cohorts using Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and RT-qPCR.A total of 142 proteins were quantified across all tear samples. Hierarchical clustering and principal component analysis (PCA) separated NOD from BALB/c tear proteomes. A total of 41 proteins were differentially expressed in NOD mouse tears (33 increased, 8 decreased). Increased tear proteins were enriched in immune and inflammatory responses, secretory compartments, RAGE receptor binding, glutathione metabolism, oxidative stress, and redox regulation. S100A8/A9, GSTO1-1, Gal-3, and pIgR/secretory component (SC) were increased in both NOD mouse tears and LG. In NOD LG, increased S100A8/A9 was accompanied by elevated RAGE, whereas increased GSTO1-1 was associated with increased NLRP3, cleaved caspase-1, cleaved gasdermin, cleaved IL-1β, and increased Il1b , Il18 , and Il18r gene expression.Male NOD mouse tears contain disease-related proteins reflecting pathological inflammatory and epithelial changes in the LG including increased RAGE signaling, NLRP3 inflammasome activation, and altered epithelial transcytosis.
Cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (CTCL) are a group of non-Hodgkin T-cell lymphomas, with mycosis fungoides and Sézary syndrome being the most common subtypes. Advanced-stage CTCL are typically aggressive, exhibiting interpatient heterogeneity in treatment response and prognosis. The underlying pathogenesis remains incompletely elucidated, posing challenges for the selection of appropriate therapies.We obtained tumor cell-enriched regions of 33 advanced CTCL samples from 31 patients using laser capture microdissection, followed by integrated proteomic and transcriptomic profiling. Selected biomarkers were further validated via immunohistochemistry.We identified three molecular subtypes of advanced CTCL, which exhibited significant differences in clinical phenotypes, signature proteins, and pathways. These subtypes were designated as intracellular signaling subtype, metabolic subtype, and extracellular matrix remodeling subtype, respectively. Within intracellular signaling subtype, the PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway was characteristically upregulated, and we found the expression level of phospho-AKT was associated with response to PI3Kδ inhibitor therapy. Comparative proteomic analysis of patients with varying treatment responsiveness and disease progression identified CTSB, GSTO1, and WDFY4 as potential biomarkers for predicting treatment responsiveness, and GOLGA1 and STIP1 as potential biomarkers for progression prediction.This study explored a potential molecular subtyping framework for advanced-stage CTCL associated with different clinical phenotypes. Our findings provided preliminary evidence suggesting that certain biomarkers may be associated with treatment response to PI3K inhibitors. Additionally, we screened and preliminarily identified candidate biomarkers that may be associated with treatment responsiveness and progression risk, which may assist clinicians in the management of advanced-stage CTCL. Notably, these molecular differences may also correlate with clinical characteristics and require validation in larger cohorts.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Guo, Liu, Pang, Qi, Sun, Sun and Liu.
Thiopurines remain an effective treatment for maintaining remission in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), yet their use is often limited by thiopurine-induced leukopenia (TIL), a potentially life-threatening adverse effect. We aimed to investigate pharmacogenetic associations with TIL in patients with IBD.We retrospectively analyzed 218 thiopurine-treated patients from two independent IBD cohorts with whole-exome sequencing. Pharmacogenetic subgroups were defined using Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium star allele-based molecular phenotypes or genotype-based classifications. Genetic associations with TIL, defined as white blood cell count ≤3000/µL, were analyzed using Andersen-Gill models adjusted for clinical covariates.NUDT15 intermediate metabolizers [hazard ratio (HR) 5.21, p<0.001], poor metabolizers (HR 6.42, p<0.001), and IL6 heterozygotes (HR 4.35, p<0.001) showed reproducible, independent associations with increased TIL risk. Incorporating IL6 into the traditional TPMT/NUDT15 model significantly improved sensitivity (p=0.0156) and negative predictive value (p=0.046).Our findings confirm the central role of NUDT15 in TIL susceptibility and identify IL6 as a novel, independent contributor in Korean patients with IBD. Incorporating IL6 into existing pre-emptive pharmacogenetic testing may support safer thiopurine therapy.© Copyright: Yonsei University College of Medicine 2026.
Pharmacogenomic-guided medication management optimises drug therapy to enhance patient outcomes. Despite clinical utility, implementation in Australia remains limited, partly due to the lack of clear and consistent guidance.This study evaluated the presence and consistency of pharmacogenomic testing indication categories and therapeutic recommendations between Australian prescribing resources and international pharmacogenomic guidelines.Testing indications were compared between Dutch Pharmacogenetics Working Group (DPWG), Royal College of Pathologists of Australasia (RCPA) and Australian prescribing resources (Australian Medicines Handbook (AMH), Therapeutic Guidelines (TG), Therapeutics Goods Administration (TGA) and eviQ). Therapeutic recommendations were compared between Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium (CPIC), DPWG, and Australian prescribing resources. Weighted kappa was used for analysis (n > 10) and interpreted using the Landis and Koch scale.Among Australian resources, AMH included the highest proportion of testing indications (28%, 19/67); however, it remains an overall low proportion. Testing indications were most consistent between RCPA and TG, with 50% (5/10, 95% CI 0.19-0.81) concordant (e.g. mercaptopurine/TPMT testing 'recommended' in both). For therapeutic recommendations, AMH demonstrated substantial agreement with DPWG (κ 0.80, 95% CI 0.61-0.98); however, 11% (3/27) of recommendations were discordant (e.g. capecitabine/DPYD deficiency 'dose adjustment' in DPWG and 'contraindication' in AMH). Within Australian resources, most (88%, 7/8, 95% CI 0.47-1.00) testing indications were concordant, while for therapeutic recommendations, just over half (57%, 4/7, 95% CI 0.18-0.90) were concordant.Australian prescribing resources contain limited and inconsistent pharmacogenomic information. Greater harmonisation is needed to support decision-making and facilitate broader pharmacogenomic implementation.© 2026 The Author(s). Internal Medicine Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Royal Australasian College of Physicians.
Primary knee osteoarthritis (PKOA) is a common degenerative joint disease lacking effective disease-modifying therapies. Identifying circulating proteins associated with PKOA may provide clues for therapeutic target discovery.A two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) study was conducted using protein quantitative trait locus data from deCODE Genetics, including 4,907 plasma proteins measured in 35,559 individuals, and PKOA genetic association data from the FinnGen study, comprising 18,563 cases and 363,345 controls. Single nucleotide polymorphisms were selected as instrumental variables, and sensitivity analyses were performed to assess the validity and robustness of the MR estimates. Bonferroni correction and the Benjamini- Hochberg procedure were applied for multiple testing correction. Protein-protein interaction, drug-gene interaction, and functional enrichment analyses were performed for prioritized proteins. Western blotting and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay were used to provide preliminary biological support for MR-prioritized proteins.Two plasma proteins showed genetic associations with PKOA susceptibility. Genetically predicted higher levels of thioredoxin domain-containing protein 12 (TXNDC12) were associated with an increased risk of PKOA (OR = 1.38, 95%CI: 1.27-1.50, P = 9.33 × 10-15), whereas growth/differentiation factor 2 (GDF2) was associated with a reduced risk (OR = 0.93, 95%: CI; 0.89-0.98, P = 4.17 × 10-2). After multiple testing correction, TXNDC12 remained significant after Bonferroni and false discovery rate (FDR) correction, while GDF2 met the FDR threshold only and should therefore be considered a hypothesis-generating finding requiring further validation. Network analyses identified 21 functionally related genes, including GSTA3, GSTM4, ACVRL1, and BMPR2. Preliminary experimental analyses showed increased TXNDC12 expression and decreased GDF2 expression in PKOA model mice compared with sham controls, consistent with the MR results.Our study identifies TXNDC12 as a genetically supported PKOA-associated plasma protein, while GDF2 remains a hypothesis-generating candidate requiring further validation. These findings provide preliminary associative evidence linking both proteins to PKOA and warrant further mechanistic investigation.Copyright © 2026 Hu, Rao, Luo, Tao, Wu, Sun and Li.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive hematologic malignancy with poor prognosis and significant heterogeneity. Lipid metabolic reprogramming is a key hallmark of cancer, yet its systemic characterization and clinical relevance in AML remain largely unexplored.Multi-omics data were integrated, including one single-cell RNA-seq dataset and bulk transcriptomes from nine AML cohorts. Lipid metabolism activity was assessed using GSVA. Consensus clustering based on lipid metabolism pathways identified molecular subtypes. A lipid metabolism-related prognostic signature (LMRS) was constructed via machine learning algorithms and validated across nine independent cohorts. Functional validation was performed in AML cell lines using GSTO1 inhibition.Single-cell analysis revealed significant upregulation of lipid metabolism pathways in AML malignant cells, particularly in progenitor-like subpopulations. Three lipid metabolism-based subtypes (C1-C3) were identified, with the C3 subtype exhibiting the highest metabolic activity, an immunosuppressive microenvironment, and the worst prognosis. A robust nine-gene LMRS model was developed, which effectively stratified patients into high- and low-risk groups with distinct survival outcomes. LMRS demonstrated superior predictive accuracy over existing models, was independently prognostic, and correlated with chemotherapy and immunotherapy resistance. Inhibition of GSTO1 significantly induced apoptosis and ROS production in AML cells.This study comprehensively defines lipid metabolic heterogeneity in AML, establishes a clinically applicable prognostic signature, and underscores lipid metabolism as a key driver of AML progression and immunosuppression. Targeting lipid metabolism, particularly through GSTO1 inhibition, represents a promising therapeutic strategy.Copyright © 2026 Zhong, Wang, Huang, Jin, Yao and Wang.
Thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) is a cytosolic enzyme involved in the metabolism of thiopurine drugs such as 6-mercaptopurine, 6-thioguanine, and azathioprine. Genetic polymorphisms in TPMT can reduce enzyme activity and increase the risk of adverse drug reactions. One such variant, TPMT2 (A80P), has been reported to impair TPMT function. In this study, we used molecular dynamics simulations, molecular docking, and umbrella sampling to investigate how the A80P mutation affects TPMT's structure and its interaction with the cofactor S-adenosylmethionine (SAM). Our results indicate that the mutation increases structural flexibility, reduces stability, and weakens SAM binding, suggesting compromised enzymatic function. Although TPMT2 is not directly linked to acute myeloid leukemia (AML), identifying its prevalence in AML patients has clinical value due to the potential use of thiopurines in treatment. We screened 50 AML patients and 50 healthy controls from northern India for the TPMT2 variant using PCR-based genotyping. The variant was absent in all individuals tested. These findings support the importance of population-specific pharmacogenetic screening. Tailoring genetic tests to local variant frequencies can improve cost-effectiveness, reduce unnecessary testing, and contribute to safer, more personalized cancer therapy.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Metronomic chemotherapy with oral capecitabine + vinorelbine (Cape + VNL) provides synergistic cytostatic activity and antiangiogenic and immunomodulatory effects, potentially offering prolonged disease control with limited toxicity in HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer (MBC). However, efficacy in the real-world (RW) setting, especially in late lines, and the impact of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPYD) polymorphisms on dose reduction and safety remain limited.In this retrospective study, 200 patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative MBC were treated at the ASST Cremona Hospital (2015-2023) with metronomic Cape (1000 mg twice daily, in normal metabolizers; 500 mg twice daily, in DPYD variant carriers) + VNL (20 mg/day, once daily, 5-days-on/2-days-off). All patients underwent pretreatment DPYD genotyping and dose adjustment. Treatment was administered in the second-to-fourth setting. The primary end point was time-to-next treatment or death (TNTD); secondary end points included overall survival (OS), disease control rate (DCR) ≥24 weeks, overall response rate (ORR), safety, and genotype-toxicity correlations.The median age was 61 years, and DPYD variants were present in 14.5% of patients; 34%, 41%, and 25% received therapy as second-, third-, and fourth-line treatment. The median TNTD was 22.0 weeks, and the OS was 64.0 weeks. The DCR was 38.5%, and the ORR was 22.0%. Efficacy was comparable between DPYD variant carriers and normal metabolizers (all P values > .05). In later lines, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status 2 and >2 metastatic sites were independent negative prognostic factors (all values P < .05). Overall, 7.5% grade 3 toxicities occurred, especially in variant carriers without dose reduction and grade 4-5 events.These RW data suggest that metronomic Cape + VNL may represent a clinically active and manageable option in heavily pretreated HER2-negative MBC. Our findings support prospective evaluation of DPYD-guided dose individualization as a strategy to optimize the benefit-risk balance of fluoropyrimidine-based metronomic regimens.
Researches on Tripterygium glycosides tablets (TGT) often overlook renal toxicity from prolonged use. Rubus chingii Hu (RCH) is beneficial to kidney health and has an unclear role in reducing nephrotoxicity. This study used UHPLC-Q Exactive HFX to identify Kaempferol, Hydroxygenkwanin, and Luteolin as key active components of RCH. Network pharmacology revealed RCH could protect the kidneys by modulating TNF, IL-17, NF-kappa B, and JAK-STAT pathways through targets such as BCL2, CASP3, TNF, SIRT1, EGFR, and MMP9. Biochemical and pathological studies show that TGT induces kidney injury in rats, while RCH improves kidney function and reduces inflammation and oxidative stress. Western blot confirmed that RCH could regulate the expression of TNF-α, cleaved caspase-3, and SIRT1 proteins. Transcriptomics and metabonomics reveal significant enrichment in metabolic pathways like glycerophospholipid metabolism and inflammation signaling pathways such as PPAR and JAK-STAT. After RCH treatment, most differential genes remain stable, but all 20 key metabolites are restored. Further analysis indicates that steroid hormone biosynthesis and the PPAR signaling pathway are vital for RCH's protective effects, as it regulates CYP1B1, CYP4A1, CYP4A3, EHHADH, HMGCS2, and PPARG genes, alleviating TGT-induced nephrotoxicity.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), which is encoded by the DPYD gene, plays an important role in the metabolism of fluoropyrimidine (FP) drugs, including tegafur, in S-1. A decrease in DPD activity can cause severe FP-related toxicity. The Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium (CPIC) guidelines for FP and DPYD polymorphisms recommend FP dose adjustments based on the four major DPYD polymorphisms. However, multiple rare variants of DPYD have been reported. We present the case of a man in his 50s with cT3N0M0 tongue squamous cell carcinoma who developed severe myelosuppression and diarrhea after the initiation of S-1 (tegafur/gimeracil/oteracil) despite appropriate dosing. On day 20 of treatment, the patient developed grade 4 neutropenia and septic shock and required ICU admission. Genetic testing identified a rare heterozygous DPYD variant (c. 812delT) that causes a frameshift and a presumed loss of enzyme function, suggesting an underlying cause of the severe adverse events. Although severe toxicity occurred, marked tumor shrinkage allowed for less invasive surgery. This case highlights the need for expanded genetic screening beyond the guideline-listed variants, particularly in Asian populations, where common variants differ. Combining genotypic and phenotypic evaluations of DPD activity may improve the prediction and prevention of FP-related toxicities, supporting safer and more effective use of FP drugs.© 2026. The Author(s).
In humans, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) induces chloracne, a skin condition that presents with acanthosis, hyperkeratosis, comedones, and sebaceous gland (SG) atrophy (seboatrophy). Although chloracne-like phenotypes have been reported in TCDD-treated mice, the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Previous studies showed that TCDD-induced CYP1A1 protein is expressed in LRIG1+ progenitor cells in hair follicles, suggesting that TCDD targets specific cell populations within the pilosebaceous unit. To explore the effects of TCDD on the epidermis and pilosebaceous unit, we analyzed single-cell RNA expression in wild-type and Ahr-null mice at postnatal day 21 (P21) following in utero and lactational exposure. The results showed that TCDD preferentially induced the AHR target genes Cyp1a1 and Cyp1b1 in the lower infundibulum and subjacent junctional zone overlapping the LRIG1+ progenitor cell niche. TCDD also caused Ahr-dependent seboatrophy, accompanied by increased expression of Blimp1, a transcriptional repressor that regulates SG size. A second site of Cyp1a1 induction was the SG, where Cyp1a1 was markedly elevated in the basal proliferating cells and immature sebocytes. In a 3-day topical exposure study of early effects, TCDD produced a dose-dependent increase of Cyp1a1 expression in the SG that included the more differentiated sebocytes. This response was accompanied by expansion of the Scd1-positive area, elevated Nile Red lipid staining, and an increased number of Blimp1-high sebocytes, demonstrating that TCDD enhanced SG differentiation and lipid production in vivo. These changes preceded the onset of Ahr-dependent seboatrophy, providing new insight into the cellular and molecular events underlying chloracne pathogenesis.
Bisphenol A, a known endocrine disruptor, is a pervasive environmental contaminant because of its widespread use in everyday consumer products. It has been linked to numerous health hazards and shown to modulate the drug-metabolizing enzymes. There is a significant disparity in reported results in the literature, chiefly because of a focus on mRNA expression or substrate activity assays rather than on protein expression. The present study uses mass spectrometry-based targeted proteomics to investigate modulation in the expression of drug-metabolizing enzymes following environmentally relevant exposure to bisphenol A in a rat model. Furthermore, the plasma levels of endogenous metabolites of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1B1, the highest fold-modulated enzyme, were also monitored. The pharmacokinetics of diclofenac, a substrate of the CYP2C family and UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 2B7, were also studied. We identified 9 significantly altered proteins in hepatic drug metabolism, with 4 upregulated (CYP1B1, CYP1A2, UGT2B7, and UGT1A3) and 5 downregulated (CYP2A3, CYP2C13, CYP4A2, and UGT2B1). The upregulation of CYP1B1 leads to increased levels of endogenous metabolites, including retinoic acid and 4-hydroxyestradiol, which are teratogenic and procarcinogenic, respectively. The upregulation of UGT2B7 led to increased exposure to the acyl-glucuronide metabolite of diclofenac, which is known to cause hepatotoxicity, intestinal ulceration, and nephrotoxicity. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: This study uses a mass spectrometry-based targeted proteomics approach to monitor all relevant drug-metabolizing enzymes (DMEs) after exposure to bisphenol A in a rat model. The study presents protein-level data of relevant DMEs and identified 9 significantly altered DMEs in hepatic drug metabolism. The modulation of DMEs is reflected in alterations in numerous endogenous metabolite levels with plausible adverse consequences. Further, the pharmacokinetics of substrate xenobiotic modulated by these enzymes is also altered.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a life-threatening clinical syndrome characterized by high mortality, in which tubular epithelial cell death represents a key pathological event. Emerging evidence underscores the importance of the ubiquitin system in the progression of AKI. Here, we focus on the function of YOD1 in AKI.We generated tubular epithelial cells (TECs)-specific Yod1 knockout mice (YOD1CKO) by crossing Yod1fl/fl mice and Ggt1-cre mice. Both YOD1CKO mice and Yod1fl/fl littermates were subjected to cisplatin- or ischemia/reperfusion (I/R)-induced AKI models. Through co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) combined with LC-MS/MS analysis, we identified potential substrate proteins of YOD1.We observed that YOD1 is predominantly expressed in TECs and is upregulated during AKI injury. Renal tubular specific Yod1 knockout significantly alleviated tubular damage and apoptosis in AKI mice. Mechanistically, we identified the pro-apoptotic protein Bax as a direct substrate of YOD1. YOD1 removes K63-linked ubiquitin chains from Bax at lysine 128 via its catalytic cysteine residue C155, thereby promoting Bax activation, and mitochondrial translocation and subsequent apoptosis. YOD1 failed to promote apoptosis in Bax-deficient cells, confirming Bax as the essential downstream mediator.Our study reveals a previously unrecognized YOD1-Bax regulatory axis that drives tubular apoptosis in AKI, and highlights YOD1 may hold therapeutic potential.© The author(s).
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is a global health challenge, yet preclinical identification remains difficult owing to a lack of reliable predictive tools. Here we show that a panel of five plasma proteins, FUOM, ACY1, KRT18, CDHR2 and GGT1, identified and validated across over 50,000 participants from the Southern UK, Northern UK, EPIC-Norfolk and Southern China cohorts, serves as a predictive signature for incident MASLD. Our five-protein model achieves predictive accuracy of 0.838 (5 year area under the curve (AUC)) and 0.756 (16.6 year AUC), with performance sustained longitudinally in the EPIC-Norfolk cohort (16.6 year AUC = 0.710) and confirmed in the Southern China Inception Cohort (AUC = 0.912). Integrating these biomarkers with routine clinical data further enhances performance (5 year AUC = 0.904; 16.6 year AUC = 0.822). These findings establish a scalable proteomic framework for ultra-early risk stratification and targeted intervention in MASLD up to 16 years before clinical onset.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
Folic acid (FA) supplementation during pregnancy is the commonly accepted treatment to prevent neural tube defects. The mechanism by which FA prevents neural tube defects (NTDs) remains unclear. FA also prevents other developmental malformations, including alcohol-induced malformations in Fetal Alcohol Syndrome models. We show that FA acts through a metabolic link to retinoic acid (RA) signaling. Using a pax3-knockdown Xenopus model of FA-rescuable NTDs, we show that RA or its precursors equally rescue these defects. Similarly, FA rescues alcohol-induced NTDs in a model previously shown to be rescued by retinoids. We identify the FA-metabolizing enzyme, formyl tetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase (ALDH1L1, FTHFD), encoded by the aldh1l1 gene, as essential for this rescue. Mechanistically, FA upregulates aldh1l1 expression, thereby increasing RA biosynthesis. Knockdown of ALDH1L1 activity using CRISPR/Cas9 abolishes the FA protective effect. To support these observations, we show that the human ALDH1L1 enzyme converts retinaldehyde to RA, and its overexpression restores neural tube closure in aldh1l1-knockdown embryos when retinaldehyde is provided. At the cellular level, reduced RA signaling results in overproliferation of neural plate precursors and a pathological expansion of the neural tube. ALDH1L1 enables FA to restore normal neural plate proliferation, thereby preventing NTDs. These findings establish ALDH1L1 as an unexpected enzymatic link between FA (vitamin B9) and RA signaling, revealing how FA supplementation safeguards neural development and suggesting opportunities to refine strategies for NTD prevention.
With recent advances in high-throughput proteomic technologies, population-scale plasma proteomics datasets, often linked to extensive genetic and phenotypic information, have become increasingly accessible. Yet the relationships between circulating protein levels, brain imaging phenotypes, and risk for neurological and psychiatric disorders remain largely unexplored. Proteome-wide association studies offer a promising approach for elucidating biological mechanisms that connect genetic variation to complex brain-related traits and diseases. In this study, we integrated protein quantitative trait loci (pQTLs) from the two largest plasma proteomic resources (the UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project [UKB-PPP] and Ferkingstad et al. [deCODE]) with genome-wide association studies of brain imaging-derived phenotypes in UK Biobank using Mendelian randomization and colocalization analyses. We identified 120 cis and 20 trans associations between plasma proteins and imaging phenotypes and validated these findings using brain tissue-derived proteomic and transcriptomic datasets. Multivariable Mendelian randomization revealed eleven plasma proteins (coding genes APOE, ARL3, MICB, NSF, RHOC, RSPO3, ENPP2, BTN2A1, EIF2AK3, MRVI1, and OPLAH ) with significant direct effects on the risk of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia. Single-cell expression and pathway enrichment analyses further revealed cell-type-specific effects and distinct biological processes underlying these protein- disease associations. Together, these findings demonstrate robust links between plasma protein variation and brain structure, delineate protein-disease pathways, and highlight the cellular and molecular mechanisms that contribute to neurobiological diversity and pathology.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) leads to significant neuronal loss and glial scar formation, but the regenerative capacity of the adult brain remains limited. Although small-molecule-induced astrocyte-to-neuron (AtN) conversion has shown promise in vitro, in vivo applications-particularly under pathological conditions-are still scarce. We aimed to develop and validate a small-molecule cocktail for inducing astrocyte-to-neuron reprogramming in vivo following ICH. We identified a seven-compound cocktail (DFGKLRV) capable of converting astrocytes into neurons under both physiological and ICH conditions. Using immunostaining, RT‒qPCR, electrophysiology, RNA sequencing, neural circuit tracing, and behavioral assessment, we assessed the identity and functionality of induced neurons. In vivo reprogramming was achieved via continuous intracerebral infusion of the cocktail using osmotic pumps. Lineage tracing with aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member L1 (Aldh1l1)-CreERT2/Rosa-CAG-tdTomato mice confirmed the astrocytic origin of the reprogrammed neurons. Additionally, we monitored ferroptosis dynamics during reprogramming and evaluated the effect of ferroptosis inhibition on conversion efficiency. DFGKLRV successfully reprogrammed astrocytes into functional, electrophysiologically active neurons. This reprogramming was effective both in vitro and in vivo, including in the hemorrhagic brain environment. Pharmacological inhibition of ferroptosis significantly improved reprogramming efficiency. Mechanistically, ferroptosis inhibition promoted astrocyte-to-neuron conversion at least in part through suppression of the TGF-β/SMAD3/SOX9 axis, whereas exogenous TGF-β1 treatment or Sox9 overexpression reversed this pro-reprogramming effect. Our findings demonstrate that the DFGKLRV cocktail enables efficient in vivo astrocyte-to-neuron reprogramming following ICH. Moreover, ferroptosis represents a key regulatory mechanism and potential therapeutic target for enhancing chemical reprogramming strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Ocean acidification poses a critical threat to marine invertebrate survival and diversification, yet the post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms underlying acid stress responses remain poorly understood. Here, we employed Oxford Nanopore long-read RNA sequencing to systematically characterize transcriptional and post-transcriptional responses to acidic pH stresses in the marine nematode Litoditis marina. Our analysis revealed 912 upregulated and 728 downregulated genes enriched in autophagy, fatty acid metabolism, and peroxisome activation, alongside 327 differential alternative splicing events and 1512 transcripts with significant usage changes under severe acidic pH stress. By integrating weighted gene co-expression network analysis with databases such as WormExp2, we found that acidic pH stress response exhibited resemblance to oxidative stress response. Specifically, we identified genes involved in the oxidative stress response, such as gpx-1, cyp-13A11, trxr-1, cyc-1, and key regulators, including hlh-30/TFEB. Genes such as gpx-1, trxr-1, and cyp-23A1 might protect L. marina from oxidative stress under acidic pH. Moreover, several ferroptosis-related genes, such as gpx-5, fat-2, and smf-1, might render L. marina vulnerable to acidic pH stress. Among the genes with splicing changes, we identified oxidative stress responding genes such as sod-4, prx-2, coq-2, coq-3, prx-10, ctl-2, gst-7, trx-1, mdt-15, and fat-2. Additionally, we discovered the preference for proximal 3' UTR under acidic pH stress. Genes related to ferroptosis, including cyp-23A1, C07E3.9/PLA2G1B, and C53D5.5/GGT1, exhibited differential 3' UTR usage under acidic pH stress. Our findings shift the focus from traditional gene-centric analyses to capturing the full breadth of post-transcriptional diversity, providing novel insights into post-transcriptional gene regulation in marine metazoans under environmental stress, as well as revealing that alleviating oxidative stress might increase resistance to acid pH stress.
2-acetyl-1-pyrroline (2-AP), the key volatile compound responsible for aroma in aromatic rice, is highly susceptible to abiotic stresses such as cadmium (Cd) toxicity. However, the potential role of molybdenum disulfide nanoflakes (MoS2FL) in regulating antioxidant defense and 2-AP biosynthesis under Cd stress remains largely unexplored. In this study, a pot experiment was conducted to evaluate the effects of foliar MoS2FL application on antioxidant defense, aroma formation, and Cd-stress mitigation in two fragrant rice cultivars, Meixiangzhan-2 and Basmati, grown in Cd-contaminated soil (50 mg kg-1). Cadmium stress significantly reduced key enzymes and precursors involved during 2-AP biosynthesis, including Δ1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS), Δ1-pyrroline, pyrroline-5-carboxylic acid (P5C), diamine oxidase (DAO) and proline dehydrogenase (PRODH), along with downregulation of their associated genes. In contrast, foliar application of MoS2FL was associated with reduced Cd-induced oxidative stress, as indicated by increased antioxidant enzyme activities (SOD, POD, and CAT) and decreased malondialdehyde (MDA) accumulation. Moreover, MoS2FL increased precursor accumulation, enzymatic activities, and transcript abundance of genes associated with 2-AP biosynthesis, whereas gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) content, betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH) activity, and BADH2 gene expression were significantly reduced. Consequently, MoS2FL application significantly increased 2-AP content by 44.47% in Meixiangzhan-2 and 39.94% in Basmati under Cd stress. These findings suggest that MoS2 nanoflakes may serve as a promising nano-enabled strategy to enhance antioxidant defense, improve aroma quality, and mitigate cadmium stress in fragrant rice, potentially through changes associated with the 2-AP biosynthesis pathway. This study highlights the potential application of nanomaterials in improving crop quality and stress resilience in sustainable agricultural systems.
Salinity stress is a major abiotic constraint that severely limits plant growth, physiological performance, and agricultural productivity worldwide. This study investigated the effectiveness of the co-application of silicon dioxide nanoparticles (SiO₂-NPs; 50 ppm) and 24-epibrassinolide (EBL; 0.01 µM) in enhancing salt stress tolerance in Cucumis sativus exposed to elevated levels (50, 100, and 200 mM) of NaCl. Salinity stress significantly reduced shoot and root growth, biomass accumulation, leaf area, relative water content, chlorophyll content, gas exchange characteristics, and photosynthetic efficiency. However, co-application of SiO2-NPs and EBL significantly alleviated these adverse effects by improving growth attributes, SPAD chlorophyll content, stomatal conductance, photosynthetic rate, Fv/Fm ratio, and performance index under stress conditions. The combined treatment of SiO2-NPs and EBL also enhanced antioxidant defense mechanisms by increasing the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), peroxidase (POX), and glutathione reductase (GR), thereby reducing hydrogen peroxide (H₂O₂) accumulation, lipid peroxidation, and electrolyte leakage. In addition, improved osmotic adjustment was evidenced by enhanced proline accumulation and regulation of proline metabolism-related enzymes, including P5CS and ProDH. Overall, the findings demonstrate that co-application of SiO2-NPs and EBL effectively mitigates salinity-induced oxidative and osmotic stress, thereby improving physiological and biochemical resilience in Cucumis sativus. This integrated approach may provide a promising strategy for enhancing crop productivity under saline conditions.© 2026. The Author(s).
Global warming is increasing the frequency of extreme heat events, threatening forest resilience. However, the physiological and molecular mechanisms underlying heat tolerance of ectomycorrhizal (ECM) inoculation in conifers remain poorly understood. This study investigates how the ECM fungus Cenococcum geophilum enhances thermotolerance in Pinus massoniana seedlings. We found that ECM inoculation significantly improved plant biomass and photosynthesis under both normal and high temperatures. Under heat stress, ECM symbiosis reduced oxidative damage by elevating the activities of antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase [SOD], catalase [CAT], and peroxidase [POD]) and promoting nitric oxide (NO) accumulation via enhanced nitrate reductase (NR)- and nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-dependent pathways. Furthermore, ECM colonization reprogrammed proline metabolism, stimulating its biosynthesis through Δ1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS) and ornithine aminotransferase (OAT) while tissue-specifically regulating proline dehydrogenase (ProDH), thereby supporting osmotic adjustment in roots and energy maintenance in shoots. Transcriptomic analyses revealed that ECM primed the host at 25°C by activating defense signaling, reinforcing epidermal structures, and enhancing starch and sucrose metabolism. Under heat stress, ECM induced extensive transcriptional reorganization, upregulating pathways related to membrane lipid remodeling, cell wall modification, and carbon reallocation, while downregulating energy-costly processes, such as oxidative phosphorylation and RNA polymerase activity. This shift reflects an ECM-driven resource reallocation strategy that suppresses ROS production and prioritizes cellular integrity. Collectively, our study demonstrates that C. geophilum establishes an integrated mechanism involving physiological, biochemical, and transcriptional adjustments to enhance heat tolerance in P. massoniana, providing mechanistic insight into ECM-mediated climate resilience and underscoring the potential of using ECM fungi as an ecological tool to promote forest adaptation in a warming world.This study elucidates how the ectomycorrhizal fungus Cenococcum geophilum systemically enhances heat tolerance in Pinus massoniana by acting as a natural "heat shield," revealing a symbiotic mechanism where the fungus primes the plant's antioxidant defenses, reprograms proline metabolism in a tissue-specific manner, and boosts nitric oxide signaling. Crucially, transcriptomic analysis shows the fungus drives a strategic resource reallocation under heat stress by upregulating pathways for cellular integrity while downregulating energy-intensive processes to minimize oxidative damage. These findings establish a detailed mechanistic framework for fungal-mediated climate resilience, highlighting that enhancing natural partnerships with soil fungi can fortify existing forests against increasing heatwaves by optimizing internal stress management for forest adaptation, offering a practical tool for ecosystem management in a warming world.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is an Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-driven malignancy, making the viral protein EBNA1 a pivotal therapeutic target. This study evaluates VK-2019, a clinical-stage EBNA1 inhibitor, for its potential to sensitize NPC cells to chemotherapy. We report that VK-2019 synergistically enhances gemcitabine efficacy, reducing the IC50 by nearly 30-fold in EBV-positive C666-1 cells. Transcriptomic profiling combined with in vitro and in vivo models reveals a distinct mechanism: VK-2019 inhibition of EBNA1 downregulates c-MYC, thereby derepressing its downstream target, Proline Dehydrogenase (PRODH). Furthermore, we demonstrate that gemcitabine independently upregulates PRODH via p53 pathway activation. This dual induction of PRODH drives enhanced anti-tumor cytotoxicity. These results provide a prominent preclinical rationale for evaluating VK-2019 in combination regimens and offer a potential therapeutic strategy for patients with EBV-associated nasopharyngeal carcinoma.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to investigate the mechanism of total flavonoids from Smilacis Glabrae Rhizoma(SGF) against obesity-associated colorectal cancer(CRC) via regulation of fatty acid oxidation(FAO). In vivo, syngeneic subcutaneous and orthotopic xenograft models of CRC cells MC38 were established in obese mice induced by high fat diet(HFD), which was followed by the administration with SGF. The tumor volume and tumor weight were measured in the CRC subcutaneous model. The growth of CRC orthotopic tumors was monitored by a small animal in vivo imaging system. Hematoxylin-eosin(HE) staining was used to observe the pathological changes in tumors and peritumoral adipose tissues. Immunohistochemistry, TdT-mediated dUTP nick end labeling(TUNEL), and oil red O staining were separately conducted to detect Ki67 expression, apoptosis, and lipid accumulation in tumors. Western blot was used to detect the phosphorylation levels of adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase(AMPK) and acetyl-CoA carboxylase(ACC), as well as the expression of FAO-related proteins and cell death-related proteins in tumor tissues. In vitro, MC38 cells cultured under low-glucose and high-oleic acid conditions were taken as the research object and treated with varying concentrations of SGF for 48 h. Apoptosis rates were assessed by flow cytometry, and the expression of FAO-related and cell death-related proteins was analyzed by Western blot. Further, the prolyl hydroxylase domain-containing protein 3(PHD3) expression was subjected to RNA interference(RNAi), and the viability and apoptosis of PHD3-knockdown MC38 cells following SGF treatment were assessed by MTT assay and flow cytometry, respectively. The results showed that both high and low doses of SGF significantly inhibited tumor growth in two obese mouse xenograft models. The SGF-treated groups exhibited extensive, scattered necrotic areas within the tumor tissue, with marked destruction of tissue structure. Compared with the HFD group, the SGF-treated groups showed a significant reduction in the rate of Ki67-positive cells and a significant increase in the proportion of TUNEL-staining-positive apoptotic cells. In obese mice, subcutaneous tumors showed significantly enhanced oil red O staining, with large lipid droplets visible. The SGF-treated groups markedly reduced lipid deposition. In both models, peritumoral adipocytes were significantly enlarged after SGF treatment. The tumor tissues of obese mice exhibited significantly increased expression of FAO-related proteins cluster of differentiation 36(CD36), carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1(CPT1), and acyl-CoA dehydrogenase long chain(ACADL), as well as elevated adenosine triphosphate(ATP) content. The phosphorylation levels of upstream regulatory proteins AMPK and ACC were significantly increased, while the expression of the energy switch protein PHD3 was significantly decreased. SGF significantly reduced the protein expression of CD36, CPT1, and ACADL, decreased ATP content, inhibited AMPK and ACC phosphorylation, and increased PHD3 protein levels. This was accompanied by a significant increase in the apoptotic protein cysteine-dependent aspartate-specific protease-3(caspase-3) and significant decreases in the anti-apoptotic protein B-cell lymphoma-2(Bcl-2) and the cell cycle protein cyclin D1. In MC38 cells cultured under low-glucose and high-oleic acid conditions, SGF significantly induced apoptosis and inhibited lipid uptake. FAO-related protein expression was significantly suppressed. Caspase-3 expression was significantly increased, while Bcl-2 and cyclin D1 expression was significantly decreased. PHD3 expression was significantly elevated. In MC38 cells transfected with siPHD3, the inhibitory effect of SGF on cell viability and its pro-apoptotic effect were both significantly enhanced. In summary, SGF effectively reduces lipid transfer between adipose tissue and tumors under obese conditions, regulates the AMPK/ACC signaling pathway, and targetedly inhibits tumor FAO, thereby exerting potent antitumor effects against obesity-associated CRC.
Neurons face unique challenges in maintaining protein homeostasis due to their tortuous morphology and extended processes. Proteolytic organelles are typically transported retrogradely towards their soma for degradation where lysosomes are enriched, but some organelles are larger than these neuronal processes, questioning how these organelles are degraded. Here we show that microglia, the resident immune cells of the brain, extract proteolytic organelles from neurons both in vitro and in vivo. Microglia make transient contact with neuronal membranes where proteolytic organelles are stationed beneath. At these sites of interaction, microglia pinch off a small portion of the neuronal process containing the organelle, leaving the rest of the process intact. We term this process 'skoupocytosis' after the Greek word for garbage. Phosphatidylserine (PS) lipase ABHD16a accumulates near these proteolytic organelles and converts PS into lyso-PS to initiate microglial skoupocytosis. Skoupocytosis bypasses the need for retrograde organelle transport, providing homeostatic advantages for neurons that must maintain function in processes that extend extraordinarily long distances from the cell soma.
Cytosolic redox balance is tightly coupled to aspartate synthesis through the malate-aspartate shuttle, and limiting the malate-aspartate shuttle has been proposed to constrain tumor growth by restricting aspartate availability. Here we show that tumors derived from cancer cells lacking GOT1 and GOT2, the cytosolic and mitochondrial aspartate aminotransferases essential for as-partate production and malate-aspartate shuttle function, grow despite impaired canonical as-partate synthesis. This is because cytosolic redox state, not aspartate supply, is the primary metabolic bottleneck in GOT1/GOT2 knockout cells. Using single-cell transcriptomics, metabo-lite tracing, and a loss-of-function CRISPR screen, we find that these tumors engage an adaptive bypass in which availability of asparagine, a product of aspartate, enables serine- and methio-nine-dependent transsulfuration to generate α-ketobutyrate, whose reduction regenerates cy-tosolic NAD⁺ and restores redox homeostasis. Pharmacological inhibition or genetic ablation of transsulfuration abrogates this asparagine-driven rescue. These findings define asparagine as a regulator of cytosolic NAD⁺/NADH balance and reveal a link between amino acid metabolism and redox control that suggests transsulfuration as a targetable vulnerability in tumor redox maintenance.Aspartate synthesis and cytosolic redox balance are both coupled through the malate-aspartate shuttle. We show that the cytosolic NAD⁺/NADH ratio, not aspartate supply, is a critical output of the malate-aspartate shuttle for tumor growth. Availability of asparagine, a product of aspar-tate, enables serine- and methionine-dependent transsulfuration to restore cytosolic NAD⁺/NADH balance, proliferation and tumor growth independently of canonical aspartate pro-duction by the malate-aspartate shuttle. This defines asparagine as a regulator of cytosolic re-dox and identifies transsulfuration as a targetable vulnerability in tumor redox maintenance.
Melanoma exhibits high metastatic potential and therapy resistance, driven by metabolic flexibility and structural remodeling. In this study, we performed an integrated analysis of the SK-MEL-30 melanoma cell line using function-focused quantitative proteomics and amino acid profiling. Proteins were quantified using a label-free normalized spectral abundance factor (NSAF) approach, while intracellular amino acids were measured by LC-MS/MS. Functional enrichment analyses based on KEGG and Gene Ontology were used to associate protein expression patterns with metabolic pathways. A total of 148 proteins were identified, predominantly representing high-abundance and functionally relevant components of metabolic and structural pathways. Key cytoskeletal proteins, including vimentin and S100A11, were among the most abundant, consistent with a mesenchymal-like and potentially invasive phenotype. Metabolic profiling revealed elevated expression of glycolytic enzymes such as PKM and LDHA, consistent with a glycolytic shift. Increased levels of l-glutamine and l-glutamic acid, together with GOT2 expression, suggest an active glutamine aspartate axis supporting tricarboxylic acid cycle activity and nitrogen metabolism. In addition, elevated levels of stress-response proteins, including HSP90 and SOD2, indicate a proteostatic network adapted to metabolic stress. Although the proteome coverage is lower than that reported in large-scale deep proteomic studies, the NSAF-based workflow was designed to capture the most abundant and functionally relevant proteins, providing a focused overview of the major metabolic and structural characteristics of SK-MEL-30 melanoma cells. Overall, this integrative analysis highlights the coordination between metabolic reprogramming and cytoskeletal organization in SK-MEL-30 cells and suggests that glutamine-dependent metabolic pathways warrant further investigation as potential therapeutic targets in melanoma.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sertoli cells (SCs) provide essential metabolic support for spermatogenesis, including lactate production for developing germ cells. While insulin's role in SC glucose metabolism is well-established, its regulation of fatty acid (FA) uptake and oxidation-critical for germ cell support and residual body clearance-remains unknown. Insulin deficiency in diabetes mellitus (DM) impairs male fertility through mechanisms that may involve disrupted SC metabolism.To determine whether insulin regulates FA uptake and oxidation in SCs and to elucidate mechanistic links between insulin deficiency and impaired spermatogenesis.The TM4 mouse SC line was cultured under defined in vitro conditions in the presence of insulin (10 µg/mL) versus under insulin-deprived conditions for 18 h. FA metabolism was assessed using RT-qPCR (FAT/CD36, ACADL, and CPT1A), Western blotting, 1H-NMR spectroscopy, functional FA uptake assay, Oil Red O staining, JC-1 mitochondrial assessment, and Seahorse real-time metabolic analysis.Insulin deprivation significantly reduced glucose consumption, glutamine consumption, and lactate production. FAT/CD36 expression and FA uptake capacity decreased markedly, with reduced intracellular lipid droplet accumulation. Conversely, FA oxidation enzyme expression (CPT1A, ACADL) remained unchanged, as did mitochondrial membrane potential and oxygen consumption rates with/without etomoxir.In the TM4 mouse SC line under defined in vitro conditions, insulin selectively regulates FA uptake while maintaining no control over downstream FA oxidation. This dissociation reveals that insulin modulates FA entry for storage and/or biosynthesis, while FA oxidation operates constitutively. Impaired FA uptake under insulin deficiency may compromise SC support for spermatogenesis, providing a mechanistic link to male infertility in DM that requires confirmation in primary SCs and in vivo diabetic models.© 2026 American Society of Andrology and European Academy of Andrology.
N-acetylaspartate (NAA) is the most abundant neuron-enriched acetylated metabolite in the mammalian brain, but its metabolic purpose remains unresolved. We developed a simplified kinetic model of mitochondrial aspartate metabolism to test whether NAA synthesis by aspartate N-acetyltransferase (ASPNAT) acts as a thermodynamic "relief valve" for mitochondrial aspartate aminotransferase (AAT) under the low-oxaloacetate (OAA) conditions expected in neuronal mitochondria. In the mitochondrial-compartment model, ASPNAT lowered steady-state mitochondrial aspartate from 141 to 105 μM and increased net forward AAT flux by 30.9%. The relative AAT-relief effect was largest when OAA and aspartate-glutamate carrier 1 (AGC1/Aralar1)-mediated export were both low, whereas acetyl-CoA availability controlled the substrate-supported capacity for NAA synthesis. That places the relief effect in a narrow regime where product removal matters most. ASPNAT titration produced a graded, concentration-dependent response rather than a binary on/off response. Energetic comparisons showed that the gain in AAT-linked support comes at a modest acetyl-CoA cost, which makes NAA synthesis easier to sustain in carbon-replete states than in carbon-poor ones. Some studies have suggested a secondary cytoplasmic site of NAA synthesis, and we therefore examined how the network response changed with a change in ASPNAT topology. Mitochondrial matrix ASPNAT increased forward AAT flux by 53.32%, whereas cytoplasmic ASPNAT decreased ASPNAT flux by 17.8%. Allowing OAA to vary preserved the positive ASPNAT-dependent relief of AAT flux, but because this simplified extension produced unrealistically low absolute fluxes, it is interpreted as a robustness check on the direction of the mechanism rather than as a prediction of physiological metabolic rates. These results identify mitochondrial NAA synthesis as a plausible thermodynamic relief valve for mitochondrial AAT and define a directional prediction that could test whether severe metabolic stress reroutes effective ASPNAT-linked aspartate metabolism.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) presents a growing global health challenge with limited therapeutic options. Rhein, an active anthraquinone derived from the traditional medicine rhubarb (Rheum palmatum L.), has demonstrated potential in alleviating metabolic liver disorders, yet its precise mechanism of action against MASH remains unclear.An integrated strategy combining network pharmacology, molecular docking, and experimental validation was employed. A "Rhein-MASH" target network was constructed to identify core targets. The in vivo therapeutic effects and dose dependency of Rhein were assessed in a choline-deficient, high-fat diet (CDAHFD)-induced mouse MASH model. In vitro mechanisms were investigated in PA/OA-treated AML12 hepatocytes using functional assays, pharmacological inhibitors, and siRNA-mediated gene knockdown. Key signaling molecules and gene expression were analyzed via Western blot, qPCR, and immunohistochemistry.Rhein treatment improved hepatic steatosis, inflammation, and liver injury in MASH mice in a dose-dependent manner without altering systemic lipid profiles. It selectively upregulated the expression of key genes involved in fatty acid β-oxidation (Acadl, Cpt1a) while suppressing pro-inflammatory cytokines (Tnf-α, Il-1β). Network pharmacology and molecular docking identified EGFR as a core target, with Rhein demonstrating potent binding affinity (docking score: -7.9 kcal/mol). In vitro experiments revealed that Rhein acts through EGFR to induces its autophosphorylation, and sequentially activates the downstream PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. This signaling module coordinately enhances fatty acid oxidation-related gene expression and reduces inflammatory gene expression partly through PPARα, thereby effectively ameliorating lipid accumulation and inflammatory phenotypes in hepatocytes.This study elucidates that Rhein ameliorates MASH by activating the EGFR/PI3K/AKT/PPARα pathway, which coordinately enhances hepatic fatty acid oxidation and suppresses inflammation. These findings position Rhein as a multi-target regulator and suggest the EGFR-PPARα axis is a promising therapeutic target for MASH.Copyright © 2026 Song, Hua, Zeng, Fu and Sui.
Vasculo-Behcet disease (VBD) is a complex form of systemic vasculitis with an unclear etiology. It is believed to arise from a combination of immune dysregulation, genetic susceptibility, and epigenetic influences. The disease can be life-threatening due to severe vascular complications such as occlusions, thrombosis, and aneurysm formation. This study aimed to explore the relationship between clinical manifestations and genetic findings in a patient with VBD from Pakistan, where awareness and genetic research on this condition remain limited. Five patients with clinically confirmed VBD were evaluated, and whole exome sequencing (WES) was performed in one patient to investigate potential disease-associated variants. All patients showed evidence of vascular inflammation. Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) was observed in three patients, while aneurysm, ST, venous stasis ulcer, and stroke were each identified in two. One patient presented with venous stasis thrombosis together with pulmonary and non-pulmonary arterial thrombosis and macroangiopathic ischemic changes. WES identified nineteen rare nonsynonymous variants (minor allele frequency < 1%) across nineteen genes. Phenotype-based database analysis identified four genes - DPEP1, DNAH5, RHOD, and LRP2 - with reported associations with vascular disorders. Pathway enrichment analysis using ClueGO highlighted seven genes - PAK2, RHOD, MST1, NPHS1, STAR, SLC25A5, and LRP2. Together, these analyses prioritized nine candidate genes with potential relevance to vascular pathology in VBD. Notably, variants in DPEP1 (c.750 C > G, p.Asp250Glu), DNAH5 (c.4807 C > A, p.Pro1603Thr), RHOD (c.244 C > T, p.Arg82Trp), and LRP2 (c.2636G > C, p.Trp879Ser) corresponded to the vascular manifestations observed in our patients, including thrombosis and vessel inflammation. As WES was performed in only one patient, these genetic findings should be considered exploratory. Nevertheless, the results provide preliminary insight into the genetic background of VBD in the Pakistani population and highlight candidate genes that warrant further investigation in larger patient cohorts.© 2026. The Author(s).
DNA methylation is an epigenetic modification that regulates gene expression in response to environmental exposures. We measured differential DNA methylation levels in blood before after general anesthesia and surgery in participants with and without postoperative delirium (POD) and postoperative neurocognitive disorder (PNCD).Blood sampling, delirium assessment and cognitive testing were prospectively performed at baseline before non-cardiac, non-neurologic surgery, and at 24 hours (24h) and 6 weeks (6wk) thereafter in 94 participants comprising 13 with POD and 81 without POD, and 40 with PNCD and 54 without PNCD 6wk after surgery who were matched for age and sex in the INTUIT and MADCO cohorts. DNA methylation was assessed using the Illumina Infinium MethylationEPIC Beadchip.132 differentially methylated positions (DMPs) annotated to 198 differentially methylated genes (DMGs) were identified in 94 participants 24h after surgery compared to baseline with a local false discovery rate (LFDR) <0.05 including CHRNB1 , LGALS1 , SMAD4 , RYR2 , CHST11 , CDC25B , OBSCN , ABHD16A . No DMPs were identified between samples collected at baseline compared to 6wk after surgery. In baseline samples, 8 DMPs annotated to 12 DMGs were identified between participants who did and did not develop POD including MBTD1, BID, PPAN, ANGPTL6, PHF21B, and RBM5 . In 24h samples, 87 DMPs annotated to 91 DMGs were identified between participants with and without POD including CLEC19A, FILIP1, ERICH1, PSENEN, SLC6A3, and TMEM196. In 6wk samples, 1 DMP annotated to FILIP1 and LOC124901509 in participants with and without POD. No DMPs in baseline, 24h or 6wk blood samples were identified between patients with and without PNCD at 6k after surgery.Differential DNA methylation levels are present throughout the genome 24h after anesthesia and surgery. Differential DNA methylation levels before surgery and at 24h after surgery distinguishes patients with and without POD. Differential DNA methylation levels were not identified between baseline and 6wk after surgery in the entire cohort, or between patients with and without PNCD at 6 weeks.
Photoreceptor (PR) loss causes vision loss in many blinding diseases and effective therapies to prevent this cell loss are lacking. Aspartate aminotransferases (GOTs), located in the cytosol (GOT1) and mitochondria (GOT2), are key components of the malate-aspartate shuttle, which transfers reducing equivalents from cytosol to mitochondria. Previous work has implicated the GOTs as potential modulators of blinding retinal disease. To determine the roles of GOT1 and GOT2 in rod PRs, we generated rod PR-specific Got1 or Got2 conditional knockout mice (Got1 or Got2 cKO). We previously showed that Got1 cKO causes PR degeneration and is accompanied by NADH accumulation and a decreased retinal NAD+/NADH ratio. Here, we show that NADH oxidation via metabolic or genetic means prolongs PR survival in Got1 cKO animals, implicating NADH accumulation, or reductive stress, as a key driver of PR degeneration. In contrast, Got2 cKO causes minimal PR degeneration and alterations in retinal NADH and the NAD+/NADH ratio that oppose reductive stress. Interestingly, GOT2, but not GOT1, is decreased in multiple models of PR degeneration, including retinal detachment (RD) where the NAD+/NADH ratio favors a reductive state. Notably, loss of Got2 in PRs demonstrates a neuroprotective effect after experimental RD suggesting decreased GOT2 expression may be part of a stress response to promote PR survival. Overall, this study illustrates the differential dependence on the GOTs for PR health, provides evidence that an overly reductive environment is detrimental to PR survival, and identifies GOT2 as a novel therapeutic target with potentially broad application in blinding diseases.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Environmental factors are increasingly implicated in the etiology of autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are anthropogenic toxicants added as flame retardants to consumer products that have become ubiquitous environmental contaminants and disrupt thyroid hormone (TH) and neuroendocrine systems. We have previously shown that developmental PBDE exposure produces ASD-like traits with involvement of oxytocin (OXT)-thyroid hormone signaling. Limosilactobacillus reuteri (LR), a widely used probiotic bacterium, has been shown to improve social functioning and increase TH and OXT levels in murine models. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that LR supplementation (LR) prevents PBDE-induced deficits in socioemotional behavior with concomitant modulation of TH signaling genes on hypothalamic OXT neurons.C57BL/6N mouse offspring were exposed to a commercial penta-mixture of PBDE congeners, DE-71, at an environmentally realistic concentration, 0.1 mg/kg/d (DE-71), or to corn oil vehicle (VEH/CON) via their mothers during gestation and lactation. Offspring received supplementation with LR ATCC PTA 6475 (10 7 -10 8 CFU/mL, po) indirectly via the dam or continuation directly through adulthood. Unsupplemented controls were given saline.Fecal microbiome analysis in offspring confirmed colonization of LR at postnatal day (P) 40 and depletion by P104. LR treatment increased plasma total thyroxine in DE-71 and plasma OXT in VEH/CON dams. In DE-71 offspring of both sexes, LR normalized deficient scores on social novelty preference and emotional recognition in adult females and males and deficient long-term social recognition memory (SRM) in adult DE-71 females; DE-71 males were normal. Reduced olfactory dishabituation between two social odors may partly explain the compromised socioemotional behavior produced by DE-71 in an LR-dependent manner. Multiplex RNA in situ hybridization performed on immunoreactive OXT-ergic neurons in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVH) revealed significant upregulation of TH transporter monocarboxylate transporter 8 ( Mct8 ) and downregulation of iodothyronine deiodinase 3 ( Dio3 ) in DE-71 relative to VEH/CON females. This toxicant-induced reprogramming was prevented by probiotic treatment. DE-71 males expressed reduction in Mct8 and Dio3 transcripts on OXT-ergic neurons with minimal LR protection. In the female supraoptic nucleus (SON), Mct8 and Dio3 were downregulated by DE-71 and normalized in DE-71+LR; there were no group effects on transcript levels in male SON. Results of fecal 16S rRNA sequencing indicated reduced α-diversity and altered β-diversity in the gut bacterial community of female but not male DE-71 exposed offspring; most changes were correctable by LR. Alterations in taxa-level abundance caused by DE-71 and reversed by LR were observed in both sexes. These involved Bifidobacterium, Coprococcus, Desulfovibrio, Oscillospira , and Peptococcaceae in females and Desulfovibrionaceae, Rikenella , and Turicibacter in males. Exposed dams showed no detriment in α- and β-diversity while showing reduced abundance of several Firmicutes and Proteobacteria taxa that could be rescued by LR. The relative abundance of Lactobacillus was upregulated in DE-71 males and DE-71+LR males and dams.These results indicate that developmental probiotic supplementation effectively mitigated organohalogen-induced ASD-like deficits in socioemotional behavior and partially corrected dysbiosis of gut bacterial communities in exposed offspring of both sexes. Concomitantly, PBDEs altered the expression of TH regulatory genes Mct8 and Dio3 in PVH OXT neurons in a sex-dependent manner, suggesting that TH regulation of OXT neuroendocrine cells may modulate the emergence of toxicant-induced ASD-relevant behavior. While LR reinstated normal behavioral outcomes in PBDE-exposed offspring of both sexes, coincident normalization of hypothalamic TH signaling transcripts occurred more broadly in females, indicating the existence of unique parallel processes influencing the preventive effects of LR on ASD-relevant behavioral deficits in both sexes.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1527481.].Copyright © 2026 Yan, Li, Zhao, Guo, Yang, Liu, Zhou, Gao and Luo.
Homocystinuria is an uncommon metabolic disorder characterized by increased homocysteine concentrations. The condition may arise from mutations in the cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) gene (classic) or in other genes associated with the cobalamin and folate metabolic pathways (non-classic). This study investigated the genetic diversity and clinical outcomes of homocystinuria in an Iranian pediatric population, exploring genotype-phenotype correlations. A multicenter cross-sectional study carried out from January 2024 to August 2025 at three principal referral centers in Iran. A total of 48 pediatric patients diagnosed with homocystinuria and possessing whole-exome sequencing (WES) results were included. Clinical data, including neurological, ocular, and vascular manifestations, were extracted. The majority (52.1%) of patients in the cohort had B12-related homocystinuria, 25% had CBS-related, and 22.9% had B9-related problems. In most patients (93.7%) at least one neurological symptom was identified, with seizures and developmental delay being the most common. Nine patients (18.7%) had ocular symptoms, 7 patients (14.5%) had skeletal symptoms and skin/hair manifestations were seen in 5 patients (10.4%). Classical homocystinuria was associated with significantly elevated plasma homocysteine levels in comparison to non-classical subtypes (p = 0.011). Novel variants were identified in 10 patients (20.8%), affecting MMACHC , ABCD4 (associated with Cobalamin J type), HCFC1 (associated with Cobalamin X type), CBS, TCN2 and MTHFS genes. This study illustrates the genetic diversity and clinical variability of homocystinuria in Iran. The results highlight the clinical importance of regional genetic databases and whole-exome sequencing in the diagnosis and management of this rare metabolic disorder.© 2026. The Author(s).
Carotid artery intima-media thickness (cIMT) is a highly heritable measure of subclinical atherosclerosis and a predictor of cardiovascular diseases. However, knowledge about its shared genetic basis remains limited. The majority of genome-wide association studies have been conducted in individuals of European ancestry, leaving the genetic determinants of cIMT in non-European ancestry populations largely understudied.A single-trait genome-wide association study was performed in 22 370 participants from the China Kadoorie Biobank to identify new genetic variants associated with cIMT. We then leveraged cIMT and cardiometabolic disease and trait data from populations of European and East Asian ancestries, to conduct linkage disequilibrium score regression and genome-wide cross-trait analysis, followed by gene-based analysis and Mendelian randomization.We identified 2 genome-wide significant loci for cIMT in the overall China Kadoorie Biobank analysis, including the known APOE locus and a novel locus at GGT5. In addition, a female-specific analysis identified a further novel locus at LINC02732. cIMT showed significant positive genetic correlations with coronary artery disease, type 2 diabetes, body mass index, and systolic blood pressure in both European and East Asian populations. Pleiotropic analysis found 110 and 699 significant pleiotropic variants in 4 trait pairs for East Asian and European populations, respectively, with 27 and 186 colocalized loci detected. Gene-based analysis highlighted important biological pathways involving lipid metabolism and carbohydrate metabolism. Mendelian randomization estimates indicated that higher systolic blood pressure and body mass index, and coronary artery disease and type 2 diabetes, were causal for cIMT, and a reverse effect was observed between cIMT and systolic blood pressure.Our large-scale genome-wide association study of cIMT identified novel loci in the Chinese population and shared genetic underpinnings and causal relationships with cardiometabolic diseases and traits. These findings potentially provide targets for intervention that may allow the development of new strategies targeting this aspect of atherosclerosis.
Mouse embryonic stem cell (ESC) cloning via nuclear transfer is a potential platform for direct generation of genetically modified mice. However, the low G1 cell population in ESCs hampers their broader use in nuclear transfer, as S-phase donors induce 1-cell arrest in reconstructed oocytes. This study aimed to enrich the G1-phase population of ESCs to improve ESC-based cloning efficiency. We demonstrated that EB3 ESCs derived from the 129/Ola strain and C57BL/6×129/Sv hybrid ESCs exhibited superior traits for nuclear transfer in terms of cleavage rate and blastocyst formation but showed reduced efficiency in development to term. Transcriptomic analyses revealed that this failure was likely due to aberrant imprinted gene expression in critical clusters, such as H19-Igf2 or Dlk1-Dio3. In contrast, although cloned offspring were successfully generated at a promising rate (approximately 6%) using EGR-R01 (BDF1×129/Sv) ESCs, early cleavage to the 2-cell embryo was inefficient. To address this, we induced cell cycle synchronization by culturing ESCs to overconfluency, which markedly increased the G1 proportion, as confirmed via FACS analysis. This alteration led to a significant improvement in first cleavage efficiency without compromising the developmental potential of ESC-derived cloned embryos to live birth. Overall, our study highlights the importance of both cell cycle synchronization and imprinting maintenance in improving ESC cloning efficiency to facilitate broad applications, including the direct generation of genetically modified mice.
Endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) are attracting growing interest due to their effects on humans and on ecosystems. Among suspected EDCs, fluoride is a widespread pollutant in aquatic ecosystems, particularly as a result of fluoridation of drinking water. It has also been described to affect fish development. The aim of this study was to determine if chronic fluoride exposure could affect early life stages of rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) especially their growth and thyroid hormone system. Trout embryos were exposed from 6 to 40 days post-fertilization, to 0, 1.5, 5, 17, 27.5, or 51.5 mg/L. Growth was significantly inhibited by the exposure with shorter larvae and delayed resorption of the yolk sac. Fluoride exposure increased axial skeleton malformations, but had no effect on the occurrence of edema or hemorrhage. Genes tshβ, dio1, dio2, dio3, and thrα, coding for proteins involved in the thyroid hormone system, were overexpressed in a dose-dependent manner. While histopathological changes of thyroid follicles were observed in larvae exposed to fluoride, no difference in the levels of thyroid hormones was highlighted. In conclusion, results indicate that fluoride exposure during early life stages of rainbow trout might affect their growth and development and exhibit multisite effects on the thyroid hormone system.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
The Rudolf Buchheim Award is an annual prize awarded by the German Society for Experimental and Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology (DGPT) to recognize outstanding work from young researchers in the fields of pharmacology and toxicology. One of the 2026 Rudolf Buchheim Award recipients, Akila Chandrasekar, investigated how hypothalamic tanycytes regulate local thyroid hormone (TH) availability through TH transporters and deiodinases in the lab of Prof. Dr. Markus Schwaninger under the guidance of PD Dr. Helge Müller-Fielitz at the University of Lübeck. Her research highlights the role of TSH, from the pars distalis, in inducing the expression of TH-gatekeeper genes Slco1c1, Dio2, and Dio3 in primary tanycytes and ex vivo hypothalamic slices. Using pharmacological approaches, she identified two parallel signaling pathways: a Gαs/cAMP/PKA/CREB-mediated pathway which regulates the induction of Slco1c1, Dio2, and Dio3 and a Gαq/PKC/ERK-mediated pathway that regulates the induction of Dio3. Her findings establish TSH, from the pars distalis, as a direct regulator of hypothalamic TH homeostasis and suggest a feedback mechanism enabling central adaptation to hypothyroidism.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
We aimed to investigate the potential significance of immune response in Stomach adenocarcinoma (STAD). We obtained 118 immune related DEGs, including 49 up-regulated and 69 down-regulated genes. The results showed that the high expression of CD36, GGT5 and DCN. The survival analysis found that M2 macrophages, resting mast cells and memory resting CD4 T cells were significantly related to the prognosis. IHC showed that CD36 had a higher expression level in the primary tumor, DCN was highly expressed in both tumor and paracancer tissues, however, GGT5 was not expressed in tumor tissue. CD36 may be possible targets for STAD diagnosis and treatment.
Thiram, a dithiocarbamate fungicide widely used in agriculture, poses environmental risks to non-target marine organisms due to its persistence in aquatic ecosystems. This study investigates the impact of thiram on the embryo-larval development of the black sea urchin Arbacia lixula, a sensitive model organism in ecotoxicology. A. lixula fertilized eggs were exposed to increasing concentrations of thiram (0.24 to 30 μg/L) for 72 h post-fertilization (hpf), and dose-dependent morphological alterations, developmental delays, and mortality were observed at both 48 hpf pluteus and 72 hpf ampol-like stages. Generalized Linear Models (GLMs) revealed a thiram Effect Concentration (EC50) of 2.76 μg/L and a Lethal Concentration (LC50) of 26.42 μg/L, with a Teratogenic Index (TI) of 9.57 and a Lowest Observed Effect Concentration (LOEC) of 0.24 μg/L, indicating a marked teratogenic potential of thiram. Gene expression analysis revealed up-regulation of biomarkers related to skeletogenesis (MSP130 and SM30) and endocrine regulation (DIO1), revealing biomineralization impairment and potential modulation of TH-like developmental pathways, respectively. Biochemical assays revealed onset of oxidative stress-related enzymatic responses due to altered enzymatic activities of glutathione S-transferase (GST) and catalase (CAT), besides possible impairment of cholinergic-related processes due to reduced acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity. Metabolomic profiling by 1H NMR spectroscopy confirmed the altered skeletogenesis, redox imbalance, AChE modulation, and disrupted energy metabolism, as also supported by the metabolic pathway network and enrichment investigation. These findings suggest that thiram acts as a multifactorial toxicant and possible interference with thyroid hormone-like signaling, highlighting the vulnerability of marine organisms at their early life stages to sublethal chemical exposures, and underscoring the need for stricter environmental monitoring.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Combined modulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid (HPT) and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axes is known to play a critical role in maintaining physiological stability in response to stress. In this study, stress induced modulation of these axes was examined using 20 pigs/treatment either weaned (WN), weaned with feed/water restriction 9 h (FR), transported 9 h (TRANS), or remaining with sow (SOS) and euthanized at 32 or 56 h post-weaning. Serum cortisol, thyroxine (T4), and triiodothyronine (T3) were measured before weaning and after 24, 32, and 56 h with no difference in cortisol concentrations among treatments at any timepoint. However, both T3 and T4 decreased post-weaning in FR, TRANS, and WN compared to SOS. Expression of 23 genes of interest was evaluated across the hypothalamus, pituitary, thyroid, and adrenal glands of TRANS and SOS pigs at 56 h to understand the underlying mechanism. TSHB, DIO3, and POMC expression was decreased in the pituitary while DIO3 in the thyroid was increased, with upregulation in MC2R also observed. Collectively, these results suggest acute stressors in swine can induce type I allostasis within the HPT axis and modulate sensitivity within the HPA.© 2026 The Author(s). Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42411498 is a review article
Background/Objectives: Seasonal crude protein (CP) and phosphorus (P) deficiency in northern Australian pastures reduces feed intake and growth of grazing ruminants, but the hepatic mitochondrial mechanisms underlying this response remain unclear. We characterized the hepatic mitochondrial transcriptome of sheep exposed to CP-P deficiency or matched-intake feed restriction. Methods: Merino wethers were assigned for 63 d to one of three treatments (n = 8/group): High CP-P, Low CP-P, or Restricted, in which High CP-P feed was offered at the same energy intake as the Low CP-P group. Liver RNA was sequenced, and transcripts encoding mitochondrial proteins were identified using MitoCarta 3.0. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were defined as adjusted p < 0.05 and |log2FC| ≥ 0.585. Results: Of 804 mitochondrial genes detected, 83 were differentially expressed in at least one pairwise comparison. The greatest transcriptional response occurred in contrasts against High CP-P (Low CP-P vs. High CP-P: 38 DEGs in 8 enriched pathways; Restricted vs. High CP-P: 37 DEGs in 10 enriched pathways). In both low-intake treatments, ALDH1L2, ALDH1L1, SHMT2, and DMGDH were upregulated, suggesting altered folate-mediated one-carbon metabolism. Restricted sheep also showed higher expression of several SLC25A transporters (SLC25A4, SLC25A28, SLC25A29, SLC25A33, and SLC25A34), indicative of enhanced mitochondrial nucleotide and metabolite exchange under CP-P adequate energy restriction. In contrast, Low CP-P sheep showed higher expression of SLC25A15 and SLC25A25 relative to either High CP-P or Restricted sheep, a nutrient-deficiency specific transporter response. CKMT2 expression was also higher in Restricted sheep than in both other groups. Conclusions: These findings suggest that reduced metabolizable energy intake was associated with the bulk of the hepatic mitochondrial transcriptional response, particularly in folate-mediated one-carbon metabolism, whereas CP-P deficiency was associated with a smaller but distinct transporter signature. The liver mitochondrial transcriptome may provide mechanistic insight into nutritional adaptation under CP and P deficiency in grazing sheep.
Sunitinib is an important therapeutic option for renal cell carcinoma (RCC), but reduced response to sunitinib still limits its clinical benefit. This study explored the mechanism underlying reduced sunitinib sensitivity in RCC and aimed to identify potential strategies to improve sunitinib response.RCC organoids were established and characterized, and sunitinib-responsive genes were screened by transcriptomic analysis. Public datasets and clinical RCC samples were used to evaluate the clinical relevance of ALDH1L2. ALDH1L2 overexpression and knockdown were performed in RCC organoids to examine its effects on sunitinib sensitivity and ferroptosis-related changes. Organoid-derived xenograft models were used for in vivo validation. Molecular docking, cytotoxicity assays, CETSA, SPR, and functional experiments were used to screen and validate candidate compounds targeting ALDH1L2.Sunitinib inhibited RCC organoid growth, with IC50 values of approximately 8 μM. Transcriptomic analysis showed that ALDH1L2 was upregulated after sunitinib treatment. Clinical analyses indicated that ALDH1L2 was highly expressed in RCC tissues and was associated with poorer survival and advanced stage. In RCC organoids, ALDH1L2 overexpression attenuated sunitinib-induced ROS accumulation and ferroptosis-related changes, as reflected by changes in GPX4, SLC7A11, GSH/GSSG, NADP+ /NADPH, Fe2 +, and MDA. In contrast, ALDH1L2 knockdown enhanced these changes and increased the sensitivity of RCC organoids to sunitinib. In organoid-derived xenograft models, ALDH1L2 overexpression reduced the antitumor effect of sunitinib and decreased tumor ROS accumulation. Erastin counteracted the protective effect of ALDH1L2 overexpression. Hederacolchiside A1 (HA-1) was identified as a candidate compound targeting ALDH1L2. HA-1 reduced ALDH1L2 protein abundance, altered its thermal stability, enhanced the inhibitory effect of sunitinib, and counteracted ALDH1L2-mediated sunitinib tolerance in RCC organoids.These findings suggest that ALDH1L2 contributes to reduced sunitinib sensitivity in RCC organoids by attenuating ferroptosis-related responses. HA-1 may improve the response of RCC organoids to sunitinib by targeting ALDH1L2, supporting further evaluation of this combination strategy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Obesity and its associated disorders of glucose and lipid metabolism have become increasingly significant public health concerns. Bariatric surgery is an effective intervention for severe obesity and related metabolic comorbidities. This study aims to investigate the effects of bariatric surgery on glucose and lipid metabolism in high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obese mice.An obesity mouse model was established. Four-week-old male C57BL/6J mice (n=32) were randomly divided into a control (CTL) group (n=8) and an HFD group (n=24). At 20 weeks of age, HFD mice were further divided into 3 subgroups (n=8 per group): a HFD-HFD group, a sham-operated group (HFD-SHAM group), and an HFD-sleeve gastrectomy (SG) group. Body weight and food intake were recorded weekly. Intraperitoneal glucose tolerance tests (IPGTT) and intraperitoneal insulin tolerance tests (IPITT) were performed at 20 weeks (preoperatively) and 24 weeks (4 weeks postoperatively). At 24 weeks, fasting blood samples and beige, white, and brown adipose tissues were collected. Serum levels of free fatty acids (FFA), total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (TG), and insulin were measured. Transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses were conducted to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and differential metabolites between the HFD-SHAM and HFD-SG groups. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses were performed, followed by integrative analysis of transcriptomic and metabolomic data.Four weeks after surgery, compared with the HFD-HFD and HFD-SHAM groups, the HFD-SG group showed significantly reduced body weight and food intake (all P<0.05), improved glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity (both P<0.05), and decreased levels of insulin, free fatty acids (FFA), total cholesterol (TC), and triglycerides (TG) (all P<0.05). Transcriptomic analysis identified 763 DEGs between the HFD-SG and HFD-SHAM groups, including 384 upregulated and 379 downregulated genes. GO and KEGG enrichment analyses revealed activation of pathways such as steroid hormone biosynthesis. Metabolomic analysis identified 16 differential metabolites enriched in pathways including ascorbate and aldarate metabolism and folate-mediated one-carbon metabolism. Integrative analysis revealed that steroid biosynthesis and folate-mediated one-carbon metabolism pathways were significantly associated between the two groups. In the steroid biosynthesis pathway, genes including LSS, Nsdhl, DHCR24, Hsd17b7, MSMO1, SQLE, and CYP51 were upregulated in all three adipose tissues in the HFD-SG group but downregulated in the HFD-SHAM group, whereas the metabolite androstenediol was decreased in the HFD-SG group. In the folate-mediated one-carbon metabolism pathway, Aldh1l2 and GNMT were upregulated only in beige adipose tissue of the HFD-SHAM group, while TYMS and Sardh were upregulated in beige and white adipose tissues of the HFD-SG group. The metabolite deoxythymidine monophosphate was increased in the HFD-SG group, consistent with gene expression trends.SG significantly reduced body weight and food intake, improved glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity, and corrected lipid metabolism disorders in HFD-induced obese mice. Bariatric surgery regulates steroid biosynthesis and folate-mediated one-carbon metabolism pathways in adipose tissue, altering key gene and metabolite expression profiles. These findings suggest that bariatric surgery improves systemic glucose and lipid metabolism by remodeling metabolic pathways in adipose tissue, providing novel molecular insights for the treatment of obesity and related metabolic diseases.
Luminal breast cancer is rising rapidly among East Asian women, particularly younger patients, with variable clinical outcome, yet current risk-stratification models inadequately predict early recurrence of under-studied young-onset cases. We hypothesize that the interplay between endogenous mutagenic processes and overlooked environmental carcinogen exposure drives molecular diversity, revealing novel etiologic and therapeutic insights.We performed integrative proteogenomic profiling of 164 prospective, treatment-naïve early-stage Taiwanese breast cancer patients using whole-exome sequencing, transcriptomics, proteomics, and phosphoproteomics. Functional validation in luminal models confirmed therapeutic vulnerabilities and biomarkers, with an independent cohort (n = 270) used to stratify high-risk recurrence patients.Our integrative proteogenomic analysis revealed distinct molecular etiologies and actionable vulnerabilities. For the first time, mutation signature analysis revealed both environmental carcinogen exposure (DBAC) and endogenous APOBEC mutagenesis as key contributors to poor disease-free survival, particularly in younger patients. A high-mutation-burden, immune-evasive subgroup revealed immunoepigenetic vulnerabilities. DBAC-driven tumors exhibited overexpression of ROS-detoxifying enzymes, DNA-damage checkpoint activation, and suppressed DNA repair pathways, supporting an environmental-genomic cooperative mechanism. APOBEC-associated tumors exhibited upregulation of APOBEC3B/3F/3G, steroid hormone biosynthesis enzymes, and downstream oncogenic signaling, forming an immunotherapy-responsive subtype. Proteomic classification further resolved luminal heterogeneity beyond PAM50, identifying two clinically relevant groups: (1) a young DBAC-proteome subset with suppressed DNA-repair machinery and favorable chemotherapy response; and (2) a recurrence-prone subtype characterized by co-activating ER, PI3K-AKT-mTOR, and CDK4/6/9 signaling. Functional validation demonstrated that selective CDK9 inhibition targeting the p-POLR2A-Ser2 axis significantly outperformed CDK4/6 blockade. Furthermore, a companion panel (HDAC2, ALDH1L2, ARF4, SCAMP3) stratified high-risk recurrence patients in an independent cohort, supporting biomarker-guided therapy for aggressive luminal breast cancer.This study uncovers environmental mutagenesis as a previously overlooked but critical driver of luminal breast cancer heterogeneity in East Asian patients. We establish a proteogenomics-transformative scheme to guide risk stratification and subtype-specific vulnerabilities, offering a precision oncology strategy for early-stage East Asian breast cancer management.© 2026. The Author(s).
Arachidonic acid (AA) metabolism plays essential roles in inflammation, tissue regeneration, immune regulation, and tumorigenesis. However, the prognostic significance of genetic variants in AA metabolism genes for hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains unclear. We analyzed 56 AA metabolism-related genes in 866 HBV-HCC patients using Cox proportional hazards regression, with Bayesian false discovery probability and false positive report probability for multiple testing correction. Two independent SNPs, CYP2A6 rs28399433 A > C (HR = 1.30, 95% CI = 1.07-1.58, P = 0.008) and ABHD12 rs3827014 C > T (HR = 0.69, 95% CI = 0.52-0.93, P = 0.013), were identified. A genetic score combining protective alleles showed a dose-dependent association with improved overall survival (Ptrend<0.001), with significant multiplicative interactions with smoking (Pinteraction=0.016) and alcohol consumption (Pinteraction=0.049), and additive interactions for smoking (RERI = 0.65, 95% CI = 0.10-1.19) and BCLC stage B/C (RERI = 1.25, 95% CI = 0.17-2.33). Functional validation with luciferase reporter assays demonstrated allele-specific effects on gene expression (P < 0.001). Lower CYP2A6 and higher ABHD12 levels in HCC tissues compared to normal were observed in the UALCAN database (P = 6.43 × 10⁻⁷ for CYP2A6; P < 1.00 × 10⁻¹² for ABHD12) and in 103 paired tumor/normal tissues. Survival analysis using the KMplot database indicated that decreased CYP2A6 and increased ABHD12 expression were associated with poorer survival (P < 0.001 and P = 0.008, respectively). These findings suggest that functional variants in CYP2A6 and ABHD12 may serve as novel survival biomarkers for HBV-HCC by regulating gene expression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Controlling the generation of toxic by-products in mammalian bioprocess to maximize therapeutic protein production and glycosylation patterns is a challenge. Intracellular metabolism is often not well-regulated and known to secrete toxic intermediate by-products which hampers cellular performance and negatively impacts critical quality attributes (CQA) of cells. Previous studies have identified trigonelline (TRI), n-acetyl putrescine (NAP), aconitic acid (AA), and cytidine monophosphate (CMP) generated through CHO cell metabolism and verified their negative impacts on growth and antibody production. In this approach, a genetic engineering strategy was developed to control downstream accumulation of inhibitory metabolites. The study successfully identified four different metabolic genes in CHO cells, including Cat (nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism) to control the generation of TRI, Got1 and Hoga1 (proline metabolism) to control the generation of NAP, Got1 (TCA cycle) to control the generation of AA, and Slc35a1 (n-glycan biosynthesis) to control the generation of CMP. Each target gene-of-interest (GOI) was cloned from CHO genomic library, inserted into linearized vector plasmid, and subsequently transfected into cells. CQA of the bioprocess realized 22-30% increase in peak cell density, 16-22% increase overall IVCD, with an improving growth rate during cellular expansion phase when comparing engineered cells against control cells. The study also conducted a follow-up quadruple transfection study where all four GOIs were co-transfected into cells at ¼ of the total DNA concentration per GOI. An increase in cellular performance was also realized, as increases in peak VCD (17% increase), cumulative IVCD (17% increase), and growth rate were achieved. Both studies also found higher IgG1 antibody synthesis when cell metabolism was better regulated, as the studies measured 4% to 40% titer increase across all engineered cells when compared against control cells. The study also measured higher levels of G1F and G2F glycans with decreased level of G0F across all transfected cells, further indicating improvement in bioprocess, as cells were able to produce a higher fraction of semi-complex and complex versus simple glycoforms. Further investigation revealed that Cat and Slc35a1 exhibited comparable expression levels in the MG condition to their single-gene conditions (within 1% and 10% difference, respectively), corresponding to modest titer improvements closest to the control. These findings suggest that when all four genes are co-expressed, Cat and Got1 may act as rate-limiting factors influencing both cellular phenotypes and titer production. In both studies, the concentrations of downstream metabolic inhibitors were measured to be significantly decreased when comparing engineered cells against control cells, further demonstrating that overexpression of genes to re-allocate metabolic fluxes away from synthesizing toxic by-products can significantly improve cellular growth and protein synthesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
HOGA1 is expressed mainly in the liver and kidney, and mutations of this gene were reported to be the cause of primary hyperoxaluria type III. In malignant tumors, HOGA1 has been reported to function as a suppressor in pancreatic cancer. But its role in renal cell carcinoma remained undetermined. This study aims to explore the expression, prognostic value, immune landscape, and drug response associations of HOGA1 in clear cell renal cell carcinoma(ccRCC).The Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was carried out to illuminate the protein expression of HOGA1 in ccRCC and normal renal tissues. Several publicly available databases and bioinformatics analyses were performed to detect the role of HOGA1 in ccRCC.Bioinformatics analysis and IHC indicated that HOGA1 expression was obviously reduced in ccRCCs compared with normal renal tissues. And Multivariate analysis clarified that HOGA1 mRNA expression was an independent prognostic factor in ccRCC. Patients with lower HOGA1 expression levels had a worse prognosis. Additionally, Enrichment analysis showed that HOGA1-associated genes were mainly enriched in drug metabolism in ccRCC. HOGA1 showed weak but statistically significant negative correlations with the IC50 value of Afatinib, Erlotinib, Rapamycin, and Sorafenib. In addition, HOGA1 expression was found to be correlated with immune infiltration and immune evasion.Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) remains a significant clinical challenge due to its aggressive nature and limited therapeutic options. Our analysis highlights HOGA1 as a potential tumor suppressor in ccRCC, with its reduced expression associated with poorer prognosis. Using bioinformatics tools, we revealed that lower HOGA1 expression correlates with increased immune evasion and metabolic dysregulation within the tumor microenvironment (TME), contributing to ccRCC progression. Specifically, we found that HOGA1 loss may enhance the recruitment of macrophages, myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), and cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), which play key roles in immune suppression and tumor survival. Moreover, HOGA1 expression was positively correlated with improved sensitivity to several chemotherapy drugs, suggesting its potential as a therapeutic target. These findings underscore the importance of HOGA1 in regulating both metabolic and immune landscapes in ccRCC and highlight its role as a novel prognostic biomarker. However, further validation through independent clinical cohorts and mechanistic studies, including in vitro and in vivo experiments, is needed to confirm these observations and explore the therapeutic potential of restoring HOGA1 function in ccRCC treatment.Overall, HOGA1 may serve as a suppressor in ccRCC. Downregulation of HOGA1 may facilitate the malignant progression of ccRCC by regulating TME and disrupting the metabolic balance. Consequently, HOGA1 may serve as a potential biomarker in ccRCC, though its therapeutic implications remain to be validated.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
ABHD12 is linked to cancer and neurodegeneration; we systematically characterized its pan-cancer role and validated its oncogenic function in breast cancer (BRCA) to guide mechanistic studies.We integrated multi-omics data from TCGA, GTEx, and various public platforms to analyze expression, prognosis, genetic variations, methylation, immune infiltration, and drug resistance. In qRT-PCR, Western blot, functional assays (CCK-8, wound healing, colony formation), and a nude mouse xenograft model, were conducted to validate ABHD12's role in BRCA.ABHD12 was significantly upregulated at both mRNA and protein levels across multiple cancers. High expression correlated with poorer overall survival in BRCA, GBM, LGG, LIHC, and UVM. It demonstrated strong to moderate diagnostic value. ABHD12 expression was associated with copy number variations (CNVs) across 23 cancers, but not with methylation. It also correlated with immune cell infiltration (especially with macrophage), tumor mutational burden, neoantigens, microsatellite instability, and immune-related genes in certain cancers, and was potentially linked to resistance to multiple chemotherapeutics. KEGG analysis indicated that ABHD12 may play a potential role in the AMPK pathway. In BRCA, ABHD12 was higher in tumors than normal tissues. Functional studies showed ABHD12 enhanced proliferation, invasion, and migration, while silencing suppressed these traits. In vivo, ABHD12-overexpressing cells formed larger tumors, confirming its tumor-promoting role.ABHD12 may act as an oncogene across multiple cancers, linked to poor prognosis, diagnostic potential, chemotherapy resistance, and immunotherapy response. Its dysregulation is driven by CNVs rather than promoter methylation. ABHD12 might modulate macrophage polarization via the AMPK signaling pathway, leading to the remodeling of the tumor immune microenvironment. In vitro and vivo studies confirm its pro-tumorigenic role in BRCA, highlighting ABHD12 as a multifunctional biomarker and a molecular nexus linking lipid metabolism, immunity, and treatment resistance-warranting further study.© 2026 Zhao et al.
Lung adenocarcinoma cells exhibit a marked propensity for brain metastasis, in which they face unique metabolic challenges imposed by the microenvironment. The mechanisms that enable lung adenocarcinoma cells to adapt to these constraints represent potential therapeutic targets. In this study, we identified the neuropeptide VGF as a clinically relevant driver of brain metastatic progression. VGF expression was markedly upregulated in lung adenocarcinoma brain metastases, and elevated VGF expression was associated with an increased risk of brain metastasis and poor survival outcomes. Moreover, brain-derived signals induced VGF expression in lung adenocarcinoma cells, promoting cell survival and proliferation through enhanced mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and ATP production. Mechanistically, the N-terminal domain of VGF-a nonclassically secreted peptide-interacted with the hydrolase domain of ABHD12B to suppress cardiolipin degradation, leading to increased cardiolipin levels, stabilization of mitochondrial membranes, and a shift toward mitochondrial fusion over excessive fission. These changes helped meet the heightened energetic demands of metastatic cells in the brain. Genetic deletion of the VGF N-terminal domain disrupted mitochondrial fusion, impaired oxidative metabolism, and significantly reduced brain colonization in mouse models of brain metastasis. Together, these findings uncover a role for VGF and establish the VGF-ABHD12B-cardiolipin axis as a critical mechanism underlying metabolic adaptation in lung adenocarcinoma brain metastases, highlighting the potential of this pathway as a therapeutic target for intervention.The N-terminal domain of VGF is required for sustaining mitochondrial fusion and oxidative phosphorylation to support metabolic adaptation in lung cancer brain metastases, underscoring a potentially targetable mechanism to impair brain colonization.©2026 American Association for Cancer Research.
Abnormally high levels of hypochlorite (ClO-) can cause serious damage to environmental and biological systems, thereby highlighting the necessity for detectors capable of sensitive monitoring and quantification of ClO- in these systems. In this study, we synthesized and evaluated a practical and portable fluorescent turn-off sensor, BHMT-Cl ((E)-2-(2-(3-(benzo[d]thiazol-2-yl)-2-hydroxy-5-methylbenzylidene)hydrazineyl)-N,N,N-trimethyl-2-oxoethan-1-aminium chloride), for the detection of ClO-. BHMT-Cl exhibited selective and sensitive detection of ClO- in pure water via a green fluorescence turn-off, with a critically low detection limit of 2.78 μM. The sensing mechanism was elucidated to involve the cleavage of the imine bond in BHMT-Cl, supported by 1H NMR titration, ESI-mass analysis, FT-IR and DFT calculations. BHMT-Cl was readily applied for the sensitive detection and quantification of ClO- in diverse environmental water samples and demonstrated portability through smartphone-based analysis and test kits. In biological applications, BHMT-Cl enabled bioimaging of ClO- in zebrafish as well as in fungal and plant systems, confirming its broad applicability. Overall, BHMT-Cl showed strong potential as a versatile tool for monitoring ClO- in biological and environmental matrix.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Protein biomarkers are increasingly recognized as indicators of metabolic status, immune response, and reproductive performance in cattle. However, comparative data among different breeds commonly raised in Indonesia remain limited.This study aimed to compare the specific proteins in follicular fluid (FF) of Bali and Brahman cows.Samples from FF (n = 20 pairs of ovarium) were analyzed for identification of specific proteins using LC-HRMS analysis.Proteomic analysis revealed distinct breed-specific FF profiles, with 16 proteins uniquely identified in Bali cattle and 23 proteins in Brahman. Bali FF was enriched with proteins associated with protease inhibition, coagulation regulation, extracellular matrix remodeling, and cytoskeletal dynamics, including CORO1C, ZER1, YARS1, and L3MBTL3. In contrast, Brahman FF showed enrichment of proteins involved in lipid oxidation, one-carbon metabolism, and peroxisomal activity, notably ACOX2, BHMT, and KIAA0586.Here, we present the proteomic characterization of FF from Bali and Brahman cattle, where several bioactive proteins are candidate proteins potentially associated with reproductive processes. These findings highlight the potential of protein biomarkers in guiding cattle breeding and management strategies in tropical regions.Copyright © 2026 Sri Gustina et al. Veterinary Medicine International published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Ferroptosis is being increasingly implicated in the pathophysiology of major depressive disorder (MDD). Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress is closely linked to ferroptosis, yet the endogenous regulators connecting ER dysfunction to ferroptosis during chronic stress remain unclear. Here, we report that the expression of mesencephalic astrocyte-derived neurotrophic factor (MANF), an ER stress-inducible protein, was upregulated in the hippocampus (Hip) of male mice subjected to chronic social defeat stress (CSDS). Hippocampal MANF overexpression alleviated depressive-like behaviors and suppressed ferroptosis, whereas MANF knockdown promoted stress susceptibility and facilitated ferroptosis. Ferrostatin-1 (Fer-1) mimicked the protective effects of MANF overexpression and rescued MANF deficiency-induced phenotypes. Mechanistically, MANF inhibited PERK/ATF4 signaling, and overexpression of PERK or ATF4 partially counteracted MANF-mediated protection, whereas their knockdown rescued MANF deficiency-induced phenotypes. Furthermore, ATF4 increased the promoter activity of glutathione-specific γ-glutamylcyclotransferase 1 (CHAC1) in an ATF4-binding-site-dependent manner, thereby impairing the SLC7A11/GPX4 anti-ferroptotic defense axis and driving ferroptosis. These findings identify hippocampal MANF as an endogenous protective factor that suppresses stress-induced ferroptosis through the PERK/ATF4 pathway and position MANF as a potential therapeutic target for MDD.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
SARS-CoV-2 has undergone rapid genetic evolution, leading to the emergence of new variants with distinct mutations impacting global public health. Upon infection, the virus triggers a robust inflammatory response characterized by the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines, which play a central role in lung injury. It also alters the host antioxidant response, causing oxidative stress that supports viral replication and cytokine overproduction. This study investigated key pathogenic effectors in Calu-3 and A549-ACE2/TMPRSS2 cells infected with SARS-CoV-2 variants, focusing on replication kinetics, cellular redox state, and inflammatory cytokine profile. A dramatic redox alteration in terms of glutathione (GSH) and Cysteine (Cys) was observed at 48 h p.i., along with a strong pro-inflammatory cytokine response , likely via activation of the JNK/AP-1 signaling pathway. To counteract these effects, two thiol molecules were tested: I-152, a monothiol conjugate of N-Acetyl-Cysteine (NAC) and β-mercaptoethylamine (MEA) and its dithiol derivative, I-152SdAc. Thiols restored GSH balance by enhancing the expression of Nrf2-mediated genes, such as glutamate-Cys ligase modifier subunit (GCLM), and counteracted AP-1-mediated pathway, resulting in a significant reduction of inflammation and viral replication. Antiviral and anti-inflammatory activities of thiols were confirmed in NHBE cells. These findings highlight that redox imbalance is a key pathogenetic event in SARS-CoV-2 infection. Notably, besides Nrf2 and AP-1, other redox-sensitive factors, such as the CHAC glutathione-specific gamma-glutamyl-cyclotransferase 1 (CHAC1), seem to contribute to the pathogenesis and may represent a new potential therapeutic target of redox active compounds. Therefore, the thiol-derived molecules act as broadly effective compounds by limiting virus replication and inflammation.
Background: Dihydromyricetin (DHM) is a food-derived flavonoid enriched in vine tea and has been reported to possess antioxidant and metabolism-regulating properties. This study was designed to characterize the multi-level nutritional responses to dietary DHM supplementation, with emphasis on hepatic redox-inflammatory status, jejunal barrier-related phenotypes, cecal microbiota remodeling, hepatic metabolomic alterations, and homocysteine (Hcy) metabolism-related markers in mice. Methods: Forty-eight healthy mice were assigned to a basal-diet control group or diets containing 50, 100, or 200 mg/kg DHM for 4 weeks. Growth performance, serum biochemistry, antioxidant parameters, hepatic antioxidant-related expression, hepatic inflammatory cytokines, jejunal morphology and tight junction proteins, cecal 16S rRNA profiles, hepatic metabolomics, and Hcy metabolism-related markers were assessed. Results: Dietary DHM improved serum and hepatic antioxidant status, as reflected by increased T-AOC and GSH-Px activity and decreased MDA concentrations (p < 0.05). DHM also modulated the hepatic cytokine profile, with decreased TNF-α concentration (p < 0.05) and increased IL-10 concentration (p < 0.01). DHM increased hepatic Nrf2 protein abundance, HO-1 protein abundance, and Gclc mRNA expression (p < 0.05). DHM also improved jejunal villus architecture, as indicated by increased villus height, decreased crypt depth, and an increased villus height-to-crypt depth ratio (p < 0.05). Jejunal Occludin and ZO-1 protein expression were increased in the DHM-treated groups (p < 0.05). Cecal microbiota analysis showed increased richness and diversity indices and altered microbial community structure. Hepatic metabolomics revealed changes involving vitamin B6 metabolism, purine metabolism, the pentose phosphate pathway, and α-linolenic acid metabolism. Serum Hcy levels decreased (p < 0.05), accompanied by increased hepatic BHMT and MTHFR protein abundance (p < 0.01). Conclusions: Dietary DHM supplementation improved hepatic redox status and supported a less pro-inflammatory cytokine profile in mice, accompanied by enhanced jejunal barrier-related phenotypes, cecal microbiota remodeling, hepatic metabolic alterations, and Hcy metabolism-related responses. These findings provide a multi-level nutritional evaluation of DHM and suggest its potential relevance for supporting intestinal barrier integrity and hepatic metabolic homeostasis under basal physiological conditions.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511695 is a review article
Imbalance of maternal diets can impair offspring development and contribute to congenital anomalies of the kidney and urinary tract (CAKUT). Excess maternal methionine intake is known to impair fetal development. The placenta serves as a crucial interface for maternal-fetal exchange and may contribute to these adverse outcomes. We hypothesize that excess methionine intake during pregnancy in mice increases the incidence of CAKUT in offspring. Therefore, we established a mouse model of 10% (w/w) methionine intake during pregnancy from Embryonic Day 8.5 to11.5 (E8.5-E11.5) and assessed the kidney phenotype. Crucial kidney developmental pathways were analyzed by RT-qPCR and immunofluorescence at E11.5. Changes in methionine metabolism in maternal plasma and placental tissues at E11.5 were analyzed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, and placental RNA-seq was performed. Offspring from dams exposed to excess methionine exhibited increased incidence of CAKUT (relative risk = 4.15, 95% confidence interval: 1.40-12.34, P = .010), primarily presenting as hydronephrosis and/or duplex collecting system. E11.5 embryonic kidneys showed shorter common nephric duct and decreased activity of the Gdnf/Ret/p-Akt pathway. At E11.5, homocysteine was elevated in the placentas, together with decreased mRNA expression of key metabolic enzymes betaine-homocysteine S-methyltransferase (Bhmt) and cystathionine γ-lyase (Cth) in the placentas. Concurrently, RNA-seq of E11.5 placentas revealed alterations in immune-inflammatory and vascular-related pathways. Overall, excessive maternal methionine intake in mice increased the incidence of CAKUT in offspring, which may be associated with altered activity of the Gdnf/Ret/PI3K/p-Akt pathway in embryonic kidneys as well as elevated placental homocysteine.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Preeclampsia (PE) is a severe pregnancy-specific complication characterized by new-onset hypertension and proteinuria after 20 weeks of gestation, which can cause multi-organ damage and life-threatening outcomes for both mothers and foetuses. Its pathogenesis remains incompletely elucidated, with placental dysfunction widely recognized as a core pathogenic factor. This study integrated multiple placental transcriptome and single-cell sequencing datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database, employing a multi-dimensional bioinformatics approach - including differential expression analysis, Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA), machine learning, molecular subtype clustering, single-cell resolution analysis, and intercellular communication analysis - to systematically identify PE-related key genes, construct a diagnostic model, define molecular subtypes, and explore potential molecular mechanisms. Results showed 10 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in PE placental tissues; WGCNA pinpointed the turquoise module as the core PE-associated module. Further screening using 11 machine learning algorithms identified 9 feature genes with high diagnostic value (DDR1, DIO2, FSTL3, HK2, HTRA4, LEP, SERPINA3, TMEM45A, TREM1). A diagnostic model built with the 'Stepglm[forward]' algorithm exhibited excellent performance in both training and validation sets (average AUC = 0.865). Molecular subtype analysis classified PE samples into two subtypes (C1, C2) with significantly distinct immune infiltration profiles, where the C1 subtype showed higher immune cell infiltration. Single-cell analysis identified 11 cell types in PE placental tissue and highlighted TMEM45A as a key DEG. Intercellular communication analysis revealed the VEGF signalling pathway as the core driver of abnormal cellular crosstalk in PE, primarily mediating signal transduction between villous cytotrophoblast cells (VCT), extravillous trophoblast cells (EVT), and endothelial cells. Hypoxia scoring analysis demonstrated significantly higher hypoxia levels in the PE group compared to normal controls, with TMEM45A expression positively correlated with hypoxia scores. This study provides novel insights into the molecular pathogenesis of PE and offers potential biomarkers and a theoretical basis for its early diagnosis and targeted therapy.
Obesity exhibits pronounced sex-dependent differences in susceptibility and progression; however, the molecular mechanisms coordinating central energy sensing with peripheral thermogenic responses remain incompletely defined. Selenoprotein F (SELENOF), an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident member of the selenoprotein family involved in protein quality control and redox-sensitive metabolic regulation, has not previously been investigated in the context of diet-induced obesity. In the present study, WT and SELENOF-deficient mice subjected to a 16-week high-fat diet (HFD) were combined with primary brown adipocyte experiments to determine the role of SELENOF in systemic metabolic homeostasis. SELENOF deficiency markedly aggravated HFD-induced weight gain, adipose tissue expansion, dyslipidemia, and hyperleptinemia selectively in female mice, whereas no genotype-dependent effects were observed in males. Mechanistically, SELENOF deficiency intensified hypothalamic ER stress and leptin resistance, as reflected by increased GRP78, p-IRE1α, and p-PERK expression together with SOCS3 upregulation, reduced STAT3 phosphorylation, and activation of the IKK/NF-κB inflammatory pathway. In parallel, SELENOF deficiency reduced circulating free triiodothyronine (FT3) levels and the ratio of free triiodothyronine to free thyroxine (FT3/FT4 ratio), and suppressed DIO2 and UCP1 expression in brown adipose tissue (BAT). Experiments in primary brown adipocytes further showed that SELENOF deficiency did not disrupt proximal β3-adrenergic signaling but attenuated the downstream induction of DIO2 and UCP1. Collectively, these findings provide preliminary evidence that SELENOF is associated with sex-dependent metabolic adaptation during HFD-induced stress by linking hypothalamic proteostasis with the thyroid hormone-related thermogenic signaling program in BAT.
Grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella) is a major freshwater aquaculture species in China, but its growth is limited under intensive high-density farming. This study aimed to investigate the characteristics of plasma exosomes associated with distinct growth performance by isolating and characterizing exosomes from fast- and slow-growing grass carp after nine months of culture. Exosomes showed typical morphology and expressed characteristic markers (CD63, CD81, TSG101). Small RNA sequencing identified 3325 miRNAs, with 177 highly abundant miRNAs differentially expressed: immune-related miRNAs were upregulated, while development-inhibitory miRNAs were downregulated in fast-growing fish. Target gene enrichment highlighted pathways in neural and skeletal development and amino acid metabolism. Integrative analysis across tissues revealed 26 miRNAs with coordinated expression patterns between plasma exosomes and brain, liver, or muscle, validated by qPCR. DIA proteomics quantified 4203 proteins, identifying 843 differentially enriched proteins linked to immune response, energy metabolism, and endoplasmic reticulum stress. Notably, TYMP was upregulated in muscle and exosomes, while several proteins (e.g., GYG2, BHMT) showed coordinated downregulation across tissues and exosomes in large fish. These results provide comprehensive evidence of exosome-mediated cross-tissue communication in teleosts and suggest a potential role for plasma exosomal miRNAs and proteins as non-invasive biomarkers correlated with growth status in aquaculture.
New therapeutics are needed to address the rapid progression of calcium oxalate (CaOx) nephrolithiasis and life-threatening kidney failure afflicting infants and young adults with one of the three different genetic types of Primary Hyperoxaluria (PH) types 1, 2, and 3. Glyoxylate and hydroxypyruvate reductase knockout (Grhpr KO) mice recapitulate the pathophysiology of PH type 2 (PH2), developing accelerated hyperoxaluria and CaOx kidney stone formation. Previous studies have shown that this process can be mitigated by introducing an additional genetic knockout of the liver and kidney mitochondrial enzyme, hydroxyproline dehydrogenase (Hypdh/Prodh2), which is responsible for the first step in liver production of glyoxylate and oxalate.Using Grhpr KO mice, we evaluated N-propargylglycine (N-PPG) as a preclinical candidate for PH2, measuring oxalate levels, CaOx stone formation, Cystatin C levels, albumin/creatinine ratio, kidney tubule damage by kidney injury molecule-1 and Lotus Tetragonolobus lectin immunohistochemistry, metabolites, weight, and lifespan.Oral administration of N-PPG, a well-tolerated small-molecule inhibitor of Hypdh/Prodh2, significantly reduces hyperoxaluria and weight loss in Grhpr KO mice within three weeks, while preventing CaOx stone formation and kidney tubular damage. In a 24-week survival study during which vehicle-treated Grhpr KO mice exhibit a median survival of only 15 weeks, daily treatment with N-PPG fully restores weight and survival in the Grhpr KO mice to that of wild-type control mice. N-PPG suppressed hyperoxaluria during this extended treatment period, preventing CaOx stone formation, kidney tubule injury and loss of kidney function, achieving beneficial outcomes in this PH2 mouse model comparable to controls.Our findings establish N-PPG as a promising therapeutic candidate for the long-term prevention of CaOx kidney stone formation and kidney failure complications in PH2.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The natural origin and biodegradable nature of bioinsecticides endow them with promising application potential. Spinosad, a major microbial bioinsecticide, has been detected in nectar source plants. However, the impact of bioinsecticides on honey bee gut health has not been sufficiently evaluated. This study comprehensively assessed the effects of three Spinosad concentrations (0.1, 0.25, and 0.5 mg/L) on the apparent gut health of 7-day-old adult honey bee workers (Apis cerana Fabricius). Following two weeks of oral exposure to Spinosad, there was no significant decline in honey bee survival or sucrose consumption, nor were there significant alterations in the composition of the midgut microbiota. However, transcriptomic, metabolomic, and their integrated analyses revealed significantly elevated oxiglutatione levels (direct product of glutathione after oxidation). Genes that redirect glutathione into alternative metabolites (LOC107999471 (Anpepl1)), and not into oxiglutatione and LOC133665765 (glutathione hydrolase light chain 1-like, GGTLC1) were significantly up-regulated. Spinosad significantly reduced the antioxidant, uric acid, and the neurotransmitter, histamine. Correlation analysis between metabolites and gut microbiota indicated that the beneficial Gilliamella and Bombella preserved stability under Spinosad exposure. This study comprehensively evaluated the toxicity of Spinosad to honey bees from a gut health, key microbe, metabolites, and genes perspective, and provides insights for protecting non-target insects such as honey bees.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Tobacco smoking is a major risk factor for cardiovascular and lung diseases. A better understanding of its neurobiological underpinnings will benefit the prevention of smoking-related illnesses and mortality. Previous studies link smoking to increased iron concentration in the striatum, a central component of the brain's reward system, and to reduced cognitive performance. This study aimed to investigate whether smoking and striatal iron share common biological pathways and to assess potential causal relationships between the two.Using data from the UK Biobank, we investigated phenotypic and genetic correlations, and causal relationships between smoking initiation and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-derived markers of iron content (T2* and quantitative susceptibility mapping) in the bilateral putamen, caudate and accumbens nuclei.We found positive correlations between smoking and striatal iron (β ∈ [0.03, 0.40], P < 0.001), particularly when comparing current smokers with never smokers. Striatal iron was positively associated with pack-years (β ∈ [0.11, 0.13], P < 0.001) and inversely related to years since smoking cessation (β ∈ [0.06, 0.10], P < 0.001), suggesting iron levels may decrease after quitting. Genetic analysis confirmed phenotypic correlations, with shared genetic associations (P < 2.73 × 10-6, or 0.01 for candidate genes) in genes related to dopaminergic, glutamatergic and synaptic systems (DRD2, PPP1R1B, NCAM1, DLX5, GGACT, NAT16, PLEKHM1). Causality analysis revealed a relationship from smoking to striatal iron via genes involved in synaptogenesis and plasticity (BAI3, SEMA6D, TENM2), with evidence of reverse causality from iron to smoking through inflammatory and immune system-related genes (ING5, NLRP7).There appear to be links between smoking and striatal iron with complex causal mechanisms involving synaptic transmission and inflammatory circuits. Striatal iron content could serve as a biomarker for smoking-related neurobiological changes and a potential target for interventions aimed at mitigating cognitive decline related to striatal iron accumulation.© 2026 The Author(s). Addiction published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society for the Study of Addiction.
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT), a key strategy for various cancers, markedly improves patient prognosis and 5-year survival rates. However, numerous patients develop resistance to NACT and thus fail to benefit from it. Therefore, identifying reliable biomarkers to predict patient responsiveness to NACT remains a critical challenge. Here, we demonstrate that elevated expression of INCENP and CDCA8 contributes to poor NACT responsiveness across multiple cancers. Mechanistically, the 5'UTR (GGACT at position 113) of INCENP and the 3'UTR (GGACT at position 1041) of CDCA8 undergo m⁶A methylation and are recognized by YTHDF3, which facilitates their translation through interaction with eIF3A, ultimately driving poor response to NACT. Moreover, inhibition of INCENP and CDCA8 enhances NACT sensitivity by promoting multipolar spindle formation. Collectively, our findings establish that INCENP and CDCA8 serve as crucial biomarkers for predicting NACT responsiveness and as potential therapeutic targets for combination therapy with NACT to improve patient survival.© 2026. The Author(s).
Gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT) is a membrane-bound enzyme involved in glutathione metabolism and oxidative stress regulation. Although it is traditionally viewed as a liver function marker, emerging evidence suggests that its aberrant expression is closely associated with tumorigenesis, progression, and therapeutic resistance across multiple solid tumors. However, the comprehensive landscape of the GGT gene family and its clinical value in tumor diagnosis and prognosis remain unclear.To systematically review the multidimensional roles of the GGT molecular family-including gene variants, mRNA isoforms, enzyme activity, and protein isoforms-in tumor biology and clinical oncology and to evaluate their potential as diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers.We conducted a comprehensive literature review (PubMed, CNKI; inception-August 2025) focusing on (1) GGT family gene structure, expression patterns, and regulatory mechanisms; (2) GGT mRNA splice variants and isoforms; (3) GGT enzymatic activity and posttranslational modifications; and (4) clinical studies evaluating GGT as a biomarker in solid tumors. Data were synthesized narratively, emphasizing molecular mechanisms and clinical significance.The human GGT family comprises 13 homologous genes (e.g., GGT1-7 and GGTLC1-3) localized on chromosomes 20 and 22, which exhibit tissue-specific expression and functional diversity. GGT1 (22q11.23), which is the most extensively studied gene, is highly expressed in renal cell carcinoma (RCC), hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), gastric cancer (GC), and breast cancer (BRC) and is correlated with poor prognosis and metastasis. GGT5 acts as a tumor suppressor in HCC but promotes progression in gastric cancer via PI3K/AKT pathway activation. GGT7 overexpression predicts poor survival in patients with HCC and glioblastoma. The GGT-II isoform demonstrated 78.7% sensitivity and 92.3% specificity for HCC diagnosis, outperforming AFP (AUC: 0.89 vs. 0.67). Serum GGT activity ≥ 50 U/L independently predicts poor overall survival (OS) in patients with HCC (HR: 1.78, 95% CI: 1.26-2.50). GGT mRNA splice variants (e.g., the GGT-I mRNA-B subtype) enhance early HCC detection when combined with AFP (sensitivity: 98%).The GGT molecular family plays pleiotropic roles in tumor biology via redox homeostasis, EMT, and immune modulation. The GGT1/5/7 and GGT-II isoforms represent promising biomarkers for early diagnosis, prognosis, and therapeutic targeting in multiple cancers. Future multicenter studies should validate GGT-based biomarker panels and elucidate the mechanisms underlying tissue-specific GGT functions.© 2025 The Author(s). Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Patients with a hereditary form of small-intestinal neuroendocrine tumors (SI-NETs) present with multiple synchronous tumors and precursors at various stages. Using this germline trait, single-cell RNA sequencing is performed to define the cell-of-origin and gene-expression trajectory in early tumor development. A subset of CES1(+), LCN15(-) enterochromaffin (EC) cells, residing at +4 position and below in the crypts, distinct from EC cells migrating up the villi, emerges as the putative SI-NET origin. PRODH2 is identified as a key biomarker for precursor cells, revealing stage-specific gene expression linked to early tumor development. From precursor to fully developed tumors, notable changes include the up-regulation of UCHL1 and MBD3L2, as well as the significant down-regulation of cell-cycle inhibitory genes, CDKN1A, CDKN1C, and CDKN2B, which play roles in cell survival and tumorigenesis. The current study provides insight into SI-NET initiation and progression, offering potential advancements in diagnosis, prevention, and treatment.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
4'-Phosphopantetheinyl (4'PP) groups are essential co-factors added to target proteins by phosphopantetheinyl transferase (PPTase) enzymes. Although mitochondrial 4'PP-modified proteins have been described for decades, a mitochondrially-localized PPTase has never been found in mammals. We discovered that the cytoplasmic PPTase aminoadipate semialdehyde dehydrogenase phosphopantetheinyl transferase (AASDHPPT) is required for mitochondrial respiration and oxidative metabolism. Loss of AASDHPPT results in failed 4'PP modification of the mitochondrial acyl carrier protein and blunted activity of the mitochondrial fatty acid synthesis (mtFAS) pathway. We found that in addition to its cytoplasmic localization, AASDHPPT localizes to the mitochondrial matrix via an N-terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence contained within the first 20 amino acids of the protein. Our data show that this novel mitochondrial localization of AASDHPPT is required to support mtFAS activity and oxidative metabolism. We further identify five variants of uncertain significance in AASDHPPT that are likely pathogenic in humans due to loss of mtFAS activity.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Drought stress significantly affects tobacco growth and crop productivity; hence, studying the molecular processes of drought resistance is vital. Calmodulin plays a crucial role in plant stress responses as a calcium sensor. However, the functional role of NtCaM13 in drought resistance remains poorly understood. In this study, we found that NtCaM13 overexpression (OE) markedly increased plant resistance to drought, whereas knockout (KO) mutants exhibited heightened susceptibility to water deficit. OE of NtCaM13 reduced drought-induced oxidative damage by increasing antioxidant enzyme activity. Furthermore, transgenic plants overexpressing NtCaM13 exhibited increased antioxidant gene expression, decreased stomatal conductance, and improved water-retention capacity. Nevertheless, the opposite trend was observed in NtCaM13 KO plants. Further RNA-seq analysis revealed that OE of NtCaM13 enhanced the expression of genes involved in stomatal development and closure (ERL1 and SCRM2), cuticle/cell wall reinforcement (LCAO, CYP86A7, PRP1, and XTH9), osmotic regulation (AQP and ProDH2), and antioxidant defense (NUDT17). Conversely, the expression of these genes was diminished in NtCaM13 KO plants. These findings suggested that NtCaM13 positively regulates drought stress in tobacco, providing new directions for identifying candidate genes for improving drought tolerance in tobacco.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
Kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC), the most common type of renal cell carcinoma, is an immunobiologically and metabolically distinct tumor. Its clinical management is closely related to the tumor microenvironment (TME). Identifying its potential markers is important for improving prognosis. Therefore, in this study, we successfully constructed a prognostic model of glutathione metabolism-related molecules and screened for GGTLC1 prognostic molecules, while immunohistochemical analysis of the online database HPA and hospital patient specimens showed that GGTLC1 was highly expressed in paracancerous tissues. Taken together, the results of this study suggest that GGTLC1 is a potential prognostic biomarker associated with KIRC. Trial Registration: Chinese Clinical Trial Registry identifier: LSKY: 2022-112-01.Copyright © 2025 Shi Li et al. International Journal of Genomics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Breast cancer frequently metastasizes to the bone, but treatment options for bone metastatic breast cancer are limited. Amino acid metabolism is reprogrammed in the bone metastatic microenvironment, suggesting that it could represent a therapeutic vulnerability. In this study, we focused on the metabolism of hydroxyproline (Hyp), a key amino acid resulting from bone collagen degradation, which serves as a critical biomarker for bone metastases. Proline dehydrogenase 2 (PRODH2), the primary enzyme involved in Hyp metabolism, was significantly upregulated in clinical samples from breast cancer bone metastases. Notably, PRODH2-mediated Hyp metabolism drove osteoclast differentiation, enhancing collagen degradation and promoting breast cancer bone metastasis in vivo. Furthermore, PRODH2 facilitated tumor cell viability and osteoclast differentiation by upregulating the ferroptosis inhibitor SLC7A11 and the bone metastasis-related factor CXCL8 (IL8), respectively. Intriguingly, Hyp metabolism catalyzed by PRODH2 generated acetyl-CoA, which enhanced YY1 acetylation and thereby transcriptionally activated both SLC7A11 and IL8. Importantly, treatment with a PRODH2 inhibitor effectively disrupted the bone metastatic cascade. Together, these results reveal that collagen degradation from osteolysis produces Hyp that reinforces osteoclast differentiation and metastasis, creating a vicious cycle. Identification of the role of the PRODH2-SLC7A11-IL8 axis in promoting breast cancer bone metastasis suggests potential therapeutic strategies to improve patient outcomes.In the bone microenvironment, osteolysis increases PRODH2-mediated hydroxyproline metabolism that drives osteoclast differentiation and suppresses breast cancer cell ferroptosis, which can be reversed by targeting PRODH2 to suppress metastatic progression.©2025 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566840 is a review article
Hyaluronic acid (HA) hydrogels generally exhibit poor resistance to moist heat sterilization. Modification with a single metal element (ME) fails to synergistically optimize multiple functional properties. The destructive impact of terminal sterilization on hydrogel network integrity has often been overlooked in the biomedical hydrogel field, which may hinder clinical translation. To address these challenges, this study developed a ternary ME co-crosslinked HA hydrogel incorporating Mg2 +/Zn2+/Fe3+. The formulation was optimized using Box-Behnken response surface methodology. Moist heat sterilization at 121℃ for 12 min, corresponding to a sterility assurance level (SAL) ≤ 10-6, was incorporated into the formulation optimization and performance evaluation process. Rheological measurements confirmed that the ME-crosslinked hydrogels retained suitable mechanical properties for wound dressing application after sterilization. In vivo experiments demonstrated that the M-ME@Gel achieved rapid hemostasis, with a hemostatic time of 28.0 ± 5.86 s and blood loss of 57.93 ± 11.71 mg. It also accelerated wound closure, resulting in near-complete healing in mice by day 11 and a wound-closure rate of 97.72 ± 1.93% in rabbits by day 14. This study provides a strategy for enhancing the moist heat sterilization resistance of biomedical hydrogels, and offers a reference for the translational development of wound dressing.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
To investigate the effectiveness of spectacle lenses with highly aspherical lenslets (HAL) and orthokeratology (ortho-k) for myopia control and the change in the interocular axial length (AL) difference in binocular anisomyopic children over 1-year in a real-world setting.Retrospective analysis of 74 bilateral anisomyopes (8-14 years; 39 HAL, 35 ortho-k). Axial elongation (AE) and interocular AL difference were compared in both groups; spherical equivalent refraction (SER), spherical refraction (SR), refractive astigmatism (RA) and corneal astigmatism (CA) were evaluated for the HAL group.AE in the more myopic eye (MME) of the HAL group was significantly greater than the ortho-k group (0.24 ± 0.17 vs. 0.15 ± 0.15 mm, p = 0.007). However, the opposite finding was observed in the less myopic eye (LME) (0.20 ± 0.14 vs. 0.29 ± 0.23 mm, p = 0.01). The interocular AL difference was reduced in the ortho-k group (0.69 ± 0.41 vs. 0.54 ± 0.32 mm, p = 0.007), whereas no significant change was found in the HAL group (p = 0.09). AE was associated with baseline SER (β = 0.08, p = 0.008) in the ortho-k group and age (β = -0.04, p = 0.001) in the HAL group. The MME in the HAL group showed larger changes in SER (-0.39 ± 0.31 vs. -0.27 ± 0.30 D) and CA (-0.21 ± 0.29 vs. -0.11 ± 0.25 D) than the LME (both p ≤ 0.03). The change in SER was positively associated with age and baseline SER (β = 0.08; β = 0.07, both p ≤ 0.02) in the HAL group.Ortho-k reduced AE, more so in the MME and reduced the interocular AL asymmetry. HAL slowed AE symmetrically, with greater control in older and less-myopic children.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The College of Optometrists.
Pain control in severe burns remains challenging due to physiological factors affecting drug metabolism and efficacy. This study characterizes the most frequent combinations of pain medication, dosages of opioids and non-opioids over time, and their correlation with pain management in adults.A single-center retrospective analysis of patients ≥ 18 years of age admitted to University of North Carolina Jaycee Burn Center with ≥ 20% total body surface area (TBSA) burn injury between 2020 and 2024 was performed. Records were abstracted for demographics, prescription pain medication management, and numerical rating scale (NRS) pain scores. Generalized linear and mixed models assessed average daily pain scores and morphine milligram equivalents (MME), adjusted for age, TBSA burn, and inhalation injury.140 patients were included (age: 32 ± 7 years; 72% male; TBSA burn 37 ± 19% [range: 20-98%]; length of stay: 42 ± 54 days; 19% inhalation injury). 88% survived and most injuries were flame-related (76%). Opioid-only regimens accounted for 7% of prescribing medications, non-opioid-only 15%, and multimodal regimens 78%. Acetaminophen and hydromorphone were most frequently administered (17%), followed by acetaminophen, hydromorphone, and oxycodone (14%) and acetaminophen, fentanyl, and oxycodone (13%). Patients receiving multimodal or opioid-only regimens demonstrated lower and more stable pain trajectories than those receiving non-opioids alone. Hydromorphone use increased with burn severity and was highest in patients with > 80% TBSA. Although opioid requirements declined over time, patients with burns > 40% TBSA had significantly higher MME at day 25 compared with moderate burns (451 ± 980 vs 237 ± 388; p = 0.023).Multimodal analgesia predominated and was associated with improved pain stability. Persistent opioid requirements in larger burns highlight the impact of burn-related metabolic alterations and support development of individualized analgesic strategies to optimize dosing and reduce prolonged opioid exposure.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd and International Society of Burns Injuries. All rights reserved.
BackgroundPrimary squamous cell carcinoma of the breast is an extremely rare subtype of metaplastic breast carcinoma, often showing aggressive clinical behavior and posing diagnostic challenges, particularly when acantholysis is present and mimics vascular neoplasms.Patient presentationWe report a 49-year-old woman presenting with a rapidly growing palpable mass in the outer quadrant of the left breast. Initial cytology yielded keratin debris interpreted as benign. Following inflammatory changes, the lesion was excised with a clinical pre-diagnosis of granulomatous mastitis. Gross examination revealed an 8 × 7 × 7 cm partial mastectomy specimen containing a 6 × 5 × 4 cm firm, cystically and hemorrhagically degenerated, irregularly circumscribed tumor adjacent to but not continuous with the overlying skin. Microscopically, the tumor consisted of infiltrating nests of squamous epithelial cells with widespread acantholysis and single-cell keratinization, moderate nuclear atypia, and absence of lymphovascular or perineural invasion. Associated ductal carcinoma in situ was identified. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells expressed pan-keratin, keratin 5/6, keratin 14, p63, CD10 (MME), and EGFR, while ER, PR, HER2, and GATA3 were negative. Ki-67 (MKI67) proliferation index was approximately 10%. Final diagnosis was primary acantholytic squamous cell carcinoma of the breast.ConclusionThis patient highlights the importance of thorough histopathologic and immunohistochemical evaluation to distinguish acantholytic squamous cell carcinoma of the breast from vascular mimics and other metaplastic carcinomas. The basal-like, hormone-receptor negative, HER2-negative, and low proliferative profile in this tumor underscores the heterogeneity of primary squamous cell carcinoma of the breast and the need for individualized treatment strategies.
Postoperative sleep disturbance (POSD) is a pervasive and an overlooked complication; however, the relative importance of its modifiable drivers and their direct impact on clinically relevant outcomes remains inadequately quantified. This study aimed to determine the prevalence of POSD, identify its key modifiable predictors, and investigate its association with opioid consumption and hospital length of stay (LOS).A prospective observational cohort study was conducted at a tertiary care center. We enrolled 143 adult patients undergoing elective surgery under general anesthesia. Sleep quality was assessed on the first postoperative morning using a modified version of the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI). Multiple linear regression identified predictors of sleep duration. Post-hoc analyses included a Pearson correlation between global PSQI score and 24-hour opioid consumption (Morphine Milligram Equivalents, MME), and a Mann-Whitney U test to compare LOS between good (PSQI ≤ 5) and poor sleepers (PSQI > 5).The prevalence of poor sleep quality was 89.5% (128/143). Regression analysis revealed that sleep disturbance (β = 0.702, P < 0.001), sleep efficiency (β = 0.288, P < 0.001), and sleep latency (β = 0.224, P = 0.005) were significant predictors of sleep duration (R² = 0.348, P < 0.001). A significant positive correlation was found between global PSQI score and 24-hour MME (r = 0.41, P < 0.001). Patients with poor sleep had a longer median LOS of 4 days (IQR: 3-6) compared to 3 days (IQR: 2-4) in patients with good sleep (P = 0.018).POSD is highly prevalent and primarily driven by modifiable, environment-related factors. Its strong associations with increased opioid requirements and prolonged hospitalization underscore the critical need to implement nonpharmacological sleep promotion protocols as a standard component of postoperative care.Copyright: © 2026 Saudi Journal of Anesthesia.
To compare changes in oral health-related quality of life (OHRQoL) and subjective food intake ability (key food intake ability [KFIA]) among different Class II camouflage strategies and to assess posterior occlusal contact types in Class II molar finishing.Records from 62 patients with Class II malocclusion were categorized into nonextraction, maxillary premolar extraction (ME), and maxillomandibular premolar extraction (MME). The Oral Health Impact Profile-14 (OHIP-14) and KFIA were administered before and after treatment. The American Board of Orthodontics Discrepancy Index and Objective Grading System (OGS) were also evaluated. The primary outcomes were group × time interactions in OHIP-14 and KFIA; the secondary outcome was posterior disclusion in ME cases.Baseline characteristics were similar, except for greater initial overjet and overbite in ME (P < .05). KFIA remained stable after treatment in all groups (P ≥ .05). OHIP-14 improved significantly in total score and psychological discomfort for all patients, with additional improvement in the handicap domain in the MME group; however, no significant group × time interactions were found. Baseline OHIP-14 was the only predictor of posttreatment OHRQoL (P < .001). OGS outcomes were comparable; however, digital analysis showed second-molar posterior disclusion in 10% of ME cases.Class II camouflage treatment improved psychosocial aspects of OHRQoL regardless of extraction pattern; in contrast, subjective masticatory function remained unchanged. Baseline OHRQoL, rather than extraction type or case complexity, predicted final OHRQoL. Posterior occlusal assessment beyond OGS criteria may be useful in ME cases.
In this study, we aimed to evaluate the correlation between bone mineral density (BMD) of the medial femoral condyle (MFC) in patients with medial meniscus posterior root tears (MMPRT) and BMD at commonly evaluated sites, including the femur and lumbar spine. We also examined the association between MFC BMD and subchondral insufficiency fractures of the knee (SIFK).This retrospective cross-sectional study included patients diagnosed with MMPRT based on magnetic resonance imaging findings at our hospital between November 2025 and March 2026. Lower limb alignment, bone morphology, medial meniscus extrusion (MME) and SIFK grade were evaluated. BMD was measured at the proximal femur, lumbar spine and MFC using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. Spearman's rank correlation coefficient was used to evaluate the correlation between the MFC BMD and other BMD measurements. Furthermore, linear regression analysis was conducted to identify factors associated with MFC BMD.A total of 47 patients were included in the final analysis. The mean age was 66.7 ± 8.2 years, and the mean body mass index (BMI) was 24.1 ± 3.9 kg/m2. The Kellgren-Lawrence grade distribution (0/1/2/3/4) was 0/29/18/0/0. The mean MME was 3.5 ± 1.1 mm, and the SIFK grade distribution (0/1/2/3/4) was 37/6/4/0/0. MFC BMD showed a significant positive correlation with BMD at all other measured regions (p < 0.001). Multivariate linear regression analysis showed that age (β = -0.009, p < 0.001), BMI (β = 0.009, p = 0.045) and the presence of SIFK in MFC (β = -0.129, p = 0.003) were each independently associated with MFC BMD.MFC BMD was significantly correlated with BMD at commonly assessed regions of the proximal femur and lumbar spine in patients with early-stage osteoarthritis. Additionally, the lower MFC BMD was associated with the presence of SIFK in female patients with MMPRT.Level IV.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Experimental Orthopaedics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Society of Sports Traumatology, Knee Surgery and Arthroscopy.
Managing pain after total knee arthroplasty (TKA) without opioids remains a priority. Aspirin is often used after joint surgery for venous thromboembolism prophylaxis and is unique among non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) in providing this protection through irreversible cyclooxygenase inhibition. Oral ketamine has demonstrated analgesic benefit, but its combination with aspirin for postoperative pain control is not well established.We sought to investigate the following: (1) Is combined administration of oral ketamine and aspirin safe in patients undergoing TKA? (2) What are the observed pain control outcomes and opioid requirements associated with this regimen?We conducted a single-institution pilot study of patients undergoing primary TKA to test the safety of a proprietary oral aspirin/ketamine combination; the study was funded by the manufacturer, Vitalis Pharmaceuticals. Eligible patients were prospectively identified from the operative schedules of 7 participating arthroplasty surgeons and approached at their preoperative office visits between February 2023 and March 2023. Patients were excluded from the study if they were age <18 or >80 years, if they had a primary diagnosis other than primary osteoarthritis, an allergy to aspirin or another NSAID, any contraindications to NSAID use, use of anti-coagulant or anti-thrombotic medication, recent active bleeding requiring a transfusion or hospitalization, or scheduled for same-day discharge. Twenty patients were included. Patients received oral ketamine (40 mg) and aspirin (162 mg) every 6 hours postoperatively until discharge. The primary outcome was safety, assessed using the Side Effect Rating Scale for Dissociative Anesthetics and the Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale (RASS). Secondary outcomes included a numeric rating scale for pain and morphine milligram equivalents (MME). Descriptive statistics were used.Of the 20 patients in the final cohort, 14 patients completed the full 4-dose regimen during their 24-hour postoperative inpatient stays; 18 of the 20 patients reported no adverse effects. Two patients experienced mild dizziness after later doses, with no reported agitation or sedation on the RASS scale. Most patients (19/20) required rescue opioid doses; pain scores were similar, regardless. Mean 24-hour opioid consumption was 30.2 ± 20.4 MME.This single-institution pilot study observed that an oral aspirin/ketamine combination appeared to be safe after TKA, with minimal adverse effects. A future randomized controlled trial is needed to evaluate efficacy and opioid-sparing benefits.Level IV, pilot study.© The Author(s) 2026.
Telomerase maintains chromosome ends by extending telomeric DNA, yet how recruited telomerase becomes productively engaged remains poorly understood. Recent studies found that Replication Protein A (RPA) contributes to telomerase stimulation through interaction with TERT in humans and with the TPP1 ortholog Est3 in budding yeast, suggesting a direct role in telomerase activation. Here, we provide genetic and structural modeling evidence for a RPA-Trt1 TERT -Tpz1 TPP1 ternary complex that promotes telomere extension while suppressing recombination in fission yeast. Guided by results from genetic screen, followed by AlphaFold3 modeling and systematic mutagenesis of RPA, Trt1, and Tpz1, we identify four key interfaces supporting telomerase function: Ssb1 RPA1 -Trt1, Ssb2 RPA2 -Trt1, Ssb2 RPA2 -Tpz1, and the TEL-patch-mediated Trt1-Tpz1 interaction. Notably, Tpz1-R81, previously assigned as the TEL patch, instead contacts Ssb2 in the complex. Epistasis and suppressor analyses indicate that the newly identified RPA-Trt1 and RPA-Tpz1 interfaces collaborate with the Trt1-Tpz1 interface to allow telomerase activation after recruitment. Furthermore, comparative analyses using AlphaFold3 suggest that these interactions are likely conserved in budding yeast and humans. Collectively, these findings support a model in which RPA serves as an essential component of the active telomerase complex, coordinating TERT and TPP1-like factors to enable productive telomerase engagement.Telomeres are specialized dynamic protective structures at the ends of eukaryotic chromosomes that must be properly maintained to preserve genome stability. Telomerase extends telomeric DNA, but how recruited telomerase becomes fully activated to promote telomere extension remains poorly understood. In this study, we use fission yeast to investigate the role of the conserved single-stranded DNA-binding protein complex Replication Protein A (RPA) in this process. We find that RPA forms a functional complex with the telomerase catalytic subunit TERT and Tpz1, a component of the telomere protection complex shelterin and the fission yeast ortholog of human TPP1. Genetic and structural analyses identify multiple interactions within the RPA-TERT-Tpz1 complex that are required for efficient telomere extension. Disrupting these interactions allows telomerase recruitment but prevents productive telomerase action at chromosome ends. Our results further suggest that similar mechanisms may operate in other organisms, including budding yeast and humans. These findings provide insight into how telomerase activity is regulated at chromosome ends.
A novel thin-layer chromatography (TLC)-based bioassay coupled with digital image analysis (DIA) was developed for rapid and non-targeted screening of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in complex natural matrices. Conventional ACE inhibitory assays lack spatial resolution and rely on indirect measurements, limiting their applicability for effect-directed analysis (EDA). In this study, an on-surface enzymatic assay was implemented using hippuryl-histidyl-leucine (HHL) as substrate, followed by in situ derivatization of the generated hippuric acid with p-dimethylaminobenzaldehyde (DMAB) in an acetone:acetic anhydride system, producing an orange chromophore directly on the TLC plate. To overcome the inherent subjectivity of visual evaluation, a MATLAB-based DIA workflow was introduced to quantify the colorimetric response as pseudo-absorbance, enabling objective optimization of assay parameters. The blue channel provided the highest analytical sensitivity (R2 = 0.9984), and no significant matrix effects were observed (p = 0.09), confirming the robustness of the approach. Optimal conditions were established at 180 mU mL-1 ACE, 3 mM HHL, 30 min incubation, and 10% (w/v) DMAB. The method was applied to P. boldus alkaloidal extracts, enabling clear detection and localization of inhibitory zones poorly resolved by visual inspection. Subsequent isolation by micro-preparative TLC followed by UHPLC-DAD-MS/MS analysis enabled tentative identification of three aporphine alkaloids: norboldine (m/z 314.20 [M+H]+), boldine (m/z 328.10 [M+H]+), and laurotetanine (m/z 328.10 ([M+H]+). This integrated TLC-ACE-DIA platform, complemented by GNPS-assisted MS/MS annotation, provides a rapid, cost-effective, high-throughput strategy for discovery and prioritization of ACE inhibitors in natural products, significantly enhancing analytical capabilities of effect-directed analysis workflows.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease-related plasma biomarker interrelationships and factors underlying these associations remain poorly understood. To address this, we studied the heritability of plasma biomarkers and their associations with cognition. This study included 696 twins, aged 65-85, without a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease or related dementias. Plasma amyloid beta 42 and 40, phosphorylated tau (p-tau) 181 and 217, neurofilament light chain (NfL) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) were quantified with Simoa HD-X, and cognition was assessed with cCOG. Heritability of plasma biomarkers was assessed with multivariate twin models and associations with cognition with linear mixed effect models. Phenotypic associations varied from 0.22 between p-tau181 and GFAP to 0.73 between p-tau181 and p-tau217, and the heritability estimates ranged from 0.39 (p-tau181) to 0.66 (GFAP). Genetic and environmental correlations were 0.32-0.67 and 0.06-0.78, with the strongest correlations observed between p-tau181 and p-tau217. P-tau181 and p-tau217 were associated with cognition (β = -0.12; 95% CI: -0.19--0.04 and β = -0.19; 95% CI: -0.26--0.12, respectively). The observed phenotypic and genetic associations highlight shared underlying mechanisms among plasma biomarkers. Despite p-tau181 and p-tau217 having the strongest genetic and environmental correlations, neither approached unity, implying unique genetic and environmental factors. Our results offer insight into the genetic architecture of diagnostic and progression markers of Alzheimer's disease and inform their use in future gene-finding studies.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hypertension remains one of the leading causes of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality; however, patient adherence to treatment remains inadequate. In the context of a digital society, search queries can serve as an additional source of information regarding the population's information needs and patterns of interaction with medications.To conduct a comprehensive longitudinal infodemiological study of the Russian population's interest in angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors based on an analysis of search queries for the period 2018-2025.A retrospective study was conducted using aggregated data from the Yandex search engine (Wordstat) covering 84 months. Search queries were analyzed for six major ACE inhibitors (captopril, enalapril, lisinopril, perindopril, ramipril, fosinopril), as well as for their brand names (21 drugs in total). We analyzed time series (Mann-Kendall test), seasonality (Kruskal-Wallis test), and variability, as well as performed multidimensional semantic analysis (Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA), Term Frequency-Inverse Document Frequency (TF-IDF) + k-means, k-medoids, n-grams).The total volume of analyzed queries exceeded 102 million. The greatest informational interest was identified for the captopril (30.1% of all queries), perindopril (27.9%), and enalapril (21.3%) groups. Perindopril demonstrated the strongest positive trend (τ = 0.762; p < 0.001). Statistically significant seasonality (p < 0.05) was observed for all six main International Nonproprietary Names (INN), with a peak during the winter months and a decline in activity during the summer. Semantic analysis revealed distinct differentiation in information patterns: captopril was associated with emergency use and sublingual administration, enalapril with manufacturer selection, lisinopril with searches for instructions and reviews, and perindopril with fixed-dose combinations. The proportion of queries related to emergency use was highest for captopril (0.53%) and lowest for the other drugs.Users' search activity reflects consistent differences in the perception of ACE inhibitors and demonstrates pronounced seasonal dynamics. The identified digital patterns may indirectly reflect medication-related information needs and potential gaps in the population's health literacy. The infodemiological approach represents a promising tool for monitoring patients' information needs and optimizing clinical communication and preventive programs.Copyright © 2026 Kotlyarov and Kotlyarova.
Although adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) increase risk for mental illness at the population level, existing ACEs screens are less helpful in forecasting individual outcomes, suggesting they may not capture significant elements of childhood adversity. We have previously identified unpredictable parental and household experiences as an ACE that portends poorer cognitive and mental health. However, the contribution of unpredictability to established ACEs in real-world settings is unknown. Here, leveraging existing ACEs screening in California, we added the five-item Questionnaire on Unpredictability in Childhood (QUIC-5) in 19 pediatric clinics spanning broad sociodemographic constituencies and compared in ~30,000 children the link of each screen with mental health diagnoses. Scores on either the ACEs or QUIC-5 associated with probabilities of depression, externalizing symptoms, sleep disorders, anxiety and somatic symptoms. Each screen provided unique contributions and combining them often doubled the strength of associations. For depression and sleep disorders, the QUIC-5 identified vulnerable individuals missed by ACEs screen, improving risk detection and facilitating future interventions.© The Author(s) 2026.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is associated with a variety of mental health conditions, including dissociation. In addition to high rates of trauma exposure, vulnerability for dissociation in autism may be heightened by social differences, cognitive inflexibility, and sensory sensitivities. This study examined dissociative symptoms across levels of autistic traits using existing clinical data from 716 individuals receiving mental health care ("clients") in Australia. Clients completed the Multidimensional Inventory of Dissociation-60 (MID-60), the Ritvo Autism Asperger Diagnostic Scale-Revised (RAADS-R), and the Adverse Childhood Experiences Questionnaire (ACE-Q) or Life Events Checklist for DSM-5 (LEC-5). Clients were grouped according to their RAADS-R scores, measuring autistic traits. Analyses first compared those with high autistic traits (HA; ≥120; n = 338) to below-threshold autistic traits (BA; <120; n = 378). The latter group was then subdivided into those with moderate autistic traits (MA; 65-119; n = 214) and low autistic traits (LA; <65; n = 164) for more comprehensive analysis. HA clients had the highest scores on all trauma and dissociation measures and subscales, and clinically elevated dissociation was significantly more prevalent among HA clients (68%) than BA clients (33%; OR = 4.42) and LA clients (15%; OR = 12.59). MA clients also scored higher than LA clients in almost all domains. Autistic traits and dissociation severity were significantly correlated overall and for all subscales, with the strongest correlations found for the RAADS-R Sensory-Motor domain. All relationships remained significant after controlling for ACEs. This highlights the need for routine screening and tailored interventions addressing both autistic traits and dissociation.
This study investigated, for the first time, the application of ohmic heating (OH) during curd cooking and its effects on the technological, functional, microbiological, and sensory attributes of probiotic cottage cheese. Cheeses were produced using a standard protocol, except that the curd was cooked at 35 °C for 30 min under different electric field intensities (4, 8 and 12 V cm-1), and the results were compared with those of conventional heating (CONV). All formulations were supplemented with Lactobacillus acidophilus La-5 (7 log CFU/g). OH processing markedly intensified proteolysis, with this effect increasing proportionally to electric field strength. This resulted in higher peptide release and enhanced in vitro bioactivity potential, including antioxidant, ACE-inhibitory, α-amylase-inhibitory, α-glucosidase-inhibitory, and pancreatic lipase-inhibitory activities. OH-treated cheeses also exhibited higher probiotic viability and improved tolerance to simulated gastrointestinal conditions throughout storage, with counts remaining above recommended levels for probiotic foods (>6 log CFU/g). Sensory analysis showed greater consumer acceptance of OH-processed cheeses, particularly at higher electric field intensities. Overall, the results suggest that OH may represent a promising alternative processing technology for probiotic cottage cheese, contributing to improved in vitro bioactivity potential, probiotic stability, and sensory characteristics.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
We examined the role of HBsAg isoforms to predict HBsAg seroclearance or finite treatment among patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB) infection who stopped long-term nucleoside analogue (NUC).This prospective study recruited patients with HBeAg-negative non-cirrhotic CHB on ≥3 years of first-line NUC with NUC cessation. NUC was resumed upon clinical relapse (CR) or major virological rebound (mVR). HBV biomarkers were measured at baseline, CR or mVR (if any), and end-of-follow-up. The primary outcome was HBsAg seroclearance (defined as <0.05 IU/mL). Patients were followed up for ≥1 year after NUC cessation (without CR/mVR) or ≥1 year after ALT normalization (with CR/mVR), whichever was later. Finite treatment was defined as a state of no virological relapse (VR), i.e., persistent HBV DNA <2000 IU/mL or HBsAg seroclearance.Among 51 patients who completed study (median age 50.1, 62.7% male, baseline qHBsAg 298 IU/mL with 25.5% <100 IU/mL, median NUC duration 7.38 years; median follow-up 91 weeks), 6 patients developed HBsAg seroclearance at weeks 20, 24, 48, 81, 91 and 96, with an event rate of 11.7%. Baseline small HBsAg [SHBs] was predictive of HBsAg seroclearance (HR 0.205, 95% CI 0.082-0.514) and identified 62.5% patients who achieved HBsAg seroclearance when combined with criteria of quantitative HBsAg (qHBsAg) <100 IU/mL. Fifteen patients fulfilled finite treatment criteria, which was associated with low baseline SHBs (HR 3.471, 95% CI 1.132-10.647) and the presence of hepatic steatosis (HR 4.077, 95% CI 1.374-12.098). No patients developed hepatic decompensation.Baseline small HBs (SHBs) levels, in addition to quantitative HBsAg levels, were predictive of HBsAg seroclearance. SHBs levels and hepatic steatosis were associated with finite treatment following nucleoside analogue cessation.Stopping long-term nucleoside analogue (NUC) is one of the strategies to enhance host control to hepatitis B virus and target for functional cure. In addition to quantitative HBsAg (qHBsAg) levels, we explored the role of HBsAg isoforms in predicting off-therapy outcomes in this prospective cohort study involving Asian patients with chronic hepatitis B infection. Low small HBs, a surrogate marker of integrated DNA-derived HBsAg, was predictive of off-NUC HBsAg seroclearance and identified 62.5% patients who would develop HBsAg seroclearance when combined with qHBsAg <100 IU/mL. Finite treatment, defined as either HBsAg seroclearance or viral load maintained below 2,000 IU/mL after NUC cessation, was associated with low baseline SHBs and presence of hepatic steatosis. Combining qHBsAg <100 IU/mL with low baseline SHBs identified 87.5% patients who could achieve finite treatment. These findings are most compelling to hepatologists and other clinicians managing patients with chronic hepatitis B infection on NUC or researchers conducting clinical trials. The findings are of academic relevance to researchers to investigate the correlation between SHBs expression with intrahepatic viral reservoir as well as the immunological basis behind virological control after NUC cessation. However, the study was limited by a relatively small sample size and the inclusion of purely Asian patients, requiring confirmation in larger cohorts for validation of findings before incorporation into clinical guidelines.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) are associated with multiple deleterious life-course outcomes, with salient repercussions during adolescence. Evidence on vulnerable peripheral adolescents remains scarce, especially in Brazil. This study examined the association between self-reported ACEs (family/community violence, abuse, and neglect) and body satisfaction among adolescents aged 10 to 14 years living in an impoverished peripheral community of São Paulo, Brazil.This quantitative cross-sectional investigation used 2021 baseline data from the Global Early Adolescent Study (GEAS). The sample comprised 974 cisgender adolescents aged 10 to 14 years recruited through Primary Health Care Units. Body satisfaction was measured using a four-item index derived from the Health Behaviour in School-aged Children (HBSC) instrument. ACEs were assessed through a standardized instrument covering 11 adversity categories. Descriptive, bivariate, and multiple linear regression analyses were conducted, adjusting for sociodemographic and contextual variables.ACE exposure was frequent: 81.2% of adolescents reported at least one adversity and 33.8% reported four or more exposures, particularly girls. Fear of emotional aggression (61.7%), emotional neglect (58.8%), and physical neglect (49.0%) were most frequent. Girls showed lower body satisfaction than boys. Emotional neglect, bullying, fear of emotional aggression, physical neglect, and caregivers' emotional distress remained significantly associated with lower body satisfaction means.Frequent reports of ACEs, particularly emotional aggression and neglect, suggest that body satisfaction during early adolescence is closely related to relational experiences and gender differences. These findings highlight the need for health and educational strategies addressing violence and neglect in vulnerable peripheral contexts.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Hypertension (HTN) remains a major global health challenge and a leading cause of cardiovascular morbidity. The limitations of conventional antihypertensive therapies, including high cost and side effects, highlight the need for alternative interventions. This study evaluated the antioxidant and antihypertensive properties of F. exasperata leaf Vahl extracts using in vitro and in silico approaches. Aqueous (AE) and ethanol (EE) extracts were analyzed for total phenolic and flavonoid contents. Antioxidant activity was assessed by 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) and 2,2'-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS) assays, while angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitory activity was compared with captopril. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis identified phytochemical constituents. Network pharmacology and molecular docking targeted oxidative stress-induced hypertension-related targets, and molecular dynamics simulations evaluated ligand-protein stability. EE showed higher flavonoid content (274.09 mg QE/g) and stronger antioxidant activity (DPPH IC50 = 6.00 µg/mL) than AE. In contrast, AE demonstrated superior ACE inhibition (IC50 = 5.14 µg/mL), comparable to captopril (IC50 = 5.17 µg/mL). GC-MS identified 77 compounds in EE and 40 in AE, including bioactives with antioxidant effects. Docking analysis revealed strong affinities with nitric oxide synthase 3 (NOS3) and ACE, and simulations confirmed stable ligand-NOS3 interactions. These findings support the therapeutic potential of F. exasperata in HTN management.© 2026 Wiley‐VHCA AG.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560350 is a review article
Cranial neural crest (CNC) cells are essential developmental contributors to the remarkable diversity of vertebrate skull shapes, yet how underlying gene regulatory networks (GRNs) evolve to produce highly derived morphologies remains a challenging question. Syngnathid fishes (seahorses, pipefishes, pipehorses, and seadragons) are an opportune family of species in which to address this problem because of their unusual and extensive cranial diversity and their loss of craniofacial patterning genes, fgf3 and fgf4. Here we investigated whether syngnathid craniofacial evolution experienced only a few localized network changes or required global rewiring of CNC GRNs. Using comparative single-cell RNA sequencing, ATAC-seq and whole genome alignments across Gulf pipefish, threespine stickleback, and zebrafish, we found that the core pharyngeal arch CNC gene network is notably conserved in syngnathids despite their derived morphology. However, we identified key local changes including expression of fgf22 in percomorph CNC-derived pharyngeal arch cells that is not shared with more basally diverging zebrafish, as well as syngnathid-specific changes in conserved regulatory elements associated with the genes ece1 and spry2. We propose that, while loss of fgf3 expression causes severe craniofacial defects in zebrafish, pharyngeal CNC expression of fgf22 in the percomorph fish lineage provided functional redundancy and relaxed constraint on fgf3/4, and that altered regulation of Fgf pathway modulators could contribute to craniofacial elaboration. Our findings support a model in which local GRN modifications, rather than widespread network rewiring, underlie the evolution of derived syngnathid craniofacial structures.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42534835 is a review article
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is associated with cigarette smoking, yet the relationship between the tobacco-specific nitrosamine nicotine-derived nitrosamine ketone (NNK) and IPF-associated lung transcriptional remodeling remains incompletely understood. Here, we developed an exposure-informed computational framework integrating multi-database target prediction, lung single-cell and single-nucleus transcriptomic analysis, co-expression network analysis, bulk lung cohort projection, and exploratory structure-based modeling. Putative human protein targets of NNK were predicted from ChEMBL, PharmMapper, and SwissTargetPrediction, yielding 2,505 nonredundant targets. These targets were intersected with IPF-associated intramodular hub genes identified from cell type-specific weighted gene co-expression network analysis, defining a focused 42-gene ExposureA-core gene set. Projected ExposureA-core scores showed the clearest IPF-control differences in endothelial and epithelial pseudo-bulk profiles. Functional annotation of the training-derived epithelial ExposureA-core Top30 signature highlighted MAPK and p38 MAPK signaling, PI3K-AKT signaling, angiogenesis or vasculature regulation, cell-substrate adhesion, and membrane-, adhesion-, and cytoskeleton-related cellular components, suggesting remodeling- and adhesion-related epithelial transcriptional features in IPF. The fixed epithelial ExposureA-core Top30 signature remained detectable in independent bulk lung transcriptomic cohorts without gene re-selection, coefficient fitting, or score optimization, with exploratory ROC analyses showing apparent IPF-control separation in GSE110147 and GSE92592. Exploratory docking and 100-ns molecular dynamics simulations of selected epithelial Top30-encoded candidates showed that modeled ECE1-NNK, MMP7-NNK, and TGM2-NNK complexes reached dynamic equilibrium, with relatively stable RMSD, radius of gyration, solvent-accessible surface area, residue-level fluctuation, and low-energy conformational states, supporting their structural plausibility as candidate modeled complexes. Overall, this study defines a focused exposure-informed IPF-associated transcriptional framework and prioritizes epithelial remodeling-related candidate features for future experimental validation. These findings support hypothesis-generating computational prioritization rather than direct evidence that NNK drives IPF pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is a common pregnancy complication with long-term metabolic consequences for both mother and offspring. While genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified risk loci, the cell-type-specific genetic architecture remains poorly characterized due to the limitations of bulk-tissue analyses.We integrated GWAS summary statistics from FinnGen (12,332 cases, 131,109 controls) with single-cell expression quantitative trait loci (sc-eQTL) data from 12 immune cell types in the OneK1K cohort. Using the OTTERS framework and ACAT-O omnibus testing, we performed single-cell transcriptome-wide association studies (scTWAS) to identify GDM-associated genes. We performed bulk-level TWAS as a sensitivity analysis. To investigate the function of significant genes, we performed functional enrichment.We detected 14 unique genes significantly associated with GDM across immune cell types (FDR < 0.05), with the strongest signals in CD4+ T cells and monocytes. Notably, ERAP1 and ERAP2 showed associations in 10 of 12 cell types (ACAT. P = 2.17 × 10-5), and RIOK2 emerged as a shared regulator. Gene Ontology analysis consistently highlighted "antigen processing and presentation via MHC class I" as the top enriched pathway (FDR < 10-5). In contrast, traditional bulk TWAS using GTEx whole blood identified only two genes with nominal associations.Our sc-TWAS identifies cell-type-specific GDM-associated genes that are not detected in bulk tissue, highlighting dysregulated antigen presentation in peripheral immune cells. Colocalization prioritizes monocytic LNPEP as the primary causal candidate, while associations for ERAP1, ERAP2, and RIOK2 likely reflect complex LD or tissue-specific effects.Copyright: © 2026 Zhu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Oocyte development requires coordinated metabolic and signaling support from granulosa and theca cells. By performing integrated single-cell RNA sequencing and spatial transcriptomic analyses of murine and human ovaries, we discovered a functionally specialized stromal subtype essential for folliculogenesis. These stromal cells (SCs) with glutamyl aminopeptidase (ENPEP) function, designated perifollicular SCs based on their circumferential follicle localization, exhibit two hallmark features: (1) dynamic proliferation synchronized with follicular maturation from primary to secondary to antral stages, and (2) secretion of midkine (MDK), which activates nucleolin (NCL) receptor signaling to drive granulosa cell (GC) expansion. Furthermore, analyses of ovarian aging revealed the concurrent depletion of perifollicular SCs and the attenuation of MDK-NCL signaling between perifollicular SCs and GCs. The unique spatial confinement and regulatory capacity of perifollicular SCs endow them with the potential to become important components of the follicular functional unit, providing new theoretical support for understanding the molecular regulatory mechanisms of ovarian aging from the perspective of the follicular microenvironment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Candida species are associated with invasive infections characterized by causing high rates of mortality and morbidity, particularly when linked to biofilm formation. The present study investigated the in vitro antifungal activity of doxepin (DOX) against fluconazole-resistant strains of Candida spp., including 10 clinical isolates, 2 ATCC strains and 1 CDC strain. Antifungal susceptibility assays were performed on planktonic cells and biofilms, followed by cytometric analyses, including reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, mitochondrial depolarization, phosphatidylserine externalization, and cell viability. Molecular analyses involved docking and gene expression by qRT-PCR. DOX exhibited fungicidal activity against all strains, with MIC50 values ranging from 64 to 256 μg/mL, as well as significant reduction of biofilm formation. In combination with amphotericin B, a predominantly synergistic effect was observed, with increased efficacy at lower concentrations. Mechanistically, DOX induced oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, and apoptosis, reducing fungal viability. The in silico ADME profile showed high gastrointestinal absorption, indicating potential for oral bioavailability, compatible with systemic use. Furthermore, it established stable interactions with the Als3 and Sap5 proteins, also promoting changes in the expression of virulence-related genes, such as als3, sap5, ece1, and hwp1. These findings indicate that DOX exhibits promising antifungal activity for the treatment of Candida infections, particularly highlighting its potential against biofilms.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Urinary catheterization, a frequent procedure in hospitals, nursing homes, and other healthcare facilities, is a primary driver of nosocomial infections. The most common of these are catheter-associated urinary tract infections (CAUTIs), which often progress to severe complication, sepsis, and ultimately death. The fungus Candida albicans is a primary causative agent of CAUTIs; yet, its tissue-specific pathogenesis remains poorly understood, which complicates development of efficient treatments. While Efg1 is a known virulence driver in CAUTI, its specific downstream targets within the unique bladder environment have not been defined. Here, we identify and validate the EFG1 regulon that is active during conditions that mimic the human catheterized bladder and, additionally, confirm the regulon by transcriptional profiling of catheters retrieved from patients with C. albicans infection. We found that this urine-specific signature is highly conserved in clinical samples, with Efg1-dependent genes being among the most robustly induced transcripts during active human infection. Furthermore, we characterized two of these key factors, ECE1 and EED1, validating their roles in infection both in vitro in human urine and in vivo using a CAUTI mouse model. Elucidating this tissue-specific regulon offers a strategic roadmap for the development of targeted therapies to mitigate these ever-increasing life-threatening fungal infections.
Candida albicans causes infections of the central nervous system in premature infants and people with primary immune deficiencies affecting the innate immune system. Compared to infections in other organs, the pathogenesis and host responses to C. albicans brain infections are understudied. However, the CARD9/NLRP3/interleukin 1 (IL-1) axis has been shown to play a central role in protecting the brain from C. albicans through the recruitment of neutrophils. In addition, Ece1/candidalysin is a key fungal trigger of this pathway in the brain. Here, we demonstrate that the transcription factor Ahr1 is also required for the activation of the NLRP3/IL-1β axis, recruitment of neutrophils, and clearance of C. albicans from the brain. In contrast to its function in vitro, Ahr1 does not govern the expression of ECE1 in infected brain tissue. While our data show that Ahr1 and Ece1 have overlapping effects on the NLRP3/IL-1 axis, we have also observed clear distinctions in their function with respect to chemokine secretion. Our data support a model in which Ahr1 is required for the first priming step of NLRP3 inflammasome assembly, leading to IL-1β production. Ece1/candidalysin, on the other hand, plays an important role in driving both the second step of NLRP3 inflammasome activation and the inflammasome-independent IL-1α-mediated responses to C. albicans brain infection.IMPORTANCECandida albicans infections of the brain can cause devastating consequences, particularly for premature infants. However, C. albicans infection of the brain has been understudied relative to other types of infection. We have found that the regulator of gene expression Ahr1 governs the expression of C. albicans factors that are recognized by the host and which drive the influx of neutrophils to the brain. This process is critical to the clearance of the fungus from the brain. Our data also suggest that these Ahr1-dependent factors are required to prime this immune response and function at a different step compared to the toxin candidalysin, a protein that is also required for the host to clear C. albicans from the brain.
We aimed to characterize the genetic architecture of resistant hypertension (rHTN), which affects up to 18% of hypertensive individuals and increases cardiovascular disease risk.We conducted a genome-wide association study on rHTN, defined as use of 3 or more concomitant antihypertensive drugs for at least 6 months without reaching blood pressure target (in the 3-drug case), comparing it to controlled hypertension (cHTN), in which persons on 1 or 2 antihypertensives for at least 6 months reach target BP after 30 days of therapy initiation. The study included 23 508 rHTN cases and 24 393 cHTN controls, identified through drug prescription and blood pressure data from Iceland (deCODE), the UK (UK Biobank), and the US (eMERGE). Further analyses included comparisons with all hypertensive individuals (diagnosed with International Classification of Diseases, Tenth Revision code I10) and normotensives (no hypertension diagnosis).We found 24 rHTN variants, 17 of which used published BP variants as prior. Fifteen risk-increasing rHTN alleles are associated with lower serum potassium and increased hyperaldosteronism risk. Individuals with rHTN and cHTN had lower potassium levels before drug therapy than normotensives. All antihypertensive drug classes increased potassium levels in cHTN, while only aldosterone antagonists increased levels in rHTN. Mendelian randomization analysis was consistent with rHTN being a manifestation of hyperaldosteronism. The variant conferring the largest effect on both rHTN and hyperaldosteronism is a stop-gain variant in ENPEP in the aldosterone pathway.We discovered sequence variants that have different effects on rHTN and cHTN. Our study indicates that genetically determined hyperaldosteronism may be largely accountable for rHTN.
Glaesserella parasuis (GPS) is a major bacterial pathogen threatening the pig industry worldwide. It is widely prevalent in pig farms across China; however, to date, no effective strategies for its prevention and control are available. It causes divergent outcomes ranging from asymptomatic carriage to lethal disease; however, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, we integrated bulk- and single-cell RNA-seq of over 98,000 porcine alveolar macrophages from a well-defined piglet infection model (including control, mild, and severe groups).This is the first multi-omics dissection of macrophage heterogeneity in GPS infection at single-cell resolution. We identified four transcriptionally distinct macrophage subpopulations, with two inflammation-associated subsets (Im-Mac and Inf- Mac) that expanded dramatically with increasing disease severity. Pseudotime analysis revealed that severe infection skews macrophage differentiation almost exclusively toward pro-inflammatory fates. Integrated analysis revealed two opposing cellular programs dictating clinical outcomes: a protective program (active in mild infections, marked by CXCL10, CD69, SERPING1, and KMO) balancing immune recruitment with regulation, and a pathogenic program (dominating severe infections, characterized by a 16-gene signature including AMCF-II, CCL2, SERPINB2, CD14, ECE1, and IL7R). Notably, 9 of these 16 genes overlapped with a core set of 58 genes that were positively correlated with disease progression.We propose a balanced model in which the equilibrium between protective and pathogenic macrophage programs dictates the outcome of GPS infection. These findings provide novel cell-state-specific biomarkers and a molecular framework for understanding the divergent clinical outcomes of GPS infection.© 2026. The Author(s).
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is a rare, life-threatening thrombotic microangiopathy caused by severe ADAMTS13 deficiency, usually due to autoantibody-mediated inhibition. Its presentation is heterogeneous and often lacks the classic pentad, leading to diagnostic delays. Neurological symptoms may predominate, masking the underlying hematologic emergency. In our case, a 37-year-old previously healthy woman presented with acute headache, speech disturbance, and altered mental status. Despite normal neuroimaging, laboratory tests revealed severe thrombocytopenia and normocytic anemia. Lack of response to erythrocyte and platelet transfusions prompted further evaluation, revealing microangiopathic hemolytic anemia with elevated lactate dehydrogenase, undetectable haptoglobin, indirect hyperbilirubinemia, reticulocytosis, and normal coagulation parameters. A PLASMIC score of 6/7 indicated a high probability of severe ADAMTS13 deficiency. Treatment with high-dose corticosteroids was initiated immediately, followed by plasma exchange and rituximab. ADAMTS13 activity confirmed severe deficiency at 0.3%, supporting the diagnosis of acquired TTP in the clinical context. The patient achieved rapid remission and complete neurological recovery. This case highlights the importance of early recognition of microangiopathic hemolysis and prompt treatment without waiting for confirmatory ADAMTS13 results to reduce morbidity and mortality.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558597 is a review article
Large vWF (von Willebrand Factor) multimers are associated with ischemic stroke, and itsthrombogenicity is controlled by ADAMTS13 (a Disintegrin and Metalloprotease with repetitions in the ThromboSpond in motif). ADAMTS13 can cleave large vWF multimers into smaller, less procoagulant forms, preventing spontaneous platelet-thrombus formation. Extensive research has been conducted on the connection between ischemic stroke and ADAMTS13 activity as well as antigen levels, but got inconsistent conclusions. More recently, contradictory findings have been reported regarding the relationship between ADAMTS13 antigen levels or activity and recanalization therapy such as intravenous thrombolysis and mechanical thrombectomy.A thorough literature search was conducted from July 2th, 2001 to April 7th, 2025, utilizing various online databases including PubMed, Cochrane Library, Web of Science, and EMBASE. This meta-analysis aimed to synthesize observational evidence on the association between ADAMTS13 antigen or activity and stroke, and to evaluate its potential influence on recanalization outcomes following intravenous thrombolysis or mechanical thrombectomy. The pooled relative risk (RR) of stroke and the standardized mean difference (SMD) of the ADAMTS13 for stroke versus control subjects, as well as their corresponding 95% confidence interval (CI) were calculated. Eighteen studies with a total of 8,993 participants were included into this meta-analysis.(1) ADAMTS13 activity was lower in patients with ischemic stroke when compared with controls, the SMD was -1.12 (95%CI: -1.20, -1.03, P < 0.001). Patients with ischemic stroke had decreased ADAMTS13 plasma antigen levels when compared to controls, the SMD was -1.32 (95%CI: -1.49, -1.15, P < 0.001). (2) The multivariable-adjusted relative risk (RR) indicated that lower ADAMTS13 levels were associated with an elevated risk of ischemic stroke, the RR was 1.75 (95%CI: 1.4, 2.19, P < 0.001). (3) Ischemic stroke patients who achieved unfavorable outcomes following recanalization therapy exhibited lower baseline ADAMTS13 antigen levels compared to those with favorable outcomes, the SMD was -0.26 (95%CI: -0.51, -0.01, P = 0.04). No significant difference in baseline ADAMTS13 activity was observed between patients with favorable and unfavorable outcomes following recanalization therapy, the SMD was -0.05 (95%CI: -0.36, 0.26, P = 0.75). (4) The multivariable-adjusted relative risk (RR) indicated that lower baseline ADAMTS13 levels were significantly associated with unfavorable early neurological outcome following recanalization therapy in ischemic stroke. However, no significant association was observed between baseline ADAMTS13 levels and 90-day functional outcomes in ischemic stroke patients without recanalization therapies, with a risk ratio (RR) of 0.92 (95%CI: 0.75, 1.12, P = 0.009).ADAMTS13 activity and ADAMTS13 plasma antigen levels were lower in patients with ischemic stroke. Reduced ADAMTS13 levels were significantly correlated with an increased risk of ischemic stroke. Meanwhile, baseline ADAMTS13 antigen levels were lower in patients with unfavorable outcomes in ischemic stroke patients who undergoing recanalization therapy. Notably, lower ADAMTS13 levels are associated with unfavorable early neurological outcome after recanalization therapy in acute ischemic stroke rather than 90-day prognosis.https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/view/CRD420251229650, Identifier: CRD420251229650.Copyright © 2026 Li, Ding, Gao, Liu, Pei and Piao.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42544464 is a review article
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is a rare microangiopathy characterized by mechanical hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and multiorgan dysfunction, resulting from a severe deficiency of ADAMTS13. Among its rare forms, paraneoplastic TTP remains poorly described. We report here the case of a patient in the intensive care unit presenting with paraneoplastic TTP associated with metastatic prostate cancer. This case illustrates the diagnostic challenge posed by the interplay of multiple mechanisms and allows discussion of the different therapeutic options according to the type of TTP, including the role of plasma exchange in paraneoplastic TTP.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is frequently complicated by lupus nephritis (LN), but the coexistence of thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) represents a rare and severe manifestation associated with poor renal outcomes. Differentiating between SLE-associated TMA and primary complement-mediated atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome is diagnostically challenging but critical, as it dictates the use of targeted therapies such as terminal complement inhibitors. A 36-year-old female with SLE, lost to follow-up for two years, presented with fatigue, seizures, and anuric renal failure. Laboratory studies revealed severe bicytopenia, metabolic acidosis, and hemolysis with normal ADAMTS13 activity. A renal biopsy confirmed International Society of Nephrology/Renal Pathology Society Class III LN with prominent superimposed TMA. Despite intensive management with high-dose steroids, plasma exchange, and hemodialysis, the patient's refractory state necessitated the initiation of eculizumab. The clinical course was further complicated by a positive direct anti-globulin test (C3 positive/IgG negative), requiring intravenous immunoglobulin for a suspected secondary immune-mediated anemia. This case illustrates the diagnostic complexity of LN-TMA and the therapeutic necessity of a multidisciplinary approach. It underscores the importance of early renal biopsy and the timely utilization of complement inhibition in refractory cases to mitigate irreversible renal damage.Copyright © 2026, Pokharel et al.
Thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) is a process characterized by thrombocytopenia, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, and end-organ injury. Malignancy-associated TMA is uncommon and may resemble primary TMA syndromes, particularly when renal dysfunction predominates and peripheral smear findings are limited. We present a case of biopsy-confirmed renal TMA in the setting of newly diagnosed metastatic squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) following significant diagnostic uncertainty. A 59-year-old man with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus presented with worsening headache, neck pain, dysphagia, shortness of breath, poor oral intake, and significant weight loss. Initial evaluation demonstrated acute hypoxic respiratory failure, progressive renal failure, thrombocytopenia, and a newly identified right-sided neck mass. Laboratory studies showed anemia, elevated lactate dehydrogenase, low haptoglobin, and reticulocytosis, raising concern for TMA. Peripheral smear showed few schistocytes, while ADAMTS13 (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin type 1 motif member 13) activity was reduced but not severely deficient. Autoimmune and complement studies were unrevealing. Renal function progressively worsened, requiring initiation of hemodialysis. Renal biopsy demonstrated acute and chronic TMA with chronic vascular changes. Additional otolaryngologic evaluation confirmed invasive, moderately differentiated nonkeratinizing SCC of the uvula with metastatic cervical disease. Given the biopsy findings, lack of severe ADAMTS13 deficiency, unrevealing autoimmune workup, and overall clinical course, malignancy-associated TMA was favored over primary thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and other secondary causes. Renal TMA in patients with newly diagnosed malignancy may present with a broad and overlapping differential diagnosis. In this case, renal biopsy clarified this mechanism, as the limited peripheral smear findings and multiple overlapping causes of secondary TMA had posed significant diagnostic challenges.Copyright © 2026, Schwartz et al.
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is a rare, life-threatening thrombotic microangiopathy resulting from severe ADAMTS13deficiency. Congenital TTP (cTTP, Upshaw-Schulman syndrome) arises from biallelic mutations in the ADAMTS13 gene, leading to lifelong enzyme deficiency, often manifesting in childhood and requiring chronic plasma replacement. Pregnancy physiologically decreases ADAMTS13 activity, predisposing affected women to relapses and adverse outcomes if untreated.We report a case of a 32-year-old Iranian woman with childhood-onset cTTP managed with long-term fresh frozen plasma (FFP) prophylaxis. After two early miscarriages, her regimen was intensified to FFP every 10 days. During her third pregnancy, ADAMTS13 monitoring was limited, so surrogate markers (platelet count and lactate dehydrogenase) guided therapy. In the third trimester, when ADAMTS13 reached the lower normal limit, FFP was increased to weekly. She delivered a healthy male infant (3200 g, Apgar 8/10) at 37 weeks + 4 days via cesarean section, complicated only by diet-controlled gestational diabetes.This case highlights that individualized FFP prophylaxis can enable successful full-term pregnancy in cTTP even in resource-limited settings lacking ADAMTS13 testing. Reliance on clinical and hemolysis markers offers a practical alternative for monitoring. Prophylactic plasma replacement remains essential to prevent relapses and optimize maternal-fetal outcomes in cTTP pregnancies.The authors have confirmed clinical trial registration is not needed for this submission.© 2026 The Author(s). eJHaem published by British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS) is not a common thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) characterized by microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and renal impairment, often due to dysregulation of the alternative complement pathway. Bone marrow study in HUS is classically hypercellular. However, hypo-cellularity is rarely encountered. We report a case of a five-year-old boy who presented with severe pallor, thrombocytopenia, hypertension, and signs of TMA, including schistocytosis and renal impairment. Infectious and autoimmune causes were excluded. Initial management with plasma exchange and other supportive measures showed no improvement. ADAMTS13 activity was within normal limits, which excluded thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP). Further investigations, including next-generation sequencing and anti-complement factor H (anti-CFH) antibody tests, were negative. To our surprise, bone marrow biopsy revealed markedly hypocellular marrow (10-15% cellularity), indicative of aplastic anemia. Despite escalation of therapy with steroids, intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), and eculizumab, the child showed no response and succumbed to a pulmonary hemorrhage. The case highlights a rare and fatal presentation of aHUS associated with bone marrow hypoplasia, an uncommon and diagnostically challenging phenotype. It underscores the need for high clinical suspicion, early bone marrow evaluation in refractory cases, and the importance of timely access to complement-targeted therapies. The coexistence of aHUS and aplastic anemia suggests a potential novel pathophysiologic overlap warranting further investigation.Copyright © 2026, Soren et al.
Children with molar incisor hypomineralisation (MIH) frequently experience tooth hypersensitivity (TH), affecting functional, emotional and social wellbeing. Various assessment methods have been used to investigate these impacts; however, there are concerns about the relevance and sensitivity of these methods as they have not involved children with MIH in their development. The aim of this study was to develop and evaluate a child-centred, condition-specific OHRQoL for MIH-related TH.Children aged 6-16 years were included across three stages: Stage 1: semi-structured interviews to explore children's experiences of TH (N = 17); Stage 2: cognitive interviews and refinement (N = 29), patient and public involvement (PPI), a Delphi survey, and stakeholder consensus group meeting; Stage 3: psychometric evaluation and Rasch analysis of the measure and comparison with CPQ11-14-ISF:16 (N = 103).In Stage 1, five themes were identified: description, triggers, impact, responses, and experiences within the dental setting. Daily activities and emotional wellbeing were affected by TH, with cold stimuli reported as a common trigger. Children described adaptation strategies and the invisible nature of TH using rich vocabulary. The final measure demonstrated good internal consistency (McDonald's omega: 0.87) and test-retest reliability (ICC = 0.74). There was a strong correlation with the global question (r = 0.78), evidence of convergent validity with CPQ11-14-ISF: 16 (r = 0.49) and responsiveness to change.MIH-TH is the first child-centred OHRQoL patient-reported outcome measure for MIH-related TH in children, demonstrating good validity, reliability and responsiveness, with potential for use in clinical settings and research studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Excessive neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) formation worsens disease progression in sepsis. Vascular non-inflammatory molecule 1 (VNN1) is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored protein. The present study investigated the mechanism of the role of VNN1 in NETs formation and sepsis.Neutrophils from mouse bone marrow were isolated for experiments and mRNA sequencing. A cecum ligation and puncture-induced sepsis mouse model was established. Histopathological staining, real-time PCR, ELISA, flow cytometry and Western blot were used to detect phenotypic changes.VNN1 induced ROS-dependent NETs formation in vitro. S100A9 increases VNN1 protein levels and promoted NET formation in a VNN1-dependent manner. VNN1 also induced the NETs formation in vivo. VNN1 inhibition might ameliorate lung injury in sepsis mice via the reduction of NETs formation. VNN1 inhibition alleviated systemic inflammation in sepsis mice. Meanwhile, VNN1 inhibition was associated with reduced neutrophil recruitment to inflammatory sites. RNA sequencing results showed that immune and inflammation-related pathways were significantly altered in sepsis mice treated with the VNN1 inhibitor.This study demonstrates that S100A9 increases VNN1 protein levels and induces VNN1-dependent NETs formation in vitro. Inhibition of VNN1 by PFI-653 blocks NADPH oxidase-derived ROS and thereby suppresses NETs formation. In vivo VNN1 inhibition alleviates lung injury and systemic inflammation in septic mice, potentially through the suppression of NET formation.© 2026 Meng et al.
The Malocclusion Impact Questionnaire (MIQ) is a validated tool used to assess how malocclusion affects oral health-related quality of life (OHRQoL). This research focused on translating and culturally adapting the MIQ, then validating it in a group of Arab adolescents with malocclusion.Following translation per current guidelines, a pilot study with 20 adolescent native Arabic-speakers confirmed the comprehensiveness of the Arabic MIQ (MIQ-AR). The main study included 233 native Arabic-speaking children aged 10-16, who sought initial orthodontic advice. Construct validity was assessed by correlating the total MIQ-AR scale score with responses to global questions. Convergent validity was measured using the Child Perceptions Questionnaire (CPQ11-14 - ISF: 16). Internal consistency and reliability were evaluated using Cronbach's alpha. Forty adolescents completed both questionnaires again after 3 weeks to assess measurement stability, using Spearman's correlation coefficient and the intraclass correlation coefficient. Additionally, principal component analysis (PCA) was conducted.The MIQ-AR demonstrated high internal consistency with Cronbach's α above 0.90 and exhibited a strong Discrimination Index. A positive, strong, significant correlation between the global questions and the total MIQ-AR score supported the construct validity of the MIQ-AR. Convergent validity was confirmed through positive, strong, and statistically significant correlation between the MIQ-AR total scores and the CPQ11-14 scale. The test-retest reliability assessment confirmed the measure's stability over time, and the PCA yielded a two-component solution that accounted for 52.3% of the total variance.The current version of MIQ-AR demonstrates strong psychometric properties in terms of validity and reliability, and appears to be a reliable instrument for assessing the impact of malocclusion on OHRQoL among Arab adolescents. However, these findings should be interpreted with caution, as they may be limited to populations like the study sample. Further testing of the measure is required across a variety of settings and further work should evaluate measurement invariance and responsiveness across countries and more representative community samples.Copyright: © 2026 Journal of Orthodontic Science.
The Communication Patterns Questionnaire (CPQ), which assesses couples' interaction patterns in the face of conflict, has been cross-culturally validated. However, a complete version of this instrument in Spanish is not available yet. The aim of this study was to adapt the CPQ into Spanish and analyze its psychometric properties. The CPQ was translated using a translation and back-translation process. The data came from a Spanish sample (N = 536) and a Mexican sample (N = 564). A factor analysis was performed based on the model proposed by Crenshaw et al. (2017). Similarly, invariance analyses were performed for both sex and country. Likewise, correlations between subscales by sex were analyzed, as well as correlations with other related outcomes, such as commitment and satisfaction, and the reliability of the instrument was verified. After removing two items and adding covariances between complementary items, the data from both countries show a good fit to the explicit factor model: comparative fit index = .954; root-mean-square error of approximation = .056. Residual correlations were small overall, with the largest at .20. The criteria for invariance by sex and country were satisfied. All sex correlations among the subscales and almost all of those carried out between them and related outcomes were significant and in the expected direction, most of them being moderate in magnitude. Finally, these subscales reflected adequate internal consistency. The Spanish adaptation of the CPQ shows satisfactory psychometric indicators, and this study provides a new valid and reliable instrument for assessing couple dynamics in the Spanish-speaking context. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2026 APA, all rights reserved).
Early-life exposure to fine particulate matter (PM₂.₅) is increasingly implicated in the developmental origins of chronic respiratory diseases; however, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly defined. This study employed Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) to investigate transcriptomic alterations associated with intrauterine and early neonatal PM₂.₅ exposure in the developing murine lung. Microarray data (GSE104656) spanning embryonic (E14.5, E18.5) and postnatal (P40) stages were processed using robust normalization and variance filtering to construct a scale-free co-expression network. Principal component analysis revealed that developmental maturation was the primary driver of global transcriptional variation, with no distinct separation attributable to PM₂.₅ exposure. WGCNA identified biologically relevant gene modules involved in immune and metabolic processes as well as cell cycle regulation, that exhibited strong correlations with developmental progression. Functional enrichment analysis confirmed significant involvement in immune activation, leukocyte adhesion, DNA replication, and chromosomal organisation. Although differential expression analysis under stringent thresholds did not detect significant PM₂.₅-responsive genes, integrative network analysis identified eleven exposure-associated genes embedded within key modules. These genes, including Vnn1, Gprc6a, Mfap1a, Rgs16, and Fpr1, represent highly connected hub nodes implicated in oxidative stress regulation, extracellular matrix remodelling, metabolic signalling, and immune modulation. It was concluded that early-life PM₂.₅ exposure did not globally disrupt lung transcriptomic architecture but selectively perturbs critical hub genes within developmental networks. This targeted sub-network vulnerability provided a mechanistic basis for the developmental programming of COPD susceptibility, linking early environmental insults to long-term respiratory dysfunction.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Herein we describe unusual or rare morphologic features in two high-grade uterine sarcomas with novel or uncommon genetic alterations, to bring attention to their morphologic diversity, diagnostic challenges, and potential therapeutic implications. We report an uterine sarcoma with a FGFR1::TACC1 fusion, the third reported case in the literature, exhibiting epithelioid morphology not previously documented and negativity for S100 and CD34 immunohistochemistry (IHC). We also report an uterine sarcoma with a novel ACOT7::ERBB4 fusion, which displayed spindle cell morphology and osteosarcomatous differentiation. S100 and SOX10 IHC were both negative. Molecular testing was highly informative in reaching a diagnosis in both cases, due to the unusual morphology and limited immunohistochemical support. Clinical follow-up revealed aggressive behavior in both cases, demonstrated by rapid disease progression and metastatic spread. These two cases expand on the known histologic and molecular spectrum of uterine mesenchymal neoplasms with tyrosine kinase receptor gene fusions. Recognition of these entities is important for appropriate classification, prognostication, and identification of patients eligible for targeted therapies such as TRK or FGFR inhibitors.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Vanin-1 (VNN1) is crucial in inflammatory response and oxidative stress (OS), yet its contribution to sepsis remains unidentified. In this study, we investigated the functions of VNN1 in sepsis. Our results indicated VNN1 was elevated in sepsis patients and positively correlated with various cytokines. Meanwhile, VNN1 elevated in a mouse model of sepsis. In VNN1 knockout (KO) mice, VNN1 deficiency improved survival and organ function following CLP-induced sepsis. Furthermore, sepsis-induced inflammation and OS were reduced in VNN1 KO mice. Furthermore, our findings indicated VNN1 deficiency alleviated sepsis by regulating NF-kB/PPARγ pathways. Finally, the results showed VNN1 increased in sepsis patients, and higher VNN1 were associated with a poorer prognosis of sepsis. Our findings revealed a novel molecular mechanism in which VNN1 participated in sepsis by regulating NF-kB/PPARγ. This study offered a new strategy for inhibiting sepsis by targeting VNN1 signaling pathways.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Delayed fracture healing is a significant clinical challenge. Patients with concurrent traumatic brain injury (TBI) exhibit accelerated fracture healing; however, the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. This study aimed to identify key genes and molecular pathways that mediate enhanced fracture healing in patients with TBI.Transcriptome sequencing was performed to identify differentially expressed genes in the peripheral blood of patients with simple fractures and those with fractures accompanied by TBI. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), western blotting analysis, micro-computed tomography (micro-CT) scanning, and histological examinations were performed on a rat model of fracture with concomitant TBI. The role of vanin-1(VNN1) in fracture healing was assessed together with its relationship with the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway.Transcriptomic analysis revealed that VNN1 was significantly upregulated in patients with combined fracture and TBI. In animal models, VNN1 expression peaked early after injury and remained elevated over time. VNN1 knockdown markedly inhibited TBI-induced accelerated fracture healing, reduced callus maturity, and downregulated the expression of osteogenesis-related proteins (Runx2, OCN, OPN, COL1A1). Mechanistically, VNN1 activated the Wnt/β-catenin signaling via a non-canonical pathway, manifested by upregulation of β-catenin, Wnt1, and their downstream target genes, along with increased GSK3β phosphorylation. Inhibition of this pathway reversed the TBI-induced healing effect.VNN1 is a key factor mediating TBI-induced fracture healing by non-canonically regulating the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway to promote osteogenic differentiation and bone tissue maturation. This study provides a novel mechanism for understanding the effects of systemic trauma on local bone repair and offers potential molecular targets for fracture treatment.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
To develop a fatty acid metabolism-based deep learning model for predicting biochemical recurrence (BCR) in prostate cancer (PCa) and to identify recurrence-associated metabolic regulators.Transcriptomic data from TCGA and GEO GSE70769 were integrated to identify fatty acid metabolism-related genes and construct a deep learning model for BCR prediction. Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) were quantified from H&E-stained slides using a convolutional neural network-based approach. Single-cell RNA sequencing data were analyzed to identify candidate metabolic regulators enriched in malignant epithelial cells. Immunohistochemistry was performed to examine the protein expression patterns of NUDT19 and its expression associations with key fatty acid metabolism enzymes, including FASN, ACACA, and CPT1A. Functional roles were further evaluated using in vitro assays, xenograft models, and serum metabolomics.The model effectively stratified PCa patients into high- and low-risk groups with distinct BCR-free survival outcomes. The high-risk group showed increased TIL infiltration, suggesting a more immune-infiltrated or inflammatory tumor microenvironment. Integrated single-cell and bulk transcriptomic analyses identified NUDT19 as a candidate metabolic regulator predominantly expressed in malignant epithelial cells and positively correlated with FASN, ACACA, and CPT1A. NUDT19 knockdown suppressed PCa cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, induced apoptosis, and inhibited tumor growth in vivo. Serum metabolomics further revealed that differential metabolites were enriched in fatty acid metabolism-related pathways.This study establishes a fatty acid metabolism-based deep learning model for BCR prediction and identifies NUDT19 as a candidate metabolic regulator associated with lipid metabolic remodeling and PCa progression. These findings suggest a metabolically active, inflammation-associated recurrence subtype and support further investigation of NUDT19 as a potential therapeutic target in PCa.© 2026. The Author(s).
Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is associated with high mortality, and increasing evidence suggests that air pollution may contribute to its development. However, the molecular mechanisms linking pollutant exposure to severe inflammatory lung injury remain incompletely understood. In this study, we integrated local clinical association data, bioinformatic analyses, molecular interaction prediction, and in vivo toxicological validation to investigate potential mechanisms underlying pollution-associated respiratory injury. Monthly hospital admissions for ARDS were positively associated with ambient particulate matter concentrations (PM2.5 and PM10) in Yangzhou, China. Analysis of the GSE76293 dataset identified 167 overlapping genes between pollutant-related targets and ARDS-associated differentially expressed genes, which were mainly enriched in inflammatory and immune-response pathways. Machine learning prioritized three candidate targets, NLRC4, ETS2, and VNN1. Because polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are representative toxic components of particulate matter, benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) was selected for in vivo validation. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics analyses supported stable interactions between PAH-related compounds and the candidate proteins. In mice, BaP exposure induced acute lung injury, as indicated by histopathological damage, increased lung wet-to-dry weight ratio, and elevated inflammatory mediators in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. BaP exposure was also accompanied by increased expression of NLRC4/GSDMD-related signaling, together with upregulation of ETS2 and VNN1 in lung tissue. These findings support a potential mechanistic link between particulate pollution-related toxicants and acute inflammatory lung injury relevant to ARDS.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Uveal melanoma (UM) is a challenging malignancy, in terms of diagnosis, risk stratification, and treatment associated with high morbidity and mortality rates. It has been demonstrated that E2F-related pathways play a significant role in the tumorigenesis and distant metastasis of UM. In this study, the E2F target-related genes were utilized to construct and validate a prognostic risk score for patients with UM.Using the TCGA-UVM cohort (n = 80), 192 E2F target genes were screened using gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) to identify survival-associated genes. Prognostic genes were filtered using Kaplan-Meier analysis, univariate Cox regression, and LASSO, followed by multivariate Cox regression to construct a risk score model. The model was validated using the GSE22138 cohort (n = 63). Functional annotations of the risk score and its impact on stratifying tumor immune microenvironment components were assessed.A total of 9 genes (CDC25B, NME1, RFC2, PRDX4, NASP, UBE2S, PRKDC, MCM6, and LBR) passed the model construction pipeline. The risk score categorization system showed an independent prognostic power (HR: 2.34, 95% CI: 1.11-4.90, p = 0.025) and a good predictability of the survival outcome (receiver operating characteristic curve analysis: area under the curve = 0.730, 95% CI: 0.60-0.86, p = 0.002). When analyzing the most frequently mutated gene cohorts, the risk score was significantly lower in the mutated subgroups of GNAQ, SF3B1, and EIF1AX. In contrast, the risk score was notably higher in the BAP1 mutated subgroup. Copy number analysis of chromosomal arms showed significant correlations between the risk score and 1q, 3q, 3p, 6p, 8q. The high-risk group showed significant infiltration for NK cells, plasma B cells, gamma delta T cells, follicular T cells, M1 and M2 macrophages with lower infiltration of common myeloid progenitor cells. In addition, the high-risk group showed higher immune and microenvironment scores.The developed E2F target-related gene model offers a robust tool for predicting the prognosis of UM patients. As a potential risk stratification method for UM, this model could have clinical applications pending further evaluation.© 2026 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Despite optimal glycemic control, the heart failure burden remains substantial in diabetic patients. Metabolic remodeling is involved in this process, yet our current understanding is still in its infancy. Methylmalonic acid (MMA) is conventionally viewed as a marker of cobalamin (Cbl) deficiency. Paradoxically, MMA elevation-related cardiovascular mortality is more pronounced in diabetic patients with normal or high Cbl levels. This study investigated the mechanisms and translational significance of this contradictory MMA accumulation in the diabetic heart.We analyzed serum Cbl, MMA, and cardiac biomarkers in 12 751 participants and characterized Mmut (methylmalonyl-CoA mutase; a key enzyme in MMA catabolism) expression in failing human hearts with diabetes. Cardiomyocyte-specific Mmut knockout and Mmut-overexpressing mice were subjected to high-fat diet/streptozotocin-induced diabetes. Molecular mechanisms were elucidated using 13C-isotope tracing, RNA sequencing, immunoprecipitation, and biolayer interferometry.Elevated serum MMA was significantly associated with subclinical heart damage and adverse outcomes in diabetic adults, even in the absence of Cbl deficiency. Cardiac MMA overload and decreased protein expression of Mmut were observed in humans and mice with diabetes. Notably, MMA dysmetabolism preceded detectable cardiac dysfunction in diabetic mice and persisted even after glycemic normalization. Mechanistically, the hyperglycemic memory-associated molecule miR-499 binds to Mmut mRNA, suppressing its expression and driving MMA accumulation. Mmut deficiency amplified cardiac MMA overload and exacerbated disturbances in glycolipid metabolism and mitochondrial quality control, whereas adeno-associated virus-mediated Mmut overexpression attenuated cardiac MMA load and adverse remodeling in diabetic mice. Isotope tracing identified isoleucine and valine as the primary sources of cardiac MMA under diabetic conditions. Branched-chain amino acid-restricted diets alleviated diabetes-induced MMA accumulation and heart damage. Crucially, Cbl supplementation failed to alleviate MMA overload in diabetic mice, even at high doses or with activated forms. Strikingly, metformin, an established risk factor for Cbl deficiency, mitigated MMA-induced heart damage through dual mechanisms: activating AMPK (AMP-activated protein kinase)-dependent mitochondrial quality control to enhance tolerance to MMA, and directly promoting Mmut-Cbl cooperation to enhance MMA clearance.This study provides a foundation for understanding diabetes-related MMA dysmetabolism as a trigger for subclinical heart damage resistant to glycemic control and Cbl supplementation. Our findings challenge the prevailing clinical consensus regarding the impacts of Cbl and metformin use on MMA elevation in diabetic management.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) progression from benign polyps to malignant adenocarcinomas is a complex process involving the abnormal proliferation and differentiation of colon epithelial cells. Colorectal adenomas (CRAs), the precursors to most CRCs, are histologically classified into tubular adenomas (TAs), tubulovillous adenomas (TVAs), and villous adenomas (VAs). Despite new findings, the molecular signatures and pathways specific to each adenoma type remain poorly understood. This study aimed to identify specific biomarkers and pathways associated with the progression of TA, TVA, and VA to CRC.We analyzed gene expression data from 169 CRA samples and 65 adjacent normal tissues from the GSE117606 and GSE117607 datasets. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified for each adenoma type, followed by functional enrichment and protein-protein interaction network analysis. Our results revealed 1,024 DEGs common to all three adenoma types, with COL1A2 and CXCL8 highlighted as hub genes. Additionally, specific genes such as NTRK2, JUN, LAT, and DRD2 were identified for TA; H2AFZ, NME1, MRTO4, and SSRP1 were identified for TVA; and WDR43, POLR1B, and NHP2 were identified for VA. Functional enrichment analysis revealed key pathways involved in adenoma progression, providing insights into the molecular mechanisms driving their malignancy potential. The expression of candidate genes was further validated by RT-qPCR, and repeated cross-validated ROC analysis supported the discriminative potential of CXCL8 and COL1A2 for distinguishing CRA and CRC tissues from adjacent normal mucosa.These findings provide valuable insights into adenoma biology and offer potential applications for targeted therapies in CRC prevention and treatment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Gallbladder carcinoma (GBC) is a highly aggressive malignancy characterized by an extremely poor prognosis and limited therapeutic options. N6-methyladenosine (m6A), the most prevalent post-transcriptional modification in eukaryotic mRNA, plays a pivotal role in regulating tumor progression. Screening of an siRNA library targeting YTH-domain family reader proteins identified YTH domain-containing family protein 2 (YTHDF2) as essential for the malignant phenotype of GBC cells. YTHDF2 was aberrantly upregulated in GBC tissues and served as an independent predictor of poor prognosis. Genetic silencing of YTHDF2 markedly suppressed both proliferation and metastatic potential of GBC cells in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, YTHDF2 transcription is upregulated through P300 histone acetyltransferase-mediated H3K27ac modification. YTHDF2 promotes mRNA degradation by binding to m6A-modified sites within the transcript encoding the metastasis suppressor non-metastatic protein 1 (NME1), thereby repressing NME1 expression and accelerating GBC malignancy. Co-treatment with the P300 inhibitor C646 and the m6A modification inhibitor STM2457 synergistically inhibited YTHDF2-mediated GBC malignancy. Collectively, these findings establish the P300-YTHDF2-m6A-NME1 axis as a critical driver of GBC progression and indicate that combined C646 and STM2457 treatment represents a novel and promising therapeutic strategy for GBC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Methylmalonic acidemia (MMA) is a rare autosomal recessive metabolic disorder caused by pathogenic variants in the MMUT gene, often associated with severe neonatal manifestations and sudden unexpected death in infancy (SUDI). Preimplantation Genetic Testing for Monogenic Diseases (PGT-M) offers a valuable reproductive option for at-risk couples seeking to prevent transmission of such conditions. This represents the first Brazilian case of a healthy birth following combined PGT-M and PGT-A for MMA known. After the neonatal loss of their first child due to mut0-type MMA, a couple underwent genetic testing, which identified compound heterozygosity in MMUT: a maternal deletion (c.1196_1197del) and a paternal duplication (c.213_216dup). Haplotype construction used parental and proband DNA. Two IVF cycles yielded 13 blastocysts; of these, one embryo was diagnosed as being both euploid and unaffected, and two were euploid and heterozygous carriers. One of those embryos was selected for transfer, resulting in an uneventful pregnancy and the live birth of a healthy female infant. This single case highlights the clinical utility of PGT-M to prevent the recurrence of a severe inborn errors of metabolism and underscores the importance of early genetic counseling in couples with prior adverse neonatal outcomes.
Sepsis, is a life-threatening syndrome triggered by infection. Bile acid metabolism may be involved in the pathogenesis of sepsis, the underlying association has not yet been elucidated. Thus, we aimed to screen for bile acid metabolism-related biomarkers of sepsis and discover the potential association.Sepsis-related datasets were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. We identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and bile acid metabolism-related differentially expressed genes (BAMRDEGs), then identified hub genes using protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis and CytoHubba algorithm. After GO/KEGG enrichment analysis, a sepsis risk prediction model based on key genes was subsequently constructed using support vector machine recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE) machine learning and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression. CIBERSORTx analysis was performed to assess immune cell infiltration and its association with key genes. Finally, the transcriptional levels of key genes in sepsis samples were detected by Quantitative Real-time PCR (qRT-PCR).9785 DEGs were identified, including 5138 upregulated and 4647 downregulated genes. Additionally, 25 hub genes were identified. Gene enrichment analysis indicated that the hub genes participate in multiple biological pathways. Key genes (ABCC2, PECR, EPHX2, PEX2, and AGXT) exert central roles in the development of sepsis, indicating the involvement of bile acid metabolism. Significant correlations existed between the expression of key BAMRDEGs and the levels of different immune cell types. qRT-PCR suggested significant up-regulation on ABCC2 and AGXT in sepsis samples versus controls.This study revealed novel insights into the correlation between sepsis and bile acid metabolism, and identified 5 key genes involved in the development of sepsis, providing molecular targets and novel strategies for the diagnosis and treatment of sepsis.Copyright: © 2026 Xie et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Understanding the proteins implicated in the pathogenesis of ischemic stroke is important for elucidating disease mechanisms and informing prevention strategies. In this study, we aim to identify plasma proteins with a potentially causal effect on risk of ischemic stroke by integrating the largest available genetic data sources for plasma proteins, ischemic stroke and its risk factors.We use genome-wide association (GWA) statistics to identify cis protein quantitative trait loci for over 3,500 proteins across two proteomic platforms. Subsequently, we perform two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) to assess the potentially causal relationships between plasma proteins and a) risk of ischemic stroke and its subtypes, and b) well-established cardiovascular risk factors. Downstream analyses include Bayesian colocalization, phenome-wide associations and interrogation of biological databases.We identify 21 proteins with evidence of potentially causal associations with risk of ischemic stroke or its subtypes at 5% false discovery rate, with 16 supported further by colocalization. Four proteins (CEP85, KNG1, MMUT, SPATA20) represent findings not previously implicated in ischemic stroke through MR, or through cognate genes in GWA studies. Integration of evidence from phenome-wide MR, animal models and tissue-specific gene expression highlights agonists of MMUT, CEP85 and GRK5, and inhibitors of F11 and KNG1 as the most promising for further consideration as targets for prevention of ischemic stroke.Our study provides the most comprehensive data integration to date supporting the identification and causal relevance of plasma proteins for ischemic stroke and implicating a number of potential therapeutic targets.© 2026. The Author(s).
Isolated methylmalonic acidemia (MMA) is an autosomal recessive disorder that increases methylmalonic acid by affecting the metabolism of propionyl-CoA. Mutations in multiple genes cause MMA, however, those in methylmalonyl-CoA mutase ( MMUT ) are most common. MMUT is an isomerase that converts methylmalonyl-CoA to succinyl-CoA, a key tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle intermediate. The defects in these metabolic processes disproportionately affect hepatocytes in patients with MMA. We performed gene editing in human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) to generate loss-of-function mutations within MMUT . Hepatocytes derived from these iPSCs recapitulate key aspects of methylmalonic acidemia, providing a new model of MMA.Copyright: © 2026 by the authors.
Methylmalonic acidemia (MMA), the most prevalent organic acidemia in China, is an autosomal recessive disorder. Neonatal-onset MMA often presents with non-specific manifestation, often causing diagnostic delays.A retrospective analysis was conducted on the clinical data, laboratory findings, and genetic information of 45 neonatal-onset MMA patients admitted to the Children's Hospital Affiliated to Shandong University from October 2016 to June 2024.1) Classification: 32 combined MMA, 13 isolated MMA. Median onset: 11 days. Common manifestations: feeding difficulties (60.0%), failure to thrive (57.8%), jaundice (46.7%), respiratory distress (40.0%), impaired consciousness (28.9%). Key labs: hyperammonemia (40.0%), macrocytic anemia (33.3%), granulocytopenia (31.1%). Hydrocephalus occurred in 3/31, abnormal EEGs in 15/19. Elevated C3, C3/C0, methylmalonic acid, and methylcitric acid were diagnostic. 2) Combined MMA had significantly lower methionine, blood ammonia, and C3/C0 vs. isolated MMA. Isolated MMA showed lower leukocyte counts (p < 0.05). 3) Whole-exome sequencing: 31/32 (96.8%) had MMACHC mutations; c.609G>A recurrent (12/31). One had ABCD4 mutation. Isolated MMA: All 13 had MMUT mutations; c.729_730insTT common (46.2%). Missense mutations predominated.Neonatal-onset MMA presents with non-specific clinical phenotypes. Therefore, unexplained feeding difficulties, neutropenia, hyperammonemia, or seizures warrant prompt homocysteine, tandem MS, and urinary organic acid screening. Isolated MMA shows earlier free carnitine decline and higher ammonia. MMACHC c.609G>A and MMUT c.729_730insTT are recurrent in combined and isolated subtypes, respectively.© 2026 Xu, Kang, Yv, Li, Liu and Li.
Primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder that leads to kidney and liver failure. PH1 is caused by a mutation in the alanine glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGXT) gene, which encodes a key metabolic enzyme that converts glyoxylate to glycine in the liver. Inability to metabolize glyoxylate leads to oxalate overproduction, yielding insoluble calcium oxalate crystals; accumulation of these crystals leads to progressive organ failure. Here, we used a novel, minimally disruptive genome-editing approach to disrupt the mechanism of action of hydroxyacid oxidase 1 (HAO1), an upstream enzyme in the glyoxylate metabolic pathway. Successful gene editing and disruption of the HAO1 gene is expected to increase levels of glycolate, a harmless intermediate of the glycine metabolic pathway, thereby preventing the formation of calcium oxalate crystals. We intravenously administered an adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector expressing the M1HAO1 meganuclease to both wild-type and Agxt-/- mice, a mouse model of PH1. We observed >30% editing of HAO1 in Agxt-/- mice, correlating with a dose-dependent increase in serum glycolate levels. At the highest dose tested, urine glycolate levels increased by 79%, with a concomitant 75% decrease in urine oxalate levels. We also evaluated in vivo targeting in rhesus macaques injected with AAV expressing two different versions of the HAO1 meganuclease. Dose-dependent editing of hepatic DNA and RNA was achieved, and serum glycolate levels changed in a manner consistent with successful liver editing; additionally, the treatment was well tolerated. Our results indicate that AAV-delivered meganucleases can effectively target HAO1 in mice and nonhuman primates to achieve high levels of HAO1 gene editing. Moreover, increased glycolate levels in serum indicate that this intervention significantly impacts the HAO1-mediated glycolate-to-glyoxylate pathway. These data suggest that this approach may represent an effective treatment for PH1.
Socioeconomic status (SES) is associated with disparities in cancer outcomes. The relationship between SES and postoperative outcomes after esophagectomy is inconsistent, especially within low-threshold universal healthcare systems. We hypothesized that lower SES would be associated with higher rates of postoperative complications, and longer length of hospital stay (LOS).This retrospective nationwide cohort study used Dutch Upper Gastrointestinal Cancer Audit (DUCA) data. All patients aged ≥18 years undergoing esophagectomy between 2014 and 2023 were included. SES was based on neighbourhood-level data derived from Statistics Netherlands (CBS). Patients were assigned to three SES groups (low, middle, high). Outcomes included severe postoperative complications and other postoperative outcomes, including length of stay (LOS) and mortality. Multivariable regression adjusted for confounders.Among 6658 patients, lower SES groups had a higher comorbidity burden, with American Society of Anaesthesiologists (ASA) physical status ≥ III in 32·3% of low SES patients, compared with 27·2% and 26·0% in middle and high SES groups. In univariable analysis, high SES was associated with a lower risk of prolonged intensive care unit (ICU) stay (OR 0·78, 95% CI 0·67-0·91) and LOS (β -1·60 days, 95% CI -2·90 to -0·34). After adjustment, SES was not independently associated with postoperative outcomes.SES was not associated with postoperative outcomes after esophagectomy. Lower SES groups had higher comorbidity burden, which may explain the attenuation of the association after adjustment for clinical risk factors. These findings suggest that within a low-threshold universal healthcare system, postoperative outcomes after esophagectomy may be primarily determined by clinical factors rather than SES.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Carotid blowout syndrome (CBS) is a catastrophic complication associated with head-and-neck surgery and other conditions involving exposure or erosion of major cervical vessels. Covered stent-graft placement can provide rapid hemostasis while preserving arterial patency. However, implantation in a contaminated field adjacent to a tracheostoma may predispose patients to devastating device-related infection, particularly in immunocompromised hosts.We report the case of a 35-year-old man with stage IVB thymic carcinoma (T4N2M0) who received induction chemotherapy combined with immunotherapy followed by extended resection, including segmental tracheal resection, right thyroid lobectomy with isthmusectomy, supraclavicular island flap tracheal reconstruction, and tracheostomy. Thirteen days after discharge, he developed massive hemoptysis consistent with CBS and underwent emergency neck exploration, angiography, and placement of covered stent grafts in the right common carotid and right subclavian arteries. During the subsequent course, he developed recurrent fever, and repeated blood cultures grew Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Despite culture-directed antipseudomonal therapy and removal of indwelling central venous catheters, bacteremia recurred. Flexible fiberoptic laryngoscopy later demonstrated exposure of the vascular stent graft into the airway, strongly suggesting stent-graft infection or bacterial colonization of the exposed device. The patient subsequently developed recurrent bleeding through the tracheostoma and persistent bacteremia, followed by massive hemorrhage and progressive clinical deterioration. Because definitive surgical source control was judged to offer no acceptable risk-benefit profile after multidisciplinary reassessment, the family elected to withdraw active treatment.This case suggests that covered stent placement in a contaminated head-and-neck field should be undertaken with great caution, as subsequent bacterial colonization or stent-graft infection may occur and may further lead to recurrent or even catastrophic hemorrhage. When stent implantation is unavoidable, early multidisciplinary evaluation is essential, and every effort should be made to prevent wound infection, bacterial colonization of the device, and related bleeding complications.Copyright © 2026 Ji, Zhang, Yuan and Zhao.
Corticobasal degeneration (CBD) is a late onset progressive neurodegenerative condition of the 4-repeat-tauopathy-type, classically presenting with asymmetrical rigidity, dystonia and myoclonus. In the most recent diagnostic criteria, Armstrong and colleagues (2013) described four clinical phenotypes associated with this pathology, including corticobasal syndrome (CBS), through a large retrospective analysis of published cases and confirmed brain bank cases of CBD. However, predicting CBD pathology remains challenging. With the advent of disease-modifying therapies, it has become particularly important to distinguish Alzheimer's disease pathology from other underlying pathologies. We therefore combined two prospectively recruited cohorts of patients with CBS and analysed their key demographic, clinical and biomarker features. We included a separate cohort from UK brain banks who were diagnosed with CBS in life. We divided patients into three groups: CBS-Alzheimer's (CBS-AD), CBS-non-Alzheimer's (CBS-non-AD) and CBS-indeterminate (CBS-IDT) based on biomarkers and pathology, comparing clinical features, regional volumetric MRI measures and Nucleic Acid-Linked Immuno-Sandwich Assay with detection by next generation sequencing (NULISAseq) blood protein levels between groups. We performed additional analyses of pathologically verified cases. We included 397 participants, of which 57.7% were female. The mean age at symptom onset was 65.9 years. AD biomarkers and pathology permitted classifying 47 (11.8%) of the cases as CBS-AD, 134 (33.8%) as CBS-non-AD and 216 (54.4%) as CBS-IDT. Patients with CBS-AD had a younger age at onset (61.8 years vs 66.1 years, P < 0.01 and less severe motor deficits (non-significantly lower scores on MDS-UPDRS and PSPRS) and more severe cognitive impairment (non-significantly lower scores on MoCA). Patients with CBS-AD had higher rates of cortical sensory impairment (P = 0.087) and lower rates of limb dystonia (P < 0.01) and falls (P < 0.01) compared to the CBS-non-AD group. Volumetric MRI analysis revealed smaller parietal lobe volumes in CBS-AD (P = 0.01). The most common pathological diagnoses were PSP, CBD and AD. Limb dystonia was more common in people with CBD and PSP pathology (P = 0.077). Falls, impaired verbal fluency and impaired vertical saccades were confirmed as more common in PSP (P = 0.046, P = 0.040, P = 0.012, respectively). In summary, younger onset, less parkinsonism and more cognitive and cortical sensory impairment, along with reduced MRI parietal volumes point to CBS-AD, while limb dystonia, falls and worse verbal fluency relate to CBS-non-AD. Clinical, imaging and blood-biomarkers in can augment the Armstrong criteria in predicting the underlying pathology of corticobasal syndromes.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain.
Clinical trials of anti-amyloid therapies (AATs) for Alzheimer disease (AD) primarily enrolled patients with mildly symptomatic, amnestic predominant presentations. The applicability of eligibility criteria to atypical AD phenotypes, including posterior cortical atrophy (PCA), logopenic variant primary progressive aphasia (lvPPA), dysexecutive AD (dAD), and corticobasal syndrome because of AD (CBS-AD), is unknown.We conducted a retrospective eligibility analysis of patients with atypical AD evaluated at Mayo Clinic. Theoretical eligibility for AAT was assessed at initial clinical evaluation by applying inclusion and exclusion criteria from landmark clinical trials (Study to Confirm Safety and Efficacy of Lecanemab in Participants With Early Alzheimer's Disease [CLARITY-AD] and the Study of LY3002813 (Donanemab) in Participants With Early Symptomatic Alzheimer's Disease [TRAILBLAZER-ALZ2]) and appropriate use criteria for lecanemab and donanemab. Eligibility percentages and reasons for exclusion were compared across phenotypes.The cohort included 184 patients (61.4% female) with biomarker-confirmed atypical AD: PCA (n = 98, 53.3%), lvPPA (n = 42, 22.8%), dAD (n = 37, 20.1%), and CBS-AD (n = 7, 3.8%). Age at onset (p = 0.039) and presentation (p < 0.001) differed, with patients with lvPPA oldest (median age at onset, presentation: 63.1, 66.9 years) and patients with dAD youngest (onset, presentation: 55.1, 57.3). Functional impairment differed by phenotype (p = 0.005), with lvPPA more often diagnosed at the mild cognitive impairment/very mild stage (Clinical Dementia Rating [CDR] 0.5; 71.4%), whereas PCA and dAD more frequently presented with mild dementia, although time from symptom onset to diagnosis did not differ (p = 0.634). Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores differed (p = 0.036), with lower scores in PCA and lvPPA (median 21 and 21, respectively) compared with CBS-AD (median 27). Depending on the eligibility framework applied, 70%-85% of patients would not meet treatment criteria. Bedside cognitive thresholds were the primary drivers of ineligibility (50%-67% of exclusions), despite most patients having early symptomatic disease (global CDR 0.5-1; 82%). Imaging-based exclusions (22%-27%) and severity thresholds (moderate or severe dementia, 19%-23%) were also frequent. Reasons for ineligibility were similar across phenotypes.Most patients with atypical AD would not meet eligibility criteria for AAT, typically because of MMSE-based exclusion rather than measures of cognitive function. Eligibility rates are broadly similar across atypical phenotypes. These findings highlight the need for phenotype-sensitive staging and patient selection for treatment in atypical AD.
The temporal sequence of clinical, imaging, and biological changes in sporadic frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD)-associated syndromes remains poorly characterized, and a comprehensive biomarker cascade model is lacking.We developed a data-driven biomarker cascade model in 489 patients across the FTLD spectrum (211 behaviorial variant frontotemporal dementia [bvFTD], 129 primary progressive aphasia [PPA], 71 corticobasal syndrome [CBS], 66 progressive supranuclear palsy [PSP], and 12 FTD associated with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis [FTD-ALS]; 1904 patient-visit observations). Plasma, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and clinical biomarkers were modeled using sigmoid trajectories fitted to covariate-adjusted longitudinal data.Plasma glial fibrillary acidic protein departed from normality earliest, followed by Trail Making Test Part B (TMT-B), white matter lesion volume, and neurofilament light chain. Insular atrophy showed the steepest transition among MRI measures; clinical dementia rating dementia staging instrument plus National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center behavior and language domains sum of boxes declined most steeply overall. TMT-B inflected earliest in bvFTD, whereas insula atrophy dominated in PPA.This first data-driven temporal cascade of multimodal biomarkers in sporadic FTLD-associated syndromes offers a framework for disease staging and stage-specific clinical trial design.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Charles Bonnet syndrome (CBS) is a condition that can cause people with vision loss to see things that are not actually present, such as patterns, objects, animals, or people. Although these experiences are usually not a sign of mental illness, many individuals feel worried, confused, or reluctant to discuss their symptoms with healthcare professionals. A recent study in Therapeutic Advances in Ophthalmology showed that an educational podcast helped people with CBS better understand their condition and reduced some of the emotional distress associated with hallucinations. This finding highlights the value of simple, accessible educational tools in supporting patients. In our letter, we suggest that educational podcasts should be viewed as the first step in a broader support strategy. Education can help patients feel reassured, but it should be combined with routine screening, opportunities to discuss symptoms with healthcare providers, and clear pathways for referral when additional support is needed. We also emphasize the importance of making educational resources available in different languages and formats so they can reach people with varying levels of digital access and health literacy. By combining patient education with structured clinical support, healthcare systems may improve awareness of CBS, reduce stigma, encourage earlier disclosure of symptoms, and enhance quality of life for people living with this often-overlooked condition. Our goal is to promote practical, equitable, and patient-centred approaches that can be adopted in eye care services worldwide.© The Author(s) 2026.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42540359 is a review article
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is a highly aggressive malignancy with poor prognosis and limited therapeutic options. Ferroptosis, a regulated form of cell death characterized by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, plays a crucial role in tumor progression and immune regulation.We integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and bulk transcriptomic data to identify ferroptosis-active cellular subpopulations within the ESCC tumor microenvironment. A ferroptosis-related prognostic model was constructed using LASSO-Cox regression and validated across independent cohorts from TCGA and GEO. Associations with immune infiltration, tumor mutation burden, therapeutic response, and drug sensitivity were explored. Furthermore, functional experiments were conducted in vitro using the ESCC cell lines, and the four prognostic core genes were revalidated using an independent single-cell dataset, which was also fully confirmed in clinical ESCC tissue samples. In addition, Western blot analysis was performed to examine the expression levels of ferroptosis-related proteins following CDCA3 knockdown, and to further investigate the impact of CDCA3 depletion on the cellular response to the ferroptosis inducer RSL3.Four ferroptosis-related genes (CBS, CDCA3, GALNT14, and IDO1) were identified used to construct a robust risk model, effectively stratifying patients into high- and low-risk groups with significant differences in survival, immune infiltration, and predicted treatment response. In vitro experiments confirmed that CDCA3 knockdown significantly inhibited the proliferation and migration of ESCC cells and induced ferroptosis. GSE188900 single-cell sequencing data further confirmed that the aforementioned genes were significantly upregulated at single-cell resolution in tumor cells, with consistent validation in clinical ESCC tissue samples, Moreover,experimental results showed that knockdown of CDCA3 lead to the downregulation of ferroptosis inhibitor-related genes and upregulation of ferroptosis-promoting genes, thereby enhancing the sensitivity to RSL3-induced ferroptosis.Our study presents a single-cell-resolved ferroptosis gene signature with strong prognostic and therapeutic implications for ESCC. The signature was validated in clinical tissue samples, and this model lays the foundation for ferroptosis-targeted therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026 Xu, Ma, Huang, abdukirim, Yang, Song and Liu.
Corticobasal syndrome (CBS) is a clinically defined phenotype with different underlying neuropathological substrates most commonly the 4-repeat tauopathy corticobasal degeneration (CBD). 2-[18F] fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose Positron Emission Tomography ([18F]FDG-PET) studies have described regional metabolic abnormalities but detailed subcortical and cerebellar structures involvement is less known and metabolic connectivity remains unexplored. This study combined voxel-based, region-of-interest (ROI) analyses and connectivity approaches to further characterize metabolic alterations and to provide a network-level framework in CBS.Thirty-nine CBS patients underwent [18F]FDG-PET at two sites, with images flipped to align the most affected hemisphere; 99 controls were drawn from a national normative database. Voxel-based SPM method and ROIs analysis were performed. Thirty-six bilateral cortical and subcortical regions of interest were processed to perform interregional correlation and network-based analyses within five functional networks. Pairwise Spearman correlations were computed from normalized regional signals. Group differences were assessed at regional and network levels using Fisher-transformed correlations, Cohen's q, permutation testing (10,000 iterations), and graph-theoretical metrics (node strength, clustering coefficient; threshold ρ > 0.25).CBS patients showed asymmetric hypometabolism predominantly in frontal, parietal, and temporal cortices, caudate and thalamus of the predominantly affected hemisphere, with additional contralateral involvement, notably in the cerebellum and caudate. Metabolic connectivity analyses revealed widespread intra- and inter-network disconnection, particularly involving frontal, parietal, and sensorimotor cortices, and thalamo-cortical pathways, with significant lateralization toward the affected hemisphere. Graph analysis showed decreased cortical node strength with relative increases in subcortical hubs and mixed changes in clustering coefficients, suggesting network reorganization.This first [18F]FDG-PET metabolic connectivity study in CBS demonstrates asymmetric and bilateral regional hypometabolism, widespread and lateralized network disconnection, and subcortical reorganization. These findings reflect both degenerative, functional and compensatory mechanisms and highlight metabolic connectivity as a sensitive marker of network-level alterations in neurodegenerative disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
The microsolvation of pyridine (C5H5N) by water molecules was investigated systematically through a comprehensive exploration of the conformational landscape of the PYR(H2O) n clusters ( n=1-10 ) at the MN12SX-D3/def2-TZVP level of density functional theory, selected between 26 functionals, including dispersion corrections, by benchmarking to the DLPNO-CCSD(T1)/CBS. A total of 326 stationary points were characterized, ranging from 3 conformers at n=1 to 55 at n=9 . For small cluster sizes ( n=1-2 ), the global minimum is dominated by a single O-H ⋯ N hydrogen bond between water and the pyridine nitrogen, in agreement with microwave spectroscopy data. From n=3 onwards, cooperative O-H ⋯ O inter-water networks emerge and the energy landscape flattens dramatically, yielding dense manifolds of quasi-degenerate conformers. For n≥7 , the water subcluster progressively adopts closed-cage topologies characteristic of large water clusters. Temperature-dependent Boltzmann populations ( 0-500 K) reveal that the global minimum is the sole populated species only for n≤2 , while a broad conformational distribution governs larger clusters at ambient temperature. The incremental clustering energies converge toward a bulk-like plateau of approximately -10 kcal . mol -1 beyond n=5 , and the incremental Gibbs free energy remains positive throughout the series, demonstrating that stepwise gas-phase microsolvation is entropically disfavored at every hydration step. Quantum Theory of Atoms in Molecules (QTAIM) analysis of the global minima identifies five types of non-covalent interactions: O-H ⋯ N, O-H ⋯ O, C-H ⋯ O, O ⋯ C, and O-H ⋯π contacts, whose diversity and number grow systematically with cluster size, reflecting the progressive transition from a simple donor-acceptor complex to a three-dimensional hydrogen-bond network that partially encapsulates the aromatic ring. These results provide a unified picture of the sequential microsolvation of pyridine and establish a benchmark dataset for the development of force fields and solvation models for nitrogen-containing heterocycles.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Computational Chemistry published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
DNA methylation might influence the expression of genes that regulate coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) progression. This work explored the significance of DNA methylation of 7 genes (TAC1, CDO1, HOXA9, ZFP42, SOX17, RASSF1A, and SHOX2) in blood circulating free DNA (cfDNA) in differentiating COVID-19 infections and recoveries. The correlation with changes in the proportion of immune cell populations in the recovery period was analyzed.18 COVID-19-infected, 65 COVID-19-recovered, and 11 uninfected individuals were included. DNA methylation expression was determined by quantitative multiplex methylation-specific PCR (qMSP). The immune function of the recovered group versus uninfected group was evaluated by full-spectrum flow cytometry.The infected population showed a higher methylation positivity rate for 7 genes compared to the uninfected/recovered population. A model was constructed to distinguish the infected patients from uninfected/recovered individuals using the methylation status of 7 genes, with a sensitivity, specificity and area under curve (AUC) of 0.889, 0.842 and 0.931, respectively. The results of flow cytometry revealed that CD8+ T cells and CD38+ CD8+ T cells were significantly upregulated in recovered individuals compared to those in uninfected individuals. DNA methylation was correlated with immune cell changes, with a significant increase in the percentage of T cells, PD-1+ function CD4+ T cells, TCRγδ+ cells, and CD38+ NKT cells upon an increase in 7 gene methylation positivity.This work revealed the significance of 7 gene methylation in the diagnosis of COVID-19 recovery, and demonstrated that these genes were significant in evaluating the immune function during the recovery period.Copyright (c) 2026 Xiao Xiao, Ren Xu, Chaoxiang Du, Jun Yin, Beibei Xin, Zhonghe Ke, Xiyan Li, Hao Zhang, Xinyu Chen.
Sleep disturbance is highly prevalent among caregivers of persons with dementia (PWD), affecting approximately 67% of the more than 10 million adults in this role in the United States. Accurately characterizing these disturbances is essential to identify individuals at increased risk for chronic sleep problems and related health consequences. However, few studies have examined how sleep disturbance manifests across diverse caregiver characteristics and contexts.To address this gap, we applied clustering analyses using wearable sleep data to identify distinct subtypes of sleep disturbance among dementia caregivers.Clustering analyses were conducted using sleep parameters-total sleep time (TST), sleep efficiency (SE), wake after sleep onset (WASO), and sleep onset latency (SOL)-derived from 14 days of Oura Ring data collected from 143 caregivers of PWD. For each participant, the minimum, maximum, mean, and standard deviation of each sleep metric were computed during the 14-day period. Subsequent one-way ANOVA and chi-square tests were performed to explore differences in caregiver characteristics, caregiving demands, and caregiving support availability across the identified subgroups.The analytic sample included 143 adults. Three distinct sleep disturbance subtypes emerged. Cluster 1 (Optimal Sleep) demonstrated the least nocturnal wakefulness, the most efficient sleep, and ease in falling asleep relative to the other clusters. Cluster 2 (Disturbed Onset & Maintenance) exhibited the greatest difficulty both falling and staying asleep, whereas Cluster 3 (Insufficient Sleep) was characterized by markedly reduced sleep duration. Key contextual characteristics differentiated the clusters. Cluster 2 had the highest prevalence of comorbid conditions, including hypertension, diabetes, and other chronic illnesses, whereas Cluster 3 was predominantly male and had the lowest support availability.Findings highlight the potential of wearable-derived nocturnal data to characterize distinct sleep disturbance subtypes using clustering analyses. This work underscores the value of building a risk-profiling framework that integrates sleep disturbance subtypes, caregiver characteristics, caregiving demands, and caregiving support availability to inform the development of more precise and effective sleep interventions for dementia caregivers.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Drug-resistant tuberculosis (DR-TB) is associated with low treatment success rates and increased mortality. Household contacts (HHCs) face an elevated risk of infection and disease progression due to prolonged exposure. Consequently, systematic screening and tuberculosis preventive treatment (TPT) are critical to interrupt transmission within households. However, screening practices and TPT regimens vary substantially across countries and settings worldwide, and the available evidence remains fragmented. This study aims to synthesize evidence on screening strategies and TPT regimens for HHCs of patients with DR-TB, identify implementation barriers and research gaps, and inform future contact management approaches.We systematically searched nine databases including PubMed, Embase, and Web of Science. Each database was searched from inception to November 13, 2025. Eligible studies included observational studies (including cohort and cross-sectional studies), implementation studies, and randomized controlled trials reporting on screening approaches or TPT strategies among HHCs of patients with DR-TB. Data extraction was conducted in accordance with the Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI) methodological framework for scoping reviews, and reporting followed the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR) guidelines. Two reviewers independently extracted data using a standardized form, including study characteristics, screening strategies, diagnostic methods, TPT regimens, safety and adherence outcomes, and implementation-related factors. The findings were summarized descriptively and presented as a structured narrative synthesis organized by thematic domains.A total of 26 studies were included. Most studies (20/26) employed a sequential cascade screening strategy combining symptom assessment, imaging evaluation (when clinically indicated), and molecular or microbiological confirmation, often supplemented by tuberculin skin test (TST) or interferon-gamma release assays (IGRAs) for latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) detection. Most studies were conducted in high TB burden low- and middle-income countries, particularly in Pakistan, South Africa, and China, with several multicenter studies spanning countries in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. Pediatric studies frequently incorporated gastric aspiration as an adjunct diagnostic method. TPT was implemented in 14 studies, with initiation rates ranging from 2% to 98.8%. Levofloxacin-based regimens were the predominant preventive treatment strategy. Compared with combination regimens, levofloxacin monotherapy generally achieved higher treatment completion rates (68.4%-100% vs. 56%-70.3%). Children experienced fewer adverse events than adults (10% vs. 37%). Frequently reported implementation barriers included resource limitations, transportation difficulties, stigma, and poor treatment adherence.Screening and TPT for HHCs of patients with DR-TB were commonly implemented using sequential cascade screening approaches and levofloxacin-based preventive treatment regimens across diverse settings. Included studies generally reported acceptable treatment completion and safety outcomes, particularly for levofloxacin-based monotherapy, although implementation outcomes varied substantially across regions and populations. Resource limitations, stigma, transportation difficulties, and poor adherence were frequently reported as barriers to implementation. Given the substantial heterogeneity in study design, screening strategies, and implementation contexts, findings should be interpreted cautiously. Further research is needed to improve evidence on standardized screening approaches, regimen effectiveness, and implementation feasibility across different settings, particularly among high-risk populations such as young children and people living with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s).
To evaluate the effectiveness of Tuberculosis Treatment Support Tools (TB-TST), a patient centred digital adherence technology, in improving treatment outcomes among individuals with drug susceptible tuberculosis in Argentina.Pragmatic, two arm, parallel randomised controlled trial.Four public reference hospitals in Buenos Aires, Argentina.555 patients aged ≥16 years with newly diagnosed drug susceptible tuberculosis, recruited between November 2020 and July 2023, randomised to standard of care (n=278) or standard of care plus TB-TST (n=277).A mobile application that enabled daily adherence reporting, bidirectional messaging with treatment supporters, educational content, and a weekly urine based isoniazid test for verification of adherence. Participants and care givers were aware of their group assignment, but data collectors and data analysts were masked.The primary outcome was treatment success (cure or treatment completion). Secondary outcomes included loss to follow-up. Analyses used intention-to-treat and per protocol approaches.525 participants (94.6% of the enrolled population) were included in the analysis after exclusion of 30 individuals who deviated from the protocol. In the intention-to-treat analysis, treatment success was higher in the intervention group (208/255; 82%) than in the control group (201/270; 74%). The risk difference was 7.1% (95% confidence interval 1.1% to 14.1%), and the risk ratio was 1.10 (1.00 to 1.20; P=0.04). Loss to follow-up was lower in the intervention group (17% v 24%; risk ratio 0.70, 0.50 to 0.98; P=0.04). Greater benefit was observed among female participants and those aged under 35 years.A multifaceted, interactive digital adherence tool improved tuberculosis treatment outcomes, particularly among younger participants and women, showing feasibility and effectiveness in supporting adherence to tuberculosis treatment in low resource settings. Future research should evaluate the impact of app engagement, context factors such as the covid-19 pandemic, cost effectiveness, and use of the tool beyond tuberculosis in the management of chronic diseases. AI powered features and integrated mental health support may enhance the scalability and personalisation of care.ClinicalTrials.gov NCT04221789; International Registered Report Identifier DERR1-10.2196/28094.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2019. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.
Pneumoconiosis complicated with pulmonary tuberculosis is characterized by high prevalence and disability rates, as well as difficulty in early diagnosis, constituting a serious public health problem. The Chinese Society of Tuberculosis (Chinese Medical Association) and the Society of Labor Hygiene and Occupational Diseases (Chinese Preventive Medicine Association) organized multidisciplinary experts in respiratory diseases, occupational diseases, tuberculosis and other related fields to formulate the Chinese expert consensus on the diagnosis and treatment of pneumoconiosis complicated with tuberculosis. This consensus aims to enhance professional practitioners' understanding of the disease, improve the capacity for early clinical diagnosis, and further advance the prevention and treatment of pneumoconiosis complicated with pulmonary tuberculosis in China. It summarizes 12 key clinical issues and proposes 13 targeted recommendations to address difficulties and misconceptions in clinical practice. This consensus was registered on the International Practice Guidelines Registry Platform (PREPARE-2024CN271). It aims to enhance the standardized diagnosis and treatment of pneumoconiosis complicated by pulmonary tuberculosis, improve patient outcomes, and provide practical guidance for the prevention and control of occupational and infectious diseases in China. The main recommendations are as follows.Recommendation 1: Clinicians and pathologists are advised to pay attention to the mixed pathological features of pneumoconiosis complicated with pulmonary tuberculosis. For patients with pneumoconiosis presenting atypical imaging manifestations or poor response to conventional treatment, pathological specimens should be actively obtained to confirm the diagnosis. Combined use of acid-fast staining, Mycobacterium tuberculosis culture or molecular pathological detection is recommended to increase the detection rate (2C).Recommendation 2: When performing chest CT examinations and dynamic follow-up for pneumoconiosis patients, clinicians and radiologists should focus on multifocal and polymorphic lesions, as well as short-term imaging changes suggestive of active tuberculosis (2C).Recommendation 3: For patients with suspected pulmonary tuberculosis complicated with pneumoconiosis: (1) Be aware that sputum bacteriological tests may yield false-negative results due to dust interference. Repeated sampling or combined detection methods are recommended, including bacteriological and molecular tests on bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) obtained via bronchoscopy. Results of immunological assays such as the interferon-γ release assay (IGRA) and tuberculin skin test (TST)shall also be combined for comprehensive judgment. (2) In cases with atypical imaging findings and clinical symptoms, bronchoscopy-guided pathological sampling (e.g., EBUS-GS [endobronchial ultrasound with guide sheath], ENB [electromagnetic navigation bronchoscopy]) is prioritized. When microbiological evidence is insufficient, percutaneous lung biopsy or pleural biopsy (for patients with pleural effusion) is suggested to clarify the diagnosis (2B).Recommendation 4: The diagnosis of pneumoconiosis complicated with pulmonary tuberculosis shall follow the integrated diagnostic principle. Provided that patients meet the national diagnostic criteria for pneumoconiosis and pulmonary tuberculosis respectively, a comprehensive assessment shall be conducted combining occupational exposure history, dynamic imaging changes and laboratory results. Patients shall be stratified for managementaccording to the activity of tuberculosis (2C).Recommendation 5: For differential diagnosis between pneumoconiosis complicated with pulmonary tuberculosis and non-tuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) lung disease: (1) NTM lung disease commonly involves the apical and anterior segments of the upper lobes, the right middle lobe and the lingular segment of the left upper lobe. Typical imaging manifestations include a combination of centrilobular nodules and bronchiectasis. (2) Multiple thin-walled cavities are frequently seen in silicosis complicated with NTM lung disease. (3) Pathologically, NTM lesions are dominated by epithelioid granulomas with inconspicuous caseous necrosis. (4) Definitive diagnosis relies on mycobacterial culture and species identification, complying with combined clinical, imaging and microbiological criteria (2C).Recommendation 6: For patients with pneumoconiosis complicated with pulmonary tuberculosis who present progressively enlarged cavities or newly developed cavities accompanied by aggravated symptoms after anti-tuberculosis treatment, radiologists shall evaluate imaging signs of pulmonary aspergillosis, such as the early halo sign and the late air crescent sign within cavities (2C).Recommendation 7: For patients with suspected pneumoconiosis complicated with pulmonary aspergillosis: (1) Bronchoscopy is performed to collect BALF or tissue specimens for fungal culture and pathological examination (gold standard). (2) Conduct BALF galactomannan (GM) test, metagenomic next-generation sequencing (mNGS) or other DNA detection assays. (3) Detect serum specific antibodies against Aspergillus fumigatus (e.g., IgE-m3, IgM) (1A).Recommendation 8: For patients with pneumoconiosis complicated with drug-susceptible pulmonary tuberculosis: (1) Adopt the standard first-line four-drug anti-tuberculosis regimen. (2) Ensure a sufficient treatment course (generally ≥6-8 months). (3) Extend the treatment course to≥9-12 months for patients with severe lesions or concomitant tracheal, pleural or extrapulmonary tuberculosis, so as to improve clinical outcomes and reduce recurrence (2A).Recommendation 9: For patients receiving concurrent treatment for pneumoconiosis (including tetrandrine, nintedanib, pirfenidone, glucocorticoids, bronchodilators, etc.) and rifampicin-containing anti-tuberculosis regimens: (1) Be aware that rifampicin, a potent hepatic enzyme inducer, may accelerate the metabolism of concomitant drugs such as glucocorticoids and nintedanib and reduce their efficacy. (2) Adjust the dose of affected drugs accordingly when rifampicin is initiated or discontinued (1B).Recommendation 10: Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) may be used as a bridge to lung transplantation only for end-stage pneumoconiosis patients complicated with pulmonary tuberculosis awaiting transplantation (2D).Recommendation 11: For end-stage patients with pneumoconiosis complicated with pulmonary tuberculosis who have received adequate and standard anti-tuberculosis therapy, the feasibility of lung transplantation shall be evaluated. Pre-transplant precautions: (1) Ensure complete control of active tuberculosis. (2) Optimize the anti-tuberculosis regimen (e.g., replace rifampicin with rifabutin) to maintain the effective concentration of immunosuppressants (2D).Recommendation 12: For patients with severe, end-stage pneumoconiosis complicated with pulmonary tuberculosis who no longer benefit from active treatment, palliative care and hospice care shall be initiated. Clinicians and medical teams shall communicate fully with patients and their families about the condition, prognosis, treatment options and medical burden. The core goals are to relieve symptoms, alleviate suffering and improve quality of life (2D).Recommendation 13: For patients with pneumoconiosis complicated with tuberculosis who meet the indications for surgical or interventional therapy, a multidisciplinary team shall conduct joint decision-making and implement treatment in a timely manner after full assessment of pulmonary function, nutritional status and surgical risks. Surgical treatment is mainly indicated for patients with drug-resistant tuberculosis with localized lesions, persistent cavitary lesions with ongoing mycobacterial excretion, destroyed lung, massive hemoptysis unresponsive to medical treatment, tuberculous empyema and other critical conditions. Interventional therapy can be applied for emergency treatment of massive hemoptysis, as well as palliative treatment for pulmonary artery stenosis secondary to tuberculosis or pneumoconiosis (2C).
In the current study, a modafinil (MO)-based co-crystal of MO-BA with benzoic acid (BA) as the co-former was prepared. The MO-BA formation was confirmed experimentally by FT-IR spectroscopy, DSC, and PXRD and elucidated theoretically via density functional theory (DFT). The broadening, shifting and attenuation of the -OH, -NH, -C[double bond, length as m-dash]O and -S[double bond, length as m-dash]O peaks in the FT-IR spectra confirm the synthesis of the MO-BA co-crystal. The appearance of endothermic peaks at different temperatures for MO-BA (112 °C) compared with MO (166 °C) and BA (122 °C) indicated the effective formation of MO-BA. Similarly, the diffractogram of MO-BA exhibited peaks with different 2θ values from those of MO and BA in terms of position as well as intensity. These fluctuations in diffraction patterns support the formation of a new crystalline phase. HPLC analysis showed that MO and BA combine in a 1 : 1 ratio to form MO-BA. QTAIM analysis revealed the presence of strong hydrogen bonding and van der Waals interactions, as evidenced at bond critical points based on Laplacian density, electron density and total energy density. The in vitro dissolution profiles of the MO-BA co-crystal and raw MO were found to be 51.75% ± 1.55% and 31.42% ± 1.48% in buffer solutions of pH 6.8 and 59% ± 1.20% and 37.61% ± 1.85% in acidic HCl medium of pH 1.3, respectively. The in vivo anti-depressant potentials of raw MO and MO-BA were evaluated by the forced swim test (FST) and tail-suspension test (TST). The observed immobility responses of MO and MO-BA at a dose of 30 mg kg-1 were 95.83 ± 1.13 and 89.66 ± 1.78 s in the FST and 119.16 ± 1.42 and 114.66 ± 1.58 s in the TST, respectively. This study provides insights into the effective formation of the MO-BA co-crystal with enhanced dissolution and improved anti-depressant potential compared with pristine MO, offering excellent bioavailability.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) is a significant contributor to neurobehavioral changes and cognitive impairment, largely driven by disruptions in cellular homeostasis, elevated corticosterone levels and altered neurotransmitter dynamics. The PPAR-γ/MCT1 pathway plays a crucial role in regulating energy balance, modulating glucose and lipid metabolism, making it a potential target for therapeutic interventions. CUS can alter the expression of PPAR-γ & MCT1 disrupting glucose and lipid metabolism contributing to metabolic dysregulation and stress -related disorders. This study investigates the neuroprotective effects of INT131, a selective PPAR-γ agonist, in mitigating CUS-induced neurobehavioral deficits through modulation of MCT1 signalling. Swiss albino mice were exposed to varied stressors over 56 days to induce CUS. Behavioral assessments including the elevated plus maze (EPM), tail suspension test (TST), sucrose preference test (SPT), and Morris Water Maze (MWM) were used to evaluate anxiety, depression-like behavior, and memory impairment. INT131 was administered orally at 5 and 10 mg/kg doses. Fluoxetine (20 mg/kg, p.o.) served as the positived neuronal architecte control. INT131 significantly alleviated CUS-induced behavioral abnormalities and normalized corticosterone, serotonin, and dopamine levels. It also attenuated oxidative stress and inflammatory cytokines, reduced acetylcholinesterase activity, and preserved neuronal architecture, as confirmed by histological analysis. Importantly, co-treatment with CHCA (100 mg/kg, i.p.), a selective MCT1 inhibitor, abolished the neuroprotective effects of INT131, indicating MCT1's mechanistic involvement. This study demonstrates that INT131 exerts robust neuroprotective effects through the PPAR-γ/MCT1 pathway and supports its potential as a candidate for managing stress-related neurobehavioral and cognitive disorders.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
This study aimed to determine protective effects of zinc oxide nano particles (ZONP) during pregnancy with morphine withdrawal syndrome on postpartum depression, reflexive motor behaviors and antioxidant levels in mice offspring. Group 1 kept as control. In the second group, male mice were exposed to morphine for 21 days, while the female mice remained morphine administration-negative (MOR-). In the third group, female mice were exposed to morphine for 21 days, while the male mice remained MOR-. The fourth group consisted of both male and female mice subjected to morphine for 21 days. The groups 5-7 were similar to groups 2-4, which ZONP (0.5 mg/kg; i.p) were given to the morphine treated mice on gestational days 5, 8, 11, 14, and 17. Following delivery, post-partum depressive behaviors were determined using tail suspension test (TST) and forced swimming test (FST). Also, following delivery, reflexive motor behavior was determined in pups of each group. Also, blood and brain tissue samples were collected from mother and pups, respectively to determine antioxidant activity. According to the findings, reflexive motor behaviors exhibited a statistically significant altered subsequent to prenatal morphine exposure (P < 0.05); however, there was no difference between offspring of mothers exposed to morphine or offspring of both parents exposed to morphine (P > 0.05). The administration of ZONP did not yield any significant alteration in reflexive motor behaviors within the male morphine-exposed cohort (P > 0.05). ZONP + morphine administration significantly decreased side effects of the morphine withdrawal syndrome on reflexive motor behaviors in mice offspring (P < 0.05). Morphine administration significantly increased post-partum immobility time in TST and FST (P < 0.05) and ZONP administration significantly decreased immobility time in TST and FST (P < 0.05). The administration of morphine significantly enhanced malondialdehyde (MDA) levels and decreased dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), and catalase (CAT) levels in serum of the mothers and brain tissue of the pups, respectively (P < 0.05). The administration of ZONP decreased MDA and enhanced SOD, GPx and CAT levels in serum of the mothers and brain tissue of the pups, respectively (P < 0.05). These findings suggested maternal exposure to ZONP seems to offer protection against the negative impacts of morphine on pos-partum depression and reflexive motor behaviors in the mothers and pups.© 2026. The Author(s).
Obstructive sleep apnea is a common yet underdiagnosed sleep disorder in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF). Although polysomnography (PSG) is the gold standard, its costs and complexity limit routine use. Home sleep apnea testing (HSAT) is a more accessible alternative, but it lacks electroencephalography (EEG), limiting direct assessment of sleep stages and arousals. This study evaluates the performance of DeepRESP, an automated scoring solution that infers sleep stages and arousals using respiratory inductance plethysmography (RIP) signals and scoring respiratory events, in a cohort of patients with AF.In this prospective cohort study, consecutive AF patients underwent ambulatory type II PSG. Automated respiratory event scoring, sleep staging and arousal identification were performed with DeepRESP using only HSAT signals. Performance metrics included epoch-level positive and negative percent agreement, complemented by concordance analyses for the apnea-hypopnea index (AHI), arousal index (ArI), and total sleep time (TST), using Bland-Altman analysis and intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC), with manually scored PSG as reference.A total of 88 patients (67.0% male) were included. Women were older than men (66.7 ± 7.2 vs. 61.27 ± 10.3 years, p = 0.015). Epoch-level overall percent agreement (OPA) with manual scoring was 0.91 for Wake, 0.95 for rapid eye movement sleep (REM), and 0.87 for non-rapid eye movement sleep (NREM). Arousal detection OPA was 0.80. Strong agreement was observed for the apnea-hypopnea index (ICC = 0.92), TST (ICC = 0.82), and ArI (ICC = 0.83).In AF patients, DeepRESP reliably estimates sleep architecture, arousals, and sleep apnea severity from HSAT signal, offering a scalable, EEG-independent diagnostic approach.Obstructive sleep apnea is highly prevalent and often underdiagnosed in atrial fibrillation patients, yet standard home testing lacks the neurophysiological channels necessary to detect arousals and accurate sleep architecture. This study was conducted to validate a deep learning-based system capable of inferring these critical metrics exclusively from home sleep testing signals, improving diagnostics performance within this specific cardiovascular population.The findings demonstrate that artificial intelligence-driven analysis of breathing patterns achieves high concordance with polysomnography for key diagnostic indices, including arousal index, total sleep time and apnea severity via the apnea-hypopnea index. This provides a scalable, precise diagnostic pathway that bypasses the confounding effects of arrhythmias and cardiac medications, facilitating improved management of sleep-disordered breathing in atrial fibrillation patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study investigates the effect of mixed systems (suckling and machine milking) vs artificial rearing (only machine milking), on milk production, milk composition and the transcriptome of the mammary epithelium in Damascus goats. Thirty goats, in their first lactation period, were allocated into 2 experimental groups: artificial rearing (AR) and mixed rearing (MR). In the AR group, kids were separated from their mothers immediately after birth, whereas in the MR group, the goats suckled their kids until weaning (49 ± 3 d postpartum) while all goats were mechanically milked twice daily throughout the milking period. Commercial milk yield and milk fat, protein, lactose and total solid contents were recorded and milk fatty acid (FA) profile was analyzed. On the 42nd day postpartum, mammary epithelial biopsies were taken from 6 goats per experimental group for transcriptomic analysis by 3'mRNA sequencing. The results showed that while commercial milk yield before weaning was higher (P <0.05) in the AR (116.58L) compared with the MR group (73.16L), total commercial milk yield for the whole lactation period did not differ significantly between AR (351.3L) and MR groups (312.2L). Milk contents did not differ between groups (P >0.05) but total protein, lactose, solid nonfat yields were higher (P <0.05) in the AR group. Analysis of the FA profile revealed lower saturated, higher unsaturated and monosaturated FA contents in the MR group (P <0.05), while no differences were observed in the polyunsaturated FA content. The transcriptomic analysis revealed 9 differentially expressed (DE) genes (RBM8A, Clusterin, PPDPF, LOC108635834, BLMH, PINK1, PIM1, OSBPL7, and SMU1) and 12 genes showing a trend for DE. The genes which were differentially regulated in response to kid suckling are involved in developmental processes, RNA metabolism, nutrient and lipid transport and tissue regeneration. In conclusion, this study showed that kid suckling in Damascus goats does not adversely affect commercial milk production or milk composition, while it yields commercial milk with a nutritionally more favorable fatty acid profile. Furthermore, this is the first transcriptomic study addressing concurrent suckling and machine milking effects in mammary physiology in ruminants.Copyright © 2026 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Targeting macrophage polarization to restore immunological balance is a promising treatment strategy for ulcerative colitis (UC). This study aims to explore the preventive effects of benzoylpaeoniflorin (BPF) for UC and to elucidate the underlying mechanisms.Dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) was used to induce UC in mice, and BPF was administered simultaneously. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated RAW264.7 cells were used to model M1 macrophage polarization skewing, with BPF treatment applied.BPF improved DSS-induced colitis in mice, reduced M1 macrophage polarization, but significantly promoted M2 macrophage polarization in colonic tissues. After clearing macrophages in UC mice using clodronate disodium liposomes, BPF failed to further ameliorate UC progression in DSS + Mø-/- mice, indicating that macrophages are required for the protective effects of BPF against UC. Proteomics and in vitro/in vivo experiments further revealed that LPS treatment downregulated dipeptidase-2 (DPEP2) expression, while BPF treatment upregulated it. The promoting effect of BPF on DPEP2 expression is achieved by targeting RING finger protein 31 (RNF31) to hinder the binding of RNF31 to DPEP2, thereby inhibiting the ubiquitination and degradation of DPEP2 mediated by RNF31, and inhibiting the activation of the NF-κB signaling pathway. Moreover, DPEP2 knockdown or RNF31 overexpression neutralized the promoting effect of BPF on M2 polarization and its inhibitory effect on M1 polarization. Notably, BPF's therapeutic benefits in UC mice were abolished by DPEP2 knockdown.BPF regulates macrophage polarization by modulating the RNF31-DPEP2-NF-κB axis, thereby ameliorating intestinal mucosal barrier damage in UC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Genome-wide CRISPR screens have systematically identified genes required for cancer cell survival, yet these studies are typically performed under standardized conditions that do not fully recapitulate the physiological stresses encountered within the tumor microenvironment. In a recent issue of Nature Genetics, Cheruiyot and colleagues perform genome-wide loss-of-function screens under inflammatory conditions induced by interferon-β (IFN-β), interferon-γ (IFN-γ), and tumor necrosis factor (TNF), revealing that distinct cytokines impose different genetic requirements for tumor cell survival. The study shows that inflammatory signaling reshapes genetic dependency landscape in a cytokine-specific manner. Mechanistic analyses identify the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) transamidase complex and FITM2 as representative examples of genes that become selectively required under inflammatory stress by maintaining membrane protein maturation, endoplasmic reticulum homeostasis, and resistance to oxidative stress. These findings broaden our understanding of how inflammatory cytokines influence tumor cell biology beyond transcriptional regulation and immune recognition. More broadly, the study highlights the value of incorporating physiologically relevant conditions into functional genetic screens, suggesting that conventional dependency maps capture only part of the genetic requirements for tumor survival. Applying similar approaches to other microenvironmental stresses-including hypoxia, metabolic competition, extracellular matrix remodeling, and stromal signaling-may uncover additional therapeutic opportunities for cancer immunotherapy.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42471540 is a review article
Septic cardiomyopathy is cardiac dysfunction caused by sepsis and is a common consequence of sepsis. Clinical studies have found patients with sepsis syndrome commonly have low serum selenium (Se) levels, and Se supplementation at doses higher than the daily requirement may reduce mortality; however, the underlying mechanism remains unclear. We found that downregulation of thioredoxin-2 (TXN2)-induced mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mtROS), which increased inflammatory and oxidative injury in cardiomyocytes, might be a major contributor to septic cardiomyopathy. Mitoquinone mesylate (MitoQ), an antioxidant specifically targeted to mitochondria, increased TXN2 expression and decreased mtROS, thioredoxin-interacting protein (TXNIP, a negative regulator of TXN), nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain (NOD)-like receptor protein-3 (NLRP3) inflammasome activation, and ferroptosis. The results suggest that the TXN2-ferroptosis-NLRP3 pathway may represent a therapeutic target for sepsis-induced cardiac injury. In addition, we found that Se supplementation improved cardiac function and relieved mtROS accumulation and ferroptosis in sepsis-associated cardiac injury by regulating TXN2 and TXNIP/NLRP3 expression.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Zhu and Yu.
Mitochondrial dysfunction and epigenetic alterations play critical roles in aging-related diseases, yet the molecular mechanisms linking mito-nuclear crosstalk to ovarian aging remain poorly understood. Here, single-cell transcriptome analysis of aging ovaries revealed senescence-associated hallmark alterations, including abnormally elevated mitochondrial metabolism, disrupted histone modification patterns, and enrichment of the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP). We demonstrated that impaired SIRT5-mediated desuccinylation constitutes a key driver of ovarian aging. Mechanistically, we identified succinyl-coenzyme A (CoA) synthetase GDP-forming subunit β (SUCLG2) in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle as the main target of SIRT5-mediated desuccinylation. SUCLG2 desuccinylation at lysine residues K93 and K101 enhanced its protein stability and activity, thereby improving mitochondrial function upon cellular senescence. However, SUCLG2 hypersuccinylation specifically increased H4K8ac through acetyl-CoA accumulation in nucleus, leading to the overexpression of metabolism-related genes to compensate for the energy demand deficiency caused by decreased mitochondrial function during cellular senescence. In vivo functional studies demonstrated that acetyl-CoA oversupply accelerated ovarian aging, whereas ovarian gene therapy employing a SUCLG2 desuccinylation mutant ameliorated this condition. This study illuminates the molecular mechanisms underlying ovarian aging and identifies the SIRT5-SUCLG2 axis as a promising therapeutic target for age-related ovarian dysfunction.© 2026. The Author(s).
The evolution of drug-tolerant persister (DTP) cells into resistant clones remains a major clinical obstacle to targeted therapies. Transcriptomic profiling across melanoma (A375, SK-MEL-28), non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC; HCC827, PC-9), and colorectal cancer (CRC; SW480) models revealed a conserved biphasic telomerase regulation during DTP evolution. Combining targeted therapies with the telomere dysfunction-inducing agent 6-thio-dG effectively suppressed DTP outgrowth and resistance in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, 6-thio-dG induces telomere dysfunction-driven chromatin remodeling, which reduces the accessibility of the SUCLG2 locus to transcription factors. The subsequent downregulation of this mitochondrial enzyme severely disrupts the metabolic stability required for DTP survival. Consistently, SUCLG2 knockdown recapitulated these therapeutic effects. Furthermore, bulk RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) of HCC827 xenograft-derived samples confirmed that this combination therapy coordinately suppresses mitochondrial metabolism, telomere maintenance, and persister transcriptional programs. Collectively, preemptively combining 6-thio-dG with targeted therapies offers a potent strategy to disrupt DTP evolution and overcome adaptive resistance across diverse malignancies.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Based on the magnetic bead &quot;fishing&quot; technology, this study explored the direct targets of the active ingredients of Shuangshen Ningxin Capsules in preventing and treating myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury. Three active ingredients of Shuangshen Ningxin Capsules, namely dehydrocorydaline, salvianolic acid B, and ginsenoside Rg_1, were selected based on previous work. Firstly, three complexes of magnetic bead-single active ingredient of Shuangshen Ningxin Capsules were synthesized. Then, they were incubated with the protein solutions of SD rat heart tissue, mouse myocardial microvascular endothelial cells, and rat H9c2 cardiomyocytes separately to form magnetic bead-active ingredient-target protein complexes. The target proteins were separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis(SDS-PAGE), and then in-gel digestion was performed. The proteins were identified by high-resolution mass spectrometry. Potential target proteins were screened by bioinformatics analysis and molecular docking. A rat model of myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury was established, and the biological function was verified preliminarily through Western blot experiments. The results showed that three complexes of magnetic bead-TCM monomer were successfully prepared, and the potential direct targets of the three active ingredients of Shuangshen Ningxin Capsules were obtained through the &quot;fishing&quot; method. Through mass spectrometry identification and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis, it was found that most of the target proteins were involved in metabolic pathways related to glucose, fatty acids, amino acids, and energy. After Venn analysis and molecular docking, proteins such as electron transfer flavoprotein subunit alpha(ETFA), pyruvate kinase M1/M2(PKM), acyl-CoA dehydrogenase medium chain(ACADM), ATP synthase F1 subunit alpha(ATP5F1A), isocitrate dehydrogenase(NADP~+) 2(IDH2), and aspartyl-tRNA synthetase(DARS) were finally screened out. Through the rat myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury model, it was found that Shuangshen Ningxin Capsules significantly up-regulated the expression of ATP energy production-related proteins such as ATP5F1A, ETFA, 3-oxoacid CoA-transferase 1(OXCT1), and succinate-CoA ligase GDP-forming subunit beta(SUCLG2). This suggested that restoring mitochondrial energy supply was an important aspect for Shuangshen Ningxin Capsules to exert myocardial protective effects. In conclusion, ATP5F1A, ETFA, OXCT1, SUCLG2, etc. may be the direct targets of the active ingredients of Shuangshen Ningxin Capsules in preventing and treating myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a subtype of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma characterized by high recurrence and metastasis rates and poor prognosis. Although immune checkpoint inhibitors have emerged as a promising treatment strategy for recurrent/metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma (R/M NPC), only a few patients have benefitted significantly from them. Lipid metabolism reprogramming plays a crucial role in NPC progression and its interaction with the immune microenvironment. This study aims to establish a prognostic model for NPC based on lipid metabolism-related factors, further explore its association with tumor immunity, and investigate the potential for immunotherapy.Collect GEO datasets(GSE53819 and GSE102349) for differential expression analysis and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression to identify prognostic genes and construct a fatty-acid-metabolism-related prognostic model. Survival analyses and time-dependent receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were applied to evaluate the predictive performance of the constructed prognostic markers. Furthermore, associations between the derived risk scores and immunological characteristics were systematically evaluated. Following the identification of ABCC1 as a key gene, its expression was validated through RT-qPCR, immunoblotting, and immunohistochemistry (IHC). Its functional role was further investigated using in vitro functional assays, multiplex immunohistochemistry (mIHC), co-culture experiments with CD8⁺ T cells, and in vivo xenograft tumor models in nude mice.Four genes (ABCC1, CD1D, CYP4B1, and DPEP2) were identified to constr uct a prognostic model associated with fatty acid metabolism. This model revealed significant distinctions in immune infiltration patterns between high-risk and low-risk groups. Specifically, the high-risk group displayed immunosuppressive characteristics, marked by reduced infiltration of CD8⁺T cells. Functional studies demonstrated that ABCC1 promoted NPC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, ROS accumulation, and lipid metabolic reprogramming. Mechanistically, ABCC1 was epigenetically upregulated by the histone acetyltransferase P300 and contributed to CD8⁺ T cell dysfunction and MEK/ERK pathway activation, thereby driving tumor progression.In summary, we established a novel fatty-acid-metabolism-related prognostic model for assessing the prognosis and potential immunotherapy response of NPC patients, as well as for characterizing the immunological features of the tumor microenvironment (TME). Furthermore, ABCC1 emerged as a promising prognostic biomarker associated with immunotherapeutic responsiveness in NPC, warranting further validation.Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s).
Tumor cells respond and adapt to environmental stresses that facilitate growth in hostile environments, including cytokine-mediated inflammation elicited by antitumor immunity and enhanced by immune checkpoint blockade (ICB). However, cytokine responses also induce transcriptional and cell-state changes that may predispose tumor cells to new vulnerabilities, which remain poorly explored. Here we performed in vitro genome-scale CRISPR loss-of-function screens in eight cancer models exposed to interferon-γ (IFNγ), interferon-β or tumor necrosis factor to map inflammation-induced genetic vulnerabilities. We identified members of the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) transamidase complex and the lipid phosphatase FITM2 as interferon-specific cancer dependencies. Tumor-specific deletion of GPI transamidase subunits or FITM2 markedly enhanced response to ICB in vivo. By integrating functional genomics, metabolomics and pharmacologic perturbation of downstream stress pathways, we found that loss of FITM2 predisposed cancer cells to IFNγ-driven endoplasmic reticulum and oxidative stress, culminating in paraptosis-like cell death. Collectively, these findings identify tumor-intrinsic dependencies governing responses to inflammatory cytokines.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
Neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC) is a lethal, treatment-resistant subtype that arises through lineage transdifferentiation from castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) under selective pressure from androgen deprivation therapy. Although EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) represent a rational therapeutic strategy, their clinical efficacy remains limited, and the underlying resistance mechanisms are poorly defined. Through integrated molecular and functional analyses, we identified the mitochondrial succinyl-CoA ligase subunit SUCLG2 as a critical driver of neuroendocrine differentiation and EGFR-TKI resistance. EGF stimulation induced SUCLG2 nuclear translocation, where it formed a complex with phosphorylated EGFR and co-activated VEGFA transcription through co-occupancy of the VEGFA promoter to drive neuroendocrine gene programs. SUCLG2 overexpression conferred erlotinib resistance in vitro, whereas its depletion restored TKI sensitivity and impaired xenograft tumor growth, effects that were rescued by VEGFA reconstitution. Through in silico drug screening, we identified phenethyl isothiocyanate (PEITC) as a compound that reverses the SUCLG2-associated transcriptional signature and synergized with erlotinib to suppress patient-derived NEPC organoid growth and reduce xenograft tumor burden in vivo. In clinical specimens from CRPC patients and NEPC patient-derived xenografts, progressive nuclear co-accumulation of SUCLG2 and EGFR alongside elevated VEGFA expression correlated with disease advancement. Collectively, these findings define a non-canonical nuclear SUCLG2/EGFR/VEGFA signaling axis that mediates NEPC progression and therapeutic resistance, providing mechanistic rationale for combined SUCLG2 and EGFR inhibition as a strategy to overcome treatment resistance in this lethal malignancy.© 2026. The Author(s).
To characterize the whole-genome features of Neisseria gonorrhoeae clinical isolates collected from a tertiary medical institution in Beijing, with a focus on the genomic basis of ceftriaxone non-susceptibility and multidrug resistance.Clinical isolates were collected from April 2023 to November 2024. Of 14 collected isolates, seven were successfully subcultured after revival and included in subsequent analyses. Minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) were determined by the Etest method. Whole-genome data were obtained using a combination of second- and third-generation sequencing technologies. The isolates were combined with global and Chinese reference datasets to construct a core-genome single-nucleotide polymorphism (core-SNP) phylogenetic tree. Chromosomal resistance-associated mutations and plasmid characteristics were subsequently analyzed.The seven isolates displayed genomic diversity at the whole-genome level. Four isolates (8087, 8423, 8461, and 8801) carried penA 60.001 and belonged to distinct sequence types, including ST7365, ST8123, and ST7367. One additional isolate (8726) carried penA 273.001; both alleles encode PBP2 proteins sharing the core substitutions A311V, I312M, V316T, and T483S. All five isolates were non-susceptible to ceftriaxone (MIC 0.25-0.5 mg/L). Ceftriaxone non-susceptibility was associated with the co-occurrence of mutations at core penA positions and additional mutations in porB and ponA, with an mtrR mutation present in one isolate. Plasmid collinearity analysis revealed that several multidrug-resistant isolates simultaneously harbored an intact conjugative plasmid and an African-type resistance plasmid carrying bla TEM-1.The multidrug-resistant phenotype of Neisseria gonorrhoeae results from the co-existence of chromosomal multi-locus mutations and resistance plasmids. The penA 60.001 isolates in this study did not originate from a single source. This allele appeared in multiple local clonal lineages. This pattern is consistent with horizontal gene transfer of this resistance determinant into multiple endemic lineages.Copyright © 2026 Qin, Lyu, Zhao, Liu and Xiao.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common malignancy in pediatric populations and affects white blood cells. The solute carrier organic anion transporter family member 1B1 (SLCO1B1) gene encodes the organic anion transporting polypeptide 1B1 (OATP1B1), a transporter involved in drug metabolism, whereas methionine synthase reductase (MTRR) plays an essential role in DNA synthesis and methylation. This study investigated the association between pediatric ALL and genetic polymorphisms in the SLCO1B1 and MTRR genes in an Egyptian population.Tetra-primer amplification refractory mutation polymerase chain reaction (T-ARMS-PCR) was used to genotype the SLCO1B1 (521T > C, rs4149056) and MTRR (1049 A > G, rs162036) variants in 100 pediatric ALL patients and 100 healthy controls.Significant differences in genotype and allele frequencies were observed between cases and controls for both variants (SLCO1B1: p = 0.001; MTRR: p = 0.001 and p = 0.04, respectively).These findings suggest a possible association between SLCO1B1 and MTRR polymorphisms and susceptibility to pediatric ALL in the studied Egyptian population.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Breast cancer (BRCA) is a major health threat to women and often carries a poor prognosis. Succinylation is closely associated with cancer metabolism; however, research on succinylation-related genes (SRGs) in BRCA remains relatively limited. This study first identified differentially expressed genes between normal and BRCA groups in the TCGA cohort and intersected them with known SRGs to obtain differentially expressed SRGs (DE-SRGs). Univariate Cox and LASSO Cox regression analyses were used to screen the DE-SRGs, followed by multivariate Cox regression to develop a succinylation-related prognostic model. Subsequently, patients were categorized into high and low succinylation-related risk score (SRS) groups according to the median score. Two groups were then compared for differences in immune microenvironment characteristics, somatic mutation burden, and drug sensitivity. Additionally, the expression levels of the signature genes were validated via qRT-PCR. This study developed a prognostic risk model for BRCA patients based on 13 SRGs (ACOT4, ALDH3A1, B3GALT1, IFNG, MMP1, NFKB2, PCSK6, PTK2, SERPINA1, SHMT2, SIRT7, ST3GAL1, and SUCLA2). A markedly elevated infiltration of immune cells was observed in the low-SRS group, including B cells, Mast cells, and Macrophages. The tumor mutational burden was notably lower in the low-SRS group. Drug sensitivity analysis suggested that the high-SRS BRCA patients might be more susceptible to FTI-277 and GNF-2. qRT‑PCR results showed that ACOT4, IFNG, MMP1, NFKB2, PCSK6, PTK2, SHMT2, SIRT7, and ST3GAL1 were significantly upregulated in human BRCA cell lines, while ALDH3A1, B3GALT1, and SUCLA2 were significantly downregulated. Our findings highlight the prognostic value of SRGs in BRCA, laying the groundwork for its potential use in guiding personalized treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
To investigate clinical and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) transcriptomic features associated with chronic brucellosis and to test the hypothesis that lipid metabolism-related transcriptomic alterations in PBMCs may be involved in chronic disease progression.We analyzed 463 brucellosis patients (350 acute, 113 chronic) to compare clinical and laboratory features and to construct a multivariable logistic regression model for chronicity risk. RNA sequencing of PBMCs from 15 acute and 15 chronic cases identified differentially expressed genes, which were subjected to Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses. Machine learning methods (LASSO regression and random forest) were used to select feature genes and build a diagnostic model. Immune cell infiltration and drug-gene interactions were further explored.Chronic cases showed higher high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) and lower triglycerides, whereas acute cases had higher D-dimer, procalcitonin, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR). The clinical model incorporating 11 variables achieved an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.825. In an exploratory RNA-seq cohort comprising 30 PBMC samples from 15 acute and 15 chronic brucellosis patients, 2,775 exploratory candidate differentially expressed genes were identified, and enrichment analysis highlighted pathways related to fatty acid metabolism and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signaling. Three lipid metabolism-related feature genes, BDH1, CERS6, and DPEP3, showed high discriminatory performance in internal analysis, with an apparent AUC of 0.964. However, given the limited RNA-seq sample size and lack of external validation, this result should be interpreted cautiously. These genes were also associated with distinct immune infiltration patterns. Drug-Gene Interaction database (DGIdb)-based exploratory analysis suggested hypothesis-generating associations between CERS6 and several approved immunomodulatory agents, including TNF-α inhibitors.Chronic brucellosis may be associated with lipid metabolism-related transcriptomic alterations and immune-cell composition changes. The identified clinical and molecular features may provide candidate signatures for chronicity risk assessment and hypothesis generation, but require further validation in independent cohorts.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Niu, Zhang, Wang, Tian, Zhang and Zhang.
Vitrification is a vital tool for the long-term preservation of animal genetic resources, yet cryoinjury-manifesting as oxidative stress, structural damage, and metabolic disorders-severely compromises its efficacy. Here, we investigated the protective effects of melatonin (MT) supplementation on the cryotolerance of mouse morulae. First, mouse morulae were assigned to four groups treated with vitrification and thawing media containing MT (0, 10-3, 10-5, and 10-7 M) to determine optimal MT concentration. Subsequently, embryos treated with the optimal MT concentration were evaluated for developmental competence, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and mitochondrial function. Furthermore, transcriptome sequencing was performed to elucidate MT-regulated molecular pathways. The results demonstrated that MT supplementation at 10-5 M significantly enhanced developmental competence, as evidenced by increased blastocyst rate, hatched blastocyst rate, total cell number and the inner cell mass (ICM)-to-total cell ratio compared to the MT-free group (p < 0.05). Consequently, embryo transfer outcomes showed higher live births and weaned pups in the 10-5 M MT group versus those in controls (p < 0.05), achieving levels comparable to fresh embryos (p > 0.05). Mechanistically, MT reversed cryoinjury-induced mitochondrial dysfunction by elevating membrane potential(MMP) and Adenosine Triphosphate(ATP) production while reducing Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS) accumulation (p < 0.05). Transcriptomic analysis further revealed that vitrification perturbed metabolic pathways, including amino acid/fatty acid degradation and glucose/pyruvate metabolism. MT downregulated cryoinjury-induced overexpression of Rela and Nfkb1, inhibiting excessive NF-κB activation and alleviating metabolic dysfunction. Additionally, MT restored expression of nucleotide synthesis genes (Ctps2, Nme4, Gmps, Nudt2, Ppat, Impdh2) critical for cell proliferation, and reversed downregulation of mitochondrial genes Sucla2 and Timm17a, confirming restoration of mitochondrial homeostasis. In conclusion, melatonin alleviates vitrification-induced cryoinjury by restoring mitochondrial function, which rescues nucleotide synthesis and partially reverses associated metabolic dysfunction. These findings advance MT-mediated cryoprotection and underscore its translational value for embryo cryopreservation in animal genetic resource conservation.
Antibiotic-resistant Neisseria gonorrhoeae (Ng) is a WHO priority pathogen and represents a serious public health threat. This study reports the first Chilean Ng ST9363 isolate (GC11/23) exhibiting dual high-level resistance to azithromycin and fluoroquinolone, recovered from a urethral discharge sample in July 2023.Antimicrobial susceptibility was assessed using disk diffusion and MIC strip tests. Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) was performed using a hybrid approach, followed by annotation using the NCBI Prokaryotic Genome Annotation Pipeline (PGAP). In silico analyses included Staramr, MLST and NG-STAR. Phylogenetic analysis was performed on the core genome of 2417 global ST9363 Ng isolates using IQ-TREE and visualised with TreeViewer.GC11/23 exhibited resistance to ciprofloxacin, tetracycline, penicillin and azithromycin, while remaining susceptible only to ceftriaxone and spectinomycin. The isolate belonged to ST9363 and NG-STAR 3194. Mutations associated with fluoroquinolone resistance were identified in gyrA and parC, while high-level azithromycin resistance (HL-AziR) was linked to mutations in all four copies of the 23S rRNA gene, as well as in mtrD and mtrR. Additional resistance-associated alterations included an insertion (ins346D) in penA and a mutation in rpsJ, conferring resistance to penicillin and tetracycline, respectively. Phylogenetic analysis clustered GC11/23 with isolates from the USA and Europe collected in 2019.GC11/23 represents a multidrug-resistant Ng strain belonging to ST9363/NG-STAR 3194 and carrying mutations conferring resistance to fluoroquinolones, azithromycin, penicillin and tetracycline. Its phylogenetic placement within a European lineage highlights the global dissemination of HL-AziR and fluoroquinolone-resistant strains.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
The autonomic imbalance can negatively affect left ventricular (LV) remodeling following a myocardial infarction (MI). Ganglionated plexi (GP) play a crucial role in autonomic nervous system imbalance. Cardiac sympathetic afferent denervation (CSAD) has been shown to have beneficial effects in addressing this imbalance.This study aimed to evaluate the effects of the ablation of cardiac sympathetic sensory neurons on LV remodeling. Resiniferatoxin (RTX), a neurotoxic transient receptor potential vanilloid (TRPV1) antagonist, was used to achieve it.A total of 31 beagle dogs were randomly assigned to three groups: MI group (n = 12), CSAD group (MI with CSAD; n = 10), and Control group (sham surgery without CSAD; n = 9). In the CSAD group, RTX was injected into the anterior right ganglionated plexi (ARGP) only once. After a 4-week follow-up period, CSAD treatment resulted in a significant decrease in left stellate ganglion (LSG) activity, improved LSG remodeling, reduced LV dilation, and improved LV function. Furthermore, CSAD treatment significantly attenuated LV remodeling in post-MI LV tissue. The treatment also showed positive effects on high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), norepinephrine (NE), N-terminal prohormone of brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) and Neuropeptide Y (NPY) levels.In conscious dogs with healed MI, CSAD led to a reduction in cardiac sympathetic tone and an improvement in ventricular remodeling. This suggests that targeting cardiac sympathetic sensory neurons through CSAD may have therapeutic benefits in managing LV remodeling after MI.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42317099
This study aimed to assess interobserver reproducibility of left ventricular global longitudinal (LS), circumferential (CS), and radial (RS) myocardial strain measurements, to determine cutoff values including coronary territory, ventricular wall, and ventricular region-specific measurements at rest and under stress, and to evaluate strain reserve using gSPECT-MPI.We prospectively analyzed 127 patients undergoing gSPECT-MPI with myocardial strain assessment using SyncTool™ (Emory Cardiac Toolbox™). The reference group included 65 apparently healthy subjects with normal gSPECT findings (age 61.6 ± 11 years; 42.7% men), and the case group with 62 patients with coronary artery disease (age 66.8 ± 11 years; 80% men).Interobserver variability for global LS, CS and RS was good to excellent at rest and during stress (global LS: rest ICC = 0.86, stress ICC = 0.81; global CS: rest ICC = 0.85, stress ICC = 0.87; global RS: rest ICC = 0.74, stress ICC = 0.80). Optimal cutoff values at rest and stress were: LS-rest >-18.75, LS-stress >-22.75, CS-rest >-36.55, CS-stress >-38.15, RS-rest < 34.65, RS-stress < 45.15. Reserve cutoff values were: LS absolute difference (LS-AD) >-0.19, CS-AD >-2.45, RS-AD < 0.19, LS relative change (LS-RCH) < 0.52, CS-RCH <-16.86, RS-RCH <-3.06, LS ratio (LS-R) < 1.01, CS-R < 0.83 and RS-R < 0.97. The optimal model (stress global LS > - 22.75, stress global CS > - 38.15, LS-RCH < 0.52, and RS-RCH < - 3.06) demonstrated good discrimination for case-group classification (AUC, 0.85; sensitivity, 79%; specificity, 70%).This study establishes reproducible and clinically relevant cutoff values for gSPECT-MPI-derived myocardial strain and strain reserve, filling an important gap in current literature.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) represent a complex medical and social issue with a multifactorial etiology, often correlated with the host genetic background, particularly with the folate metabolic pathway. This study aimed to investigate the association between MTHFR (C677T and A1298C) and MTRR (A66G) polymorphisms and ASD susceptibility in an Apulian cohort. We analyzed 73 patients diagnosed with ASD and 84 healthy controls recruited at the University Hospital Policlinico, Bari. Genotyping was performed using a Real-time/FRET method. Statistical analysis evaluated genotypic/allelic distributions and haplotype frequencies. While single genotype distributions did not differ significantly between groups, the MTHFR 677T allele frequency was significantly higher in controls (50%) compared to the ASD group (37.67%; p = 0.038), suggesting a potential protective role. Haplotype analysis identified the C-C-G combination as a significant risk factor for ASD (OR = 3.60; p = 0.019). In silico analysis confirmed that the C677T polymorphism (A222V) significantly destabilizes the MTHFR protein structure, in agreement with previous findings. Our findings suggest that an unknown evolutionary advantage may explain the circulation of the MTHFR 677T allele in the general Apulian population, supported by the high folate intake peculiar to the Mediterranean diet. The enzymatic alterations caused by the C-C-G haplotype, selected by the ASD Apulian group, are herein detrimental for folate metabolism.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
BACKGROUND Top-of-the-basilar syndrome (TOBS) is a rare but clinically heterogeneous posterior circulation disorder characterized by acute ischemia affecting 2 or more territories supplied by the distal basilar artery, including the thalami, midbrain, occipital lobes, medial temporal lobes, and cerebellum. Intravenous thrombolysis with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) is an established treatment for eligible patients with TOBS, and reports of transient coma induced during rt-PA infusion remain exceedingly scarce. CASE REPORT A 77-year-old man with non-valvular atrial fibrillation and hypertension presented with transient visual hallucinations-initially diagnosed as a transient ischemic attack. Emergency head and neck computed tomography angiography revealed severe stenosis-occlusion of the left posterior cerebral artery P1 segment. Within 12 hours, he developed dysarthria and right hemiparesis, prompting intravenous thrombolysis with rt-PA (0.9 mg/kg). Fifty minutes after infusion, he experienced abrupt, self-limiting loss of consciousness, without evidence of intracranial hemorrhage on emergent computed tomography. Subsequent magnetic resonance imaging confirmed incomplete TOBS, showing acute infarcts in bilateral thalami, left hippocampus, and right cerebellar hemisphere. Magnetic resoance angiography demonstrated resolution of the prior P1 stenosis but new suspicious narrowing in the distal P2 segment. CONCLUSIONS This case suggests that the clinical symptoms of cardiogenic TOBS change rapidly and are diverse. This diversity can occur before and during intravenous thrombolytic therapy. If neurological deterioration occurs during the use of thrombolytic agents, it is necessary to promptly identify whether it is stroke progression or hemorrhagic transformation.
Phosphatidylserine (PS) receptors facilitate entry of diverse enveloped viruses and have been implicated in enhancing coronavirus attachment, including for SARS-CoV-2, yet their precise contribution remains unclear. We examined this pathway using EjCoV-3, a recently identified bat merbecovirus. Exogenous PS, but not phosphatidylcholine, reduced viral infectivity in a concentration-dependent manner, suggesting competitive inhibition of receptor binding by virion-associated PS. T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain 1 (TIM-1) knockout (KO) in Vero/TMPRSS2 (transmembrane protease, serine 2) cells markedly reduced early viral infection. TIM-1 KO cells also showed markedly reduced virion attachment, indicating that TIM-1 acts as a PS-dependent attachment factor. Growth kinetics further revealed that TIM-1 contributes to efficient EjCoV-3 replication under conditions without exogenous protease and accelerates early viral growth in the presence of exogenous protease. A549 cells and A549/hACE2 cells are not susceptible to EjCoV-3 infection in the absence of exogenous proteases, and sustained viral replication was observed only when TIM-1 and TMPRSS2 were co-expressed, indicating that the two proteins synergistically promote infection. However, the expression of either factor alone was insufficient to sustain sustained viral replication. In contrast, in A549/EnACE2 cells, an EjCoV-3-susceptible cell line expressing a more compatible bat angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) orthologue, even in the absence of exogenous proteases, the expression of TMPRSS2 enhanced infection, whereas the expression of TIM-1 had no effect. These findings indicate that in environments where only low-affinity receptors are present, TIM-1 promotes EjCoV-3 infection primarily through PS-mediated attachment and functions in concert with TMPRSS2-dependent spike activation. This cooperative mechanism may reduce receptor barriers and enhance the potential for cross-species transmission of bat-derived coronaviruses, thereby contributing to their emergence as zoonotic pathogens.
Acute ischemic stroke (AIS) is a significant complication of cancer and may reveal occult malignancy. Whether cancer-related AIS (CAS) provides specific biological features remains unclear.This case-control study aimed to characterize thrombi and plasmas from patients with CAS.Nine consecutive patients with CAS, including 3 nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis (NBTE), and age- and sex-matched AIS controls with cardioembolism (CE, n = 16) or large artery atherosclerosis (LAA, n = 16) were included from the compoCLOT study. Thrombi retrieved after endovascular thrombectomy underwent ex vivo thrombolysis using recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator and were analyzed for composition. Plasma biomarkers were also assessed.CAS thrombi were resistant to tissue-type plasminogen activator lysis compared with LAA thrombi (median thrombus weight conservation, 92% vs 9%; P = .0002) and, to a lesser extent, compared with CE thrombi (92% vs 43%; P = .06). Thrombolysis resistance correlated negatively with red blood cell content (P < .0001) but positively with platelet factor-4 (P = .0014), von Willebrand factor (P = .0002) and DNA content (P < .0001). A subgroup of macroscopically white thrombi (n = 6), characterized by low red blood cell and high von Willebrand factor content, was identified in CAS, encompassing all 3 NBTE cases. Plasma D-dimer, fibrin monomers, extracellular vesicle-associated tissue factor and myeloperoxidase were significantly higher in patients with CAS than in the combined LAA and CE control groups (31,290 vs 1900 µg/L; 143 vs 9 μg/mL; 143 vs 9 fM; and 51 vs 25 ng/mL, respectively).CAS thrombi exhibit distinct properties, with white thrombi as a hallmark of undiagnosed NBTE. Furthermore, plasma biomarkers such as D-dimer, fibrin monomers, extracellular vesicle-associated tissue factor and myeloperoxidase could help in cancer screening in AIS of unknown etiology.© 2026 The Author(s).
Parinaud's syndrome, or dorsal midbrain syndrome, is characterized by vertical gaze palsy, light-near dissociation, convergence-retraction nystagmus, and bilateral eyelid retraction. The majority of cases are caused by pineal region tumors, whereas vascular etiologies are less frequent. Early recognition of this neuro-ophthalmological syndrome can be crucial for diagnosing brainstem strokes, particularly when initial neuroimaging findings are normal.A 66-year-old man presented to the Emergency Department with sudden-onset vertical diplopia, dysarthria, and gait instability, consistent with an acute neurological event. Neuro-ophthalmological examination revealed the complete classical triad of Parinaud's syndrome. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography angiography (CTA) showed no acute ischemic lesions or vascular abnormalities. Given the disabling oculomotor findings and the strong suspicion of posterior circulation ischemia, intravenous thrombolysis with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) was administered within 3.5 h of symptom onset. The patient achieved complete neurological and oculomotor recovery within 24 h, and follow-up brain MRI confirmed the absence of structural damage.The present case illustrates Parinaud's syndrome, a rare neuro-ophthalmological manifestation of acute posterior circulation ischemia, treated with intravenous thrombolysis. Although its global prevalence remains unknown, published series show that the syndrome is exceptionally uncommon, with vascular etiologies representing approximately 25% of cases-making stroke the second most common cause after pineal region tumors.In contrast to pineal region tumors, which typically produce a slowly progressive clinical course, vascular etiologies are characterized by abrupt symptom onset.This case underscores the importance of recognizing Parinaud's syndrome as a possible manifestation of posterior circulation ischemia, particularly when early neuroimaging findings appear normal. Its rarity and atypical presentation can make therapeutic decision-making challenging in the acute setting, highlighting the diagnostic value of a meticulous ocular examination.© 2026 Benetti, Gonzalez, Caiza-Zambrano, Neme-Segura, Zavala-Gottau, Bonardo, licensee HBKU Press.
PurposeTo prospectively characterize peri-procedural changes in thrombin-antithrombin complex (TAT), plasmin-α2-plasmin inhibitor complex (PIC), fibrin/fibrinogen degradation products (FDP), D-dimer, thrombomodulin (TM), and tissue plasminogen activator-inhibitor complex (t-PAIC) in patients with venous malformations (VMs) undergoing percutaneous sclerotherapy.MethodsThis prospective single-center observational study included 68 patients with VMs and 48 healthy controls. Peripheral venous blood was collected 24 h before treatment, immediately after treatment, and on postoperative days 1-3. Local lesional blood was aspirated through the access needle before contrast or sclerosant injection. Biomarker concentrations were compared using paired and repeated-measures analyses. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analyses were used only to explore discrimination between VM-associated hemostatic activation and healthy-control values.ResultsLocal lesional samples showed higher TAT, PIC, FDP, and D-dimer concentrations than paired preoperative peripheral samples, whereas TM and t-PAIC did not differ significantly. After sclerotherapy, TAT increased immediately, while D-dimer showed a more prolonged postoperative elevation. At the immediately post-procedure time point, exploratory ROC analysis showed an AUC of 0.9517 for TAT and 0.8931 for D-dimer. The TAT/PIC ratio also increased immediately after treatment, suggesting a transient laboratory shift toward coagulation predominance. No symptomatic venous thromboembolism, pulmonary embolism, overt disseminated intravascular coagulation, or major bleeding was observed during 30-day follow-up.ConclusionIn patients with venous malformations undergoing sclerotherapy, TAT showed an immediate post-procedural increase consistent with acute thrombin generation, whereas D-dimer showed a more sustained postoperative pattern. These findings describe peri-procedural hemostatic activation and support further outcome-based evaluation of TAT and TAT/PIC.
Comparative data on ultrasound-assisted catheter-directed thromboly-sis (USAT) and systemic low-dose tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) for intermediate-high-risk (IHR) pulmonary embolism (PE) remain limited. The efficacy and safety outcomes of USAT vs. intravenous (IV) low-dose tPA were evaluated in this population.This study enrolled 329 IHR PE patients treated with USAT (n = 205) or IV low-dose tPA (n = 124). Post-treatment changes in clot burden (Qanadli score), right ventricular (RV) strain, and long-term mortality (median follow-up 95.8 months) were assessed. Propensity score analysis with inverse probability weighting (IPW) was employed to adjust for confounders.Ultrasound-assisted catheter-directed thrombolysis was predominantly bilateral (82.9%), with a mean tPA dose of 38.5 ± 13.6 mg. In the IV tPA cohort, 58.9% required a second infusion to achieve stabilization. While IV tPA was associated with more pronounced early reductions in heart rate and RV/LV (left ventricle) ratio, USAT provided significantly greater thrombus resolution (all P < .005). After IPW adjustment, USAT demonstrated clear superiority over IV tPA in reducing residual clot burden (P < .001). However, improvements in oxygen saturation, tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion , and pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PASP) were comparable. No significant differences were observed in in-hospital mortality, PE recurrence, or long-term survival between cohorts. Higher PE severity indexes scores independently predicted in-hospital adverse events, whereas older age, male sex, and higher discharge PASP were predictors of shortened long-term survival.In IHR PE, IV low-dose tPA relates to more pronounced early hemodynamic and RV diameter improvements, whereas USAT achieves superior thrombus resolution. Despite these divergent surrogate responses, both strategies yield comparable early and long-term clinical outcomes, supporting their roles as viable reperfusion options.
Individuals with the Normal Weight Obesity (NWO) phenotype are characterized by excessive body fat despite normal Body Mass Index (BMI), often leading to underestimated cardiovascular risk. The mechanisms linking this specific body composition to early vascular damage remain unclear. The aim of this study was to evaluate endothelial dysfunction biomarkers in young women with NWO, and to identify the main axes of vascular impairment. The study included 176 young women (median age 20) with normal BMI (18.5-24.9 kg/m²). Based on dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA), participants were classified into an NWO group (n = 88; percent body fat (PBF) ≥ 35.8%) and a healthy control group (NW; n = 88). Serum levels of tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA), von Willebrand factor (vWF), Angiopoietin-1 (Ang-1), Nitric Oxide (NO), and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) were analyzed. Principal Component Analysis (PCA) was employed to identify latent patterns of endothelial function. Women with NWO exhibited significantly higher levels of tPA (1.86 vs. 1.48 ng/ml; p = 0.038), vWF (72.24 vs. 63.62 ng/ml; p = 0.038), and Ang-1 (515.3 vs. 491.63 pg/ml; p = 0.008) compared to controls. PCA identified three principal components explaining 71.68% of the total variance: Coagulation (tPA, vWF), Inflammation/Angiogenesis (hs-CRP, Ang-1), and Vasodilation (NO). Young women with NWO exhibit subclinical endothelial dysfunction, which is characterized primarily by a pro-thrombotic state and disturbed angio-inflammatory balance. These changes occur even before the onset of overt metabolic or cardiovascular disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
BackgroundSurgery is the cornerstone of treatment for lung cancer. However, cancer and surgery can both independently affect thrombosis and hemostasis with interrelated, but unclear mechanisms. There are currently poor methods of detection and prediction of subsequent complications. In this context, we aim to evaluate levels of fibrinolysis in peri-operative lung cancer patients, via two different approaches, to identify potential biological mechanisms and trends around surgery.MethodsPlasma samples were collected from patients undergoing lung resection preoperatively (day 0; n = 77) and postoperatively (day 1; n = 81). Blood bank plasma served as the control (n=24). Plasma lysis slope times were measured using the Lysis Timer, an automated assay that measures the rate of fibrin clot formation and subsequent tPA-stimulated clot breakdown in plasma. PAI-1 and tPA antigen levels were quantified and compared to fibrinolytic activity as measured on the lysis timer.ResultsA total of 84 patients were included. Preoperative (day 0) samples were available for 77 patients and postoperative (day 1) samples for 81 patients, and 24 blood bank plasma samples served as controls. Control samples demonstrated a median lysis slope time of 56.5 min. Patients undergoing lung resection showed significantly shorter plasma lysis slope times both preoperatively (median 33 min, p = 0.0051) and on postoperative day 1 (median 34 min, p = 0.0020) compared with controls, with no significant paired difference between day 0 and day 1 using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test (median day 0: 33 min; median day 1: 32 min; p = 0.7602). PAI-1 antigen levels were significantly elevated in patients both preoperatively and postoperatively compared with controls, with no significant paired difference between day 0 and day 1 (p = 0.4816). tPA antigen levels increased postoperatively and were significantly higher than both controls (p = 0.0009) and paired preoperative levels (p < 0.0001).ConclusionLung cancer patients demonstrated shorter ex vivo plasma lysis slope times compared with controls, suggesting altered fibrinolytic potential under standardized assay conditions. These differences may contribute to postoperative complications, but the findings should be interpreted as assay-specific and require further study with larger longitudinal cohorts, medication-adjusted models, and additional in vivo coagulation/fibrinolysis markers.
Chorioamnionitis, caused by microbial invasion of amniotic cavity or sterile inflammation, can lead to prematurity and cytokine storm of fetus known as fetal inflammatory response syndrome (FIRS). Histological chorioamnionitis (HCA) on fetal side of placenta is a surrogate to FIRS. Cord blood (CB) reflects intrauterine inflammation. Our aim was to evaluate if more novel biomarkers procalcitonin (PCT) and soluble urokinase- type Plasminogen Activator Receptor (suPAR) were useful for identifying fetuses/neonates with high risk for FIRS/HCA.Twenty two women with a clinically confirmed preterm premature rupture of membranes (PPROM) or a suspicion of chorioamnionitis without PPROM (uterine tenderness, maternal fever ≥38°C, leukocytosis, fetal tachycardia ≥160 beats/minute) were enrolled at gestational weeks 23+0-34+6. Interleukin-6 (IL-6), PCT and suPAR were measured in cord blood samples obtained immediately after birth. The fetal side HCA was used as a surrogate for FIRS.The cord blood concentration of IL-6 was significantly higher (p = 0.01) and had the best predictability for fetal side HCA (AUC 0.96, p = 0.03). Cord blood concentrations of PCT tended to be higher (p = 0.05), and to show significance for predicting fetal-side HCA (AUC 0.91, p = 0.07). No significant findings were found for suPAR.Cord blood IL-6 had the best ability to predict fetal side HCA. Cord blood PCT may be a promising biomarker. There were no significant findings for cord blood suPAR, suggesting its limited value as a biomarker in this context.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Dysregulated calpains and cathepsins contribute to adverse cardiac remodeling following chronic pathological stress, but their interplay and the specific contributions of the classical calpain isoforms remain undefined. Here, we tested whether calpain-2 initiates a lysosome-cathepsin proteolytic axis that promotes pathological hypertrophy through mTORC1-dependent signaling.Calpain expression was analyzed in septal myocardium from patients with aortic stenosis and mice subjected to transverse aortic constriction (TAC). Calpain activity was modulated genetically by Capns1 deletion or pharmacologically with the calpain-2 inhibitor NA-184 in TAC mice. Cathepsins were inhibited with balicatib. In vitro, Capn2 was silenced by siRNA in H9c2 cardiomyoblasts stimulated with angiotensin II.TAC upregulated myocardial calpain-2 expression, which correlated with hypertrophy severity in septal tissue from patients. TAC induced lysosomal membrane permeabilization, evidenced by reduced cathepsin B-lysosome colocalization, and increased cytosolic cathepsin accumulation and activity. Mechanistically, calpain-2 cleaved the lysosomal protein LAMP2, generating a ~ 55 kDa fragment. Both Capns1 deletion and NA-184 preserved LAMP2 and lysosomal integrity, reduced autophagic dysregulation and the activation of the AKT/mTOR signaling, and attenuated cardiac hypertrophy. Capn2 silencing in H9c2 reproduced the effects by reducing LAMP2 proteolysis and hypertrophy. Balicatib produced comparable anti-hypertrophic effects, supporting a sequential calpain-cathepsin signaling cascade. When treatment was extended, NA-184 limited ventricular dilation and attenuated systolic dysfunction (30%, p < 0.001).These findings identify calpain-2-mediated LAMP2 proteolysis as an upstream trigger linking lysosomal dysfunction to pathological hypertrophy, and highlight selective calpain-2 inhibition as a therapeutic strategy for heart failure treatment.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565469 is a review article
The primary mechanism and subcellular localisation of α-synuclein toxicity in Parkinson's disease pathogenesis remain unknown. We spatially and temporally resolved proteomic and transcriptomic changes in human iPSC-derived dopaminergic neurons with increasing burden of pathological α-synuclein. We found that misfolded α-synuclein proteoforms, signified by the formation of nanoscale intraneuronal puncta, are associated with impaired translocon function at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). We show that α-synuclein interacts with Sec61A in iPSC-derived dopaminergic neurons and in post-mortem brain tissue from patients with Parkinson's disease. This interaction interferes with the co-translational translocation of ER-processed proteins including the vacuolar-type ATPase V0a1 subunit, glucocerebrosidase, and Cathepsin B, causing defective organelle function such as reduced lysosomal acidification, leading to increased extracellular vesicle release of α-synuclein. Defective ER-translocation was associated with increased ribosomal UFMylation and proteasomal recruitment but not activation of the unfolded protein response. Reduction of pathological α-synuclein by either CRISPRi to decrease α-synuclein expression or pharmacological activation of proteasomal degradation with repurposed drugs mitigates the ER defect. Our study offers a unifying mechanistic link between α-synuclein pathology and dysregulation of diverse organelle-associated proteins that are both Sec61A translocon substrates and genetic modifiers of Parkinson's disease risk. Our data also provide a therapeutic rationale for proteasomal activation in early Parkinson's disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Prostate cancer (PCa) remains a major clinical challenge due to therapeutic resistance and immunologically cold tumor microenvironment. Lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP)-induced lysosome-dependent cell death offers an alternative route to eliminate resistant tumor cells and initiate immunogenic cell death, yet its efficacy is often limited by insufficient spatiotemporal control and immune activation. Here, we report a spatiotemporally programmable supramolecular nanoplatform (Cu-P-MSA) that integrates lysosome-targeted sonodynamic therapy with tumor-confined innate immune activation for PCa treatment. Cu-P-MSA is a modular self-assembling peptide incorporating a PSMA-targeting ligand, morpholine moiety, and cathepsin B-cleavable linker, enabling tumor-selective uptake and in situ formation of fibrous sonosensitizer depots within lysosomes. Upon ultrasound irradiation, a glutathione-responsive open-shell sonosensitizer induces controlled LMP, simultaneously activating ferroptosis and pyroptosis and promoting immunogenic cell death. Meanwhile, tumor-specific release of a STING agonist MSA-2 elicits robust type I interferon responses, driving dendritic cell maturation and cytotoxic T-cell infiltration. This coordinated lysosomal disruption-immune amplification strategy effectively reprograms the tumor immune microenvironment and suppresses both primary and distant tumors, with inhibition rates reaching 84.3% and 77.5%, respectively. Overall, this work establishes a spatiotemporally controlled supramolecular approach that integrates lysosomal disruption with innate immune activation to overcome therapeutic resistance and immunosuppression in PCa.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Sulfonyl hydrazone derivatives represent promising scaffolds in cancer progression, immune evasion, and treatment resistance. However, it remains underexploited due to the challenge of achieving selective inhibition without harming normal cellular functions. This study reports the design, synthesis, and comprehensive evaluation of novel sulfonyl hydrazone derivatives (2a-o) that strategically combine two privileged scaffolds with complementary anticancer mechanisms. Following complete structural characterization by FT-IR and NMR spectroscopy, an integrated experimental-computational workflow enabled the identification and mechanistic evaluation of compound 2 h as a promising hit candidate. Compound 2 h was selected for its favorable balance of anticancer potency, selectivity, and drug-likeness. In vitro evaluation against the human glioblastoma cell line (U87) and the human pancreatic cancer cell line (T3M4) demonstrated that sulfonyl hydrazone derivatives exhibit moderate anticancer activity. The compound 2 h demonstrates moderate antiproliferative activity with an IC50 of 67.60 ± 4.02 µM, whereas it affects normal human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) with an IC50 of 194.91 ± 7,00 µM. Furthermore, in silico assessments indicated favorable physicochemical and absorption properties, alongside predicted liabilities to be addressed in future optimization. To elucidate the molecular mechanism underlying the observed anticancer activity, an integrated computational workflow including target prediction, molecular docking, and deep-learning-based structural modeling was employed. These analyses nominated cathepsin B (CTSB) as the most plausible candidate target, pending experimental confirmation, supported by its cancer-selective expression and favorable binding interactions with compound 2 h within the catalytic active site. The results highlight sulfonyl hydrazone derivatives as promising scaffolds for anticancer drug development and identify compound 2 h as a potential hit candidate for further structural optimization targeting cathepsin B.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
ObjectivePrevious studies have suggested potential associations between cathepsins and cholelithiasis. This study aimed to investigate the potential causal relationships among cathepsins, inflammatory proteins, and cholelithiasis using Mendelian randomization (MR), and to explore whether inflammatory proteins mediate the association between cathepsins and cholelithiasis.MethodsWe conducted a two-sample MR study using genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics for cathepsins, inflammatory proteins, and cholelithiasis. Genetic associations for cathepsins were obtained from the INTERVAL study of European-ancestry individuals. GWAS data for inflammatory proteins and cholelithiasis were obtained from publicly available datasets, including European-ancestry cholelithiasis datasets from FinnGen and GCST90044196. The inverse variance weighted method was used as the primary MR analysis, with complementary and sensitivity analyses performed to assess the robustness of the findings. Multivariable and mediation MR analyses were performed to evaluate whether inflammatory proteins mediated the pathway from cathepsins to cholelithiasis.ResultsAfter correction for multiple testing, genetically predicted cathepsin B was associated with an increased risk of cholelithiasis. Mediation analyses suggested that part of the effect of cathepsin B on cholelithiasis may be mediated by fibroblast growth factor 19 (FGF19) and interleukin-6 levels. In the reverse MR analysis, genetically predicted cholelithiasis showed potential associations with two cathepsins and twelve inflammatory proteins.ConclusionsThis MR study provides genetic evidence for a potential association between cathepsin B and increased cholelithiasis risk. FGF19 and interleukin-6 may serve as partial mediators in this association.
Post-myocardial infarction inflammation and maladaptive remodeling are major drivers of heart failure, but the role of cathepsin B (CTSB) in quercetin-associated cardioprotection remains unclear. In this study, public bulk transcriptomic and single-cell RNA sequencing datasets were re-analyzed to characterize CTSB expression across cardiac cell populations and heart failure phenotypes. Network pharmacology and molecular docking were used to explore a potential association between quercetin and CTSB. In lipopolysaccharide-stimulated RAW264.7 macrophage-neonatal rat ventricular myocyte (NRVMs) co-cultures, quercetin reduced nitric oxide production, suppressed inflammatory cytokine expression, promoted a shift toward CD206-positive macrophages, and decreased CTSB expression at both messenger RNA and protein levels. CTSB knockdown reproduced part of the anti-inflammatory phenotype, whereas CTSB overexpression partially attenuated the suppressive effects of quercetin on inflammatory cytokines, supporting CTSB as a functionally relevant mediator contributing to quercetin responsiveness. In a mouse left anterior descending coronary artery ligation model, quercetin improved cardiac functional parameters, reduced infarct-related histopathological injury, decreased myocardial CTSB protein expression, and lowered pro-inflammatory cytokine levels. Molecular docking suggested a potential interaction between quercetin and CTSB, although direct biochemical target engagement was not examined. These findings identify CTSB as a macrophage-associated inflammatory candidate in post-myocardial infarction heart failure and indicate that quercetin exerts anti-inflammatory and cardioprotective effects in association with reduced CTSB expression.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Previous epidemiological studies have shown that E-cigarette and tobacco users are more likely to develop COVID-19 symptoms than non-users. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, we examined the effects of nicotine, the major component of tobacco and E-cigarette, and its major metabolite, cotinine, on the susceptibility of human respiratory epithelial cells to SARS-CoV-2 infection. We found that pre-treatment with nicotine and cotinine significantly and additively enhanced viral infection. While nicotine increased the expression of the viral receptor ACE2 and the serine protease TMPRSS2, cotinine upregulated cysteine protease cathepsin B and promoted viral spike protein cleavage. These findings suggest that nicotine and cotinine enhance SARS-CoV-2 infection at the cell entry stage through distinct mechanisms. Using a SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus system, we further investigated the effects and mechanisms of nicotine and cotinine on viral entry. We found that both compounds enhanced pseudovirus infection, but with different time courses. Nicotine's effect correlated with the upregulation of ACE2 and TMPRSS2, whereas cotinine's effect corresponded with increased cathepsin B and viral spike protein cleavage. The cathepsin B inhibitor E64d completely abolished cotinine-enhanced viral spike protein cleavage and viral entry. In contrast, ACE2 and TMPRSS2 inhibitors (chloromethylketone and camostat) had limited effects on viral spike protein cleavage and only partially reduced the viral entry enhancement induced by nicotine and cotinine. These results indicate that nicotine promotes virus-receptor binding and cell entry, while cotinine facilitates viral entry through cathepsin B-mediated spike protein cleavage.IMPORTANCEThis study highlights the potential risks of tobacco and E-cigarette use in increasing susceptibility to COVID-19. We show that the major neurostimulant in tobacco and E-cigarette, nicotine, and its metabolite, cotinine, additively enhance SARS-CoV-2 infection in human respiratory epithelial cells by promoting viral entry. Specifically, nicotine and cotinine upregulate the expression of distinct, yet complementary sets of key cellular proteins required for viral entry. These findings suggest that both tobacco smoking and E-cigarette vaping may exacerbate COVID-19 infection rates and severity and provide new insights into how nicotine and cotinine contribute to viral susceptibility. This research underscores the need for public health measures to address the heightened risk posed by tobacco smoking and E-cigarette vaping to encounter the SARS-CoV-2 infection.
This paper constructed a reactive oxygen species(ROS)-responsive hydrogel loaded with sodium tanshinone Ⅱ_A sulfonate(STS) and salvianolic acid B(SAB) and evaluated its therapeutic effect on hypertrophic scars. A hydrogel was prepared by using hyaluronic acid(HA) and polyvinyl alcohol(PVA) bridged by phenylboronic acid(PBA) as the matrix with two drugs physically encapsulated inside. Its structure, rheological properties, and drug release behavior were characterized. Scar models of rabbit ears were established and divided into a blank control group, a model group, an asiaticoside cream group, a regular drug-loaded hydrogel group, and a drug-loaded ROS-responsive hydrogel group. After 21 days of intervention, the net increased thickness of the car was detected. The tissue morphology was detected by using hematoxylin-eosin and Masson staining. The expressions of α-smooth muscle actin(α-SMA) and collagen-Ⅰ(COL-Ⅰ) were detected by immunohistochemistry, and the levels of transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1), tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1(TIMP-1), matrix metallopeptidase-9(MMP-9), ROS, and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine(8-OHdG) were assessed. The results show that, compared to those in the model group, the net increased thickness of scar, TGF-β1, TIMP-1, ROS, 8-OHdG, α-SMA, and COL-Ⅰ in each treatment group were significantly reduced(P&lt;0.05), while MMP-9 levels were increased(P&lt;0.05), and the improvement effect in the drug-loaded ROS-responsive hydrogel group was better than that in the regular drug-loaded hydrogel group(P&lt;0.05). These findings indicate that the hydrogel can achieve smart drug release and significantly inhibit scar formation, providing a new strategy for treatment.
Based on a strategy integrating topological feature identification and path priority assessment, this study systematically explored the efficacy targets and differentiated mechanisms of Colquhounia Root Tablets(CRT) in the &quot;homotherapy for heteropathy&quot; of rheumatoid arthritis(RA) and diabetic kidney disease(DKD). Firstly, candidate targets of CRT and disease-specific genes were retrieved by integrating multi-source databases and transcriptomic data. Protein-protein interaction(PPI) networks were constructed to identify key targets shared by or specific to RA and DKD via topological feature identification. Subsequently, a path priority assessment was introduced to calculate the average shortest path(ASP) values from drug targets to various pathological segments, thereby quantifying intervention efficacy to lock onto &quot;dominant pharmacodynamic links&quot;. The predicted key functional axes were validated through animal experiments. The results indicated that the core targets of CRT for both diseases involved shared pathways such as phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase(PI3K)-protein kinase B(Akt), tumor necrosis factor(TNF), and glycolysis/gluconeogenesis. Notably, path priority assessment revealed distinct dominant intervention links: for RA, CRT preferentially targeted &quot;fibroblast-like synoviocyte(FLS) activation and invasion&quot;(ASP=2.361), which mapped to the TNF-p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase(p38)-LIM domain kinase 1(LIMK1)-Cofilin1 axis to regulate cytoskeleton remodeling; for DKD, the dominant link was &quot;filtration barrier injury and interstitial fibrosis&quot;(ASP=2.295), converging on the TNF-poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1(PARP1)-signal transducer and activator of transcription 1(STAT1)-matrix metallopeptidase 9(MMP9) axis to mediate cellular senescence and senescence-associated secretory phenotype(SASP) secretion. Animal experiments confirmed that CRT significantly alleviated RA synovial invasion and DKD renal fibrosis by inhibiting these two differentiated signaling axes, respectively. By employing topological feature identification and path priority assessment, this study elucidates the scientific connotation of &quot;homotherapy for heteropathy&quot; of RA and DKD with CRT through both shared network regulation and intervention in disease-specific differential signaling axes associated with pharmacodynamic links.
Oxidative stress and inflammation are closely associated with ocular surface disorders, including dry eye disease (DED), keratitis, and corneal erosion. These pathological processes contribute to an imbalance in tear composition and induce structural and functional alterations of the cornea. In this context, natural compounds with antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities have emerged as promising strategies for preserving ocular health and mitigating the effects of corneal injuries. In the present study, we investigated the potential protective effects of troxerutin (TX), a naturally occurring flavonoid, in attenuating oxidative stress and promoting the restoration of corneal tissue architecture.To this end, an H2O2-induced oxidative stress model was established using human corneal epithelial cells (HCE) SkinEthic™ 3D tissues. Cells were pretreated with TX and, after 24 hours, stimulated with H2O2 for 10 minutes.TX showed a protective effect against oxidative injury in the HCE 3D model and supported morphological recovery consistent with re-epithelialization through the upregulation of tight junction proteins zona occludens-1 (ZO-1) and Occludin. In addition, TX helped attenuate inflammatory responses by regulating interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-8 (IL-8), matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP-9), and key adhesion molecules, including intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and P-selectin.Overall, these findings emphasize the potential of TX as a natural compound that may contribute to the prevention and management of corneal damage.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Rosacea, a chronic inflammatory skin disorder, severely impairs patients' quality of life and imposes substantial medical burdens. Existing treatments are hampered by unsatisfactory therapeutic effects and high recurrence rates, driving urgent research into novel pathogenic mechanisms. As a common spice and cosmetic preservative, cinnamaldehyde's safety risks in rosacea patients remain poorly characterized. This study aimed to integrate network toxicology with in vitro cellular assays to clarify its pathogenic roles and molecular pathways, providing novel theoretical support for its adverse impacts on rosacea sufferers. First, we predicted the target genes of cinnamaldehyde using the PubChem, SwissTargetPrediction, SuperPred, and ChEMBL databases. Second, we obtained relevant targets for rosacea using the GeneCards and CTD databases and identified the intersection targets with toxic substances. Then, we constructed a protein-protein interaction network of the core toxic substance combination using the STRING database and performed Gene Ontology functional enrichment analysis and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analysis to predict possible mechanisms. Subsequently, molecular docking validation of the active ingredients with the main targets was performed using AutoDock Vina software. Finally, cinnamaldehyde was added to the rosacea-like cellular model in HaCaT cells to assess its effects and molecular mechanisms by Cell Counting Kit-8, reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Database screening revealed 43 overlapping targets between the 195 predicted targets of cinnamaldehyde and the 1889 disease-related targets for rosacea, which included notable proteins such as prostaglandin‑endoperoxide synthase 2 (cyclooxygenase‑2; PTGS2), matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP9), and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). Protein-protein interaction analysis identified PTGS2 as a pivotal hub protein, while Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analysis indicated that interleukin-17 signaling and lipid metabolism are vital mechanisms involved in rosacea. Molecular docking studies demonstrated strong binding affinities between cinnamaldehyde and the identified core targets. Furthermore, cell culture experiments confirmed that cinnamaldehyde exacerbates rosacea by upregulating the expression of PTGS2, MMP9, and EGFR, along with increasing the production of inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-8 and interleukin-1 beta. In summary, our findings elucidate the potential pathogenic mechanisms by which cinnamaldehyde may induce rosacea, highlighting the roles of the core targets PTGS2, MMP9, and EGFR in mediating inflammation. This research provides new scientific insights that could inform preventive strategies and therapeutic interventions aimed at managing the toxicity associated with rosacea.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
In ruminants, progesterone promotes uterine development to create a favourable environment for an embryo. However, the mechanisms by which progesterone regulates the function of the endometrial epithelial cells that line the uterus remain unclear. To investigate likely mechanisms, this study used different concentrations of progesterone to treat cells from a bovine endometrial epithelial cell (BEEC) line. The effect of the treatments was assessed by constructing mRNA expression profiles of the cells using RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq). Compared to the control cells (0 ng/mL progesterone), it was revealed that expression of the cytokine interleukin 6 (IL6) was upregulated (P < 0.05) with both the 10 ng/mL and 15 ng/mL progesterone treatment of the BEECs. There was decreased expression of the matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP9) enzyme (P < 0.05) and increased expression of the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) gene (P < 0.05) in the 5, 10, and 15 ng/mL progesterone treated BEECs. In total, 138, 132 and 385 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in the BEECs treated with 5, 10 and 15 ng/mL of progesterone respectively, with these genes mainly associated with leukotriene and oxytocin signalling pathways, cell surface receptor signalling and GnRH secretion, multicellular organism process regulation, and TNF-related signalling pathways. The study revealed that BEECs treated with 10 ng/mL progesterone had increased β-arrestin 1 gene (ARRB1) expression, which would inhibit the extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (Erk1/2) pathway, and reduce gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion, thus potentially affecting follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinising hormone (LH) activity. A small interfering RNA (siRNA) approach was then employed to disrupt ARRB1 expression. The siRNA suppressed ARRB1 expression, promoted Erk1/2 expression, and increased GnRH secretion. In conclusion, progesterone induces concentration-dependent gene expression changes in BEECs, and inhibits GnRH secretion in BEECs through the ARRB1-Erk1/2 signalling pathway. These findings provide in-vitro mechanistic insights into the direct actions of progesterone on endometrial epithelial cells.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neonatal sepsis can disrupt brain development through oxidative stress, blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction, peripheral leukocyte infiltration, and white matter injury. N-acetylcysteine (NAC), a glutathione precursor with antioxidant and immunomodulatory properties, is a promising neuroprotective candidate, but its effects in neonatal sepsis-like brain injury remain incompletely defined. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether early NAC pretreatment, followed by continued treatment, was associated with protection in a neonatal LPS model and examine the principal mechanisms associated with its effects.In this study, neonatal C57BL/6J mice received lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 3 mg/kg, subcutaneously) on postnatal day (PND) 3 to model sepsis-like injury. NAC was administered intraperitoneally 2 h before LPS (200 mg/kg), followed by daily treatment (100 mg/kg/day) through PND14. Survival was monitored to PND21. Acute outcomes at PND4 included oxidative stress, glial/inflammatory markers, MPO-positive cell accumulation, apoptosis, and BBB-related injury. Longer-term outcomes included myelination, dentate gyrus proliferation, and behavior.NAC improved survival after neonatal LPS exposure, with exploratory sex-stratified analyses suggesting greater benefit in males. NAC partially restored cortical glutathione levels and reduced lipid peroxidation, indicating improved redox balance. Although it did not significantly alter galectin-3, GFAP, or NLRP3 at the time point examined, NAC reduced cortical MPO-positive cell burden and attenuated markers associated with neurovascular injury and BBB-associated pathology, including matrix metallopeptidase-9 expression and albumin extravasation. NAC also decreased apoptosis in selected brain regions and partly improved white matter-related outcomes, including oligodendrocyte precursor cell abundance, myelination, and early sensorimotor performance. However, long-term behavioral performance in the open field and novel object recognition tests was not significantly improved at PND60.Overall, early NAC pretreatment followed by continued treatment mitigated neonatal LPS-induced sepsis-like brain injury and improved survival, with protection associated with restoration of redox homeostasis and reduction of MPO-positive leukocyte and markers associated with neurovascular injury and BBB-associated pathology rather than broad suppression of measured inflammatory mediators. These findings are consistent with a potential role for a redox-neurovascular-leukocyte pathway in NAC-associated neuroprotection and support further evaluation of NAC in prevention-oriented experimental paradigms relevant to high-risk preterm populations.© 2026. The Author(s).
Blast-induced lung injury (BLI) is a life-threatening complication of explosive shock waves, yet its molecular mechanisms remain largely unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the key molecular mechanisms governing epithelial barrier integrity during BLI progression and define the core regulatory function of Transcription Factor EB (TFEB) and its downstream signaling axis in BLI pathogenesis. We also evaluated the therapeutic effect and underlying mechanism of the hydrogen sulfide (H2S)-releasing nanozyme (Pt@Pd-S), intending to offer novel targets and translational therapeutic strategies for BLI. Bioinformatic analysis of single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data revealed activation of adherens junction, tight junction, and multiple stress-related signaling pathways in epithelial cells. Transcription factor analysis identified TFEB as a pivotal regulator in these pathological processes. Functional experiments demonstrated that TFEB overexpression via lentiviral delivery significantly alleviated BLI, as evidenced by reduced pulmonary edema, inflammation, oxidative stress and improved barrier integrity. Insulin-like growth factor 2 receptor (IGF2R) was identified as a novel target of TFEB and participates in the protection against shock wave-induced epithelial barrier damage by regulating the release of matrix metallopeptidase 2 (MMP-2) and matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP-9). Furthermore, the Pt@Pd-S nanozyme promoted S-sulfhydration of TFEB at the Cys212 residue, thereby enhancing its transcriptional activity, upregulating autophagy, improving lysosomal function, and maintaining epithelial barrier integrity and mitigating lung injury through modulating the IGF2R/MMP-2/9 signaling pathway. Collectively, our findings uncover a previously unrecognized TFEB/IGF2R/MMP-2/9-autophagy and lysosomal axis in the pathogenesis of BLI and highlight the promise of engineered H2S-releasing nanozymes as a therapeutic strategy for pulmonary trauma.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Osteoporosis is characterized by increased bone fragility and elevated fracture risk, severely compromising patients' quality of life. This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic potential of isoorientin (Iso) against osteoporosis and elucidate its underlying mechanisms. Using a combination of in vitro approaches, we demonstrated that Iso effectively inhibited RANKL-induced osteoclast differentiation in RAW 264.7 cells and downregulated the expression of key osteoclastic markers-including matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP9), cathepsin K (CTSK), c-fos, and nuclear factor of activated T-cells 1 (NFATc1)-at both protein and mRNA levels. Iso also exhibited potent anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities, reducing the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, TNF-α, IL-1β) and malondialdehyde (MDA) while enhancing superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity and glutathione (GSH) content. Mechanistically, Iso acts by suppressing the ROS/PPARγ/NF-κB signaling axis. In vitro, the anti-osteoclastogenic effect of Iso was attenuated by the PPARγ agonist, and either the PPARγ antagonist or the NF-κB inhibitor BAY 11-7082 alone effectively inhibited osteoclast differentiation. In an ovariectomy (OVX)-induced osteoporotic mouse model, Iso treatment significantly prevented bone loss, improved bone microarchitecture, and suppressed osteoclast activity. Notably, administration of the PPARγ antagonist GW9662 or the NF-κB inhibitor BAY 11-7082 alone also exerted clear bone-protective effects in vivo, further validating these two pathways as viable therapeutic targets for osteoporosis. In conclusion, isoorientin exerts anti-osteoporotic effects by inhibiting the ROS/PPARγ/NF-κB signaling pathway, with efficacy comparable to clinical drugs, offering a promising novel candidate for the management of osteoporosis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Depression and psoriasis are highly comorbid, yet their shared molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. Utilizing cross-sectional data from NHANES and Mendelian randomization (MR), a significant association and causal link between depression and psoriasis were established. A combined mouse model of chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) and imiquimod-induced psoriasis confirmed that depressive state exacerbates psoriasis-like skin lesions. Integrated multi-omics analyses (including bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing, machine learning, and eQTL/pQTL-MR) identified apoptosis as a key shared pathway, with matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP9) as a central causal gene. Animal experiments confirmed MMP9 upregulation in both skin and brain tissues. Molecular docking predicted strong binding of curcumin to MMP9, and subsequent in vivo intervention demonstrated that curcumin downregulated MMP9 expression and alleviated both pathological conditions. These findings reveal MMP9-mediated apoptosis as a central pathological link in the comorbidity of depression and psoriasis and suggest a dual-treatment strategy for this comorbidity.© 2026 The Author(s).
In-stent restenosis remains a major challenge in coronary artery disease management. The proliferation, migration, and phenotypic switching of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) are key drivers of neointimal hyperplasia and restenosis. Pharmacological agents targeting these processes may therefore offer a strategy to prevent or treat neointima formation. Here, we demonstrate that elafibranor (also known as GFT505), a dual agonist of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor delta (PPARδ), significantly reduced neointima formation in a mouse model of carotid artery injury. In vitro, PDGF-BB stimulation induced VSMC proliferation, migration, and a phenotypic switch towards a synthetic state-all of which were markedly suppressed by elafibranor. Cell Counting Kit-8 assays, 5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) incorporation, and proliferation markers (phosphorylated histone H3 (Ser10) and Proliferating Cell Nuclear Antigen (PCNA)) indicated that elafibranor inhibited VSMC proliferation primarily by inducing cell cycle arrest at the G2/M phase. Transwell assays and reduced expression of matrix metallopeptidase 2 (MMP2) and matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP9) pointed to a significant inhibition of VSMC migration. In addition, elafibranor suppressed the transition of VSMCs from a contractile to a synthetic phenotype, as shown by changes in marker expression. Mechanistically, transcriptome sequencing with Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), Gene Ontology (GO), and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) analyses revealed that elafibranor modulated pathways linked to cell proliferation and cycle control. In particular, it downregulated cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1), a key regulator of the G2/M checkpoint. Overexpression of CDK1 reversed the inhibitory effects of elafibranor on VSMC proliferation, migration, and phenotypic switching. Together, these findings identify elafibranor as a potential therapeutic agent capable of suppressing neointimal hyperplasia, pointing to a new approach for preventing and treating in-stent restenosis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Bone regeneration requires coordinated interactions between multiple cell types responding to biochemical and biomechanical cues from the extracellular matrix (ECM). Gingival fibroblasts (GFs) and periodontal ligament fibroblasts (PDLFs) contribute to the regeneration of lost alveolar bone, as they can differentiate into osteoblast-like cells and regulate osteoclastogenesis. However, it remains unclear whether these two fibroblast populations contribute similarly to bone regeneration and how ECM properties modulate their osteogenic differentiation and subsequent osteoclast-inducing capacity. Here, we compared the osteogenic potential of GFs and PDLFs from 12 donors, cultured in 2D monolayers or 3D fibrin hydrogels under normal or osteogenic conditions, and assessed how fibroblast-conditioned media regulates osteoclast formation from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Both fibroblast populations underwent osteogenic differentiation, as evidenced by increased alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, calcium deposition, and robust mineral nodule formation in 3D fibrin hydrogels. Osteogenic stimulation reduced macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) secretion and increased osteoprotegerin (OPG) release. Functionally, conditioned media from non-osteogenic cultures promoted formation of multinucleated TRAcP-positive osteoclasts and upregulated osteoclast-associated genes, including TRACP, RANK, Cathepsin K, and the fusion marker DC-STAMP. In contrast, osteogenic differentiation attenuated the osteoclast-inducing capacity of both fibroblast populations. Across all parameters, GFs and PDLFs displayed largely comparable osteogenic and osteoclast-modulating phenotypes, irrespective of culture dimensionality. These findings indicate that osteogenic differentiation functions as a regulatory switch that diminishes the osteoclast-inductive potential of oral fibroblasts and support the interchangeable use of GFs and PDLFs in periodontal regenerative strategies.© 2026 The Authors.
This study evaluated immunohistochemical profiles associated with guided bone regeneration (GBR) using collagen membranes with different thickness-related mechanical properties to characterize membrane-related biological responses during lateral bone augmentation.Standardized mandibular defects in beagle dogs were grafted with bone substitutes and covered with one of two collagen membranes with different thickness-related mechanical properties or left uncovered. At 8 and 16 weeks, tissues were analyzed for markers associated with osteogenesis (ALP), vascular/perivascular and myofibroblast-associated responses (α-SMA), inflammation-related cell profiles (iNOS and CD206), and bone remodeling (TRAP, Cathepsin K, and collagen type I).At 8 weeks, the FM group showed a trend toward higher numbers of CD206-positive cells in the coronal region. iNOS-positive cells did not differ significantly among groups in any region. However, most macrophage-related outcomes were not statistically significant. The SM group exhibited significantly greater collagen type I deposition, particularly in deeper regions, although this appeared to represent early unmineralized matrix rather than enhanced bone formation. TRAP-positive cells were more frequently observed in membrane-covered groups at both time points, mainly around biomaterials, suggesting remodeling-related activity. ALP, α-SMA, and Cathepsin K showed no significant intergroup differences. At 16 weeks, most immunohistochemical differences had diminished across all groups.Collagen membranes with different thickness-related mechanical properties were associated with distinct early tissue responses during GBR healing. The FM group showed trends toward increased CD206-positive cells, whereas the SM group exhibited greater early collagen type I deposition. Because most inflammation-related outcomes were not statistically significant, these findings should be interpreted cautiously and considered exploratory.© 2026. The Author(s).
To evaluate the efficacy of mesenchymal stromal cells' (MSC) secretome delivered as conditioned media (CM) as an adjunct to a xenograft (XG) and collagen membrane (MEM) for guided bone regeneration (GBR) in chronic non-contained mandibular defects in minipigs.Chronic bilateral mandibular defects were surgically created in seven minipigs. In a split-mouth design, defects were treated with either CM-functionalized (test) or native XG + MEM (control) and evaluated after 4 and 12 weeks. New bone formation was assessed using in vivo computed tomography (CT) and ex vivo micro-CT, histology and immunohistochemistry (IHC). Quantitative CT, micro-CT and histomorphometric data were statistically analysed.No significant differences in new bone formation were observed between the test and control group at either timepoint. These findings could be partly explained by a high intrinsic healing capacity and continual growth of the animals. Minimal residual XG material was detected in both groups at 4 and 12 weeks. When present, these remnants were associated with multinucleated Cathepsin K-positive cells (IHC) with no observable differences between the groups.The adjunctive use of MSC secretome in combination with XG and MEM did not improve GBR outcomes in chronic non-contained mandibular defects in the present minipig model. The suitability of this animal model for experimental GBR may be questionable.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
This study aims to investigate whether Yiqi Huoluo Formula(YQHLF) exerts anti-bone destruction effects in rheumatoid arthritis(RA) by regulating the fibroblast growth factor receptor 1(FGFR1)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase(ERK)/nuclear factor of activated T-cells cytoplasmic 1(NFATc1) pathway. Forty SD rats were randomly allocated to normal control group, model group, low-, medium-, and high-dose YQHLF groups, and specific FGFR1 inhibitor(PD173074) groups, with eight rats per group. Collagen-induced arthritis(CIA) rat model was established in all groups except for the normal control group. Following modeling, rats in all groups were treated with the corresponding drug and saline intervention for 28 d. During the intervention, the paw thickness of rats in each group was measured, and the arthritis index(AI) was scored on days 0, 7, 14, 21, 28, and 35 after the second immunization, respectively. The changes in limb grip strength of rats before and after treatment were evaluated by using a grip strength meter. Histopathological changes in ankle joints of rats were examined via hematoxylin-eosin(HE) staining, while tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase(TRAP) staining was used to measure the number of osteoclasts(OC) in the ankle joint bone tissue. The levels of inflammatory factors in serum of rats, such as interleukin(IL)-1β, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), and so on, were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA). Western blot was performed to detect the protein expressions of FGFR1, phosphorylated(p)-ERK/ERK ratio, and NFATc1 in tissue of rats, and immunohistochemistry was employed to detect the protein expressions of cathepsin K(CTSK) and matrix metalloproteinase-9(MMP-9) in synovial tissue of rats. Compared with those in the normal group, the rats in model group showed significantly increased paw thickness and AI(P&lt;0.01), alongside significantly decreased grip strength(P&lt;0.01). Ankle joints in the model group exhibited rough cartilage surfaces, increased number and disordered arrangement of synovial cells, and moderate inflammatory cell infiltration. Furthermore, the number of OC in ankle joints was increased(P&lt;0.01), and the protein expression levels of FGFR1, p-ERK/ERK, NFATc1, MMP-9, and CTSK in synovial tissue were significantly upregulated(P&lt;0.01). Compared with those in model group, the rats in medium-, high-dose YQHLF groups and PD173074 group showed significantly reduced paw thickness and AI(P&lt;0.05, P&lt;0.01) and increased grip strength(P&lt;0.01). These treatments alleviated cartilage damage, synovial hyperproliferation, and inflammatory infiltration, with more regular cell arrangement and reduced matrix hyperplasia. Additionally, the number of OC in ankle joint bone tissue was decreased(P&lt;0.01), and the protein expression levels of FGFR1, p-ERK/ERK, NFATc1, MMP-9, and CTSK in synovial tissue were significantly downregulated(P&lt;0.05, P&lt;0.01). These findings suggest that YQHLF may alleviate bone destruction in CIA rats by downregulating the FGFR1/ERK/NFATc1 pathway and inhibiting OC differentiation and inflammatory responses.
In the microenvironment of atherosclerosis (AS), excessive migration of vascular smooth muscle cells led to the formation of a thick fibrous cap. This structure acted as a physical barrier and hindered efficient drug delivery to lesional macrophages. An optimal strategy for balancing long circulation with effective penetration involved the use of size-tunable nanoformulations. Leveraging highly expressed cathepsin K (CTSK) in atherosclerotic plaques, this work reported CTSK-responsive, size-shrinkable nanoparticles (PDE@Mn3O4/SIM) by encapsulating trimanganese tetraoxide (Mn3O4) and simvastatin (SIM) within CTSK-cleavable block copolymers (PDE) to achieve controlled drug release and deep penetration within plaque sites. The resulting nanoparticles underwent rapid degradation and released smaller Mn3O4 nanozymes, facilitating penetration into plaque macrophages. In vitro, the nanoparticles reduced reactive oxygen species levels and enhanced cholesterol efflux in macrophages. More importantly, they prolonged blood circulation and selectively accumulated in atherosclerotic plaques with high enzyme expression. They also markedly decreased macrophage infiltration and lipid deposition in plaques of AS mouse models. Collectively, these findings indicated that nanoparticles with CTSK-responsive and size-regulating properties achieved deep plaque penetration and precise macrophage targeting, serving as an effective anti-atherosclerotic therapeutic strategy. HIGHLIGHTS: 1 Utilizing endogenously overexpressed cathepsin K in plaques as a biological stimulus could achieve precise and on-demand drug release. 2 By taking advantage of the size restriction imposed by fibrous caps, we designed microenvironment-adaptive and size-transformable nanoparticles for deep penetration. 3 Co-delivery of Mn3O4 nanozyme and SIM elicited synergistic antioxidative, antiinflammatory and lipid-modulating activities to combat atherosclerosis.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
We report a primary perivascular epithelioid cell tumor (PEComa) of the kidney harboring a novel CLTC::TFE3 gene fusion in a 51-year-old woman. The tumor was composed of high-grade epithelioid cells with clear to eosinophilic cytoplasm arranged in nested and alveolar architectures, closely mimicking clear cell renal cell carcinoma, which posed a significant diagnostic pitfall. Immunophenotypically, the tumor lacked multiple epithelial and renal lineage markers but showed diffuse positivity for melanocytic markers and cathepsin K. TFE3 rearrangement was confirmed by fluorescence in situ hybridization and an in-frame CLTC::TFE3 fusion involving exons 1-17 of CLTC and exons 6-10 of TFE3 was identified by subsequent RNA sequencing. The patient developed an aggressive clinical course, with early brain metastasis and multiple recurrences over a five-year period despite multiple radical surgical resections, radiotherapy, and systemic therapy. This tumor represents the first reported primary renal PEComa harboring a CLTC::TFE3 fusion and the second tumor with this fusion reported in the literature. Our findings expand the molecular spectrum of TFE3-rearranged PEComa and underscore the importance of comprehensive immunohistochemical and molecular profiling in accurately diagnosing these rare tumors and distinguishing from their morphologic mimics.
Pycnodysostosis is a rare genetic bone disorder linked to mutations in the CTSK gene, which causes osteoclast dysfunction. We report the case of a child with pycnodysostosis complicated by severe obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS).The patient was a 9-years-old girl born to consanguineous parents. Clinical examination revealed short stature, characteristic facial features, acromicria, and several skeletal abnormalities. X-rays revealed diffuse osteosclerosis associated with bone abnormalities characteristic of pycnodysostosis. Polysomnography confirmed severe OSA, with an apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) of 49.8 events per hour.This observation highlights the association between pycnodysostosis and nocturnal respiratory impairment, and underscores the importance of systematic screening for sleep-disordered breathing by polysomnography in these patients. Management is based on a multidisciplinary approach and long-term follow-up in order to optimize the functional prognosis and quality of life of patients and their families.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Cathepsin K (CatK), a promising therapeutic target for bone-related diseases, uniquely unfolds triple-helical collagen and digests tropocollagen into soluble peptides in the presence of chondroitin 4-sulphate (C4-S). However, the molecular mechanism of CatK-mediated collagenolysis remains poorly understood, hindering the rational design of selective inhibitors. In this study, we performed microsecond-scale molecular dynamics simulations of a fully solvated ternary complex comprising the CatK dimer, tropocollagen segment, and C4-S, to indicate the structural and dynamical basis of tropocollagen unwinding. The process was initiated by the progressive disruption of six key inter-chain hydrogen bonds within the tropocollagen. C4-S adopted a cosine-like conformation that bridged CatK and tropocollagen, thereby stabilising the ternary complex. Unwinding occurred at the active site cleft, with Cys25 and Trp184 serving as critical residues that may contribute hydrogen bond disruption and substrate stabilisation. Our findings provided mechanistic insights into CatK-dependent collagen degradation and rational development of next-generation CatK inhibitors.
Laryngeal cancer remains a significant health challenge with limited therapeutic options. Serine protease inhibitor Kazal type 5 (SPINK5) is implicated as a tumor suppressor in head and neck cancers, yet its role in laryngeal cancer progression and metabolic reprogramming remains unclear. This study aimed to define SPINK5's function and molecular mechanism in laryngeal cancer progression.Analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data and immunohistochemistry was conducted to investigate the expression level of SPINK family members in laryngeal cancer tissues compared to adjacent non-tumorous tissues. Besides, western blotting, CCK-8, colony formation, and migration assay were used to investigate the expression of SPINK5, Glucose Transporter 1 (GLUT1), and Hexokinase II (HK-II), and growth and migration capacities of laryngeal cancer cells. While glucose uptake and lactate secretion detection were conducted to measure the glycolysis level of laryngeal cancer cells. And differences among groups were analyzed using Student's t-test or one-way analysis of variance.The downregulation of SPINK5 was observed in laryngeal cancer tissues compared to adjacent non-tumorous tissues. SPINK5 acted as a tumor suppressor, inhibiting laryngeal cancer cell growth and migration. Mechanistically, SPINK5 knockdown promoted glycolysis through GLUT1 and HK-II upregulation. Notably, SPINK5 could interact with kallikrein-related peptidase 6 (KLK6). SPINK5 knockdown enhanced the activity of KLK6 and the activation of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway in laryngeal cancer cells. Critically, silencing KLK6 reversed the oncogenic effects induced by SPINK5 knockdown, including PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway activation, enhanced glycolysis, and accelerated cell growth and migration.These findings identify a novel SPINK5-KLK6-glycolysis regulatory axis driving laryngeal cancer progression. Our results highlight SPINK5 as a tumor suppressor gene for laryngeal cancer progression, providing new insights into its molecular pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hepcidin is the central regulator of iron homeostasis, controlling iron sequestration and dietary iron absorption. Transmembrane serine protease 6 (TMPRSS6) suppresses hepcidin via the bone morphogenetic protein/small mothers against decapentaplegic (BMP/SMAD) pathway by cleaving the co-receptor hemojuvelin. DISC-3405 is a novel humanized monoclonal antibody that enhances hepcidin expression by inhibiting TMPRSS6, thereby promoting iron restriction. This Phase 1 study evaluated the safety/tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK), pharmacodynamics (PD), and immunogenicity of DISC-3405 or placebo in 56 healthy participants. DISC-3405 (37.5 to 300 mg) or placebo was administered subcutaneously (SC) or intravenously (IV). DISC-3405 was well tolerated. No deaths, serious adverse events, or participant discontinuations occurred. Most treatment-emergent adverse events were Grade 1 (mild) in severity, with 2 participants reporting Grade 2 (moderate) events following single dosing and no Grade 3/4 (severe/life-threatening) events reported. Median time to maximum plasma concentration was ≈96 to 168 h. Elimination half-life rose from 130 h at 37.5 mg to 265 h at 300 mg, with a clinically relevant half-life of ≈11 days. Absolute bioavailability was 39.7% (75 mg SC vs. IV). Minor accumulation occurred with repeat 4-week dosing of two doses, and PK was greater than dose proportional. DISC-3405 increased hepcidin-25 and reduced serum iron and transferrin saturation across dose levels. Single and repeated dosing of DISC-3405 produced reductions in reticulocyte hemoglobin, hemoglobin, and hematocrit. Overall, DISC-3405 was well tolerated with PK/PD data supporting further development for patients who could benefit from iron restriction, such as those with polycythemia vera.© 2026 American College of Clinical Pharmacology.
Prostate cancer (PCa) metastasis is reliant on the activity of proteases, such as matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2). While increased extracellular heat shock protein 90α (eHSP90α) has been linked to increased MMP-2 activity, this has not been examined in the context of cellular stress. We examined stress-induced eHSP90α in human prostate cell lines by immunoblot. Fluorometric gelatin dequenching and zymography assays measured MMP activity. Wound healing and Matrigel drop invasion assays were used to quantify cell motility. HSP90α knockout (KO) cells were established with CRISPR/Cas9. Proteases were profiled with molecular inhibitors and protein arrays and validated by siRNA knockdown, immunoblot, and motility assays. Stress increased eHSP90 in four out of four human prostate cell lines examined. Surprisingly, it concurrently decreased MMP-2 activity. The functional relevance of this was demonstrated when conditioned media from stressed cells decreased the motility of non-stressed cells. Screening for protease inhibitors that would rescue stress-induced decreases in MMP-2 activity identified a single serine protease inhibitor: aprotinin. Yet rescue with aprotinin was lost in HSP90α KO cells. A protease array identified stress-induced increases in kallikrein-related peptidase 6 (KLK6). Knockdown of KLK6 rescued stress-induced MMP-2 activity and cell motility. In conclusion, we identify a novel stress-induced extracellular network that regulates MMP-2 activity and cell motility. We identified KLK6 as a stress-induced extracellular protease leading to decreased MMP-2 activity and cellular invasion, while eHSP90α is required for the rescue of MMP-2 activity once KLK6 is neutralized.
Prostate cancer (PCa) metastasis is reliant on the activity of proteases, such as matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2). While increased extracellular heat shock protein 90α (eHSP90α) has been linked to increased MMP-2 activity, this has not been examined in the context of cellular stress.We examined stress-induced eHSP90α in human prostate cell lines by immunoblot. Fluorometric gelatin dequenching and zymography assays measured MMP activity. Wound healing and Matrigel drop invasion assays were used to quantify cell motility. HSP90α knockout (KO) cells were established with CRISPR/Cas9. Proteases were profiled with molecular inhibitors and protein arrays and validated by siRNA knockdown, immunoblot, and motility assays.Stress increased eHSP90 in 4 of 4 human prostate cell lines examined. Surprisingly, it concurrently decreased MMP-2 activity. The functional relevance of this was demonstrated when conditioned media from stressed cells decreased the motility of non-stressed cells. Screening for protease inhibitors that would rescue stress-induced decreases in MMP-2 activity identified a single serine protease inhibitor: aprotinin. Yet, rescue with aprotinin was lost in HSP90α KO cells. A protease array identified stress-induced increases in kallikrein-related peptidase 6 (KLK6). Knockdown of KLK6 rescued stress-induced MMP-2 activity and cell motility.We identify a novel stress-induced extracellular network that regulates MMP-2 activity and cell motility. We identified KLK6 as a stress-induced extracellular protease leading to decreased MMP-2 activity and cellular invasion, while eHSP90α is required for the rescue of MMP-2 activity once KLK6 is neutralized.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41446860 is a review article
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality. Protein succinylation, a key post-translational modification, is implicated in tumor progression. However, its comprehensive landscape and clinical significance in LUAD remain largely unexplored.We integrated multi-omics data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) cohorts. A set of core succinylation-related genes was identified through differential expression and univariable Cox regression analyses. Molecular subtypes based on succinylation were determined by principal component analysis (PCA). A succinylation prognostic model was constructed via least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) and multivariable Cox regression. The differences of tumor microenvironment (TME), tumor mutation burden and drug sensitivity in different risk groups were further explored. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and spatial transcriptomics revealed effects of succinylation on TME. High-dimensional weighted gene co-expression networks analysis (hdWGCNA) was used to identify potential succinylation-related therapeutic targets. The function of therapeutic targets was further validated through scRNA-seq, spatial transcriptomics, and in vitro experiments.We identified 31 core succinylation-related genes and defined three molecular subtypes with distinct prognostic and TME characteristics. A robust 7-gene succinylation-based prognostic signature was developed and validated across 7 independent GEO cohorts, effectively stratifying patients into high- and low-risk groups with significant differences in survival, demonstrating high predictive accuracy, consistency, and clinical utility. The low-risk group exhibited an immunoreactive TME with enhanced immune cell infiltration and superior response to immunotherapy. scRNA-seq and spatial transcriptomics revealed enhanced succinylation in LUAD. Kallikrein-related peptidase 6 (KLK6) was identified as a potential therapeutic target. KLK6 was significantly upregulated in LUAD, correlated with poor prognosis and therapy resistance. KLK6 promoted global succinylation, proliferation, migration, and invasion of LUAD cells in vitro. Mechanistically, KLK6-positive tumor cells might foster an immunosuppressive TME by driving fibroblast-to-myofibroblast differentiation, enhancing extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition, and inhibiting CD8+ T cell infiltration.Our study delineates the succinylation landscape in LUAD, establishes a novel prognostic model for risk stratification and immunotherapy prediction. Meanwhile, we identified KLK6 as a potential promoter of tumor progression and immunosuppression. Targeting the succinylation pathway, particularly KLK6, may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for LUAD.Copyright © 2025 Liu, Zhu, Zha, Ding, Zhang, Wang, Yan, Kong, Liu and Chen.
Amyloid beta 42 (Aβ42) and amyloid precursor protein inhibitor (APPI) are amyloid precursor protein (APP) domains. As fragments, Aβ42 is neurotoxic and APPI inhibits kallikrein-related peptidase 6 (KLK6). While KLK6-dependent cleavage of APP695 (an APP isoform that lacks APPI) has been shown to result in Aβ production, its proteolytic activity on APPI-containing isoforms (APP751 and APP770) and the molecular function of APPI in APP proteolysis have not been explored. In addressing this knowledge gap, we show that APP695 serves as a KLK6 substrate in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. We also show that APPI, as either a soluble fragment or an APP751 domain, strongly inhibits KLK6 catalytic activity and reduces KLK6-mediated APP695 cleavage in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, the soluble extracellular APPI fragment reduces Aβ42 aggregation and fibril length, thereby favoring the formation of Aβ42 oligomers that cannot permeate into cells and thus significantly reducing apoptosis in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. In a similar way, the expression of both intracellular APPI and Aβ42 (vs. Aβ42 alone) reduces Aβ42 aggregate formation and increases neuronal cell viability. Our results provide an explanation for the presence of alternatively spliced APP isoforms in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and reveal the roles of APPI in APP cleavage and in the formation, aggregation and toxicity of both extra- and intracellular Aβ peptide fragments. Our results suggest that APPI may serve as a dual inhibitor, disrupting both KLK6 proteolytic activity and Aβ42 aggregation, thereby offering a potential therapeutic agent for reducing amyloid beta toxicity in AD.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
β-Thalassemia is a genetic disorder arising from mutations in the β-globin gene, leading to ineffective erythropoiesis and iron overload. Ineffective erythropoiesis, a hallmark of β-thalassemia, is an important driver of iron overload, which contributes to liver fibrosis, diabetes, and cardiac disease. Iron homeostasis is regulated by the hormone hepcidin; BMP6/hemojuvelin-mediated (BMP6/HJV-mediated) signaling induces hepatic hepcidin expression via SMAD1/5, with transmembrane serine protease 6 (TMPRSS6) being a negative regulator of HJV. Individuals with loss-of-function mutations in the TMPRSS6 gene show increased circulating hepcidin and iron-refractory iron-deficiency anemia, suggesting that blocking TMPRSS6 may be a viable strategy to elevate hepcidin levels in β-thalassemia. We generated a human mAb (REGN7999) that inhibits TMPRSS6. In an Hbbth3/+ mouse model of β-thalassemia, REGN7999 treatment led to significant reductions in liver iron, reduced ineffective erythropoiesis, and showed improvements in RBC health, running distance during forced exercise, and bone density. In a phase I, doubleblind, randomized, placebo-controlled study in healthy human volunteers (NCT05481333), REGN7999 increased serum hepcidin and reduced serum iron with an acceptable tolerability profile. Our results suggest that, by both reducing iron and improving RBC function, inhibition of TMPRSS6 by REGN7999 may offer a therapy for iron overload and impaired erythropoiesis in β-thalassemia.
The human proteome represents a vast, largely untapped source of encrypted bioactive peptides with therapeutic potential. Here, we report the discovery and functional characterization of three antimicrobial encrypted peptides (EPs) derived from human matrix metallopeptidase-19 (residues 1-19, 1-33, and 247-279). These peptides exhibit potent, broad-spectrum activity against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, including clinical isolates and multidrug-resistant strains. Mechanistic studies reveal membrane depolarization and permeabilization as the primary mechanism of action. The peptides also inhibit biofilm formation, eradicate preformed biofilms, and exhibit selective antiviral activity against enveloped viruses. Importantly, they display negligible hemolysis and cytotoxicity toward mammalian cells while modulating inflammation through LPS neutralization. Synergy assays reveal synergistic or additive interactions with last-line antibiotics, and no resistance emerged after serial bacterial passaging. A fully d-amino acid analog of the lead peptide retained activity and exhibited cytocompatibility and in vivo efficacy in a murine skin infection model. These findings underscore the therapeutic promise of human protein-derived encrypted peptides and highlight proteome mining as a viable strategy for identifying host-compatible anti-infectives.© 2025 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Accumulating evidence has implicated matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) in the progression of human cancers. Matrix metallopeptidase 25 (MMP25) is a membrane-type MMP whose role in tumorigenesis and cancer development is not well understood. Here, we investigated the functions of MMP25 in tongue squamous cell carcinoma (TSCC).Gene expression was measured using real-time PCR and western blot. CCK-8 and Transwell assays were used to determine the proliferation, migration, and invasion of TSCC cells. An NK cell co-culture experiment was performed to evaluate the killing of TSCC cells by NK cells.MMP25 had higher expression levels in TSCC tissues than in adjacent non-cancerous tissues. MMP25-overexpressing and MMP25-silenced TSCC cell lines were established by lentiviral transduction. Overexpression of MMP25 promoted proliferation, migration, and invasion of TSCC cells, whereas knockdown of MMP25 had opposite effects. MMP25 modulated the levels of proliferation- and apoptosis-related proteins (PCNA, cyclin D, cyclin B1, p27, and cleaved caspase 3 and 9) and upregulated two invasion-related MMPs (mature MMP2 and MMP9). Additionally, MMP25 promoted tumor growth of TSCC cells in athymic nude mice. Notably, MMP25 upregulated PD-L1 in TSCC cells, attenuated NK cell killing of TSCC cells, and inhibited the secretion of anti-tumor cytokines (TNF-α and IFN-γ). Furthermore, MMP25 promoted the nuclear translocation of NF-κB p65, suggesting that activation of NF-κB signaling may mediate the pro-tumor functions of MMP25 in TSCC.This study revealed a novel role for MMP25 in TSCC, highlighting the potential of MMP25 as a therapeutic target in TSCC.©The Author(s) 2024. Open Access. This article is licensed under a Creative Commons CC-BY International License.
Farnesyl diphosphate synthase (FDPS), an essential enzyme involved in the mevalonate pathway, is implicated in various diseases, including multiple types of cancer. As an RNA-binding protein (RBP), FDPS is also involved in transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation. However, to the best of our knowledge, transcriptome-wide targets of FDPS still remain unknown. In the present study, FDPS expression patterns in pan-cancer were analyzed. In addition, it was investigated how FDPS overexpression (FDPS-OE) regulates the transcriptome in HeLa cells. FDPS-OE increased the proliferation rate in HeLa cells by MTT assay. Using transcriptome-wide high throughput sequencing and bioinformatics analysis, it was found that FDPS upregulated the expression levels of genes enriched in cell proliferation and extracellular matrix organization, including the laminin subunit γ2, interferon-induced proteins with tetratricopeptide repeats 2 and matrix metallopeptidase 19 genes. According to alternative splicing (AS) analysis, FDPS modulated the splicing patterns of the bone morphogenic protein 1, semaphorin 4D, annexin A2 and sirtuin 2 genes, which are enriched in the cell cycle and DNA repair, and are related to cell proliferation. To corroborate the FDPS-regulated transcriptome findings, FDPS was overexpressed in human osteosarcoma cells. Differentially expressed genes and regulated AS genes in the cells were both validated by reverse transcription-quantitative PCR. The results suggested that, as an emerging RBP, FDPS may serve an important role in transcriptome profiles by altering gene expression and regulating AS. FDPS also affected the cell proliferation rate. These findings broaden the understanding of the molecular functions of FDPS, and the potential of FDPS as a target in therapy should be investigated.Copyright: © Wang et al.
Serpin Peptidase Inhibitor 1 (SERPINE1) promotes cancer progression by making it easier for cancer cells to spread to surrounding normal tissue. We expect to understand the prognostic value and regulatory network of SERPINE1 in colon cancer using bioinformatics methods.The expression of target gene SERPINE1 in varying cancers was analyzed by the Tumor Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER) database. SERPINE1 expression in Colon Adenocarcinoma and normal tissue samples was assessed by starBase and UALCAN databases. SERPINE1 expression in clinical tissues was assayed using quantitative reverse transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (qRT-PCR). SERPINE1 expression was detected in colon cancer patients with various clinical features (age, gender, nodal metastasis status, race, stages, and subtype) using analysis of variance. Survival curve was used to analyze the effect of high and low expression of SERPINE1 on the survival time of patients with different clinical phenotypes. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) was conducted on the results of LinkFinder calculation using LinkInterpreter module, which was combined with Pearson correlation analysis to obtain the kinase targets and miRNA targets, transcription factor targets, and corresponding signaling pathways associated with SERPINE1. The Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) were performed on GSEA result. Finally, Gene Multiple Association Network Integration Algorithm (GeneMANIA) was utilized to establish a network of genes related to the kinases MAPK1, miR-18a, and SRF_Q, and biological functions were analyzed.Based on TIMER, starBase, and UALCAN databases, SERPINE1 was found to be remarkably highly expressed in colon cancer patients, which was further verified by clinical tissue. It was also associated with different clinical features (nodal metastasis status, stages, subtypes). Additionally, survival analysis showed that patients with low expression of SERPINE1 had a longer survival time, suggesting that SERPINE1 was a prognostic risk factor for colon cancer. Pearson correlation analysis revealed that the expression of Integrin Alpha 5 (ITGA5), Matrix Metallopeptidase 19 (MMP19), and ADAM Metallopeptidase with Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif, 4 (ADAMTS4) had the highest correlation with that of SERPINE1. The GSEA results indicated that these genes were mainly enriched in the pathways of RNA expression and kinases. Finally, GeneMANIA analysis was introduced to construct the molecular network of SERPINE1.Overall, our bioinformatics analyses comprehensively described the networks involved SERPINE1 in colon cancer and the potentially associated molecular mechanisms.© 2023. The Author(s).
Background: Most patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) have poor prognosis; Effective predictive models for these patients are currently lacking. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) often occurs during idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis development, and is closely related to multiple pathways and biological processes. It is thus necessary for clinicians to find prognostic biomarkers with high accuracy and specificity from the perspective of Epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Methods: Data were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. Using consensus clustering, patients were grouped based on Epithelial-mesenchymal transition-related genes. Next, functional enrichment analysis was performed on the results of consensus clustering using gene set variation analysis. The gene modules associated with Epithelial-mesenchymal transition were obtained through weighted gene co-expression network analysis. Prognosis-related genes were screened via least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression analysis. The model was then evaluated and validated using survival analysis and time-dependent receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. Results: A total of 239 Epithelial-mesenchymal transition-related genes were obtained from patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Six genes with strong prognostic associations (C-X-C chemokine receptor type 7 [CXCR7], heparan sulfate-glucosamine 3-sulfotransferase 1 [HS3ST1], matrix metallopeptidase 25 [MMP25], murine retrovirus integration site 1 [MRVI1], transmembrane four L6 family member 1 [TM4SF1], and tyrosylprotein sulfotransferase 1 [TPST1]) were identified via least absolute shrinkage and selection operator and Cox regression analyses. A prognostic model was then constructed based on the selected genes. Survival analysis showed that patients with high-risk scores had worse prognosis based on the training set [hazard ratio (HR) = 7.31, p < .001] and validation set (HR = 2.85, p = .017). The time-dependent receiver operating characteristic analysis showed that the area under the curve (AUC) values in the training set were .872, .905, and .868 for 1-, 2-, and 3-year overall survival rates, respectively. Moreover, the area under the curve values in the validation set were .814, .814, and .808 for 1-, 2-, and 3-year overall survival rates, respectively. Conclusion: The independent prognostic model constructed from six Epithelial-mesenchymal transition-related genes provides bioinformatics guidance to identify additional prognostic markers for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis in the future.Copyright © 2023 Zhao, Wang, Fan, Liu and Zhang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42206027 is a review article
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is characterized by parenchymal scarring reflecting an imbalance between collagen deposition by myofibroblasts (MFs) and its turnover. Although collagen clearance is essential for fibrosis resolution, this process and its potential for therapeutic modulation in IPF are poorly understood. Here we evaluated internalization of degraded collagen and the role of its requisite endocytic receptor mannose receptor C-type 2 (MRC2), in lung tissue and MFs from patients with IPF and bleomycin-injured mice. Fibrotic human and murine lung tissue exhibited an accumulation of degraded collagen, highlighting a failure of its clearance. MFs from fibrotic lung demonstrated a reduced capacity to internalize extracellular degraded collagen, with a concomitant reduction in MRC2 expression and endolysosomal activity. Both diminished collagen uptake and MRC2 expression recovered to baseline levels during spontaneous resolution of bleomycin fibrosis. In vitro treatment of IPF or TGF-β-elicited MFs with a variety of mechanistically distinct agents known to effect phenotypic dedifferentiation restored defective collagen internalization. Although enhanced uptake was MRC2 dependent, it involved increased endolysosomal activity rather than increased MRC2 expression. These results implicate defective MRC2-dependent collagen internalization and endolysosomal function in MFs as important factors contributing to fibrosis that may be therapeutically targeted to promote resolution.
Mannose receptor C type 2 (MRC2) is highly expressed in the lung and is the major endocytic receptor for the internalization and degradation of collagen in mesenchymal cells. Using Mrc2 knockout (KO) mice, we previously showed that MRC2 is required for efficient clearance of collagen in bleomycin-induced fibrosis. However, MRC2 also interacts with various cell-surface receptors and ligands beyond collagens, indicating that MRC2 may have additional, previously unrecognized functions in fibroblasts. To uncover novel pathways regulated by MRC2, we took an unbiased approach to compare the transcriptomic profile of MRC2-deficient lung fibroblasts to WT after in vitro culture. RNA-seq analysis revealed upregulation of the expression of several extracellular matrix genes but unexpectedly showed changes in expression of several cell cycle genes, including that encoding Forkhead box M1 (FOXM1), a key regulator of cell cycle progression, and enrichment of pathways involved in mitosis and cell division. Both in vitro and in vivo functional assays demonstrated that a greater proportion of MRC2-deficient lung stromal cells progress through the cell cycle more rapidly than WT cells, thereby accelerating overall proliferation. Inhibitor experiments showed that actively proliferating Mrc2 KO fibroblasts are more reliant on FOXM1 activity compared with WT cells, suggesting that FOXM1 is a critical mediator in fibroblast proliferation in the absence of MRC2. Our findings point to an unexpected role for this endocytic receptor in the regulation of lung stromal cell proliferation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Thoracic Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
The mechanisms underlying metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) remain incompletely understood, and macrophage-associated chronic inflammation has been suggested to play a role. We investigated the potential contribution of mannose receptor type C 2 (MRC2), a transmembrane glycoprotein, to MASLD development.Wild-type (WT) and Mrc 2-deficient mice were fed a high-fat diet (HFD) for 8 weeks. Mouse primary hepatocytes (MPHs) and bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) were stimulated with or without palmitic acid (PA) to assess the role of MRC2 in MASLD development.MRC2 levels were significantly elevated in patients with MASLD (n = 216, p <0.0001) and in the livers of HFD-fed WT mice (n = 6-8, p <0.01), correlating with disease severity. Mrc 2-null mice exhibited reduced HFD-induced weight gain and steatosis compared with WT mice (n = 6-8). MRC2 was predominantly expressed in hepatic macrophages, and conditioned medium from WT BMDMs enhanced PA-induced steatosis in MPHs (n = 6, p <0.0001). This effect was absent when conditioned medium from Mrc 2-deficient BMDMs was used or when TNF-α-neutralizing antibodies or TNF receptor antagonists were added. Macrophage-specific Mrc2 deficiency also reduced MASLD severity in HFD-fed mice (n = 6). Mechanistically, disruption of the MRC2-CD147 complex impaired CD147-mediated NF-κB signaling and reduced TNF-α release from BMDMs, thereby decreasing steatosis in co-cultured MPHs.Macrophage MRC2 promotes HFD-induced hepatic steatosis via the MRC2-CD147 complex, revealing a novel mechanism contributing to MASLD progression.This study identifies the critical role of MRC2 in the development of high-fat diet-induced metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease, providing a mechanistic understanding of its involvement in macrophage-mediated inflammation. M rc 2 deficiency alleviates hepatic inflammation and lipid accumulation by downregulating CD147-regulated TNF-α production in macrophages. The findings are particularly significant for researchers and clinicians focused on liver diseases, as they reveal a novel target - the macrophage MRC2-CD147 complex - for potential therapeutic intervention.© 2025 Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of European Association for the Study of the Liver (EASL).
Obesity is caused by excessive storage of adipose tissue and leads to metabolic disorders. Uridine exerts modulatory effects on lipid metabolism, but the regulatory mechanism in obesity needs further research.In this study, the effects of uridine supplementation on lipid metabolism were investigated in high-fat diet-induced obese mice. Mice aged at 8 weeks were randomly grouped to receive a control diet (CON, n = 10) or a high-fat diet (HF, n = 24). After 6 weeks of feeding, the HF group was further divided, with half receiving 0.4 mg/mL uridine supplementation in drinking water (HUR, n = 12) for an additional 4 weeks, while the remaining HF mice continued without intervention.The results showed that the uridine supplement reduced the liver weight and intra-abdominal white adipose tissue weight in obese mice (p < 0.05). Treatment with uridine and free fatty acid resulted in a significant increase in late and total apoptosis, accompanied by a decrease in early apoptosis of mouse liver organoids (p < 0.05). Moreover, uridine lowered serum levels of triglycerides (TG), total cholesterol (TC), high-density lipoprotein (HDL), leptin, and liver TG content (p < 0.05). In obese mice fed with uridine, the expression of key genes involved in lipid transport [activated fatty acid translocase/cd36 (Fat/cd36) and low-density lipid receptor (Ldlr)], pyrimidine de novo synthesis [dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (Dhodh)], pyrimidine metabolism [uridine phosphorylase 2 (Upp2), ribonucleoside-diphosphate reductase subunit M2 (Rrm2), and thymidine kinase 1 (Tk1)] was improved (p < 0.05). Furthermore, liver metabolomic analysis identified 37 differential metabolites between the HF and HUR groups, primarily enriched in arachidonic acid metabolism and α-linolenic acid metabolism.These findings indicated that uridine supplementation can improve lipid metabolism in obese mice by regulating hepatic gene expression and metabolic pathways.Copyright © 2025 Liu, Zhang, Yang and Xie.
Leukemic stem cells (LSC) are well recognized for their essential roles in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) initiation and relapse. LSC can be distinguished from non-LSC AML cells by the expression of specific cell surface markers, but there is considerable phenotypic heterogeneity among LSC in AML. Here, using primary patient samples, we report that mannose receptor C-type 2 (MRC2) can be used to enrich for LSC across various AML subtypes. When compared to MRC2- AML cells isolated from the same patient samples, MRC2+ leukemic subpopulations show increased in vitro clonogenic capacity, a stemness transcriptomic signature, and enhanced leukemic capacity in mouse xenograft models. Further, we find that MRC2 is functional on AML cells, and enables their robust uptake of collagen, which supports their glycolytic metabolism. In sum these data highlight the use of functional surface markers to distinguish LSC in AML, and how they can yield insight into their unique characteristics.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
A recent study identified a rare variant in the mannose receptor C type 2 (MRC2) gene in individuals with familial reentrant supraventricular tachycardia, a Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) electrocardiogram pattern, and structurally normal hearts. WPW syndrome is associated with atrial fibrillation (AF), and MRC2 was recently proposed as a protective gene for AF. We determined whether the E990G-heterozygous (het) loss-of-function variant in Mrc2 increases AF susceptibility and identified aberrant cellular mechanisms resulting from Mrc2 deficiency in atrial cardiofibroblasts (ACFs) and atrial tissue in mice that may promote AF. Programmed electrical stimulation was performed to determine AF susceptibility in Mrc2 E990G-het mice and wild-type (WT) controls. ACFs were isolated from these mice and cultured, and transcriptomic profiling by RNA sequencing and secretomic/proteomic profiling by mass spectrometry were performed on ACFs and whole atrial tissue. E990G-het mice exhibited increased susceptibility to pacing-induced AF and had decreased atrioventricular effective refractory periods compared with WT controls. Transcriptomic, secretomic, and proteomic profiling of cultured ACFs and whole atrial tissue revealed differential expression of several fibrotic regulators in E990G-het versus WT mice, including decreased ACF expression of matrix metalloproteinase 13, which degrades collagen types I, II, and III; decreased ACF expression and secretion of matrix metalloproteinase 12, which degrades collagen types I, III, IV, elastin, and fibronectin; and increased tissue levels of cellular communication network factor 2/connective tissue growth factor, a profibrotic regulator. In conclusion, Mrc2 E990G-het mice exhibit increased AF susceptibility and differentially regulated fibrotic genes and proteins.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Our study reveals a rare MRC2 gene variant (E990G) linked to familial supraventricular tachycardia and Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome increases atrial fibrillation (AF) susceptibility in mice. The E990G-heterozygous variant disrupts atrial cardiofibroblast function, reducing protective matrix metalloproteinases (MMP-12 and MMP-13) and elevating profibrotic CCN2/CTGF levels, as shown through transcriptomic and proteomic profiling. This suggests that MRC2 deficiency promotes AF by altering fibrotic regulation in atrial tissue.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511983 is a review article
The progression from diabetes mellitus (DM) to diabetic retinopathy (DR) represents a dynamic pathological process in which vascular and metabolic alterations gradually lead to retinal damage. Understanding the molecular changes during this transition is critical for timely identification and intervention.We performed DIA-based proteomics and untargeted metabolomics on longitudinal paired plasma samples from 15 DM patients who developed DR during 1-2 years. Differential expression, pathway enrichment, and protein-metabolite correlation analyses were performed. Key proteins were validated by ELISA in an independent cohort of 22 DM patients without DR and 22 NPDR patients, and their predictive performance for DR progression was assessed using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis.Proteomic analysis identified 57 differentially expressed proteins enriched in energy metabolism, detoxification, and cellular defense responses. Metabolomic profiling revealed 168 differential metabolites, primarily involved in taurine and hypotaurine metabolism, neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction, and tyrosine metabolism. Integrated proteomic-metabolomic analysis revealed significant correlations between proteins and metabolites. Eight candidate proteins were validated by ELISA, including three previously reported in DR (Annexin A1 (ANXA1), Glutathione Peroxidase 1 (GPX1), Glutathione S-transferase Mu 1 (GSTM1)) and five newly identified candidates (Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 18 family member A1 (ALDH18A1), Galactose-1-Phosphate Uridylyltransferase (GALT), Proteoglycan 2 (PRG2), Ubiquitin-activating Enzyme E1 (UBA1), Glucagon (GCG)). ROC analysis demonstrated strong discriminative performance for these proteins, with area under the curve (AUC) values ranging from 0.853 to 0.945.Our study reveals coordinated alterations in plasma proteins and metabolites during the progression from DM to DR. Integrated multi-omics analysis identified five novel candidate biomarkers, which may serve as potential targets for early detection and risk stratification of DR.Copyright © 2026 Zhao, Cao, Chai, Xie, Gu, Zhang, Niu, Liu and Lei.
Alcohol-associated liver disease (ALD) is a major cause of liver-related morbidity and mortality worldwide. Ursolic acid (UA), a plant-derived pentacyclic triterpenoid, has been reported to exert protective effects against ALD; however, its molecular targets remain unclear. This study aimed to identify the potential targets and underlying mechanisms of UA in ALD. C57BL/6N mice were fed a Lieber-DeCarli liquid alcohol diet to establish an ALD model and were administered UA by gavage. We found that UA treatment alleviated hepatic steatosis in both ALD mice and ethanol-exposed AML-12 hepatocytes, accompanied by normalization of lipid metabolism-related gene expression. UA also exerted hepatoprotective effects by attenuating alcohol-induced liver injury and inflammation, while rebalancing ethanol metabolism and antioxidant defense, particularly through increasing the activity of glutathione S-transferases. Mechanistically, UA selectively upregulated glutathione S transferase mu 1 (GSTM1) at both the transcriptional and protein levels compared with other GST isoforms. In vitro, UA increased GSTM1 expression, whereas GSTM1 silencing abolished the protective effects of UA against intracellular lipid accumulation, dysregulation of lipid metabolism-related genes, and inflammatory responses in ethanol-exposed hepatocytes, indicating that GSTM1 is a key mediator of UA action. In addition, UA reduced alcohol-induced phosphorylation of apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 (ASK1) and its downstream effectors c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38. Pharmacological inhibition of ASK1 reversed the exacerbated intracellular lipid accumulation caused by GSTM1 knockdown during ethanol exposure. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that UA alleviates ALD by upregulating GSTM1 and inhibiting the ASK1-JNK/p38 pathway, thereby identifying GSTM1 as a promising therapeutic target in ALD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The Glutathione S-Transferase (GST) family consists of enzymes with widely studied genetic polymorphisms. Current documentation of GST variant distribution across Venezuelan regions is fragmented. This study aims to determine the prevalence of GSTM1 and GSTT1 null genotypes in a healthy urban Venezuelan group and to compare these frequencies with regional and global reference data.A cross-sectional descriptive study was conducted on 300 healthy unrelated individuals. Genotyping was performed via multiplex PCR, and frequencies were calculated based on the presence or absence of specific amplicons.The frequencies of the GSTM1 and GSTT1 null genotypes were 38.67% and 32.67%, respectively. The "double null" genotype was observed in 6.00% of the sample, representing a relevant ethnogeographic heterogeneity.Comparative analysis revealed a divergence from reported data for ancestral Amerindian groups and an allelic distribution pattern reflecting a tri-hybrid genetic architecture intermediate between West African and Southern European references. These findings establish an updated genetic baseline for this urban cohort, highlighting a distinct genotypic distribution within the Venezuelan population. This study underscores the degree of population stratification in the region and provides a descriptive framework for future toxicogenomic research and personalized medicine applications.Copyright © 2026 Fernández-Mestre, Salazar-Alcalá, De Sanctis, Moreno, Garmendia, Regalado-Gutiérrez and Peña.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41793109 is a review article
Elevated cholesterol ester levels have been observed in the CNS of patients with neurological diseases; yet, the source of cholesterol ester accumulation and whether it is directly linked to demyelination remain undefined. This study investigates the temporal dynamics of cholesterol esters using the Plp1-iCKO-Myrf mouse model, which features distinct phases of demyelination and remyelination. Our findings reveal that cholesterol ester levels increased with demyelination in both the brain and spinal cord. In the brain, cholesterol esters declined to normal levels during remyelination, whereas cholesterol esters remained elevated in the spinal cord, which had limited remyelination. Expression of acetyl-CoA-acyltransferase 1 (ACAT1) and lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT) were elevated during demyelination, implying the potential involvement of both proteins in the formation of cholesterol esters. Colocalization studies revealed that ACAT1 is predominantly expressed by microglia and LCAT is predominantly expressed by astrocytes during demyelination, highlighting the active roles of glial cells in cholesterol ester metabolism. In addition, we showed that administering the remyelinating drug, Sob-AM2, effectively reduced the level of cholesterol ester accumulation in the brain during demyelination, underscoring the potential that manipulating cholesterol ester regulatory pathways may offer for restoring cholesterol homeostasis and promoting remyelination in demyelinating diseases.
Acetyl-CoA acyltransferase 1 (ACAA1), encoding the peroxisomal 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase (POT1), plays a pivotal role in the fatty acid beta-oxidation pathway. Accumulating evidence has linked this enzyme to the onset and development of diverse human malignancies. Here, we observed a marked downregulation of ACAA1 in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC), which displayed an inverse correlation with the expression genes coded by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis highlighted the potential of ACAA1 as a valuable diagnostic and prognostic biomarker for NPC. Next, gain-of- function experiments were conducted, and the results vividly illustrated that overexpression of ACAA1 potently impeded the proliferation, migration, and invasion of NPC cells. The inhibitory effect was further verified by the reduced Ki-67 staining intensity and the altered distribution pattern of actin filaments, which are crucial indicators of cell proliferation and motility. Gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses revealed significant enrichment of immune-related pathways in NPC cells with elevated ACAA1 expression. Moreover, comprehensive xCell, ESTIMATE, and Immunophenoscore analyses underscored the positive association between ACAA1 and immune cell infiltration and the tumor immune effective microenvironment in NPC. Especially, a positive correlation between ACAA1 expression in tumor cells and six immune checkpoint-related genes, namely CD27, PDCD1, CD86, BTLA, TIGIT, and CD28, on immune cells within the tumor microenvironment. Collectively, our findings highlight the potential of ACAA1 as a tumor - suppressor gene and suggest its possible involvement in the immune evasion mechanisms of NPC. This study may provide novel insights into the molecular pathogenesis of NPC and offer new therapeutic targets for this malignancy.© 2025 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.
It is suggested that bladder cancer (BC) development is linked to glutathione S-transferase (GST) enzymes. This study aimed to determine the correlation between glutathione S-transferase Mu 1 (GSTM1), glutathione S-transferase Theta 1 (GSTT1), and N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2) variants with BC progression and recurrence rating.This study included 105 Bosnian and Herzegovinian subjects: 60 patients with histopathologically confirmed BC and 45 controls without urological diseases. GSTM1, GSTT1 (rs36631 and rs17856199, respectively), and NAT2 (rs1799929, rs1799930, and rs1799931) were investigated.Both one- and five-year probabilities of progression were not significantly different in GSTM1 and NAT2 polymorphisms. One-year probability of progression was significantly higher in the GSTT1 T-- (null) than the T++ (wildtype) genotype (14.7% (±6.9) vs. 8.9% (±6.7), respectively; p=0.048). Five-year probability of progression was significantly higher in the GSTT1 T-- than the T++ genotype (39.4% (±14.7) vs. 25.5% (±16.6), respectively; p=0.045). THE GSTT1 T-- genotype was an independent predictor in the one-year probability of recurrence and progression (p=0.03 and p=0.01, respectively). GSTT1 T-- genotype and age were independent predictors for the five-year probability of recurrence (p=0.032 and p=0.04, respectively) as well as independent predictors of the five-year probability of progression (p=0.012 and p=0.03, respectively).The GSTT1 T-- genotype was an independent predictor in the one- and five-year probabilities of both recurrence and progression of BC. GSTT1 rs17856199 may be a significant factor in the development of tumors and the course of disease in Bosnian and Herzegovinian BC patients.Copyright © 2025, Hadziosmanovic et al.
Lazertinib, a potent and irreversible third-generation oral epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), has shown promising efficacy and favorable tolerability in EGFR-mutated non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). On the basis of in vitro findings, lazertinib is primarily metabolized by glutathione conjugation via glutathione-S-transferase mu 1 (GSTM1), occurring via enzymatic activity of GST or non-enzymatic processes, as well as through cytochrome P450 3A4. Here, we report the effect of GSTM1 on lazertinib pharmacokinetics (PK) using clinical evaluations.The effect of GSTM1 on lazertinib PK was evaluated in multiple phase 1 pharmacology studies. Clinical studies (NCT03556436, NCT04410081, and NCT05076877) involving healthy adult participants given lazertinib were analyzed on the basis of GSTM1 genotype (null [i.e., no expression] or non-null [i.e., expression]).In a clinical study where participants were genotyped and analyzed to determine the association of lazertinib plasma maximum concentration (Cmax) and area under curve (AUC) with a panel of genes known to affect PK, GSTM1 genotype showed a statistically significant association with AUC. Compared with null GSTM1 participants, non-null GSTM1 participants had relatively lower plasma exposure owing to increased GSTM1-mediated clearance. The mean single-dose and steady-state plasma Cmax and AUC of lazertinib was 1.1- to 1.8-fold and 1.4- to 2.2-fold higher in null GSTM1 participants, respectively. The safety profiles of lazertinib were generally comparable across null and non-null GSTM1 participants.Overall, GSTM1 status affected lazertinib PK in healthy participants and hence further research is warranted to determine the magnitude of PK differences and whether they are clinically meaningful in the NSCLC patient population intended to be treated with lazertinib.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Acetaminophen (APAP) overdose is a leading cause of drug-induced liver injury (DILI), and glutathione S-transferase mu 1 (GSTM1), a phase II enzyme involved in drug metabolism and detoxification, is associated with DILI incidence. However, the role of hepatic GSTM1 in APAP-induced liver injury is not fully understood. This study aimed to explore the role of hepatic GSTM1 in APAP-induced hepatotoxicity. A mouse model of APAP-induced liver injury was employed, and liver-specific GSTM1 and/or miR-743a-3p silencing was achieved via adeno-associated virus-8 (AAV8)-mediated RNA delivery. Our data showed that GSTM1 expression was significantly downregulated in APAP-treated mice. APAP induced miR-743a-3p upregulation, which directly suppressed GSTM1 expression, exacerbating liver injury, oxidative damage, and inflammation. Liver-specific miR-743a-3p knockdown rescued GSTM1 knockdown and mitigated liver injury. Mechanistically, GSTM1 interacted with Sp1 and promoted its S-glutathionylation. Loss of GSTM1 decreased Sp1 S-glutathionylation, impairing its nuclear translocation and transcriptional activity, which interfered with sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) expression. Activation of SIRT1 significantly alleviated GSTM1 knockdown-induced liver injury. Our findings suggest that miR-743a-3p-mediated GSTM1 silencing exacerbates APAP-induced liver injury through disruption of the GSTM1-Sp1-SIRT1 axis.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hirschsprung's disease (HSCR) is an enteric nervous system birth defect partially caused by a genetic disorder. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the cytochrome P450 family 2 subfamily B member 6 (CYP2B6) gene are reported to be associated with HSCR.We evaluated the association of rs2054675, rs707265, and rs1042389 with HSCR susceptibility in southern Chinese children including 1470 HSCR patients and 1473 controls using the TaqMan SNP Genotyping Assay.rs2054675 C allele and the rs707265 G allele were risk SNPs for total colonic aganglionosis (OR = 1.82, 95% CI 1.29 ~ 2.55, P_adj < 0.001 and OR = 0.68, 95% CI 0.48 ~ 0.97, P_adj = 0.034). These results suggested that CYP2B6 rs2054675 and rs707265 polymorphisms were associated with increased susceptibility to the severe HSCR subtype in southern Chinese children.We suggest that CYP2B6 rs2054675 and rs707265 polymorphisms are associated with increased susceptibility to the severe HSCR subtype in southern Chinese children.© 2021 The Authors. Journal of Clinical Laboratory Analysis published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Liver fibrosis is a pivotal and reversible stage in the progression of chronic liver disease. However, the mechanisms underlying fibrosis reversal remain unclear, and effective diagnostic biomarkers are lacking in clinical practice. In this study, we aimed to elucidate the role and molecular mechanisms of glutathione S-transferase Mu 3 (GSTM3) in liver fibrosis reversal, and preliminarily determine whether GSTM3 can serve as a novel biomarker for liver fibrosis reversal.Carbon tetrachloride-induced mouse models of liver fibrosis and spontaneous reversal were established. Proteomic analysis was used to identify proteins shared between liver tissue and serum that were continuously downregulated during fibrosis reversal. The expression of GSTM3 was evaluated in the livers of mice undergoing fibrosis reversal and in clinical samples from patients with liver fibrosis. Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) were transfected with Gstm3-silencing RNA or an overexpression plasmid to assess the effects on fibrosis markers. RNA sequencing analyses were performed, and the underlying molecular mechanisms were investigated.Proteomic analysis revealed significantly decreased GSTM3 levels in both hepatic tissue and serum in mice undergoing fibrosis reversal, and its expression was negatively correlated with the extent of reversal. GSTM3 levels were markedly increased in the hepatic tissue and serum of patients with liver fibrosis. GSTM3 expression was upregulated in transforming growth factor-β-stimulated HSCs. GSTM3 knockdown inhibited the expression of fibrosis markers, such as collagen type I α1 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1, whereas its overexpression promoted their expression. Mechanistic studies indicated that GSTM3 knockdown activated peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) signaling and downregulated its downstream targets, cluster of differentiation 36 and fatty acid-binding protein 4, thereby suppressing HSC activation.GSTM3 knockdown promotes liver fibrosis reversal via PPARγ signaling-mediated inhibition of HSC activation. Therefore, GSTM3 is a promising therapeutic target and diagnostic biomarker for liver fibrosis.© 2026 Authors.
Polyadenylation is essential for mRNA stability and translational efficiency. Although poly(A) tail length is dynamically regulated under physiological conditions, its dysregulation and functional importance in cancer remain poorly understood. Here, we identify widespread poly(A) tail elongation and aberrant upregulation of poly(A) polymerase alpha (PAPOLA) in acute myeloid leukemia (AML), with high PAPOLA expression associated with poor clinical outcomes. Using primary AML samples, leukemia cell lines and multiple mouse models, we demonstrate that PAPOLA-driven hyperactive polyadenylation promotes leukemogenesis and sustains leukemia stem cell maintenance. Mechanistically, PAPOLA enhances metabolic reprogramming by upregulating glutathione S-transferase mu 2 (GSTM2), which activates the 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE)-dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (DLD) axis to drive AML progression. Notably, pharmacological inhibition of PAPOLA with cordycepin suppresses metabolic reprogramming and impairs leukemogenesis. Overall, our findings establish hyperactive polyadenylation as a core oncogenic mechanism linking RNA processing to cancer metabolism in AML, highlighting the PAPOLA-GSTM2-HNE-DLD axis as a promising therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
The selection of the appropriate energy substrate under different physiological conditions is a key aspect of the energy metabolism homeostasis. We here show that Nos1 (nitric oxide synthase 1)-expressing cells in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVH) serve as a pivotal node for controlling whole-body fat consumption in male mice. Nos1 neurons account for ~30% of PVH neurons that convey signals via polysynaptic pathways to individual peripheral tissues, including skeletal muscle and brown (BAT) and white (WAT) adipose tissues. Activation of these Nos1 neurons in the PVH area induces WAT lipolysis and fat oxidation in other peripheral tissues via the sympathetic nervous system, thereby increasing whole-body fat consumption. Inhibition of these neurons abolishes the increase in fat consumption during the light period, whereas long-term silencing lead to obesity independent of energy intake. These neurons are also necessary for cold-induced thermogenesis in BAT and the rapid increase in fat consumption elicited by food deprivation or other stressors. Nos1 neurons in the PVH area are therefore essential for controlling fat consumption and energy homeostasis.© 2026. The Author(s).
D-ribose-L-cysteine (DRc) has been shown to protect against copper-induced neurotoxicity. However, its potential protective effect against copper-induced testicular toxicity has not been previously investigated. The present study aimed to evaluate the protective efficacy of DRc against copper-induced gonadotoxicity and to elucidate the underlying mechanisms using complementary in vivo and in silico approaches. Male Swiss mice were administered oral treatments of copper sulfate [CuSO4 (100 mg/kg)] and/or DRc (10, 25, and 50 mg/kg) once a day for 28 days. After euthanization, the epididymal sperm were immediately subjected to semen analysis, and the excised testicular tissues were processed for biochemical and histomorphological assays. In parallel, network pharmacology analysis was performed to predict key molecular targets and pathways associated with DRc-mediated gonadoprotection. DRc significantly improved copper-induced reproductive toxicity, as evidenced by improvements in sperm count, motility, viability, morphology, gonadosomatic index, testosterone levels, and testicular histoarchitecture. These protective effects were accompanied by a marked reduction in oxidative stress (decreased levels of MDA and NO, and increased levels of GSH and SOD), inflammation (e.g., decreased IL-6 and TNF-α), and apoptosis (e.g., decreased caspase-3). Network pharmacology analysis identified 19 targets, including caspase-3 (CasP3), X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP), nitric oxide synthase 1 (NOS1), Janus kinase 2 (JAK2), and DNA repair protein (RAD50), suggesting coordinated regulation of oxidative stress, inflammatory, apoptotic, and DNA repair pathways. Taken together, DRc mitigates copper-induced gonadotoxicity through modulation of oxidative-inflammatory, apoptotic, and DNA repair machinery.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Traditional Chinese medicines (TCMs) demonstrate efficacy in hyperlipidemia prevention and treatment, irrespective of their traditional classifications. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying their hypolipidemic activities remain incompletely defined. This study investigates the lipid-lowering effects and associated mechanisms of three clinically applied TCMs: Citrus reticulata Blanco (Citri Reticulatae Pericarpium, CRP), Nelumbo nucifera Gaertn. (Nelumbinis Folium, NF), Alisma orientale (Sam.) Juzep. (Alismatis Rhizoma, AR).To compare the molecular mechanisms underpinning the hypolipidemic activities of these three different TCMs.Hypolipidemic effects were assessed using palmitic acid (PA) and oleic acid (OA)-stimulated HepG2 cells in vitro and a high-fat diet (HFD)-induced hyperlipidemic mouse model in vivo. Aqueous extracts and hydroalcoholic extracts of each TCM were evaluated. Label-free proteome analysis was used to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) related to lipid metabolism in the hyperlipidemic model. DEPs functions were validated via cellular thermal shift assay, overexpression/knockdown experiments, total cholesterol (TC) and triglyceride (TG) analysis.Hydroalcoholic extracts exhibited superior lipid-lowering efficacy compared to aqueous extracts. Proteomic analysis revealed 270 DEPs. Specific targets associated with each TCM's activity were identified: acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, mitochondrial (ACADSB) for CRP; liver carboxylesterase 1 (CES1) for NF; bile acid-CoA: amino acid N-acyltransferase (BAAT) for AR. Shared targets across all three TCMs included glutathione S-transferase Mu 3 (GSTM3), phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, cytosolic [GTP] (PCK1), ornithine aminotransferase, mitochondrial (OAT), and retinol-binding protein 4 (RBP4).CRP, NF, and AR exert hypolipidemic effects through distinct targets (ACADSB, CES1, BAAT, respectively) and shared targets (OAT, GSTM3, PCK1, RBP4), revealing a multi-target regulatory paradigm for TCMs.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is closely associated with accelerated atherosclerosis and cardiovascular complications, yet the hepatic redox-dependent mechanisms linking cholesterol overload to systemic vascular risk remain poorly defined. Glutathione S-transferase mu 3 (GSTM3) is a lipid peroxide-detoxifying enzyme within the hepatic antioxidant defense system, but its role in oxidative stress-induced dyslipidemia and associated atherogenesis is unknown.In this study we integrated GSTM3-interactome profiling, hepatocyte-specific GSTM3 silencing, and in vivo GSTM3 knockdown in hypercholesterolemic Apoe-/- mice to determine if GSTM3 regulates hepatic redox balance, mitochondrial homeostasis, and atherosclerosis progression under cholesterol overload.High-cholesterol feeding induced a biphasic hepatic GSTM3 response followed by depletion during sustained injury, coinciding with heightened steatohepatitis and plaque formation. GSTM3 knockdown in hepatocytes amplified cholesterol-induced oxidative stress, disrupted mitochondrial biogenesis and dynamics, and promoted necroinflammatory cell death. In Apoe-/- mice, hepatic GSTM3 loss markedly worsened glutathione depletion (∼55%, p < 0.0001) and lipid peroxidation (∼2-fold, p < 0.0001), with enhanced fibrogenesis and inflammasome activation. These hepatic alterations were associated with a more atherogenic lipid profile and significantly increased aortic plaque burden (∼24.8%, p < 0.01) compared with hypercholesterolemic controls.Hepatic GSTM3 functions as a redox gatekeeper that preserves mitochondrial integrity and restrains necroinflammation during cholesterol overload. Loss of GSTM3 drives redox-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and systemic oxidative dysregulation, thereby accelerating atherogenesis. These findings identify hepatic redox buffering capacity as a determinant of cardiovascular risk in metabolic disease.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The mammillary body (MB) has traditionally been regarded as a relay station for the hippocampus and plays a pivotal role in the Papez circuit. However, its molecular and cellular organization remains inadequately characterized. This study focuses on the horizontally symmetrically distributed neurotensin (Nts)-expressing and nitric oxide synthase 1 (Nos1)-expressing neurons in the MB, demonstrating that Grik4 (encoding a high-affinity kainate receptor subunit) underlies their distinct electrophysiological properties. Within neural circuits, Nts and Nos1 neurons receive excitatory inputs from the ventral subiculum and send parallel excitatory projections to the dorsomedial and ventrolateral subdivisions of the anteroventral thalamus (AV). These 2 cell type-specific circuits are essential for working memory and exhibit selective activation during the maintenance phase with a marked temporal difference. Together, our findings establish a direct link from molecular identity to circuit architecture and cognitive processing by demonstrating that molecularly distinct Nts and Nos1 neurons constitute differential circuits with convergent inputs, divergent outputs, and dissociable roles in working memory maintenance. This work thus reveals a fundamental cross-scale organizational principle-molecule, cell, circuit, function-within the MB.Copyright © 2026 Yiqing Guo et al.
To study the associations of the serum concentration of NOS1AP (Nitric Oxide Synthase 1 Adaptor Protein) with clinical polymorphism and components of metabolic syndrome (MS) in patients with schizophrenia.111 patients with schizophrenia (F20 according to ICD-10) and 22 healthy volunteers were included in the study. Patients underwent a comprehensive clinical, anthropometric, and laboratory examination. Serum NOS1AP was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Statistical data were processed using Statistica v.12.0 and GraphPad Prism v.8.0. Differences were considered statistically significant at p<0.05.Serum NOS1AP levels in schizophrenia patients were significantly higher than in healthy subjects (p=0.0025). Also, NOS1AP was higher in patients with a predominance of negative symptoms (p=0.0377). In patients with a disease duration of 5 years or more, NOS1AP was significantly higher than in those with less than 5 years (p=0.0162) The type of schizophrenia had no significant effect on NOS1AP levels (p=0.4785). A statistically significant increase in serum NOS1AP levels was observed in patients with concomitant MS compared with those without MS (p=0.0081). In patients with abdominal obesity, serum NOS1AP levels were higher than in those with normal waist circumference (p=0.043). There were no statistically significant differences in NOS1AP levels depending on the presence of hypertension or dyslipidemia.The found patterns suggest a common pathophysiological mechanism mediated by NOS1AP linking psychopathology to metabolic disorders.
Cinnamic acid (CA), the primary bioactive component of cinnamon bark, exhibits therapeutic potential against myocardial injury. This study examined CA's cardioprotective effects in a rat myocardial injury model induced by arsenic trioxide (ATO). CA treatment significantly reduced cardiac enzyme levels and pathological changes versus ATO controls. It decreased Reactive Oxygen Species production, upregulated Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2/Glutathione S-Transferase Mu 2 transcription, enhanced antioxidant activities, and reduced inflammatory markers. Transmission Electron Microscopy demonstrated preserved mitochondrial ultrastructure. Western blot analysis revealed that CA elevated B-cell lymphoma-2 while suppressing pro-apoptotic proteins, and enhanced AMP-activated protein kinase α2 (AMPKα2), phosphorylated AMPKα2 (p-AMPKα2), Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) and Proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator 1α (PGC-1α) expression. Molecular docking confirmed the robust binding affinity of CA toward pathway-associated proteins. These findings indicate CA alleviates ATO-induced myocardial injury through AMPKα2/SIRT1/PGC-1α pathway modulation, suppressing Reactive Oxygen Species, oxidative stress, inflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and apoptosis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Japan Society for Bioscience, Biotechnology, and Agrochemistry.
The pathogenesis of alcohol-associated liver fibrosis remains incompletely understood. Aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (ALDH2) is the primary enzyme responsible for detoxifying ethanol-derived acetaldehyde. Notably, the ALDH2 rs671 variant is carried by approximately 8% of the global population, with a prevalence of 30%-50% in East Asians. This variant reduces ALDH2 enzymatic activity. However, the contribution of impaired ALDH2 function to fibrotic susceptibility and the underlying regulatory molecules remains to be fully elucidated.Blood samples from patients with alcohol-associated liver disease (ALD) were collected for ALDH2 rs671 genotyping, with concurrent assessment of liver stiffness. Global Aldh2 knockout (Aldh2-/ -) and wild-type (WT) mice were treated with ethanol or carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) or a combination of both.Among 80 patients with ALD, those carrying the ALDH2 rs671 variant (n = 34) exhibited comparable liver fibrosis-related indices to ALDH2 wild-type patients (n = 46) despite significantly lower cumulative alcohol intake. Compared with WT mice, Aldh2-/ - mice treated with ethanol and CCl4 showed exacerbated hepatic fibrosis, with transcriptomic analysis revealing predominant enrichment of differentially expressed genes in mitochondrial pathways, accompanied by reduced hepatic mitochondrial size and redox imbalance. Acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 1 (ACSL1) was identified as a candidate molecule associated with fibrotic progression under ALDH2-deficient conditions. ACSL1 expression was downregulated in liver tissue from ethanol plus CCl4-treated Aldh2-/ - mice, coinciding with elevated hepatic long-chain free fatty acids.This study suggests a potential clinical association between the ALDH2 rs671 variant and increased fibrosis susceptibility in patients with ALD, and identifies ACSL1 as a candidate molecule associated with alcohol-associated fibrotic progression under ALDH2-deficient conditions, providing a basis for future mechanistic studies.This study provides clinical evidence suggesting a potential association between the prevalent ALDH2 rs671 variant and increased susceptibility to alcohol-associated liver fibrosis. Mitochondrial alterations may contribute to fibrotic progression in Aldh2-deficient mice exposed to ethanol and CCl4. ACSL1 was identified as a candidate molecule associated with this process. These findings extend the current understanding of mitochondrial and metabolic alterations involved in ALDH2-related alcohol-associated fibrotic injury and provide a basis for future mechanistic studies.Copyright © 2026 Zhang and Gao.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a complex autoimmune disease in which neutrophils, especially the pro-inflammatory low-density neutrophil (LDN) subset, play a central pathogenic role. Yet, the molecular mechanisms that link neutrophil ferroptosis, degranulation, and interferon amplification remain incompletely understood. Through integrative bioinformatics and validation in clinical samples, we identified acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 1 (ACSL1) as a pivotal regulator in SLE. ACSL1 expression was consistently elevated in patient-derived neutrophils, with the highest levels observed in LDNs. Elevated ACSL1 strongly correlated with signatures of ferroptosis, mitochondrial dysfunction, neutrophil degranulation, and type I interferon responses. Single-cell RNA sequencing further revealed ACSL1 enrichment along the trajectory of neutrophil differentiation toward a transcriptional state consistent with pathogenic LDNs, suggesting a potential role in shaping their inflammatory phenotype that warrants further experimental validation. Importantly, molecular docking identified several small-molecule compounds, including the FDA-approved drug fenofibrate, with strong predicted binding to ACSL1. Together, these findings establish ACSL1 as a novel dual regulator orchestrating ferroptosis and degranulation in LDNs, thereby bridging mitochondrial dysfunction with aberrant immune activation in SLE. Targeting ACSL1 may represent a feasible approach to restrain neutrophil-driven inflammation with reduced risk of broad immunosuppression, highlighting its potential as a precision therapeutic target in systemic lupus erythematosus and related autoimmune conditions.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Excessive incorporation of long-chain fatty acids (LCFAs) into triglycerides in adipose tissue is a key contributor to obesity and related metabolic disorders, and pharmacologically modulating this process remains challenging. Here, we synthesized a library of β-indoquinazolinone derivatives via palladium-catalyzed oxidative addition complex chemistry and identified compound b2b as a potent and selective anti-obesity candidate. b2b inhibited triglyceride accumulation in adipocytes in vitro and significantly reduced adiposity, body weight, and lipid metabolic disturbances in diet-induced obese mice without observable toxicity. Mechanistic studies revealed that b2b directly activates nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (NAMPT) and elevates intracellular NAD+ levels to enhance the NAD+-dependent regulatory protein SIRT1 activity. This activation leads to transcriptional repression of acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 1 (ACSL1), thereby inhibiting LCFAs incorporation into triglycerides. These findings demonstrate that pharmacological activation of the NAMPT-NAD+-SIRT1 axis by b2b offers a novel strategy for obesity treatment.© 2026 The Authors.
Acquired thiopurine resistance and mismatch repair (MMR) deficiency are increasingly recognised drivers of relapse in paediatric B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (B-ALL); however, their real-world genomic prevalence and link to maintenance dosing patterns remain poorly characterised. Paediatric B-ALL relapse cases (2018-2024) were subjected to whole exome sequencing (WES; 200-250× depth; n = 70) and deep targeted sequencing (700-900×; n = 5). Per-sample frequencies of resistance gene mutations, single-base mutational signatures, tumour mutational burden-high (≥10 mutations/Mb), microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) and thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT)/nucleoside diphosphate-linked moiety X-type motif 15 (NUDT15) status were determined. Clinical variables included the median weekly 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) dose (mg/m2, time-weighted) and duration of 6-MP dose interruptions. A total of 18/75 (24%) relapse cases showed SBS87 (thiopurine-related), SBS6/15 (MMR-related) or Thio-deficient mismatch repair (Thio-dMMR) mutational signature. Thiopurine resistance clones in cytosolic 5'-nucleotidase II (NT5C2) (13), phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate synthetase 1 (PRPS1) (2) or tumor protein p53 (TP53) (7) were noted in 19/75 (25%) cases; germline or somatic clones in MMR genes were noted in 19/75 (25%). Correlation analysis revealed that both low median weekly 6-MP dose (<45 mg/m2) and ≥4 weeks of dose interruptions were significantly associated with higher hazard for SBS87 or Thio-dMMR signature (hazard ratio [HR] 7.09 [95% confidence interval (CI): 1.77-28.34], p = 0.006, and HR 6.21 [95% CI: 1.66-23.32], p = 0.007 respectively). This real-world study demonstrates that suboptimal median 6-MP dosing and prolonged dose interruptions during maintenance are significantly associated with thiopurine resistance and MMR deficiency-related mutational signatures at relapse. These findings underscore the importance of optimised dose intensity and minimal interruptions during maintenance therapy in paediatric B-ALL.© 2026 British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Diabetic cardiomyopathy (DbCM) is a major complication of type 2 diabetes whose molecular basis in human hearts remains poorly understood. This study aimed to define the multi-omics landscape of DbCM in the human myocardium.We performed integrated transcriptomic, 4D-DIA proteomic, and full-spectrum widely targeted metabolomic analysis on left ventricular tissues from matched Chinese cohorts: DbCM (n = 11), non-diabetic cardiomyopathy (n = 11), and healthy donors (n = 4). Key findings were validated by histological assessment and western blotting of candidate proteins. External validation was conducted using public datasets, and phenotypic support was derived from mouse models.Multi-omics profiling revealed distinct, coordinated dysregulation in DbCM. Proteomics and transcriptomics profiling revealed a rewired fatty acid oxidation-mitophagy axis characterized by elevated acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 1 (ACSL1) and suppressed fatty acid synthase (FASN), impaired mitochondrial quality control marked by a significant reduction in the mitophagy regulator BNIP3L, which showed a strong inverse correlation with ACSL1, and disrupted extracellular matrix homeostasis, with specific downregulation of key structural components (COL5A1, COL5A2, and fibrillin-1). Metabolomics confirmed enhanced but incomplete fatty acid oxidation, evidenced by triglyceride depletion and accumulation of acylcarnitines and lipotoxic lipids. Integrated multi-omics identified impaired BNIP3L-associated mitophagy as a potential molecular node associated with lipid metabolic dysregulation with mitochondrial dysfunction.This human multi-omics study defines DbCM by the concurrent dysregulation of cardiac fuel metabolism, mitochondrial quality control, and matrix remodeling, offering novel mechanistic insights and highlighting ACSL1 and BNIP3L as potential therapeutic targets for diabetes-associated cardiac dysfunction.© 2026. The Author(s).
To investigate the therapeutic effects and molecular mechanisms of berberine (BBR) for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) concomitant with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).In vivo, 16 db/db mice were randomly assigned to the model group and the BBR group by a random number table method (n=8), with db/m mice serving as the control group. Mice were given BBR [100 mg/(kg·d)] or distilled water via gavage for 4 weeks. In vitro, 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxyamide ribonucleoside (AICAR) and compound C were introduced as a AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) agonist and an inhibitor, respectively. HepG2 cells were induced with palmitic acid (PA) and high glucose, and the treatment cells received BBR (5 µmol/L), AICAR (0.8 mmol/L) or compound C (10 µmol/L) or a combination of BBR and compound C for 24 h additionally. Biochemical assays and pathological staining were performed to assess lipid and glucose metabolism. qPCR and Western blot analysis were used to evaluate the mRNA and protein expressions related to fatty acids (FA) translation [including FA transport proteins (FATP) 2, FATP5, CD36], FA synthesis [including stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 (SCD1), sterol regulatory element-binding proteins-1c (SREBP-1c), fatty acid synthase (FASN)], and FA β-oxidation [acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 1 (ACSL1), carnitine palmitoyltransferase (CPT)1A, CPT1B, CPT2, short-chain-acyl-CoA dehydrogenase(SCAD), medium-chain-acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (MCAD), long-chain-acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (LCAD), and very-long-chain-acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (VLCAD), as well as AMPK/Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1)/peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ coactivator 1α (PGC-1α) pathway.In vivo, compared with the model group, the mice in the BBR group showed lower TG, TC, LDL-C, fasting blood glucose levels and improved insulin sensitivity, as well as reduced lipid accumulation in liver tissues (P<0.05 or P<0.01). In the molecules related to fatty acid metabolism, the mice in the BBR group showed decreased protein expression of FASN and increased expressions of ACSL1 and CPT1A (P<0.05). Additionally, the mRNA expressions of fatp5 and CD36 were decreased, and CPT1A, CPT2, SCAD, LCAD, and VLCAD were increased (P<0.05). AMPK/SIRT1/PGC-1α pathway was activated in the liver of BBR-treated mice (P<0.05 or P<0.01). In vitro, BBR reduced lipid accumulation in HepG2 cells and activated the AMPK/SIRT1/PGC-1α pathway, and these effects were blocked by compound C (P<0.05 or P<0.01).Berberine activates AMPK/SIRT1/PGC-1α pathway, thereby improving fatty acid metabolism, and ultimately exerts therapeutic effects on NAFLD accompanied by T2DM.© 2026. The Chinese Journal of Integrated Traditional and Western Medicine Press and Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Microglia play an important role in ischemic stroke (IS). However, the molecular regulatory mechanisms underlying microglial ferroptosis in IS remain incompletely understood. In this study, blood samples were collected from 20 IS patients and 15 healthy volunteers. Microglia BV-2 subjected to oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R) and mice undergoing middle cerebral artery occlusion-reperfusion (MCAO/R) surgery were used to establish IS models. Our results revealed that in blood samples from IS patients and in OGD/R-treated BV-2 cells, ZFP36 ring finger protein like 1 (ZFP36L1) and Acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 1 (ACSL1) expression was increased, while the fat mass and obesity-associated (FTO) protein expression was decreased. ACSL1 silencing attenuated ferroptosis and inflammation in OGD/R-treated microglia, as evidenced by decreased levels of malondialdehyde, Fe2+, lipid peroxidation, inflammatory factors, along with an increased Glutathione/Glutathione disulfide ratio. Additionally, ZFP36L1 silencing suppressed the OGD/R-induced promotion of ferroptosis and inflammation in microglia and alleviated cerebral ischemic injury in MCAO/R mice, whereas ACSL1 overexpression reversed these alterations caused by ZFP36L1 silencing. Mechanistically, ZFP36L1 decreased FTO messenger RNA (mRNA) stability and reduced FTO expression. FTO overexpression reduced ACSL1 N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification and ACSL1 expression. In conclusion, ZFP36L1 increased ACSL1 m6A modification and ACSL1 expression to promote microglial ferroptosis, neuroinflammatory response, and cerebral ischemic injury in IS by reducing FTO mRNA stability.© 2026 The Author(s). The Kaohsiung Journal of Medical Sciences published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Kaohsiung Medical University.
Obesity can be classified into metabolically healthy obesity (MHO) and metabolically unhealthy obesity (MUO), but the molecular mechanisms remain unclear. We identify geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP), a metabolite of the hepatic mevalonate pathway involved in cholesterol biosynthesis, as a critical mediator that distinguishes MUO from MHO. In this study, Long-term feeding of mice with starch oleate significantly upregulated the expression of geranylgeranyl diphosphate synthase (Ggpps), resulting in elevated GGPP levels. Liver-specific deletion of Ggpps reduced GGPP and selectively attenuated adipocyte hypotrophy while specifically enhancing insulin sensitivity in epididymal white adipose tissue (eWAT). Mechanistic studies suggest that GGPP modulates acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 1 (ACSL1) in eWAT through non-covalent binding rather than protein geranylgeranylation, thereby inhibiting its translocation from the endoplasmic reticulum to mitochondria. The retention of ACSL1 in the ER induces eWAT-specific adipose remodeling by promoting triglyceride (TG) synthesis and suppressing lipid oxidation. These findings establish a "liver-adipose" axis mediated by the hepatic metabolite GGPP via its non-covalent interaction with adipocyte ACSL1, highlighting potential therapeutic targets for metabolic dysfunction associated with metabolically unhealthy obesity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Azathioprine is occasionally prescribed to pregnant women following organ transplantation or for the management of autoimmune diseases. Azathioprine and its metabolites have been reported to be transferred to the fetus via the placenta. Therefore, the expression of enzymes responsible for azathioprine metabolism in the liver from fetal to adult life is crucial for assessing its potential toxicity. However, the developmental patterns of enzyme expression in the fetal and neonatal liver remain poorly understood. Liver samples were collected from male and female ICR mice at different developmental stages. The mRNA and protein expression of azathioprine-metabolizing enzymes was quantitatively analyzed. Additionally, pregnant mice were orally administered azathioprine, and the morphology, body weight, and survival of their offspring were evaluated. The expression of glutathione S-transferase Mu1, which metabolizes azathioprine to its active metabolite 6-MP, was found to be low in the fetal. We also found that the expression of xanthine oxidase, which metabolizes 6-MP to inactive metabolites, as well as thiopurine S-methyltransferase in males, were lower in the fetal and neonatal liver than in adulthood. Furthermore, azathioprine administration to pregnant mice resulted in offspring growth retardation, accompanied by reduced body weight and decreased survival rates. Azathioprine-metabolizing enzymes were expressed at lower levels in fetal and neonatal livers. These findings raise safety concerns and support the need for therapeutic strategies that take immature hepatic metabolism into account during early development. Although this murine ICR model provides mechanistic insight into developmental changes in thiopurine metabolism, species differences and the lack of pharmacokinetic data limit direct extrapolation to human fetal drug metabolism.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ivabradine (IVA), a broad-spectrum inhibitor of HCN cation channels, is recognized for enhancing cardiac function in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases and may serve as a potential therapeutic agent for mitigating drug-induced cardiotoxicity. This study aimed to investigate the protective effect of IVA against cardiac damage induced by cisplatin (Cis) and to elucidate the underlying mechanisms.We investigated the impact of IVA (5 mg/kg, orally for 28 consecutive days) on Cisplatin-induced cardiac injury (7.5 mg/kg intraperitoneally on day 5) in rats. Biomarkers of oxidative stress and levels of inflammatory cytokines in cardiac tissue were assessed. H&E staining was employed to identify histopathological alterations in cardiac tissue. The molecular mechanisms of IVA in ameliorating cardiac injury were examined.The results indicated that IVA enhanced cardiac tissue structure by suppressing the pathological alterations observed in H&E staining. IVA demonstrated antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties through reducing malonaldehyde (MDA), NADPH oxidase, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and interleukins (IL-1β and IL-6) levels, while elevating superoxide dismutase (SOD), IL-10, and eNOS levels. IVA diminished the expression of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK), Protein Kinase C-epsilon (PKC epsilon), and microRNA-34a (miRNA-34a), while enhancing the expression of Protein Kinase G (PKG), Myosin Light Chain Phosphatase (MLCP), and Rapidly Accelerated Fibrosarcoma (Raf-1), as confirmed by western blotting and PCR results. Furthermore, its impact on cardiac tissue viability was supported by increased B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl2) levels and decreased caspase-3 staining in immunohistopathology.IVA may significantly mitigate cardiac injury in Cis-induced cardiotoxicity through regulating multiple pathways and miRNA-34a levels.
5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) is among the most widely prescribed chemotherapeutic agents worldwide, yet severe toxicity can produce a life-threatening metabolic syndrome, most commonly associated with dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency. We report a fatal case of early-onset fluoropyrimidine toxicity characterized by severe metabolic derangements followed by severe myelosuppression. A 56-year-old male patient with stage III (primary tumor (T4), regional lymph nodes (cN2), distant metastasis (cM0), human papillomavirus (HPV)-16-positive) squamous cell carcinoma of the right tonsil developed intractable vomiting within 24 hours of initiating continuous 5-FU infusion as part of a TPF regimen (docetaxel, cisplatin, 5-FU). He presented with severe lactic acidosis (lactate 14.8 mmol/L, rising to >17), hyperammonemia (ammonia 462 µmol/L), high anion gap metabolic acidosis (anion gap 30 mmol/L), and acute kidney injury. DPYD genotyping was ordered on the day of treatment, but the results were not available during hospitalization. The 5-FU infusion was discontinued before the completion of the planned four-day course. The patient was intubated for airway protection and transferred to a tertiary care center, and uridine triacetate was initiated approximately 24 hours after the discontinuation of 5-FU. Over 48 hours, the metabolic derangements improved (lactate 4.2 mmol/L, ammonia <10 µmol/L), though acute kidney injury continued to worsen. Subsequent myelosuppression developed by hospital day 3, with profound cytopenia (absolute neutrophil count (ANC) 0.02 × 10³/µL, platelets 26 × 10³/µL). The patient developed Escherichia coli bacteremia, vasopressor-dependent shock, and CT findings of extensive pneumatosis intestinalis with free intraperitoneal air. Surgical consultation estimated an 80% complication risk and 70% mortality for exploratory laparotomy. The family elected comfort care, and the patient died shortly after. Three weeks later, DPYD testing returned negative for all 12 variants analyzed (activity score 2.0, normal metabolizer). This case documents severe fluoropyrimidine toxicity presenting with hyperammonemic encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and myelosuppression, findings biologically consistent with fluorocitrate-mediated mitochondrial dysfunction supported by preclinical evidence. Resolution of the initial metabolic crisis should not be interpreted as resolution of overall toxicity, as the myelosuppressive component must be anticipated. DPYD genotyping results should be available prior to the initiation of fluoropyrimidines. Genotyping in this patient returned negative for all tested variants, demonstrating that fatal fluoropyrimidine toxicity can occur in patients classified as normal metabolizers by current testing panels. The predisposing factor underlying this patient's sensitivity to 5-FU remains unexplained.Copyright © 2026, Matar et al.
The stipe of Hypsizygus marmoreus is a low-value byproduct generated during mushroom processing. Reutilization of this agricultural waste as a functional feed additive may provide both economic and environmental benefits for sustainable aquaculture. This study evaluated the effects of dietary H. marmoreus stipe (HMS) supplementation on the growth performance and survival of juvenile Micropterus salmoides and explored the underlying metabolic and transcriptional responses. Juvenile largemouth bass (initial body weight: 1.13 ± 0.05 g) were fed diets containing 0% (HMS0), 5% (HMS5), or 10% (HMS10) HMS for 46 days. HMS supplementation did not significantly affect growth performance but significantly increased survival rate in both HMS5 and HMS10 groups. Widely targeted metabolomic profiling suggested that dietary HMS may drive prominent shifts in the hepatic and gastric metabolic profiles, with potential changes observed in pathways associated with pyrimidine metabolism, glycerophospholipid metabolism, and ABC transporters. Hepatic transcriptomic analysis further identified differentially expressed genes enriched in these pathways. Integrated multi-omics analysis indicated potential coordinated associations between key metabolites, including orotic acid, ureidosuccinic acid, LPG (16:1), and Val-Cys, and genes involved in nucleotide metabolism, lipid metabolism, and transporter functions, such as DPYD (dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase), NDK (nucleoside diphosphate kinase), ENTP5 (ectonucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase 5), NT5D2 (5'-nucleotidase domain containing 2), GPT3L (glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase-like), ABCA1 (ATP-binding cassette subfamily A member 1), and ABCD4 (ATP-binding cassette subfamily D member 4). In addition, antioxidant enzyme activities were significantly enhanced in the HMS5 group, whereas no further improvement was observed at the 10% supplementation level. Collectively, these findings suggest that dietary HMS supplementation may enhance the survival of largemouth bass via coordinated metabolic regulation and antioxidant responses. This study highlights the potential application of mushroom-processing byproducts as sustainable functional feed ingredients in aquaculture.
Background/Objectives: The DPYD gene encodes the enzyme dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase that metabolizes fluoropyrimidines. Genetic variants in DPYD have been associated with altered enzyme activity; therefore, accurate detection and interpretation is critical for individualized fluoropyrimidine therapy. The most common causal variant is c.1129-5923C>G (rs75017182) located in intron 10, which introduces a cryptic splice site. This variant is in high linkage disequilibrium (LD) in the HapB3 haplotype with a benign synonymous variant in exon 11, c.1236G>A (rs56038477). Since c.1129-5923C>G and c.1236G>A have been reported in LD, many commercial kits use c.1236G>A as a proxy for the function-altering intronic variant. Methods: A DPYD genotyping protocol was implemented following the quality regulations that apply to clinical laboratories (EN-ISO9001:2015 and EN-ISO15189:2022). NGS, MLPA and Sanger sequencing were used for validation purposes. Results: Over the last 5 years a total of 2007 patients have been analyzed at our department. The observed DPYD genotype frequencies aligned with those observed in European populations. Importantly, we have identified a patient harboring the c.1236G>A variant, but in the absence of the c.1129-5923C>G variant. This last result supports recently published findings suggesting that these two variants may not be in perfect LD, as previously assumed, and lead to suboptimal dosing for those patients carrying this allele. Finally, low frequency variants (c.496A>G, c.2194G>A, and c.1601G>A), not described in DPYD analysis guidelines recommendations, were found in two patients who required fluoropyrimidines dose adjustment. Conclusions: These findings highlight the limitations of relying on proxy variants for clinical decision-making, as incomplete linkage disequilibrium may lead to misclassification of patients' metabolic capacity. Furthermore, in order to provide safer protocols for DPYD-based personalized treatment genetic panels should expand to include additional rare DPYD variants.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42501830
α-fluoro-β-alanine (FBAL), a catabolite of the chemotherapeutic agent 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), has attracted significant attention due to its cardiotoxicity and neurotoxicity. However, its association with 5-FU resistance, a major obstacle in cancer treatment, has rarely been reported. In this study, FBAL was identified as a β-arrestin1-biased ligand of sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor 2 (S1PR2), which upregulates dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) expression and drives 5-FU resistance in colorectal cancer. Mechanistically, following exposure to FBAL, S1PR2, a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), is phosphorylated by recruiting G protein-coupled receptor kinase 6 (GRK6). Phosphorylated S1PR2 coupled with β-arrestin1, but not G proteins, to activate the MEK/ERK/AP-1 pathway and promote DPYD transcription. Ser343 was identified as the key phosphorylation site of S1PR2 using IP-MS analysis. This residue within the C-terminal domain mediates receptor interaction with β-arrestin-1 to activate the β-arrestin-1-dependent ERK pathway, as was confirmed in HCT116S1PR2KO-ΔC cells and HCT116S1PR2KO-S343A cells. In vivo, mice bearing orthotopic xenografts of HCT116S1PR2KO-S343A cells exhibited significantly enhanced higher sensitivity to 5-FU treatment compared to those HCT116S1PR2KO-WT cells following FBAL. Taken together, this study showed that exposure to FBAL induces S1PR2 phosphorylation at Ser343 within the C-terminal mediated by GRK6, activating the β-arrestin1-dependent ERK pathway to upregulate DPD expression. This study not only delineates a phosphorylation-dependent signaling pathway in chemoresistance but also establishes S1PR2 as a promising therapeutic target for overcoming 5-FU resistance in cancer.
Fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy is a fundamental treatment for colorectal cancer (CRC), yet its therapeutic efficacy is often limited by significant inter-individual variability. Enzymes involved in 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) metabolism thymidylate synthase (TS), dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), and methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) are critical determinants of drug response. This study aimed to evaluate the molecular correlation between TS, DPD, and MTHFR mRNA expression in paired tumor tissue and peripheral blood samples, while simultaneously developing and validating a non-invasive predictive nomogram to forecast therapeutic response to neoadjuvant CAPEOX (capecitabine-oxaliplatin) chemotherapy in advanced CRC.A prospective cohort study was conducted on 36 patients with stage III-IV CRC receiving CAPEOX. mRNA expression of TS, DPD, and MTHFR was quantified using qRT-PCR from paired tumor and peripheral blood samples. Chemotherapy response was evaluated using RECIST 1.1 criteria. Statistical analyses included Spearman correlation, the Mann-Whitney U test, and multivariate logistic regression. A nomogram was constructed based on significant predictors.DPD and MTHFR expression levels were significantly lower in responders than in non-responders (p < 0.001), while TS expression showed no significant difference. Gene expression in tissue and blood was strongly correlated (r = 0.820 for TS, r = 0.658 for DPD, and r = 0.623 for MTHFR; all p < 0.001). Multivariate analysis identified blood-based DPD and MTHFR expression as independent predictors of response. The predictive nomogram demonstrated excellent discrimination (AUC = 0.932).Lower DPD and MTHFR expression predicts a favorable response to neoadjuvant CAPEOX in advanced CRC. These biomarkers offer a promising, non-invasive approach to personalizing treatment strategies potentially enhancing therapeutic efficacy while minimizing unnecessary toxicity.
This commentary on a cohort study of patients with uncommon DPYD variants resulting in increased toxicities highlights the importance of expanding the current DPYD testing profile, the limitations of current testing, and the critical need to consider patients of African ancestry who can carry rare yet extremely toxic DPYD variants. See related article by Nguyen-Hoang et al., p. 3269.©2026 American Association for Cancer Research.
Background/Objectives: Intramuscular fat deposition is a key determinant of beef quality in Japanese Black cattle, and the fat area ratio of the rib eye (FAR) is highly correlated with Beef Marbling Standard scores. Methods: To identify genetic variants underlying variation in the FAR, we conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) followed by whole-genome sequence-based fine mapping in a Hyogo Japanese Black population (n = 432). Animals were genotyped using the Illumina BovineSNP50v3 BeadChip, and association analysis was performed using residuals derived from a linear mixed model accounting for fixed and random effects. Results: A significant association signal was detected on BTA17 (λ = 1.09), with the top single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) located at 17:72,329,662 (p = 3.60 × 10-6). To refine the candidate region, we analyzed whole-genome resequencing data from 42 Hyogo Japanese Black cattle and identified a distinct linkage disequilibrium (LD) block spanning 71-74 Mbp on BTA17. Among 4292 variants within genes showing LD (r2 ≥ 0.1) with the top SNP, 96 variants with strong LD and predicted functional effects were selected for validation. Genotyping in the Hyogo population revealed that a missense variant in gamma-glutamyltransferase 1 (GGT1) (c.589G>A, p.Asp197Asn) showed the strongest association with FAR (p = 3.89 × 10-6). A 5'UTR variant in GGT1 (c. -256G>T) and a missense variant in solute carrier family 5 member 1 (SLC5A1) (c.32C>T, p.Thr11Met) also exhibited significant associations and strong LD with the top SNP (r2 > 0.7). GGT1 is involved in glutathione metabolism, whereas SLC5A1 encodes a sodium-glucose cotransporter implicated in nutrient sensing and metabolic regulation. Conclusions: Although functional validation is required, these variants represent strong positional and biological candidates underlying the BTA17 quantitative trait loci (QTL). The identified polymorphisms may provide useful molecular markers for optimizing genetic improvement of marbling-related traits within the Hyogo Japanese Black population.
Thiopurines, a widely used immunosuppressant for autoimmune and inflammatory condition, is associated with potentially severe adverse effects, particularly myelosuppression. Genetic polymorphisms in thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) and nudix hydrolase 15 (NUDT15) can largely predict the risk of thiopurine-induced toxicity. Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) of its metabolites, particularly 6-thioguanine nucleotides (6-TGN), may help to optimize dosing and prevent toxicity. A case series of four Indian patients who developed azathioprine-related myelosuppression is presented. Each patient either expressed a low to intermediate TPMT enzyme activity or a NUDT15 c.415C>T (p.R139C) polymorphism. In all cases, 6-TGN concentrations were measured to assess thiopurine exposure. TPMT phenotyping, NUDT15 genotyping, and 6-TGN monitoring represents an integrated approach to optimize thiopurine therapy.
Examination of biomarkers associated with mortality among people with atrial fibrillation (AF) may help identify possible preventive interventions in this high-risk population. We aimed to study associations of circulating biomarkers with all-cause and cause-specific mortality in persons with AF in the US national biracial REasons for Geographic And Racial Differences in Stroke (REGARDS) cohort.REGARDS enrolled 30 239 Black and White adults aged ≥45 in 2003-07. Candidate biomarkers were measured in all participants with baseline AF and no prior stroke (n = 2260) and deaths identified through 31 December 2019. We calculated hazard ratios (HRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for all-cause, cardiovascular-, and cancer-related mortality by biomarker levels. The mean baseline age was 67.5 years. Participants were 53.5% female, 35.7% identified as Black, and 21.3% were taking an anticoagulant. Over 10.3 years, 1151 participants died (38.7% of cardiovascular disease, 16.1% of cancer). In multivariable-adjusted analyses, all analysed biomarkers except lipoprotein(a) were associated with all-cause mortality (HR, 95% CI for fourth vs. first quartile): N-terminal pro B-type natriuretic peptide (4.85; 3.70-6.36), galectin-3 (2.03; 1.65-2.51), growth differentiation factor 15 (3.98; 3.00-5.29), cystatin C (2.81; 2.21-3.58), interleukin-6 (2.61; 2.08-3.26), D-dimer (1.74; 1.40-2.15), γ-glutamyltransferase (1.46; 1.21-1.76), and factor VIII antigen (2.03; 1.65-2.50). Most biomarker associations were stronger for cardiovascular than cancer mortality and did not differ by race.Several biomarkers were associated with all-cause and cardiovascular mortality in AF, suggesting multiple domains of clinical relevance that support interventions to reduce mortality.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.
BACKGROUND: Polymorphisms thiopurine-S-methyltransferase (TPMT) and nudix hydrolase 15 (NUDT15) can increase the risk of azathioprine myelotoxicity, but little is known about other genetic factors that increase risk for azathioprine-associated side effects. PrediXcan is a gene-based association method that estimates the expression of individuals’ genes and examines their correlation to specified phenotypes. To interrogate the utility of using PrediXcan as a tool for detecting associations between genetic factors and azathioprine side effects, we aimed to determine whether the genetically predicted expression of TPMT or NUDT15 was associated with leukopenia or other known side effects of azathioprine. METHODS: This is a retrospective cohort study of 1,364 new users of azathioprine (patients taking azathioprine with an organ transplant indication were excluded) with electronic health record (EHR)-reported White race. We used PrediXcan to impute expression in liver tissue, tested its association with pre-specified phecodes representing known side effects (e.g. skin cancer), and completed chart review to confirm cases. RESULTS: Among confirmed cases, patients in the lowest tertile of TPMT predicted expression had significantly higher odds of developing leukopenia (OR = 3.30, 95%CI: 1.07–10.20, p = 0.04) versus those in the highest tertile; no other side effects were significant. CONCLUSION: The results suggest that this methodology could be deployed on a larger scale to uncover associations between genetic factors and drug side effects for more personalized care.© 2026. The Authors.
Thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) and Nudix hydrolase 15 (NUDT15) are key enzymes that catabolize thiopurines. Decreased or no-function alleles in TPMT and NUDT15 are associated with reduced or no enzyme activity and predictive of pronounced adverse effects, including severe myelosuppression, that may occur among individuals treated with standard doses of thiopurines. Genetic variants in these genes are present in all world populations; however, their frequency varies by ancestry. In this updated guideline, we provide recommendations for adjusting starting doses of mercaptopurine, thioguanine, and azathioprine based on TPMT and NUDT15 genotypes, including for individuals with variants in both genes (updates on www.clinpgx.org).© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Pharmacology & Therapeutics published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41486341 is a review article
Nephrolithiasis is a prevalent urological disorder in which calcium oxalate (CaOx) stones are most common, and accumulating evidence suggests that oxidative stress and ferroptosis contribute to CaOx-induced tubular epithelial injury. In this study, glyoxylic acid–induced mouse nephrocalcinosis and CaOx-stimulated HK-2 cells were used to explore the role of gamma-glutamyltransferase 1 (GGT1), a key enzyme in glutathione metabolism. RNA sequencing and qRT-PCR analyses identified GGT1 as a significantly downregulated gene in both models, and bioinformatic prediction followed by molecular validation demonstrated its interaction with the glutamate-cysteine ligase catalytic subunit (GCLC). GGT1 overexpression enhanced SLC7A11 and GPX4 expression while suppressing ACSL4, thereby reducing lipid peroxidation, mitigating oxidative stress, and alleviating tubular injury, whereas co-silencing GCLC attenuated these protective effects. These findings reveal that GGT1 safeguards against CaOx-induced nephrotoxicity by targeting GCLC to regulate ferroptosis and highlight GGT1 as a potential therapeutic target in nephrolithiasis.
Thiopurines remain a cornerstone in the management of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and gastrointestinal immune diseases but are associated with significant interindividual variability in efficacy and toxicity, mainly influenced by polymorphisms in Thiopurine S-methyltransferase TPMT and Nudix Hydrolase 15 NUDT15. This study aimed to assess the frequency of TPMT and NUDT15 variants in a pediatric cohort and evaluate their clinical impact to support a pharmacogenetic-guided approach to thiopurine therapy.Eighty-three pediatric patients with IBD and other autoimmune diseases were genotyped for clinically relevant TPMT and NUDT15 variants using two HRM-PCR assays and were confirmed with sequencing. Variant frequencies were compared to expected population data, and clinical records were reviewed to assess thiopurine dosing, tolerance, and adverse events.Among the cohort, six carried heterozygous TPMT variants *1/*3A, while 2 carried the NUDT15 *1/*9 diplotype, with frequencies higher than expected. Among patients with TPMT variant alleles, some needed dose reductions or treatment discontinuation due to adverse effects, while others tolerated standard dosing without significant issues. Notably, no significant differences in adverse reactions were observed between NUDT15 *1/*9 carriers and wild-type patients.Our results confirm the clinical relevance of TPMT and NUDT15 genotyping to personalize thiopurine therapy in pediatric IBD. Routine implementation of rapid genetic testing, combined with therapeutic drug monitoring and a structured management algorithm, may optimize treatment outcomes and minimize preventable toxicity.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) represents a notable global health challenge, with neuropathic pain (NP) being a common complication that intensifies patient suffering. Existing research tends to overlook the temporal aspects of NP and fails to offer targeted treatment options. To tackle this issue, the present study initially examined genome‑wide association study summaries related to NP, incorporating expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) from blood samples through summary‑based Mendelian randomization. This allowed the investigation of the association between NP and eQTL, facilitating the identification of genes linked to the risk of NP. Following this, weighted gene co‑expression network analysis of a Gene Expression Omnibus dataset was utilized to identify SCI‑related module genes, resulting in the detection of 218 shared genes across these analyses. Subsequent functional enrichment assessments, protein‑protein interaction evaluations and machine learning technique analyses, including least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression, random forest and support vector machine recursive feature elimination analyses, highlighted three central genes: Glycerol‑3‑phosphate dehydrogenase 1‑like, epoxide hydrolase 2 and cytochrome P450 family 1 subfamily B member 1 (CYP1B1). Additionally, network pharmacology and molecular docking analyses confirmed CYP1B1 as a viable therapeutic target. A analysis of single‑cell RNA sequencing datasets demonstrated an increase in CYP1B1 expression within spinal cord fibroblasts following SCI. Furthermore, quercetin (Que) was shown to inhibit CYP1B1 expression and reduce NP (based on mechanical paw withdrawal threshold and thermal paw withdrawal latency) in murine models. The results of the present study highlight the important role of spinal cord fibroblast CYP1B1 as a notable contributor to NP following SCI and suggest that Que may serve as a promising mechanism‑based therapeutic option.
Somatic retinoblastoma 1 (RB1) loss is prevalent across different cancer types and is enriched in treatment-refractory tumors, such as castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) and small-cell lung cancer, but cannot be considered as a direct druggable target. In this study, we revealed that the close proximity of nudix hydrolase 15 (NUDT15) and RB1 may result in their common somatic codeletion or epigenomic cosilencing in different cancer types and subsequent significant positive correlations of their expressions at the bulk transcriptional and single-cell levels. With clinical CRPC samples, co-loss of RB1 and NUDT15 were commonly observed (14 out of 21). Due to the contribution of NUDT15 deficiency to thiopurine-induced toxicity, exploiting a vulnerability conferred by RB1-NUDT15 loss raised the possibility of repurposing thiopurine (e.g., mercaptopurine) for precise therapeutics. A positive relationship between RB1/NUDT15 ploidy score and mercaptopurine drug sensitivity was found in 543 cancer cell lines. Experimentally, knocking-down NUDT15 sensitizes the cancer cell lines to mercaptopurine treatment by inhibiting cell cycle progression and increasing apoptosis, but does not induce mercaptopurine-related leucopenia in xenograft model. Our study elucidates the molecular basis for precise mercaptopurine therapy in RB1-deficient tumors and demonstrates how leveraging collateral lethality alongside drug repurposing uncovers targetable vulnerabilities in stratified patient cohorts.© 2025 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Accumulating evidence suggests dysfunction of cerebellar-cerebral circuits in depression. However, the potential cellular and molecular alterations associated with depression in the cerebellum remain largely uncharacterized. While postmortem findings in the cerebral cortex indicate astrocyte dysregulation in depressed individuals who died by suicide (DS), the extent to which depression potentially alters cerebellar astrocytes is not well understood. In this study, two canonical astrocyte markers, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and aldehyde Dehydrogenase-1 Family member L1 (ALDH1L1) were used to quantify cerebellar astrocyte subtypes, Bergmann glia (BG) in the Purkinje cell layer (PCL), velate astrocytes in the granule cell layer (GCL), and fibrous astrocytes in the white matter (WM). Purkinje cells (PCs) were also quantified due to their close association with BG. To assess potential dysregulation of astrocyte communication, we examined connexins, channel proteins essential in forming a functional network between astrocytes. Astrocytic connexins were visualized using single molecule in situ hybridization targeting connexin 30 (Cx30) and connexin 43 (Cx43), followed by immunolabeling for ALDH1L1. Our analysis revealed significant increases in ALDH1L1+ astrocyte densities in DS specific to the PCL compared to control individuals. Astrocytic connexins were significantly downregulated in DS, with Cx43 showing marked reductions in both PCL and GCL. Overall, our findings suggest that BG in the PCL and velate astrocytes in the GCL are particularly vulnerable in the depressive phenotype. Furthermore, this study supports previous findings in the cerebral cortex and extends astrocytic dysfunction to the cerebellum suggesting a widespread disruption of astrocyte-mediated communication across the brain in depression.© 2026. The Author(s).
BACKGROUND: Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) induces CD8⁺ T-cell exhaustion within the tumor microenvironment (TME) through metabolic reprogramming, contributing to the limited efficacy of immunotherapy. Targeting tumor metabolism is a pivotal strategy. Whether Aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member L1 (ALDH1L1), a key enzyme in folate metabolism, can modulate the function of CD8⁺ T cell to enhance immunotherapy efficacy remains unclear. This research aims to elucidate the specific mechanism by which ALDH1L1 regulates metabolic reprogramming in OSCC and influences CD8⁺ T-cell immunotherapy. METHODS: The impact of ALDH1L1 on CD8⁺ T cell was assessed using patient samples, engineered OSCC cell lines, and C3H mouse models. Integrated transcriptomics and metabolomics revealed its role in L-glutamate metabolism, further investigated via molecular docking and co-immunoprecipitation. In vitro, the direct effect of L-glutamate on CD8⁺ T-cell exhaustion was probed via transcriptomic sequencing, mitochondrial functional assays, and immunofluorescence. An ALDH1L1-targeting compound from virtual screening was evaluated in vivo to enhance anti-PD-1 therapy. RESULTS: Low expression of ALDH1L1 in OSCC correlates with decreased CD8⁺ T-cell infiltration and increased exhaustion. In vivo and in vitro models demonstrated that ALDH1L1 regulates IL-15 expression to influence CD8⁺ T-cell proliferation. Multi-omics analysis revealed that ALDH1L1 downregulation enriched the L-glutamate metabolic pathway. Mechanistically, ALDH1L1 directly interacts with GLUL, leading to L-glutamate accumulation in the TME. Subsequent analyses demonstrated that L-glutamate suppresses the PI3K/Akt/FoxO1 signaling axis in CD8⁺ T cell, impairing mitochondrial function and inhibiting oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS). Stevioside, identified as an ALDH1L1-targeting compound, significantly enhanced the efficacy of anti-PD-1 therapy, leading to reduced tumor growth in mouse models. CONCLUSIONS: Downregulation of ALDH1L1 in OSCC drives CD8⁺ T-cell exhaustion via a GLUL-mediated increase in L-glutamate, which suppresses mitochondrial OXPHOS. Pharmacological modulation of ALDH1L1 with stevioside represents a promising strategy to enhance anti-PD-1 immunotherapy efficacy, providing a novel combination therapeutic strategy for OSCC.
Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) is a highly pathogenic alphacoronavirus that causes severe diarrhea. It has a high fatality rate among newborn piglets, posing a considerable economic burden to the swine industry. Therefore, elucidating the host-pathogen interaction is warranted to advance precision antiviral therapies. Herein, for the first time, we noted a marked upregulation of aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member L1 (ALDH1L1) during PEDV infection. Furthermore, ALDH1L1 exerts its antiviral effects by specifically binding to the viral nucleocapsid (N) and envelope (E) proteins and mediating their degradation via the autophagosome-lysosomal degradation pathway. Additional experiments revealed that this degradation process is mediated via the interactions of ALDH1L1 with the E3 ubiquitin ligase STUB1 and the cargo receptor TOLLIP, eliminating the N and E structural glycoproteins via the autophagolysosomal pathway. Our study findings suggest the ALDH1L1-STUB1-TOLLIP axis as a novel antiviral target and propose a new strategy for viral clearance based on the degradation of host protein. Furthermore, our research provides valuable information on how host antiviral factors impede PEDV replication as a regulator of the protein degradation pathway.IMPORTANCEPorcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) is a highly pathogenic alphacoronavirus that causes fatal hemorrhagic gastroenteritis among neonatal piglets. This causes significant financial losses. During infection, certain host factors can activate the innate immune regulatory network to antagonize the viral replication cycle, interfere with the virus invasion, inhibit virus replication, prevent virus assembly and release, and enhance the host's immune response. Our study revealed that the host metabolic enzyme ALDH1L1 acts as a novel antiviral restriction factor that mediates the autophagy-lysosome-targeted degradation of viral structural proteins (N/E) via the STUB1 (E3 ubiquitin ligase)-TOLLIP (autophagy adaptor protein) axis. Our study findings offer new perspectives on the mechanism by which host antiviral factors inhibit PEDV by regulating the protein degradation pathway.
Waterlogging stress severely limits plant growth and development. Proline accumulation serves as a crucial adaptive mechanism in plants responding to waterlogging stress. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying waterlogging-mediated proline homeostasis in gymnosperm species have received limited attention to date. In this study, we demonstrated that the TgIAA7-TgARF10 module inhibited the expression of Proline Dehydrogenase 1 (TgProDH1) to modulate proline accumulation in response to waterlogging in Torreya grandis, a Jurassic-origin gymnosperm with a millennial economic lifespan and high ecological value in subtropical mountainous regions. Waterlogging stress downregulated the expression of TgProDH1-encoding a key enzyme gene in proline degradation-in T. grandis. TgProDH1 negatively regulated waterlogging-mediated proline accumulation in T. grandis. The ARF transcription factor TgARF10 inhibited TgProDH1 expression by directly binding to its promoter, and waterlogging stress enhanced the binding affinity of TgARF10 for the TgProDH1 promoter. Additionally, TgIAA7 interacted with TgARF10 in vivo and in vitro, significantly reducing the transcriptional repression activity of TgARF10 by inhibiting its DNA-binding ability, ultimately repressing waterlogging-induced proline accumulation. Our findings indicate that the TgIAA7-TgARF10 module finely tunes TgProDH1 expression to maintain waterlogging-mediated proline homeostasis in T. grandis. This study enhances our understanding of transcriptional regulation of proline accumulation in T. grandis under waterlogging stress and fills a critical knowledge gap in the regulatory mechanisms by which auxin modulates proline homeostasis in gymnosperms.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society of Plant Biologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Astrocytes are a major glial cell type, playing multiple roles in the development, function, and pathogenesis of the brain. Accordingly, neuronal-astrocyte communication is an important research area. However, because these cell types share the same developmental origin, selective manipulation of each cell type is needed for precise mechanistic understanding. Here, we generated two new Cre driver lines for selective gene manipulation in astrocytes: Slc7a10-IRES-Cre and Aldh1l1-IRES-Cre. An internal ribosome entry site (IRES)-Cre cassette was knocked-in to the 3'-untranslated region of the solute carrier family 7 member 10 (Slc7a10) or aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member L1 (Aldh1l1) locus without disrupting gene function. The Slc7a10-IRES-Cre line underwent highly selective recombination in astrocytes of the brain, apart from choroid plexus epithelial cells. The onset of recombination began after completion of differentiation in the astrocyte lineage. By contrast, the Aldh1l1-IRES-Cre line began recombination during astrocyte differentiation at early postnatal stages. Some leaky expression was observed in the oligodendrocyte lineage, probably due to early onset of Cre expression in an uncommitted glial progenitor state. Together, the combination of the two deleter lines with distinct temporal Cre expression patterns serves as valuable tools to understand the development and function of astrocytes.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The cerebellar cortex is now recognized as a functionally heterogeneous brain region involved not only in traditional motor functioning but also in higher-level emotional and cognitive processing. Similarly, cerebellar astrocytes also display a high degree of morphological and functional diversity based on their location. Yet, the morphological features and distribution of cerebellar astrocytes have yet to be quantified in the human brain.To address this, we performed a comprehensive postmortem examination of cerebellar astrocytes in the healthy human brain using microscopy-based techniques. Purkinje cells (PCs) were also quantified due to their close relationship with Bergmann glia (BG). Using canonical astrocyte markers glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and aldehyde dehydrogenase-1 family member L1 (ALDH1L1), we first mapped astrocytes within a complete cerebellar hemisphere.Astrocytes were observed to be differentially distributed across cerebellar layers with their processes displaying known morphological features unique to humans. Stereological quantifications in three functionally distinct lobules demonstrated that the vermis lobule VIIA, folium displayed the lowest densities of ALDH1L1+ astrocytes compared with lobule III and crus I. Assessing cerebellar layers showed that the PC layer had the highest ALDH1L1+ densities while GFAP+ densities and astrocytes colocalizing (ALDH1L1+ GFAP+) were highest in the granule cell layer yet displayed the smallest GFAP-defined territories. PC parameters revealed subtle differences across lobules, with vermis folium VIIA having the lowest PC densities while a trend for the highest BG:PC ratio was observed in the cognitive lobule crus I. Lastly, to determine if these features differ from those of cerebellar astrocytes and PCs in species used to model human illnesses, we performed comparative analyses in mice and macaques showing both divergence and commonalities across species.The present study highlights the heterogeneity of astrocytes in the human cerebellum and serves as a valuable resource on cerebellar astrocyte and PC properties in the healthy human brain.Copyright © 2025 Hercher, Ellerbeck, Toutée, Ye, Mpai, Belliveau, Davoli, Farmer, Watt, Murai, Turecki and Mechawar.
Transcription factor 4 (TCF4) is essential for the normal development and function of the central nervous system. Haploinsufficiency of TCF4 due to deletions or mutations causes Pitt-Hopkins Syndrome (PTHS), a lifelong neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by seizures, autism, and intellectual disability. Previous studies have shown that various mutations, including deletion of exon 4 in the mouse Tcf4 gene in neural progenitors, neurons, or oligodendrocytes, did not reproduce the seizure phenotype. Here, we report that mice with a heterozygous deletion of Tcf4 in Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 1 Family Member L1 (Aldh1l1)-expressing cells-which resulted in approximately 60 % reduced Tcf4 expression in astrocytes and a 35 % reduction in other cell types, including neurons and oligodendrocytes-developed astrogliosis as early as postnatal day 4, followed by severe recurrent seizures beginning at three months of age or later, and exhibited shortened lifespans. Additionally, these mice showed increased neuronal activity in the cortex, hippocampus, amygdala, and hypothalamus in adulthood. Furthermore, single-nucleus RNA sequencing revealed widespread gene expression changes, including genes associated with epilepsy, in excitatory neurons, inhibitory neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes in our PTHS mouse model compared to wild-type controls. Overall, this is the first report of a PTHS mouse model exhibiting seizures, providing a valuable tool to investigate the mechanisms underlying PTHS pathogenesis and to develop therapies for PTHS and its associated epilepsy.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The mechanisms of plant drought resistance are unclear but may involve membrane trafficking and metabolic reprogramming, including proline accumulation. Forward genetic screening using a proline dehydrogenase 1 (ProDH1) promoter:reporter identified a drought hypersensitive mutant with a single-amino acid substitution (P335L) in the nonphototrophic hypocotyl 3 (NPH3) domain of NPH3/root phototropism 2-like 5 (NRL5)/naked pins in Yucca 8 (NPY8). Further experiments found that NRL5 and other NPH3 domain proteins are guanosine triphosphatases (GTPases). NRL5, but not NRL5P335L, interacted with the RABE1c and RABH1b GTPases and the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptors (SNAREs) Vesicle-Associated Membrane Protein (VAMP)721/722. These proteins controlled NRL5 localization and connection to trafficking while also being genetically downstream of, and potentially regulated by, NRL5. These data demonstrate that NRL5-mediated restraint of proline catabolism is required for drought resistance and also reveal unexpected functions of the NPH3 domain such that the role of NPH3 domain proteins in signaling, trafficking, and cellular polarity can be critically reevaluated.
Sulforaphane is a natural compound with neuroprotective activity, but its effects on hypothalamus remain unknown. In line with this, astrocytes are critical cells to maintain brain homeostasis, and hypothalamic astrocytes are fundamental for sensing and responding to environmental changes involved in a variety of homeostatic functions. Changes in brain functionality, particularly associated with hypothalamic astrocytes, can contribute to age-related neurochemical alterations and, consequently, neurodegenerative diseases. Thus, here, we investigated the glioprotective effects of sulforaphane on hypothalamic astrocyte cultures and hypothalamic cell suspension obtained from aged Wistar rats (24 months old). Sulforaphane showed anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties, as well as modulated the mRNA expression of astroglial markers, such as aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member L1, aquaporin 4, and vascular endothelial growth factor. In addition, it increased the expression and extracellular levels of trophic factors, such as glia-derived neurotrophic factor and nerve growth factor, as well as the release of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and the mRNA of TrkA, which is a receptor associated with trophic factors. Sulforaphane also modulated the expression of classical pathways associated with glioprotection, including nuclear factor erythroid-derived 2-like 2, heme oxygenase-1, nuclear factor kappa B p65 subunit, and AMP-activated protein kinase. Finally, a cell suspension with neurons and glial cells was used to confirm the predominant effect of sulforaphane in glial cells. In summary, this study indicated the anti-aging and glioprotective activities of sulforaphane in aged astrocytes.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The triglyceride-glucose (TyG) index reflects insulin resistance-related metabolic dysfunction and, when combined with anthropometric measures, may capture adiposity-related cardiovascular risk information. Although associated with depression, cardiovascular disease (CVD), and mortality, their associations with incident CVD and mortality among individuals with depression remain unclear. This study examined these associations and explored potential biological correlates.This prospective cohort study included 53,171 UK Biobank participants with depression and free of CVD at baseline. Seven TyG-related indices were derived: TyG, TyG-body mass index (TyG-BMI), TyG-waist circumference (TyG-WC), TyG-waist-to-height ratio (TyG-WHtR), TyG-a body shape index (TyG-ABSI), TyG-weight-adjusted waist index (TyG-WWI), and TyG-body roundness index (TyG-BRI). Associations were evaluated using Cox regression models. Incremental predictive information beyond a conventional cardiovascular risk model was assessed using several prediction metrics. Exploratory biomarker analyses identified potential biological correlates.Over a median follow-up of 13.4 years, 8,516 incident CVD cases, 546 CVD-related deaths, and 4,619 all-cause deaths were documented. For incident CVD, multivariable-adjusted hazard ratios (95% confidence intervals) comparing the highest with the lowest quartile were 1.40 (1.31-1.49) for TyG, 1.80 (1.68-1.92) for TyG-BMI, 1.95 (1.82-2.09) for TyG-WC, 1.89 (1.76-2.03) for TyG-WHtR, 1.77 (1.65-1.90) for TyG-WWI, 1.93 (1.80-2.08) for TyG-BRI, and 1.61 (1.49-1.73) for TyG-ABSI. Each 1-SD increment in these indices was associated with a 24-37% higher risk of CVD mortality and a 7-16% higher risk of all-cause mortality. The associations with incident CVD and CVD mortality showed no significant departure from linearity. Except for TyG and TyG-BMI, adding the other indices to the conventional risk model yielded statistically significant but modest incremental predictive information, with small absolute improvements in prediction metrics. Biomarkers reflecting inflammation (e.g., neutrophils: 6.5-13.1%), metabolism (glycated hemoglobin: 6.5-23.9%), and hepatic (gamma-glutamyltransferase: 5.0-12.3%) and renal (urate: 8.6-25.8%) function statistically accounted for part of their associations with incident CVD.Higher TyG-related indices were associated with increased risks of incident CVD and mortality among individuals with depression. Several indices provided modest incremental predictive information, but external validation and implementation-focused studies are needed before clinical application. Inflammatory, metabolic, hepatic, and renal biomarkers may represent candidate biological correlates, although causal mediation cannot be inferred.Copyright © 2026 Li, Xu, Liang, Wang, Shen and Liu.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42370956 is a review article
The roles of glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 2 (GOT2) in malate-aspartate shuttle (MAS), fatty acid binding/trafficking, and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) delta axis have been documented. However, its function in ferroptosis remains unexplored. Here, we report that GOT2 promotes ferroptosis by disturbing mitochondrial redox homeostasis through inhibiting the synthesis of radical scavenger coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10). Mechanism, by fueling MAS, GOT2 increases net influx of NADH into mitochondria and enhances aerobic respiration, increasing cellular ATP generation. The high ATP/ADP ratio inactivates adenosine 5'-monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and PPARα, downregulating the transcription of core enzymes in CoQ10 synthesis pathway (FDPS, PDSS1/2, COQ3/5/6). In lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD), high expression of GOT2 restrains tumor progression by activating ferroptosis and igniting antitumor immunity. Whereas, the activation of GOT2-mediated ferroptosis exacerbates lesion in atherosclerosis disease. Our study reveals that GOT2-AMPK-PPARα-CoQ10 axis is a novel pro-ferroptosis pathway, and modulating GOT2-mediated ferroptosis suggests an intriguing method to treat LUAD and atherosclerosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
The role of Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 4 Family Member A1 (ALDH4A1) in atherosclerotic disease is unclear. Experimental data suggests a possible involvement in atherogenesis. We investigated the association between circulating ALDH4A1 and atherosclerotic disease outcome measures in acute stroke patients.Multicenter study using data from the prospective BIOSIGNAL cohort (2014-2017). ALDH4A1 plasma concentrations were measured in stored samples collected within 24 h after stroke onset. Primary outcome measure was large artery atherosclerotic stroke (LAAS) origin. Secondary outcome measures were atherosclerotic disease outcomes such as the maximum intima-media-thickness (IMT), the degree of stenosis on ultrasound, and a composite for atherosclerotic disease burden (large artery atherosclerotic index stroke, history of myocardial infarction, coronary or peripheral artery disease). Logistic regression analyses were performed to examine the association between ALDH4A1 plasma concentrations (absolute and log-transformed) and the primary and secondary outcome measures.Of 1759 stroke patients, 84.5% had available ALDH4A1 measurements. Circulating ALDH4A1 plasma concentrations were neither significantly associated with LAAS (logALDH4A1 aOR 0.97, 95%CI 0.79-1.21, p = 0.81) nor any secondary outcome measure including the maximum IMT, stenosis degree or the composite for atherosclerotic disease burden. Sensitivity analysis using inverse probability of treatment weighting were in line with the main findings.In acute stroke patients, we found no clear evidence of an association between ALDH4A1 plasma concentrations and clinically relevant atherosclerotic disease outcome measures, including maximum IMT. However, due to the lack of validated and standardized ALDH4A1 assays, and the resulting limited comparability with other cohorts, a potential association cannot be excluded.NCT02274727 (ClinicalTrials.gov).Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42138160
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42130033
Glioblastoma is the most aggressive primary brain tumor in adults, with limited therapeutic success and, therefore, poor prognosis. Its malignancy is partly driven by the high proliferative capacity of glioblastoma cells, yet the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Recent studies have revealed transcriptomic similarities between glioblastoma cells and human fetal neural stem/progenitor cells (NSCs), suggesting that glioblastoma may exploit developmental programs that promote NSC proliferation. Fetal human NSCs rely on glutaminolysis-a metabolic pathway induced by the human-specific mitochondrial protein ARHGAP11B-to sustain proliferation. Here, we show that ARHGAP11B expression correlates with glioma malignancy and is essential for glioblastoma cell proliferation, implicating a critical role of glutaminolysis in tumor growth. Among glutaminolysis-related enzymes, glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 2 (GOT2) shows a strong positive correlation with glioma grade and poor patient prognosis. Functional assays reveal that GOT2 knockdown significantly suppresses glioblastoma cell growth, indicating that GOT2-mediated glutaminolysis is critical for their proliferation. Metabolomic profiling further shows that GOT2 is required for nucleotide precursor synthesis, underscoring its role in supporting DNA replication. Consistently, GOT2 depletion reduces the proportion of glioblastoma cells in the S phase of the cell cycle. These findings suggest glioblastoma cells hijack an evolutionarily adapted metabolic program to support malignant growth.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42074485 is a review article
Glucose deprivation is a major metabolic stress that requires coordinated adaptive responses to maintain cellular homeostasis and survival, yet the role of tripartite motif-containing 24 (TRIM24) in this process remains unclear. To address this question, we generated CRISPR-Cas9-mediated TRIM24-knockout MCF-7 and HEK293 cell lines, performed targeted metabolomic profiling and aspartate assays, used 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide-1-β-D-ribofuranoside (AICAR), aminooxyacetic acid (AOA), aspartate supplementation, and glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 2 (GOT2) knockdown to probe AMPK signaling and aspartate metabolism, and examined starvation responses in constitutive Trim24 knockout mice on a C57BL/6 background. Loss of TRIM24 sensitized cells to glucose deprivation. Re-expression of TRIM24 partially restored cell viability under glucose deprivation in both MCF-7 and HEK293 cells. Under glucose-free conditions, TRIM24 deficiency was associated with impaired AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) pathway activation, increased intracellular aspartate accumulation, and altered ATP/AMP levels. Pharmacological reactivation of AMPK by AICAR improved the survival of TRIM24-deficient cells under glucose deprivation. Reducing intracellular aspartate by AOA treatment or GOT2 knockdown restored AMPK pathway activation and improved adaptation to glucose deprivation, whereas exogenous aspartate suppressed AMPK signaling and increased ATP/AMP levels. In vivo, starvation of Trim24-deficient mice was associated with reduced AMPK pathway activation and increased aspartate levels. Together, these findings support a model in which TRIM24 contributes to adaptation to glucose deprivation and in which abnormal aspartate accumulation contributes to impaired AMPK pathway activation in TRIM24-deficient cells.
Brain age is a global measure that compares structural brain MRI with large reference datasets. Predicted age deviation (PAD) is the deviation between predicted brain age and chronological age, with positive values indicating advanced aging. Identifying blood-based biomarkers that approximate brain PAD could provide an accessible and cost-effective measure of brain health as an alternative to MRI, but no blood-based biomarkers have yet been identified. This study aimed to investigate novel blood-based biomarkers associated with accelerated PAD using an unbiased proteomics approach to discover new biomarkers.This study is a secondary analysis with a cross-sectional case-control design using the LIMBIC-CENC dataset as a discovery approach to understand novel biomarker patterns. Brain age was estimated using brainageR in 137 participants aged ≤40 years with no substantial cognitive deficits or neurological disorders. Cases (n = 76) included individuals with brain age ≥5 years older than chronological age, whereas controls (n = 61) had brain age equal to or younger than chronological age (PAD range: -1.3 to 0; mean = -0.9) and were otherwise matched on demographics and clinical features. Unbiased proteomic profiling of ∼5,400 proteins was performed using the Olink Explore platform. Differential protein expression between groups was assessed using Wilcoxon tests with Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed on probabilities derived from generalized linear models (GLMs) to identify optimal protein combinations, prioritizing maximizing both sensitivity and negative predictive value.Olink analyses identified 418 proteins that were significantly different between groups after multiple-comparison correction. Upregulated proteins in participants with PAD≥5 years included: component inhibitor-nuclear factor kappa-b kinase (CHUK), methenyltetrahydrofolate synthetase domain containing (MTHFSD), and epidermal growth factor (EGF), with log2 fold changes of 1.70-1.80. Insulin-like peptide 3 (INSL3) was the most downregulated protein (log2 fold change -2.27). Enriched pathways involved nuclear factor kappa-b (NF-κB), heat-shock protein, and Wingless/Integrated (Wnt) signaling. Models including 6-7 dysregulated proteins (e.g., CHUK and INSL3) achieved AUCs>0.9, with sensitivities >0.90 and specificities >0.70.These discovery-based findings warrant validation in larger cohorts and suggest potential for blood-based protein panel detection of early, clinically silent, pre-pathological accelerated brain aging changes when interventions may be most effective.Copyright © 2026 Gill, Lim, Esopenko, Yun, Yun, Dark, Alice, Kenney, Hentig, Pugh, Walker, Cifu, de Souza, Dennis and Wilde.
To explore the associations between peripheral blood whole-genome DNA methylation and obesity in young Chinese males.Four young Chinese males aged 18-25 years with obesity (body mass index [BMI] ≥ 30 kg/m2) from Liuzhou Peoples Hospital Health Management Center and 3 age-matched healthy controls with average weights were included. Methylation sequencing was conducted using whole-blood DNA extraction and an Illumina 850K methylation chip, followed by gene functional annotation, pathway enrichment analysis, and differential analysis using bioinformatics tools.MethylTarget technology was utilized for the methylation sequencing of 35 patients with obesity and 34 healthy controls, revealing 15 differential sites, two differential regions, and three differential genes. The differential regions included cg08667244 (site region 1stExon) and cg13928759 (site region TSS200, p < 0.05), with the differential genes being cg08667244 (corresponding to iodothyronine deiodinase 3, DIO3), cg13928759 (corresponding to leucine-rich glioma inactivated 1, LGI1), and cg18770216 (corresponding to integrin beta 5, ITGB5, p < 0.05). Further analysis revealed a negative correlation between cg13928759 methylation (LGI1 gene) and body mass index (R = -0.25; P = 0.04).This study revealed 15 differential sites, two differential regions, and three differential genes between young individuals with obesity and healthy controls, among which cg13928759 methylation (LGI1 gene) was negatively correlated with body mass index. These findings suggest that DNA methylation may contribute to obesity development, with LGI1 methylation serving as a potential biomarker.
5,10-Methenyltetrahydrofolate synthetase (MTHFS) deficiency is an ultra-rare autosomal recessive inborn error of folate metabolism caused by biallelic pathogenic variants in the MTHFS gene and associated with a severe neurodevelopmental disorder.Patients with molecularly confirmed MTHFS deficiency were identified through a comprehensive search of the PubMed database. A total of 12 patients from 10 unrelated families, including our patient, were analyzed. Demographic data, clinical features, biochemical findings, neuroimaging and electrophysiological results, molecular genetic characteristics, treatment responses, and outcomes were systematically compared.The disorder showed a pan-ethnic distribution. All patients presented with symptoms during the neonatal and/or infantile period. Clinical features included severe global developmental delay, microcephaly, hypotonia, growth retardation, mild dysmorphic features, and epilepsy. The male-to-female ratio was 1:1, and parental consanguinity was reported in 30 % of families. Laboratory findings revealed macrocytic anemia, hyperhomocysteinemia, and mildly reduced or low-normal cerebrospinal fluid 5-methyltetrahydrofolate levels. Brain magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated cerebral hypomyelination, thinning of the corpus callosum, cerebellar atrophy, vermian hypoplasia, and T2 hypointensity of the basal ganglia. Homozygous variants were identified in 60 % of patients, and missense variants accounted for 50 % of all detected variants. A total of 12 distinct pathogenic variants were reported, with c.434G>A p.(Arg145Gln) being the most recurrent (4/20 alleles, 20 %). Despite metabolic treatment, no significant clinical improvement was observed. Two patients (17 %) died at an early age, while the remaining patients exhibited severe neurodevelopmental impairment.MTHFS deficiency should be considered in the differential diagnosis of patients presenting with severe developmental delay and microcephaly accompanied by isolated hyperhomocysteinemia.© 2026 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.
Acinar-to-ductal metaplasia (ADM) contributes to pancreatic repair after injury1. However, persistent ADM, combined with KRAS mutation, leads to the development of precancerous pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PanIN) that can progress into pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC)2. While PDAC development is well documented, the metabolic rewiring that occurs during early events such as ADM is poorly understood. Here we show that aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member L2 (ALDH1L2), an NADPH-producing mitochondrial enzyme of the one-carbon pathway, limits reactive oxygen species (ROS) and formate production in pancreatic acinar cells. However, ALDH1L2 expression decreases progressively during ADM and is completely absent in pancreatic ductal cells. ALDH1L2 loss elevates ROS and promotes ADM in a model of pancreatitis and accelerates tumour progression in models of pancreatic cancer. We also show that formate increases during PDAC progression in mice and humans. Overall, our findings identify ROS as a driver of ADM and suggest that circulating formate may serve as a biomarker for PDAC progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
While androgen receptor (AR) pathway inhibitors such as enzalutamide have demonstrated significant therapeutic efficacy in prostate cancer (PCa) treatment, the inevitable development of acquired resistance continues to pose a major clinical challenge in managing advanced PCa. We characterized Neurexophilin 4 (NXPH4) as a contributor to enzalutamide resistance (EnzR). Gain- and loss-of-function studies were conducted in PCa cell lines and mouse subcutaneous xenograft models to elucidate the role of NXPH4 in castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). Additionally, the regulatory mechanisms of gene expression were assessed using a series of molecular and biochemical experiments. Our study demonstrates that AR as a transcriptional activator of NXPH4. Elevated NXPH4 expression facilitated PCa proliferation under enzalutamide treatment through mitochondrial metabolic reprogramming. We identified that NXPH4 partially localizes to mitochondria and physically interacts with aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member L2 (ALDH1L2), a critical enzyme in one-carbon metabolism. Androgen deprivation stimulated NXPH4 mitochondrial translocation and enhanced its binding to ALDH1L2. NXPH4-mediated metabolic reprogramming promotes PCa progression. Notably, the combination of NXPH4 knockdown and enzalutamide treatment showed potent synergistic effects, significantly suppressing cell proliferation in vitro and substantially inhibiting tumor growth in vivo. These findings reveal a previously unrecognized mechanism of EnzR and identify the NXPH4-ALDH1L2 complex as a promising therapeutic target for CRPC treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sepsis is a leading cause of acute lung injury worldwide; however, the contribution of ferroptosis, an iron-dependent form of regulated cell death, to sepsis-associated acute lung injury (SALI) remains poorly understood. In this study, we established in vitro and in vivo models of SALI using lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to explore the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms. Human pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells or mice were treated according to experimental groupings with the mitochondrial division inhibitor 1 (Mdivi-1), the autophagy inhibitor 3-methyladenine (3-MA), the specific forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) inhibitor AS1842856 (AS18), phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K/AKT) signaling pathway activator Insulin-like Growth Factor I (IGF-1) or dipeptidase 1 (DPEP1) short hairpin RNA. Ferroptosis, mitochondrial quality control (MQC), and inflammatory responses were evaluated using hematoxylin and eosin staining, immunofluorescence, lung wet/dry weight ratio, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, western blotting, reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction, chromatin immunoprecipitation quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and RNA sequencing. DPEP1 knockdown significantly attenuated LPS-induced inflammation, oxidative stress, and ferroptosis in pulmonary endothelial cells. In LPS-treated human pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells, DPEP1 knockdown preserved MQC, as demonstrated by a shift from mitochondrial fission to fusion, reduced mitophagy, and improved fatty acid β-oxidation. Mechanistically, RNA sequencing analysis revealed that DPEP1 knockdown inhibited the phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein kinase B signaling pathway, decreasing FOXO1 phosphorylation and promoting its nuclear translocation. This led to upregulation of aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member L2 transcription, improvement of fatty acid β-oxidation, stabilization of mitochondrial quality, and reduction of ferroptosis. Inhibition of FOXO1 with AS18 reversed these protective effects. Furthermore, combining DPEP1 knockdown with Mdivi-1 or 3-MA synergistically suppressed ferroptosis and oxidative stress. Overall, the results of this study demonstrate that DPEP1 modulates MQC likely through the FOXO1/ALDH1L2 axis to counteract ferroptosis. Targeting DPEP1 via knockdown offers a promising therapeutic approach for SALI, and when combined with Mdivi-1 and 3-MA, this strategy produces a synergistic protective effect against ferroptosis.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
During perinatal period, some women limit caffeine intake to 300mg/day, following the WHO recommendation. Previously, using an animal model of low perinatal caffeine exposure, correspondent to 250mg/day for human, we observed a deleterious effect on thyroid hormone (TH), with low total T3 in dams and weaned male pups and high T3 in adult offspring of both sexes. The hypothesis of the present study is that this phenotype results from alterations in TH synthesis and metabolism. Pregnant Wistar rats received vehicle or caffeine (CAF, 25mg/kg/day) by gavage during gestation and lactation. We evaluated markers of TH synthesis in dams and offspring, such as gland morphology and mRNA expression. Here, at birth, CAF males presented higher total T4 (+96%; P < .05) and unchanged total T3 and TSH. At weaning, CAF dams presented only lower TSH. CAF male offspring presented lower colloid area, CAF female offspring presented greater thyroid epithelial height, and both sexes presented unchanged mRNA expression of TH synthesis markers, such as thyroid stimulating hormone receptor (Tshr), sodium-iodine symporter (Nis), thyroperoxidase (Tpo), dual oxidase (Duox), NADP oxidase 2 (Nox2) and iodothyronine deiodinase 1 (Dio1). Adult CAF males presented greater epithelial area, downregulation of Nis mRNA expression, and higher hepatic Dio1 mRNA expression. However, CAF females presented higher TSH, although genes of TH synthesis were downregulated. Perinatal low caffeine exposure promotes temporal adaptive changes in the pituitary-thyroid axis, thyroid gland and peripheral TH metabolism of offspring, supporting our hypothesis. These modifications contribute to changes in TH levels in an age- and sex-dependent manner.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Seasonal transitions in avian reproductive cycles are governed by neuroendocrine adaptability. The molecular mechanisms behind seasonal regulation are still not fully understood in many species and remain an important area of ongoing research. Despite recognizing the importance of regulatory genes, gaps persist in comprehending the exact molecular processes that control the transitions between different reproductive phases. We investigated the expression patterns of Tsh-β (Thyroid-stimulating hormone subunit beta), Dio2 (Iodothyronine deiodinase 2), Dio3 (Iodothyronine deiodinase 3), and GnRH-I (Gonadotropin-releasing hormone I) mRNAs in regulating reproduction in both sexes of the Eurasian tree sparrow (Passer montanus). Adult tree sparrows (n = 4 for each sex) were procured from the wild, and mRNA expression of Tsh-β, Dio2, Dio3, and GnRH-I, along with gonadal size and body weight, was examined on a monthly basis for 1 year. Results revealed distinct annual cycles of Tsh-β, Dio2, Dio3, and GnRH-I mRNA expression and gonadal size in both sexes. Significantly higher expressions of Tsh-β, Dio2, and GnRH-I mRNA were observed during the breeding phase (April-May), while Dio3 expression was reported higher during the non-breeding phase. The synchronization in the pattern of increase in the Tsh-β, Dio2, and GnRH-I during the breeding phase is associated with gonadal growth, suggesting their potential involvement in regulating seasonal reproduction in tree sparrows. Thus, the control of the reproductive cycle in tree sparrows involves the actions of Tsh-β and Dio2/Dio3 leading to the activation and deactivation of GnRH-I via the HPG (hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal) axis.© 2025 British Society for Neuroendocrinology.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental condition characterized by behavioral impairments and limited therapeutic options. Emerging evidence suggests that plant-derived polyphenols may offer neuroprotective benefits.This pilot study aimed to investigate the therapeutic potential of polyphenol-rich cocoa extract in a valproic acid (VPA)-induced zebrafish model of ASD.Zebrafish were exposed to 3 μM VPA, cocoa powder providing 2.5 μM (-)-epicatechin, a combination of both, or left untreated. Behavioral phenotyping was conducted using DanioVision and gut morphology was assessed. Untargeted metabolomic and proteomic profiling was performed followed by univariate and multivariate analyses.VPA exposure induced ASD-like behavioral hyperactivity, and severe gastrointestinal abnormalities. Cocoa co-treatment ameliorated both behavioral performance and gut architecture. Metabolomic profiling revealed VPA-associated disruptions in neurotransmission, methylation, mitochondrial function and redox homeostasis. Proteomic profiling showed elevated levels of trafficking protein particle complex subunit 11, proteasomal ubiquitin receptor, betaine-homocysteine S-methyltransferase 1 (BHMT-1), and desmoplakin-A, consistent with genotoxic stress and impaired protein trafficking. Cocoa co-treatment normalized BHMT-1 and desmoplakin-A expression and mitigated broader metabolic dysregulation.Collectively, these results suggest that polyphenol-rich cocoa may represent a promising multi-targeted nutraceutical approach for mitigating ASD-related neurodevelopmental and metabolic disturbances.© 2026. The Author(s).
In mammals, chemerin and its receptor CMKLR1 might be downstream effectors in response to a long photoperiod in the ependymal cells lining the third ventricle in rats. Iodothyronine deiodinase 2 (DIO2) is a main product of the involvement of TSH in photoperiodic signaling. Thus, the potential interplay of TSH and chemerin/CMKLR1 signaling might exist during photoperiodic changes. Our study aimed to investigate whether chemerin/CMKLR1 signaling could stimulate DIO2 production and how TSH could affect chemerin/CMKLR1 signaling in primary rat ependymal cells. Colocalization of chemerin with its receptor, CMKLR1, was observed using immunohistochemistry assay. The expression of chemerin and CMKLR1 was identified using real-time PCR and western blot analysis, respectively. DIO2 expression, which involves a dual signaling pathway (an increase in cAMP levels and phosphorylation of ERK1/2), was detected by western blot assay and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Our study showed the potential interaction between chemerin and CMKLR1 in primary rat ependymal cells. TSH could upregulate the expression of chemerin and CMKLR1 in chemerin-pretreated primary ependymal cells. In vitro treatment of primary ependymal cells with chemerin (10 ng/mL) or TSH (60 mIU/mL) could induce an increase in cAMP levels, ERK1/2 phosphorylation and DIO2 expression. Furthermore, we found that TSH could promote the effect of chemerin/CMKLR1 signaling on DIO2 production through an increase in cAMP levels and the phosphorylation of ERK1/2. We concluded that chemerin/CMKLR1 signaling could enhance DIO2 activity in primary rat ependymal cells in vitro, and this effect could be promoted by TSH through cAMP and phosphorylation of ERK1/2.Chemerin/CMKLR1 interaction in primary rat ependymal cells is discussed. Chemerin/CMKLR1 signals through cAMP and ERK phosphorylation to induce deiodinase 2 expression in primary ependymal cells. TSH promotes the effect of chemerin/CMKLR1 signaling on deiodinase 2 expression.
N-Lactoyl-phenylalanine (Lac-Phe), identified in 2022 as an exercise-inducible signaling metabolite, is formed by carnosine dipeptidase 2 via conjugation of lactate and phenylalanine. Its circulating levels rise sharply after intense exercise in mice, humans, and racehorses, reflecting increased glycolytic flux. Beyond exercise, Lac-Phe also rises with feeding and metformin, positioning it as a potential integrator of energy intake, expenditure, and metabolic homeostasis. Centrally, Lac-Phe may contribute to appetite suppression by inhibiting hypothalamic orexigenic agouti-related protein neurons, primarily observed in obese rodent models, while sparing anorexigenic pro-opiomelanocortin neurons, thereby reducing food intake, promoting weight loss, and improving glucose tolerance in obese models without altering energy expenditure. Peripherally, it drives anti-inflammatory M2 macrophage polarization, ameliorating colitis and aiding recovery after spinal cord injury via NF-κB suppression and reactive oxygen species reduction. As a biomarker, Lac-Phe may offer advantages over lactate in reflecting mitochondrial dysfunction in conditions such as MELAS, sepsis, and NADH-reductive stress; however, these observations derive mainly from small-scale or exploratory studies and require prospective validation. Recent studies from 2024 to 2025 further reveal its partial and context-dependent role in mediating metformin's effects, intensity- and sex-dependent responses, renal clearance via SLC17A1/3 transporters, and links to exercise-induced redox adaptations. The first human phase I trial (NCT06743009), launched in 2025, is assessing the metabolic effects of Lac-Phe in obesity. This Perspective summarizes Lac-Phe biosynthesis, physiological mechanisms, including its emerging but largely correlative connections to redox homeostasis, and therapeutic promise, underscoring its potential relevance for exercise-mimicking strategies in metabolic, inflammatory, and redox-related disorders.
Sepsis is a life-threatening dysregulated host response to infection, lacks effective therapies. ChaC glutathione-specific γ-glutamylcyclotransferase 1 (CHAC1) is elevated in sepsis and correlates with severity, but its functional role in the pathogenesis of sepsis-induced organ damage is unclear.We aimed to define the contribution of CHAC1 to sepsis-induced organ injury and elucidate the underlying mechanisms involving gut microbiota-derived metabolites and host immunity.Chac1-/- mice were subjected to LPS-induced endotoxemia to evaluate organ injury. The gut microbiota's role was defined by 16S rRNA gene sequencing, microbiota depletion and fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT). The effect of microbiota-derived metabolite indole-3-carboxylic acid (ICA) was assessed in vivo. Underlying mechanisms were investigated via macrophage depletion, AHR pharmacological/genetic inhibition, and in vitro studies with RAW264.7 cells and bone marrow-derived macrophages.Serum CHAC1 was elevated in septic patients and mice, correlating with disease severity. Chac1 deficiency protected against sepsis-induced multi-organ injury, an effect that was gut microbiota-dependent. Chac1-/- mice exhibited a remodeled gut microbiota, with enrichment of Akkermansia muciniphila and increased levels of the tryptophan metabolite ICA. Exogenous ICA or A. muciniphila supplementation recapitulated the protective phenotype. ICA treatment improved survival, attenuated inflammation, and reduced organ injury by activating the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) in macrophages. This was evidenced by AHR nuclear translocation, and siRNA-mediated AHR knockdown abolished ICA's effects. ICA reprogrammed macrophage metabolism, inhibiting glycolysis (reduced lactate) and enhancing oxidative phosphorylation (increased ATP, oxygen consumption rate), leading to suppressed pro-inflammatory responses.Chac1 deficiency confers sepsis resistance by enriching protective gut microbiota and elevating ICA, which acts as a major downstream effector. ICA activates the AHR in macrophages, driving a metabolic shift from glycolysis to oxidative phosphorylation that dampens inflammation and organ injury. This CHAC1-microbiota-ICA-AHR-macrophage axis identifies ICA as a promising therapeutic candidate and CHAC1 as a potential prognostic biomarker for sepsis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is associated with increased expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ, Pparg) and reduced expression of genes involved in methionine metabolism in the liver. The nuclear receptor PPARγ is activated by fatty acids, and the knockout of Pparg in hepatocytes (Pparg ΔHep) reduced the negative effects of MASH on methionine metabolism. Here, we sought to determine whether hepatocyte Pparg is required for the transcriptional regulation of genes involved in hepatic methionine metabolism in conditions with altered fatty acid flux to the liver: fasting, refeeding, and high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity/steatosis. Fasting induced liver steatosis and increased the expression of key genes involved in the methionine metabolism in the liver, while 6h-refeeding reversed these effects and reduced the expression of phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (Pemt) and cystathionine beta synthase (Cbs). Overall, fasting and refeeding did not alter hepatocyte Pparg expression nor Pparg ΔHep affected fasting and refeeding-mediated regulation of methionine metabolism gene expression. Diet-induced steatosis reduced hepatic Pemt expression in control (Pparg-intact) mice, and the thiazolidinedione (TZD)-mediated activation of PPARγ in diet-induced obese control (Pparg-intact) mice reduced the expression of betaine homocysteine S-methyltransferase (Bhmt) and Cbs. However, diet-induced steatosis increased hepatocyte Pparg expression, and Pparg ΔHep blocked the negative effects of HFD and TZD on hepatic methionine metabolism. The PPARγ-dependent reduction of hepatic Bhmt and Cbs expression was confirmed in mouse primary hepatocytes. Taken together, hepatocyte Pparg may serve as a negative regulator of hepatic methionine metabolism in diet-induced obese mice and these actions could contribute to promoting the onset of MASH.
Betaine homocysteine S-methyltransferase (BHMT) is crucial in the regulation of various metabolic disorders by managing the elimination of homocysteine (Hcy). However, the function of the BHMT-Hcy regulatory axis in diabetic cataract is not yet fully understood. The objective of this research was to explore the regulatory effects of the BHMT-Hcy axis on diabetic cataracts and its potential molecular mechanisms via in vivo and in vitro models. Diabetic cataract models were established in vivo via streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats and in vitro via lens epithelial cells exposed to high glucose (HG). Western blotting demonstrated reduced BHMT levels in both models, alongside a concomitant elevation in Hcy concentrations. Lens epithelial cells were transduced with recombinant adenovirus to induce either BHMT overexpression or silencing. A series of biological assays, including CCK-8, TUNEL, and oxidative stress assays, were subsequently conducted to evaluate the effects of BHMT on HG–induced cellular injury. BHMT overexpression in lens epithelial cells exposed to HG increased viability from 46.7 ± 4.2% to 84.6 ± 6.4% and decreased the percentage of apoptotic cells from 34.3 ± 4.8% to 11.2 ± 3.5%. Measurements of oxidative stress revealed that BHMT overexpression lowered ROS and MDA levels while increasing SOD levels. Western blotting analysis demonstrated that BHMT overexpression inhibited both epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) induced by HG in lens epithelial cells. Notably, these protective effects of BHMT were reversed by the addition of Hcy. Additionally, BHMT silencing exacerbated HG-induced cellular injury, which could be alleviated through treatment with ERS inhibitors. In vivo, BHMT overexpression was achieved in rats via intravitreal injection of adeno-associated virus. Slit-lamp examination revealed that BHMT overexpression significantly decreased the cataract grade score from 3.2 ± 0.5 to 2.2 ± 0.3 in diabetic cataract model rats. Consistently, western blotting and biological assays in lens tissue demonstrated that BHMT overexpression suppressed ERS and oxidative stress in the diabetic cataract model. Collectively, our findings suggest that BHMT reduces Hcy levels, thereby inhibiting ERS and subsequent HG-induced cellular injury, ultimately delaying cataract progression. This research not only provides new insights into the pathogenesis of diabetic cataracts but also identifies BHMT as a promising therapeutic target for its prevention and management.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains one of the leading causes of cancer‑related mortality worldwide. Despite advances in targeted therapies, drug resistance and limited efficacy in KRAS‑mutant CRC continue to present clinical challenges. Antrodia cinnamomea, a medicinal fungus, demonstrates antitumor properties; however, the mechanisms of its triterpenoid compound, 4‑acetylantrocamol LT3 (LT4), remain unclear. The present study investigated the effects of LT4 on KRAS‑mutant HCT116 CRC cells using cell viability, colony formation and migration assays. Western blotting was also employed to examine key signaling pathways. Transcriptome profiling via RNA sequencing was followed by Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes/Gene Ontology enrichment and protein‑protein interaction network analyses using STRING, CytoHubba and Molecular Complex Detection (MCODE). Molecular docking with PI3Kγ (PDB: 1E7U) was conducted to evaluate the predicted binding position and docking energy of LT4. The results indicated that LT4 significantly inhibited HCT116 cell proliferation and migration, induced a mesenchymal‑to‑epithelial transition, suppressed PI3K/AKT/mTOR and ERK signaling and activated the GSK3β/FOXO and phosphorylated‑p38/p21 axes. LT4 also reduced the levels of cyclooxygenase‑2 and anti‑apoptotic proteins (Bcl‑2 and Bcl‑XL) and reduced the expression of the mitochondrial respiratory chain protein cytochrome c oxidase subunit IV. Transcriptomic analysis identified the PI3K/AKT pathway as the most significantly enriched signaling cascade. Network topology analyses highlighted solute carrier family 3 member 2, Cyclin D1, phosphoserine aminotransferase 1 and ChaC glutathione‑specific γ‑glutamylcyclotransferase 1 as central nodes, linking the effects of LT4 to nutrient signaling, redox homeostasis and serine metabolism. Molecular docking confirmed that LT4 stably occupied the ATP‑binding pocket of PI3Kγ with a binding energy comparable to wortmannin and a conformation similar to antroquinonol. In conclusion, to the best of our knowledge, the present study is the first to comprehensively demonstrate the multi‑target anti‑CRC effects of LT4, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic agent, especially in KRAS‑mutant CRC.
The well-established tumor suppressor, Breast Cancer Susceptibility Gene 1 (BRCA1), has been implicated in lipid metabolism and in paradoxically promoting hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); yet its mechanistic role remains unknown. Here we show murine hepatic Brca1 loss protected against fatty liver, glucose intolerance and tumor development. Using single nuclear RNA sequencing, we found betaine-homocysteine S-methyltransferase (Bhmt) was suppressed with Brca1-deficiency. Concomitant knockdown of BRCA1 and BHMT in human hepatoma cells revealed additive accumulation of DNA double strand breaks and increased susceptibility to cell death. In our mouse model and human hepatoma cells, BHMT repression with BRCA1-deficiency was associated with downregulation of choline metabolism, an emerging hallmark of cancer. Metabolomics in hepatic Brca1-deficient mice further revealed related disruptions in choline metabolism. Together, our data show hepatic Brca1-deficiency protected against tumor formation by inducing cell death through exacerbating DNA damage and suppressing choline metabolism by inhibiting Bhmt expression, challenging the role of BRCA1 solely as a tumor suppressor.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, represents a substantial global health burden, and the therapeutic efficacy of radiotherapy remains highly variable among patients with the condition. Metabolic alterations, particularly in lipid metabolism, may modulate radiosensitivity, although the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. The present study investigated the impact of fatty acid uptake on radiosensitivity in HCC using the Huh7 cell line. Oleic acid (OA), a monounsaturated fatty acid, was used to induce intracellular lipid accumulation. Flow cytometry analyses revealed that OA treatment (1 mM; 18 h) considerably increased lipid content without inducing cytotoxicity. When combined with X-ray irradiation (10 Gy), OA pretreatment considerably enhanced cell death, as indicated by an increased proportion of propidium iodide-positive cells. This effect was associated with elevated levels of lipid hydroperoxides and reactive oxygen species, suggesting oxidative stress-mediated mechanisms. Furthermore, mRNA expression analyses revealed marked upregulation of ChaC glutathione specific γ-glutamylcyclotransferase 1, a gene involved in glutathione degradation and ferroptosis, in OA-treated cells. The expression levels of glutathione peroxidase 4 and glutamate-cysteine ligase catalytic subunit, key antioxidant defense genes, were also upregulated by OA and irradiation. These findings indicate that OA-induced lipid accumulation sensitized HCC cells to radiation through enhanced oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation. However, as the present study was based on an in vitro model using a single cell line, the potential clinical relevance of these findings remains speculative and requires further validation in in vivo models and clinical studies.Copyright © 2026, Spandidos Publications.
Loss of cardiomyocytes during hypoxia-reoxygenation injury contributes to adverse myocardial remodeling, resulting in hypertrophy of surviving cardiomyocytes, interstitial fibrosis, and ultimately, heart dysfunction. Despite extensive research in the field, there is currently no specific treatment available for myocardial hypoxia-reoxygenation injury to prevent cardiomyocyte death. Prenylcysteine oxidase 1 (PCYOX1) is a pro-oxidant, FAD-dependent thioether oxidase that generates hydrogen peroxide during prenylcysteine metabolism, but its role in cardiomyocytes is poorly defined. Here, using HL-1 cardiomyocytes stably silenced for Pcyox1, we show that PCYOX1 contributes to both basal and stress-induced oxidative burden and cell death. Pcyox1 silencing reduced reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels at baseline and blunted the ROS increase during ischaemic/hypoxic stress. Consistently, Pcyox1 silencing decreased apoptosis after prolonged ischaemic/hypoxic exposure. Quantitative proteomics of whole-cell lysates and isolated mitochondria revealed coordinated remodeling of pathways involved in energy buffering and contractile machinery, including increased abundance of mitochondrial creatine kinases (CKMT1/CKMT2), acetyl-CoA synthetase 2-like (ACSS1), and multiple myosin components, changes that persisted under ischaemic/hypoxic stress and after reoxygenation. Overall, these data identify PCYOX1 as a modulator of redox homeostasis and proteomic adaptation in cardiomyocytes and support PCYOX1 inhibition as a potential strategy to limit hypoxia-reoxygenation-associated injury.© 2026 The Author(s). The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Methylprednisolone (mPSL) pulse therapy is an essential treatment for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE); however, it carries a risk of osteonecrosis of the femoral head (ONFH). The pathogenesis of ONFH involves neutrophil extracellular trap (NET)-mediated microcirculation disorders. In BALB/c mice with imiquimod (IMQ)-induced lupus, mPSL pulse elevated serum levels of prenylcysteine oxidase 1 (PCYOX1), an enzyme that produces NET inducers hydrogen peroxide and farnesal, resulting in increased NETs in vivo. Although ischemia was observed in the femoral head, IMQ + mPSL-treated BALB/c mice did not develop ONFH. PCYOX1 is abundant in very-low-density lipoproteins. This study aimed to demonstrate that hyperlipidemia exacerbates NET-mediated microcirculation disorders and leads to ONFH development following mPSL pulse in lupus mice. To address this, ApoE mutant hyperlipidemic and BALB/c mice with IMQ-induced lupus received mPSL pulse. NET-forming neutrophils in peripheral blood were detected by flow cytometry. ONFH was assessed microscopically. As a result, IMQ + mPSL-treated ApoE mutant but not BALB/c mice developed ONFH, exhibiting higher levels of PCYOX1 and NET-forming neutrophils in circulation. In addition, NET-forming neutrophils accumulated in the vessels surrounding the femoral head, accompanied by osteocyte necrosis. This study demonstrated that mPSL pulse in lupus mice with hyperlipidemia enhanced PCYOX1 levels and NET formation, resulting in ONFH development, suggesting that hyperlipidemia may be a risk factor for ONFH following mPSL pulse therapy in SLE.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
The modulation of neurotransmitter receptor density is an important molecular mechanism underlying synaptic plasticity. Acid-sensing ion channel 1a (ASIC1a), a receptor for protons, plays an important role in synaptic transmission. In this study, we used high-resolution proteomic analysis to identify prenylcysteine oxidase 1 like (PCYOX1L) as a hitherto unknown interaction partner of ASIC1a. We found that PCYOX1L is a secreted protein that promotes ASIC1a assembly. PCYOX1L was indispensable for ASIC1a expression in the plasma membrane and synaptosomes, and the genetic deletion of PCYOX1L severely impaired hippocampal long-term potentiation. Endocytosed PCYOX1L promoted plasma membrane expression of ASIC1a, and PCYOX1L secreted from astrocytes induced ASIC1a activity in neurons. Our findings reveal that a secreted protein, PCYOX1L, is a checkpoint for the plasma membrane expression of a synaptic ion channel.
The CHA2DS2-VASc score, used to assess the risk of left atrial appendage thrombus (LAAT) formation in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF), has limited predictive value. Moreover, transesophageal echocardiography imaging, the gold standard diagnostic method to identify thrombi, is semi-invasive. Consequently, there is a need for alternative and noninvasive diagnostic methods for LAAT risk assessment.Deep proteomic analysis was conducted in plasma samples from 8 patients with nonvalvular AF, divided into thrombus and control groups (4 patients in each group) based on the presence or absence of LAAT. Biomarkers associated with LAAT were validated using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in a cohort of 179 patients with available clinical, transthoracic, and transesophageal echocardiography data. Predictive models were developed to assess the improvement in LAAT identification.The LAAT group had higher CHA2DS2-VASc scores, larger LA diameter, and lower LAA flow velocities. Deep proteomic analysis identified 30 differentially expressed proteins, including myosin light chain 4, prenylcysteine oxidase 1 (PCYOX1), and decorin as potential diagnostic biomarkers of LAAT. The model showed that PCYOX1 and decorin provided an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.970 for LAAT prediction compared with 0.672 in a model including the CHA2DS2-VASc score and LAA cauliflower morphology. The incremental value of proteomic biomarkers for LAAT in patients with nonvalvular AF was further confirmed with the net reclassification improvement and integrated discrimination improvement indices.Protein levels of PCYOX1 and decorin improve the predictive performance for LAAT in patients with nonvalvular AF.Copyright © 2024 Sociedad Española de Cardiología. Published by Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.
Despite data showing that nutritional interventions high in antioxidant/anti-inflammatory properties (anthocyanin-rich foods, such as blueberries/elderberries) may decrease risk of memory loss and cognitive decline, evidence for such effects in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is limited. This study examined preliminary effects of American elderberry (Sambucus nigra subsp. canadensis) juice on cognition and inflammatory markers in patients with MCI. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, patients with MCI (n = 24, Mage = 76.33 ± 6.95) received American elderberry (n = 11) or placebo (n = 13) juice (5 mL orally 3 times a day) for 6 months. At baseline, 3 months, and 6 months, patients completed tasks measuring global cognition, verbal memory, language, visuospatial cognitive flexibility/problem solving, and memory. A subsample (n = 12, 7 elderberry/5 placebo) provided blood samples to measure serum inflammatory markers. Multilevel models examined effects of the condition (elderberry/placebo), time (baseline/3 months/6 months), and condition by time interactions on cognition/inflammation outcomes. Attrition rates for elderberry (18%) and placebo (15%) conditions were fairly low. The dosage compliance (elderberry-97%; placebo-97%) and completion of cognitive (elderberry-88%; placebo-87%) and blood-based (elderberry-100%; placebo-100%) assessments was high. Elderberry (not placebo) trended (p = 0.09) towards faster visuospatial problem solving performance from baseline to 6 months. For the elderberry condition, there were significant or significantly trending decreases over time across several markers of low-grade peripheral inflammation, including vasorin, prenylcysteine oxidase 1, and complement Factor D. Only one inflammatory marker showed an increase over time (alpha-2-macroglobin). In contrast, for the placebo, several inflammatory marker levels increased across time (L-lactate dehydrogenase B chain, complement Factor D), with one showing deceased levels over time (L-lactate dehydrogenase A chain). Daily elderberry juice consumption in patients with MCI is feasible and well tolerated and may provide some benefit to visuospatial cognitive flexibility. Preliminary findings suggest elderberry juice may reduce low-grade inflammation compared to a placebo-control. These promising findings support the need for larger, more definitive prospective studies with longer follow-ups to better understand mechanisms of action and the clinical utility of elderberries for potentially mitigating cognitive decline.
Methylprednisolone (mPSL) pulse therapy is an essential option for patients with active systemic lupus erythematosus, but there is a risk of adverse events related to microcirculation disorders, including idiopathic osteonecrosis of the femoral head (ONFH). Recent studies have revealed that excessive neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are involved in microcirculation disorders. This study aimed to demonstrate that mPSL pulse could induce NETs in lupus mice and identify the factors contributing to this induction.Six mice with imiquimod (IMQ)-induced lupus-like disease and six normal mice were intraperitoneally injected with mPSL on days 39 to 41, and five mice with IMQ-induced lupus-like disease and six normal mice were injected with phosphate-buffered saline. Pathological examinations were conducted to evaluate the ischaemic state of the femoral head and tissue infiltration of NET-forming neutrophils. Proteome analysis was performed to extract plasma proteins specifically elevated in mPSL-administered mice with IMQ-induced lupus-like disease, and their effects on NET formation were assessed in vitro.Mice with IMQ-induced lupus-like disease that received mPSL pulse demonstrated ischaemia of the femoral head cartilage with tissue infiltration of NET-forming neutrophils. Proteome analysis suggested that prenylcysteine oxidase 1 (PCYOX1) played a role in this phenomenon. The reaction of PCYOX1-containing very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL) with its substrate farnesylcysteine (FC) induced NETs in vitro. The combined addition of IMQ and mPSL synergistically enhanced VLDL-plus-FC-induced NET formation.PCYOX1 and related factors are worthy of attention to understand the underlying mechanisms and create novel therapeutic strategies for mPSL-mediated microcirculation disorders, including ONFH.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.
Early detection of noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) in patients with long-term noise exposure is vital for improving public health and reducing social burden. However, at present, the diagnosis of NIHL mainly depends on audiometric testing, and the primary test is pure-tone audiometry. Moreover, testing requires professional operators and complex equipment; thus, NIHL is often diagnosed at a later disease stage. Using a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS)-based proteomic approach, we identified 9 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), namely, 6 upregulated serum proteins and 3 downregulated serum proteins, in samples from 50 ground crew personnel working at an air force station. Then, according to the results, we predicted that caldesmon (CALD1), myocilin (MYOC), zyxin (ZYX), creatine kinase M-type (CKM), insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 2 (IGFBP2), complement factor H-related protein 4 (CFHR4), prenylcysteine oxidase 1 (PCYOX1), heat shock cognate 71 kDa protein (HSPA8), and immunoglobulin lambda variable 3-21 (IGLV3-21) were associated with NIHL. We selected these DEPs as variables to perform logistic regression. Finally, a logistic regression model was constructed based on IGFBP2, ZYX, CKM, and CFHR4. The area under the curve was 0.894 (95% CI = 0.812 to 0.977). These findings suggested that IGFBP2, ZYX, CKM, and CFHR4 in serum are differentially expressed in NIHL patients and have the potential to be biomarkers for predicting the risk for NIHL. Further experiments in mice showed that ZYX and IGFBP2 in the cochlear were increased after noise exposure. ZYX and IGFBP2 may be involved in the occurrence and development of NIHL.© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
The bactericidal function of neutrophils is dependent on a myriad of intrinsic and extrinsic stimuli. Using systems immunology approaches we identify microbiome- and infection-induced changes in neutrophils. We focus on investigating the Prenylcysteine oxidase 1 like (Pcyox1l) protein function. Murine and human Pcyox1l proteins share ninety four percent aminoacid homology revealing significant evolutionary conservation and implicating Pcyox1l in mediating important biological functions. Here we show that the loss of Pcyox1l protein results in significant reductions in the mevalonate pathway impacting autophagy and cellular viability under homeostatic conditions. Concurrently, Pcyox1l CRISPRed-out neutrophils exhibit deficient bactericidal properties. Pcyox1l knock-out mice demonstrate significant susceptibility to infection with the gram-negative pathogen Psuedomonas aeruginosa exemplified through increased neutrophil infiltrates, hemorrhaging, and reduced bactericidal functionality. Cumulatively, we ascribe a function to Pcyox1l protein in modulation of the prenylation pathway and suggest connections beween metabolic responses and neutrophil functionality.© 2023. The Author(s).
Peptidyl arginine deiminase 4 (PAD4) is previously known for its role in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) through its facilitation of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) by citrullinating histones. However, the specific citrullinated substrates have not been fully elucidated, especially non-histones. By performing citrullination mapping, we unraveled the involvement of cathepsin H (CTSH), a novel substrate of PAD4, which undergoes citrullination at the R315 site. Then the citrullination of CTSH obviously altered its molecular conformation and subsequently reduced its enzymatic activity, which significantly boosted the formation of NETs. Consistently, CTSH knockout mice demonstrated exacerbated colonic inflammation and higher levels of NETs, which might be achieved by activating the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K-Akt) signaling pathway. These findings underscore the critical role of CTSH in IBD pathogenesis and position it as a potential therapeutic target, highlighting the complex interplay among PAD4, CTSH, and IBD.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Mitochondria, as crucial organelles in eukaryotic cells, are deeply involved in cellular energy metabolism and biogenesis. Currently, mitochondria have been found to transfer between cells and regulate a range of cellular functions and research has found that mitochondrial transfer has been shown to play an important role in regulating bone homeostasis.Laser confocal imaging was used to confirm the occurrence of mitochondrial transfer between cells. JC-1 staining explains the state of free mitochondria in receptor cells. In order to reveal the relationship between the state and function of free mitochondria, osteogenic induction, Western blotting, flow cytometry, and in vivo experiments were conducted. RNA seq is used to analyze changes in cells. Different inhibitors were used to verify the specific mechanism of action of free mitochondrial transfer.Free mitochondrial transfer can improve the function of receptor cells through lysosomal pathway. Free mitochondria are degraded by cathepsin H (Ctsh) in lysosomes and release a large amount of cysteine after entering the receptor cells. In this process, the existence of membrane potential of free mitochondria is not critical. Cysteine, as the most important raw material for glutathione synthesis, can enhance the number and function of mitochondria in receptor cells.Our study demonstrates that free mitochondrial transfer promotes bone regeneration by increasing cysteine supply, and provides innovative insights for understanding mitochondrial transfer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Microglia play crucial roles in Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet the molecular mechanisms are unclear. Here, we show that CD31, a recognized endothelial marker, is predominantly expressed in microglia but not in neurons or astrocytes, and it is significantly elevated in the brains of AD patients and mouse models. Microglia-specific CD31 knockdown in 5xFAD mice substantially attenuated the dysregulated transcription networks, suppressed microglia hyperactivation and the disease-associated microglia (DAM), mitigated Aβ deposition and inflammation, and eventually improved cognitive functions in mice. Mechanistically, CD31 knockdown damaged the simultaneous recruitment of Src homology phosphatase 2 (SHP2) and STAT3, leading to a reduced dephosphorylation and enhanced activation of STAT3, a transcription factor. STAT3 activation increased transcription of membrane metalloendopeptidase (MME) and promoted Aβ clearance. Collectively, this study identifies microglial CD31, by regulating SHP2-STAT3-MME axis, plays a role in AD pathogenesis and targeting CD31 is promising in AD drug development.© 2026. The Author(s).
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) arises from intertwined inflammatory, metabolic, and hypoxia-driven angiogenic programs, yet upstream regulators coordinating these processes remain incompletely defined. Here, we used an integrative multi-omics and experimental framework to identify cathepsin H (CTSH) as a candidate causal driver of proliferative DR (PDR). By combining GWAS, eQTL, pQTL, and mQTL datasets with Mendelian randomization, summary-data-based Mendelian randomization, and Bayesian colocalization, CTSH emerged as the strongest genetically supported candidate across discovery and validation analyses. In the UK Biobank (UKB), circulating CTSH was elevated in diabetic retinopathy and independently predicted incident disease. Single-cell transcriptomic analyses localized CTSH predominantly to myeloid compartments within fibrovascular membranes and linked CTSH-high states to inflammatory, hypoxic, and angiogenic programs. In high-glucose-stimulated THP-1 monocytes, CTSH promoted reactive oxygen species accumulation, NF-κB activation, and increased IL-6, TNF-α, HIF-1α, and VEGF expression, whereas CTSH silencing reversed these effects. Structure-guided virtual screening identified Eriocitrin as a lead CTSH-binding candidate. In db/db mice, intravitreal Eriocitrin improved inner-retinal function, restored OCTA-derived vascular metrics, and partially rescued retinal structure, with efficacy comparable to anti-VEGF treatment across several endpoints. Molecular analyses further showed coordinated suppression of inflammatory, hypoxic, angiogenic, and NF-κB signaling. Together, these findings identify CTSH as an upstream immunometabolic regulator of DR-related inflammatory and angiogenic biology, with the strongest genetic support observed for PDR, and support CTSH targeting as a potential multi-pathway therapeutic strategy beyond VEGF inhibition.© The author(s).
Deficiency of tripeptidyl-peptidase 1 (TPP1; EC 3.4.14.9), a lysosomal enzyme encoded by the CLN2 gene, is associated with the lysosomal storage disorder - classic late infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (CLN2 disease). The classic form of CLN2 disease leads to the accumulation of autofluorescent lysosomal storage and a massive loss of neurons with gliosis in the brain. The major component of the storage is subunit c of mitochondrial ATP synthase, a highly hydrophobic, 75-aminoacid polypeptide. We developed an in vitro model of CLN2 disease by knocking out CLN2 in the human neuroblastoma cells SH-SY5Y by using CRISPR/cas9 technology. We focused on defining the pattern of deposition of subunit c, factors contributing to subunit c accumulation, and subcellular morphometry to identify differences between the model cells knockout (KO) and controls. Implementation of acetone for cell fixation allowed us to: i. identify higher levels of subunit c in the mitochondria of KO cells than controls; ii. characterize in detail subunit c inclusions, also present in controls; iii. identify other mitochondrial proteins colocalizing with subunit c in inclusions; and iv. detect mitochondrial pathology in degenerating cells often accompanied by deposition of subunit c. Differentiation of cells with retinoic acid and brain-derived neurotrophic factor led to a substantial increase in the levels of subunit c and to significant differences in the levels of autophagy-related proteins between KO and control cells. Inhibition of induced autophagy by bafilomycin A1 (Baf.A1) decreased subunit c levels in controls but not in KO cells, whereas the levels of subunit c were unaffected by Baf.A1 treatment upon basal autophagy. Finally, subcellular morphometry showed differences in the number and size of vesicular structures immunostained for autophagy-related proteins between KO cells and controls upon both induced and basal autophagy, further supporting the association of TPP1 deficiency with autophagy.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Clinical data were retrospectively collected from 13 children with type 2 neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (CLN2) who underwent genetic testing for definitive diagnosis and were followed up at the Chinese PLA General Hospital from January 2018 to December 2023. The clinical features, disease progression, and prognosis were analyzed. The age at onset was [M(Q1, Q3)] 3.7 (3.2, 4.5) years, including 7 males and 6 females. The follow-up was conducted once every 3 months during the first 2 years after diagnosis, and once every 6 months starting from the 3rd year, with the last follow-up until December 2025. All patients presented with epilepsy as the initial manifestation, of whom 8 patients had myoclonic seizures. Psychomotor regression occurred in 10 patients shortly after seizure onset. Tripeptidyl peptidase 1 (TPP1) activity was below the normal reference range in all patients, and all harbored biallelic pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants in the TPP1 gene. Brain magnetic resonance imaging revealed cerebellar atrophy in all cases, and electroencephalography demonstrated generalized abnormalities in all patients. Disease progression exhibited relatively distinct stage-wise features. Within>1-2 years of onset, eleven patients developed ataxia and 10 experienced language regression. Within>2-3 years, ten patients had lost independent ambulation and 9 had lost language function. Within>3-5 years, all patients lost motor and language abilities, and 10 developed severe dysphagia. Five patients died during follow-up. In conclusion, CLN2 typically presents in early childhood with epilepsy as the predominant initial manifestation, followed by progressive neurofunctional decline and cerebellar atrophy. Markedly reduced TPP1 activity together with pathogenic TPP1 variants supports the diagnosis.
Overcoming profoundly suppressed programmed cell death and an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) remains a formidable challenge in gemcitabine-cisplatin-resistant muscle-invasive bladder cancer (GP-R MIBC). To address this, we developed a glutathione (GSH)-responsive nanosystem for co-delivering the cathepsin H (CTSH) inhibitor prodrug E64d and a cisplatin prodrug Pt(IV), implementing a spatiotemporally coordinated "unlock-and-trigger" strategy. Mechanistically, the activated E64 irreversibly inhibits CTSH, thereby unlocking the TNFα-caspase-8 axis to reinstate GSDMD-mediated pyroptosis. Concurrently, caspase-8 dually activates caspase-3 via both direct cleavage and the Bid-mediated mitochondrial pathway. This primed state ensures that the DNA damage induced by the reduced Pt(IV) robustly triggers caspase-3/GSDME-mediated pyroptosis. This synergistic dual-pyroptosis pathway potently stimulates immunogenic cell death (ICD) and reverses the immunosuppressive TME by promoting dendritic cell maturation and CD8+T lymphocyte infiltration. Consequently, when combined with an αPD-L1 antibody, this strategy effectively eradicated GP-R bladder tumors and suppressed recurrence in vivo, demonstrating compelling translational potential. In summary, our work presents a translatable nanotherapeutic strategy that resensitizes GP-R MIBC to chemo-immunotherapy by leveraging a synergistic "unlock-and-trigger" mechanism to reactivate pyroptosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
To investigate the role of Membrane Metalloendopeptidase (MME) in oxidative stress and inflammation in painful diabetic neuropathy, and to explore the underlying mechanism.A diabetic mouse model was established with streptozocin (STZ) injections. Neuropathic pain was assessed using paw withdrawal latency (PWL). Target genes related to painful diabetic neuropathy were identified using the Comparative Toxicogenomic Database (CTD), DisGeNET, and GeneCards. Protein-protein interactions between MME and the Nrf2/HO-1 signaling pathway were analyzed using the String database. The effects of MME overexpression, with or without the Nrf2 inhibitor ML385, on neuropathy were examined. Blood glucose, insulin levels, oxidative stress indicators, and inflammatory cytokines were measured. Gene expression was quantified by qRT-PCR, and protein levels were assessed by Western blot and immunohistochemistry.Diabetic mice showed elevated blood glucose, MDA, ROS, TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and decreased serum insulin, PWL, SOD activity, and MME levels. MME interacted with Nrf2 and HO-1, which were reduced in diabetic mice. Overexpression of MME led to improved serum insulin, PWL, SOD activity, and increased Nrf2 and HO-1 levels, while reducing MDA, ROS, TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6. These effects were partially reversed by ML385.Overexpression of MME mitigates oxidative stress and inflammation in painful diabetic neuropathy by activating the Nrf2/HO-1 signaling pathway.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Recent studies indicate that cathepsins play an important role in neurodegenerative diseases. However, further exploration is required to determine the association between each isoform of cathepsin and disease. This study aimed to evaluate the potential causal effects of individual cathepsin isoforms on Alzheimer's Disease (AD), Parkinson's Disease (PD), and epilepsy using Mendelian Randomization (MR).We used genome-wide association data from the IEU OpenGWAS database. Twosample MR analyses were performed, with Inverse Variance Weighting (IVW) serving as the primary method. Sensitivity analyses, including Cochran's Q test, MR-Egger regression, MRPRESSO, Steiger directionality test, and leave-one-out analysis, were conducted to validate the robustness of the findings.In this study, cathepsins A, B, and F were found to be negatively associated with PD, and a sensitivity analysis was performed to assess the causal association between cathepsin F and PD. The results showed no heterogeneity or pleiotropy. However, the associations for cathepsin A and cathepsin B were each supported by only one SNP, and thus should be interpreted with caution. We also found that cathepsin X is causally related to AD, but this estimate was based on only 2 SNPs, and sensitivity analyses could not be conducted; therefore, the result should be considered exploratory. In addition, we found a positive causal association between Pro-cathepsin H levels, Cathepsin L1 levels, and epilepsy. The sensitivity analyses showed that the results were reliable for these exposures with multiple instrumental variables. Given the limited number of SNPs and the exclusive use of European-ancestry data, these findings should be interpreted cautiously.The results showed that there was no heterogeneity or pleiotropy. We also found that cathepsin X is causally related to Alzheimer's disease, but due to the small number of instrumental variables, no sensitivity analysis was performed. In addition, we found a positive causal association between Pro-cathepsin H levels and Cathepsin L1 levels and epilepsy. The sensitivity analyses showed that the results were reliable.This study found that different cathepsin isoforms could participate in different neurodegenerative diseases, and have differences in their function, providing preliminary evidence for their potential roles in disease mechanisms.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) play critical roles in tumor progression and immunosuppression; however, their contribution to the functional classification and personalized treatment of gastric cancer remains poorly defined. This study aimed to identify effective therapeutic targets to facilitate individualized treatment strategies for patients with gastric cancer.Single-cell and bulk transcriptomic analyses were integrated to characterize gastric cancer fibroblasts. "Seurat", "Slingshot", and "CellChat" were used for dimensionality reduction, trajectory inference, and cell-cell communication analyses, respectively. Key metastasis-associated fibroblast modules were identified using High-dimensional weighted gene co-expression network analysis (hdWGCNA) to construct a prognostic model, which was further evaluated for immune infiltration, therapeutic response, and mutational features. The expression and function of the core gene tripeptidyl peptidase 1 (TPP1) were validated through immunoblotting, PCR, and functional assays.Eight fibroblast subpopulations associated with gastric cancer metastasis exhibited distinct differentiation trajectories and transcriptional heterogeneity. Prognostic analysis indicated that metastasis-associated fibroblasts correlated with poor clinical outcomes. The high-risk subgroup showed marked immunosuppression, resistance to immunotherapy, and reduced mutational burden, with tumor progression-related pathways significantly enriched in this group. In vitro experiments further confirmed that TPP1 knockdown suppressed gastric cancer cell metastasis, invasion, and clonogenic capacity while inducing apoptosis.This study characterized the heterogeneity of gastric cancer-associated fibroblasts using single-cell transcriptomic analysis and established a prognostic model based on metastasis-related fibroblast markers. The model demonstrated strong predictive performance for patient prognosis, immune landscape, and immunotherapy response. Furthermore, the findings highlighted the pivotal role of TPP1 in gastric cancer progression and its potential as a therapeutic target.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Despite the clinical success of PD-1 blockade, therapeutic resistance remains a major barrier. Using an in vivo CRISPR-Cas9 screen with a metabolism-focused sgRNA library in MC38 and B16 syngeneic tumor models, we identified leukotriene A4 hydrolase (LTA4H) as a candidate regulator of PD-1 resistance. Lta4h ablation was associated with enhanced PD-1 responsiveness, increased CD8+ T and NK-cell infiltration and function, and reduced myeloid accumulation. Single-cell and spatial transcriptomic analyses showed that LTA4H is expressed in both malignant and myeloid compartments, with LTA4H-high tumor regions associated with myeloid-enriched niches and TGF-β related signaling. Mechanistically, hypoxia-induced HIF1α upregulated Lta4h in tumor cells, supporting tumor cells as one relevant source of LTA4H/LTB4. LTA4H-LTB4 signaling was linked to myeloid remodeling and TGF-β1 production in LTB4-conditioned neutrophils. Pharmacological blockade of LTB4 receptor signaling with the BLT1 antagonist CP-105696 improved tumor control in combination with PD-1 blockade. These findings identify intratumoral LTA4H-LTB4 signaling as a metabolic-immune pathway associated with suppressive myeloid remodeling and support further investigation of LTB4 receptor blockade to improve PD-1 blockade responses.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The gut mycobiome plays an essential role in human health, yet its influence on the progression of arterial stiffness, a key feature of vascular aging, remains obscure. In this study, we aimed to investigate the involvement of intestinal fungi in the exacerbation of arterial stiffness. In total, 763 participants were invited for the brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity test to determine their status of arterial stiffness. The gut mycobiome was identified through internal transcribed spacer sequencing, host genetics were determined by genotyping arrays, and plasma metabolites were quantified using untargeted liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. A less clustered but more communicative fungal community was found in individuals with elevated stiffness. Five driving fungal genera contributing to the shift of fungal interaction networks from normal to elevated stiffness, including Apiotrichum, Mycothermus, Flavocillium, Hyaloscypha, and Microscypha, were associated with arterial stiffness. Integrative analysis with metabolomics further demonstrated that organic acids, fatty acyls, and alkaloids mediated the effect of Apiotrichum, Mycothermus, and Microscypha on arterial stiffness. Moreover, alpha-1A adrenergic receptor, alpha-2B adrenergic receptor, cytochrome P450 Family 11 subfamily B member 2, angiotensin I converting enzyme, angiotensin II receptor type 1, matrix metallopeptidase 2, tumor necrosis factor, and rho-associated coiled-coil containing protein kinase 2 were identified as the key molecular transducers associated with increased Apiotrichum in arterial stiffness. Our study uncovers a strong association between disruption in gut fungi and the progression of elevated arterial stiffness, and highlights the potential of targeting the gut mycobiome for improving vascular health.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Neuronal hyperexcitability is crucial to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Activating the Kv7 channel is an effective way to reduce neuronal excitability. The Kv7 channel opener retigabine (RTG) has been demonstrated to alleviate spatial memory deficits in APP/PS1 transgenic mice. However, the mechanism by which RTG reduces cognitive deficits in APP/PS1 mice remains unclear. In this study, we revealed that RTG could ameliorate learning and spatial memory deficits in APP/PS1 mice during novel object recognition and Morris water maze tests. Meanwhile, RTG increased NeuN neuronal fluorescence intensity, increased the expression of the synaptic proteins postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD95) and synaptophysin (SYN), improved synaptic plasticity, increased insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) expression, decreased beta-secretase 1 (BACE1) expression, reduced Aβ1-40 and Aβ1-42 levels, and increased pAKT (ser473) and pGSK-3β (ser9) expression. These results indicated that RTG alleviates learning and spatial memory deficits in APP/PS1 mice, with potential mechanisms involving a reduction in neuronal loss, attenuation of synaptic damage, a decrease in β-amyloid (Aβ) deposition, and activation of the AKT/GSK-3β pathway.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The inhibition of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) to lower angiotensin is important in the treatment of hypertension (HT). ACE inhibitory activity is rarely documented in Thai traditional and indigenous medicine. Here, we evaluated the angiotensin I-converting enzyme inhibitory (ACEi) activity through bio-screening of selected medicinal plant species traditionally used for HT treatment by ethnic communities in northern Thailand, including Blumea balsamifera (L.) DC., Clerodendrum chinense (Osbeck) Mabb., Rotheca serrata (L.) Steane & Mabb., and Zingiber purpureum Roscoe. Using an in vitro assay, ethanolic extracts were evaluated for ACE inhibitory activity. Among the four extracts tested, the ethanolic leaf extract of Blumea balsamifera was the most effective by reducing ACE activity by 29, 36, and 64% at concentrations of 0.4, 2.0, and 10.0 mg/mL, respectively. The rhizome extract of Zingiber purpureum showed the second highest activity, with inhibition rates of 34%, 39%, and 40% at the corresponding concentrations. Cytotoxicity testing in HEK293T kidney cells was conducted to underscore the detectable toxicity under the tested conditions. Interestingly, intercultural and cross-cultural comparisons revealed a degree of agreement in the use of medicinal plants for hypertension treatment. Plant species traditionally used across multiple cultures tended to show higher levels of ACE inhibitory activity, suggesting their potential as candidates for the development of novel anti-hypertensive agents. To our knowledge, this is the first report describing the ACE inhibitory activity of medicinal plant species used for hypertension treatment by ethnic communities in northern Thailand.
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) occurs frequently and is a highly fatal malignant tumor. Identifying molecular markers for early diagnosis and prognosis of ESCC is crucial. Leukotriene A4 hydrolase (LTA4H), an inflammatory mediator, was reported to be associated in development of various cancers; however, its role in ESCC remains to be determined. The aim of this study was to determine LTA4H expression levels in ESCC and adjacent nonmalignant esophageal epithelial tissues using tissue microarray and immunohistochemistry. Survival analysis was performed to determine the relationship between LTA4H expression and patient survival, as well as expression patterns. Multivariate Cox regression analysis was used to predict risks associated with various clinicopathological parameters. Expression level of LTA4H in esophageal cancer cell lines was detected using RT-qPCR. Cancer cell lines with high and low LTA4H expression were identified. Data demonstrated that LTA4H expression was upregulated in ESCC tissues. Univariate Kaplan-Meier analysis indicated that high LTA4H expression was negatively correlated with patient survival. LTA4H expression was positively correlated with lymph node metastasis and advanced pathological tumor-node-metastasis stage. Multivariate Cox regression analysis confirmed that LTA4H expression is an independent prognostic factor for poor prognosis in ESCC patients. RT-qPCR results showed that LTA4H expression was higher in KYSE-30 and KYSE-450 cell lines, while lower in TE1 and KYSE-70 cell lines. Our findings demonstrated that high expression of LTA4H was detected in ESCC, which was positively correlated with tumor progression and negatively associated with patient prognosis, suggesting this inflammatory mediator's potential as a biomarker for ESCC.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) poses a significant threat to human health, and with the number of patients increasing annually, developing effective prevention and treatment strategies has become an urgent priority. Early intervention is a viable strategy for treating AD, as biomarker changes associated with β-amyloid (Aβ) can emerge 20 or more years before cognitive impairment becomes apparent. Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) offers a potential avenue for treatment at this early stage.This study investigated the potential therapeutic effects of the Yin Huang Ge compound on cognitive function in a mouse model of AD and evaluated its efficacy in mitigating Aβ accumulation, a key pathological feature of AD.APP/PS1 mice were randomly assigned to the following groups: Controls (C57BL/6 J mice) group, the Model group, YHG group, and donepezil (DNP) group. The YHG group and the DNP group were administered their respective drugs through gastric gavage, whereas the normal group and the Model group were supplied with saline. Administration sustained for a period of 30 consecutive days. We assessed mouse learning, memory, and spatial cognition using the Morris water maze, novel object recognition, Y-maze spontaneous alternation, and novel arm tests. Western blotting quantified the protein levels of β-amyloid 1-42 (Aβ1-42), insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE), neprilysin (NEP), matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2), and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9). ELISA measured IDE and NEP enzymatic activity, while immunohistochemistry evaluated the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3).In contrast to the Control group, mice in the Model group exhibited significant impairments in learning, memory, and spatial cognition. The protein expression levels of Aβ1-42, MMP-2, and MMP-9 were markedly elevated (p < 0.01), whereas the expression of IDE and NEP was significantly reduced (p < 0.05, p < 0.01). ELISA analysis further revealed a substantial decrease in IDE and NEP activity (p < 0.01). A concomitant reduction in the expression of NT-3 and BDNF was also observed (p < 0.01). Compared to the Model group, mice treated with YHG or DNP exhibited significantly improved learning, memory, and spatial cognition. The protein expression of Aβ1-42, MMP-2, and MMP-9 was reduced (p < 0.05, p < 0.01), whereas the expression of IDE and NEP was elevated (p < 0.05). ELISA results confirmed the increased activity of IDE and NEP (p < 0.05). These assays also revealed a marked upregulation in the expression of NT-3 and BDNF (p < 0.01).The YHG compound reduces cerebral Aβ deposition via a bidirectional regulatory mechanism, upregulating IDE and NEP to promote clearance while downregulating MMP-2 and MMP-9 to mitigate associated damage. It also elevates the expression of the neurotrophic factors BDNF and NT-3, which enhances endogenous neuroprotection and ameliorates core Alzheimer's disease pathology. Consequently, this treatment markedly improves cognitive function in APP/PS1 mice.Copyright © 2026 Hao, Yang, Zhong, Zhang, He and Dong.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) represents a highly prevalent and aggressive malignancy endemic to Southeast Asia. Early and accurate diagnosis is critical to improving survival outcomes; however, the absence of robust, stage-specific biomarkers remains a key obstacle to clinical implementation of early screening strategies.We performed untargeted serum proteomic profiling using mass spectrometry in 15 treatment-naïve early-stage NPC patients and 15 VCA-IgA-positive healthy controls. Bioinformatics analyses were conducted to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Machine learning (random forest combined with recursive feature elimination) was employed to prioritize candidate biomarkers, which were subsequently verified using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in independent sample cohorts.In total, 1,428 serum proteins were identified, among which 1,410 were reliably quantified. We observed 31 upregulated and 189 downregulated proteins in NPC patients relative to controls. Spearman correlation analysis revealed significant associations: LTA4H (leukotriene A4 hydrolase) levels correlated with serum cell infiltration (r = 0.383, p = 0.032) and CD8 + T-cell abundance (r = 0.408, p = 0.021); both SULT1A3 (sulfotransferase family 1 A member 3) and FGL1 (fibrinogen-like protein 1) levels were positively associated with M1 macrophage infiltration (r = 0.510, p = 0.003 and r = 0.430, p = 0.015, respectively). In a preliminary validation cohort (n = 80), ELISA yielded AUC values of 0.631 (95% CI: 0.515-0.736, p = 0.04) for LTA4H, 0.787 (95% CI: 0.681-0.871, p < 0.001) for SULT1A3, and 0.688 (95% CI: 0.575-0.787, p = 0.002) for FGL1. In large-scale independent validation, SULT1A3 achieved an AUC of 0.826 (95% CI: 0.766-0.876; sensitivity = 78.89%, specificity = 75.47%) in cohort 1 (n = 196) and 0.796 (95% CI: 0.723-0.857; sensitivity = 76.67%, specificity = 76.67%) in cohort 2 (n = 150).Through an integrated workflow combining proteomic screening, machine learning prioritization, and multi-stage ELISA validation, we identified SULT1A3 as a candidate serum-based biomarker for early detection of NPC. Preliminary findings suggest that SULT1A3 may have potential utility in clinical screening, though further validation in independent, multi‑center cohorts is required.© 2026. The Author(s).
Objectives. Hemolysis significantly interferes with insulin measurements in clinical settings, leading to inaccurate results. Although the activity of insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) is assumed to be the primary mechanism, the potential involvement of additional mechanisms remains unclear. This study aims to determine if IDE is the sole cause of this interference by using a selective IDE inhibitor, 6bK, and to explore whether this inhibition can completely prevent hemolysis-related inaccuracies in insulin assays. Methods. The effects of 6bK on insulin degradation were evaluated in hemolyzed and non-hemolyzed serum samples at room temperature, following the CLSI guidelines EP07-A2 and C56-A. Insulin levels were measured using chemiluminescent immunoassays. Additional assessments included the impact of 6bK on serum C-peptide, proinsulin, and standard biochemical parameters. The effects of 6bK were also evaluated at 4 °C and after 21 days of storage at room temperature prior to use. Results. Hemolysis caused a significant decrease in insulin concentrations, dependent on hemolysate levels and incubation time. The addition of 10 µM 6bK completely reversed hemolysis-induced insulin degradation in serum across a broad range of insulin baseline concentrations and degrees of hemolysis. Furthermore, 6bK did not affect insulin levels in non-hemolyzed samples or alter the quantification of C-peptide, proinsulin, or standard biochemical parameters. Conclusions. The decrease in serum insulin concentration due to hemolysis is exclusively attributed to the action of IDE. Selective inhibition of IDE by 6bK effectively eliminates hemolysis-induced interference in insulin measurements, providing a novel and reliable solution for accurate insulin quantification in hemolyzed clinical samples.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42327726 is a review article
Disruption of the circadian glucocorticoid rhythm occurs in human settings including chronic stress, sleep restriction, circadian misalignment, ageing and autonomous cortisol secretion; in mild autonomous cortisol secretion (MACS) and Cushing's syndrome, loss of the normal cortisol trough is clinically informative, and flatter diurnal cortisol profiles are associated with cardiometabolic disease. We previously showed that flattening of glucocorticoid rhythms in mice induces rapid and sustained hyperinsulinemia without hyper or hypo-glycaemia, implying that glucocorticoid rhythms may directly regulate the relationship between circulating glucose and systemic insulin output. Here we tested the hypothesis that beta cell glucocorticoid receptor (GR) signalling is required for the compensatory hyperinsulinaemia that maintains glucose homeostasis during glucocorticoid rhythm flattening, and that this reflects glucocorticoid-dependent reprogramming of beta cell stimulus-secretion coupling.Glucocorticoid rhythms were flattened in male C57BL/6J mice by subcutaneous corticosterone pellet implantation, which elevates trough levels and reduces peak amplitude while preserving the daily mean hormone concentration. Fasting plasma insulin and blood glucose were measured longitudinally and compared with placebo-implanted controls and high-fat diet-fed mice. Beta cell secretory function was assessed by static and dynamic glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in isolated islets, and beta cell excitability by GCaMP6f Ca²⁺ imaging in islets from Ins1-Cre;GCaMP6f mice. To test the requirement for beta cell GR in mature beta cells while avoiding developmental effects of constitutive GR deletion, we generated adult-inducible beta cell-specific GR knockout mice (MIP-CreERT;Nr3c1fl/fl; βGRKO). Combined beta cell and hepatic GR knockout mice (double-GRKO) were used to examine an additional extra-pancreatic contribution to systemic insulin availability. Glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity were assessed by intraperitoneal glucose and insulin tolerance tests. As a secondary question, a possible contribution of altered insulin clearance was examined from plasma C-peptide:insulin ratios and hepatic insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) abundance.Glucocorticoid rhythm flattening produced sustained hyperinsulinaemia with maintained euglycaemia, distinct from the delayed hyperinsulinaemia and hyperglycaemia observed in high-fat diet-fed mice. Islets from glucocorticoid-flattened mice exhibited increased insulin secretion at subthreshold (3 mmol/l) glucose, enhanced secretory responses to stimulatory glucose and increased Ca²⁺ responses, indicating a lowered glucose threshold for beta cell activation that persisted ex vivo. Beta cell-specific deletion of GR markedly attenuated the hyperinsulinaemic response to glucocorticoid flattening (insulin AUC reduced ∼40% vs controls; p < 0.001) and produced progressive hyperglycaemia and impaired glucose tolerance, despite unchanged or improved insulin sensitivity. A reduced plasma C-peptide:insulin molar ratio (p = 0.007) and decreased hepatic IDE abundance (p = 0.032) indicated that reduced insulin clearance contributes additionally to the elevated circulating insulin, and combined beta cell and hepatic GR deletion lowered circulating insulin further than beta cell GR deletion alone. The absence of hypoglycaemia despite persistent hyperinsulinaemia is consistent with concurrent insulin resistance.Beta cell GR signalling is required for the compensatory hyperinsulinaemia that maintains glucose homeostasis when glucocorticoid rhythmicity is disrupted, acting through glucocorticoid-dependent lowering of the glucose threshold for insulin secretion; reduced insulin clearance contributes additionally to the rise in circulating insulin. These findings identify beta cell GR signalling as a key determinant of glucose homeostasis during disrupted glucocorticoid rhythmicity. Clinically, the work is most relevant not simply to nonspecific chronic stress, but to human states in which the cortisol rhythm is measurably flattened or the nocturnal trough is lost, including MACS, Cushing's syndrome, sleep restriction, shift work/circadian misalignment and ageing.What is already known about this subject?: Flattened or disrupted glucocorticoid rhythmicity in humans is observed most directly in MACS and Cushing's syndrome, where loss of the late-night cortisol nadir is clinically informative, and more broadly as flatter salivary cortisol slopes or elevated evening cortisol in ageing, sleep restriction and circadian misalignment; these patterns are associated with type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease and mortality.Flattening of glucocorticoid rhythms in mice induces rapid and sustained hyperinsulinaemia without hypoglycaemia, indicating that circulating insulin can be elevated independently of glucose.Hepatic insulin clearance, mediated in part by insulin-degrading enzyme and CEACAM1, is a major determinant of circulating insulin levels.What is the key question?: How does disruption of glucocorticoid rhythmicity increase circulating insulin while maintaining glycaemic control, and is beta cell glucocorticoid receptor signalling required for this adaptive response?What are the new findings?: Glucocorticoid rhythm flattening lowers the glucose threshold for beta cell activation through enhanced Ca²⁺ excitability, an effect that persists in isolated islets and indicates in vivo reprogramming of beta cell function. Beta cell-specific deletion of the glucocorticoid receptor blunts the hyperinsulinaemic response to glucocorticoid flattening and produces hyperglycaemia and impaired glucose tolerance despite unchanged or improved insulin sensitivity.Reduced insulin clearance, associated with decreased hepatic insulin-degrading enzyme abundance, contributes additionally to the elevated circulating insulin, but is not required for maintenance of glucose homeostasis.How might this impact on clinical practice in the foreseeable future?: Identifying beta cell glucocorticoid receptor signalling as a requirement for glucose homeostasis during disrupted glucocorticoid rhythmicity may inform strategies for understanding hyperinsulinaemia and steroid-associated metabolic dysfunction in human conditions marked by loss of the cortisol trough or flatter diurnal cortisol profiles, particularly MACS, Cushing's syndrome, shift work/circadian misalignment and ageing.
Single-cell analysis showed increased complement factor H, endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 2, lectin, mannose binding 2 like, pyrin domain containing 1, iduronidase, and gamma-glutamyl hydrolase expression in mesangial cells. Complement factor H was protective, whereas complement factor H-related protein 1 and endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 2 increased IgA nephropathy risk. Genetic analyses implicated neutrophil and white blood cell counts, along with selected CD4 + T-cell traits, in IgA nephropathy.IgA nephropathy remains the most frequent primary glomerular disease worldwide with poor outcomes leading to ESKD. Nevertheless, the causal contributions to its pathogenesis are still not fully understood.We conducted a Mendelian randomization (MR) phenome-wide association study to identify potential causal factors of IgA nephropathy, among 791 plasma proteins (European population), 1042 plasma proteins (Asian population), 17 circulating immune cells, and 731 immune cell traits. FinnGen database ( N =412,181, N case=653) of IgA nephropathy was applied for replication. Reverse MR and Bayesian colocalization were performed to consolidate the results. Further mechanistic insights were pursued using pathway enrichment and protein-protein interaction analysis. Further validations were conducted by single-cell transcriptomic analysis and human plasma samples testing. Animal experiments were performed to detect the potential mechanism.MR phenome-wide association study of European protein quantitative trait loci identified complement factor H (CFH) as a significant protective factor for IgA nephropathy (odds ratio [OR], 0.54; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.45 to 0.65; P = 1.47E-10), whereas CFH-related protein 1 (OR, 1.21; 95% CI, 1.12 to 1.31; P = 8.49E-7) and endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 2 (OR, 1.14; 95% CI, 1.07 to 1.21; P = 7.33×E-6) were risk factors. Five causal proteins were replicated in FinnGen database. Four significant causal proteins were identified in the Asian population. Causal associations were found between higher neutrophil counts and IgA nephropathy risk. Top risk immune cell traits included activated and secreting Treg % cluster of differentiation (CD)4+, CD25hi %CD4+, and absolute counts of T cells. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis revealed elevated expression of CFH, endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 2, lectin, mannose binding 2 like, α -L-iduronidase, and gamma-glutamyl hydrolase in mesangial cells from IgA nephropathy patients, and higher plasma levels of iduronidase and pyrin domain containing 1 (PYDC1) in IgA nephropathy cases. In silico analysis and mice experiments showed PYDC1, caspase1, nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptor family, pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3), and IL1 β were elevated in IgA nephropathy kidneys.Our study suggested that specific proteins, cell types, and immune traits have causal effects in IgA nephropathy pathogenesis, particularly implicating complement components, PYDC1 and certain CD4 + T-cell subsets as priorities for further mechanistic research and therapeutic development.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on behalf of the American Society of Nephrology.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41521916
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is a rare but potentially life-threatening complication associated with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). This condition is characterized by microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia, which can result from either an acquired deficiency of the ADAM metallopeptidase with thrombospondin type 1 motif 13 (ADAMTS13) or through complement-mediated mechanisms. We present the case of a 55-year-old female with a history of Sjögren's disease and a recent diagnosis of SLE. She exhibited severe anemia, thrombocytopenia, and symptoms suggestive of immune-mediated TTP with markedly reduced ADAMTS13 activity. Her diagnosis was confirmed through clinical evaluations, laboratory tests, and immunologic findings. After initially responding to urgent therapy with plasmapheresis, high-dose corticosteroids, and rituximab, the addition of caplacizumab led to a rapid and sustained improvement in her thrombocytopenia. This report highlights the successful use of caplacizumab in lupus-associated immune TTP and reviews diagnostic and therapeutic challenges.Copyright © 2025, Kulkarni et al.
To explore novel biomarkers for clinical prognosis in patients with ovarian ageing, especially in premature ovarian insufficiency (POI).Prospective Cohort Study.Reproductive Hospital Affiliated with Shandong University, China.Sixty POI patients and 60 control women recruited from 2018 to 2019.Machine learning algorithms were used to screen features of ovarian ageing from public ovarian transcriptome data. The candidate serum biomarker, endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase-2 (ERAP2), was compared between 60 POI patients and 60 control women. A prospective follow-up of 4 years was conducted on POI patients, and prediction models were established for intermittent recovery of ovarian function and clinical pregnancy based on serum ERAP2 levels.Intermittent recovery of ovarian function and clinical pregnancy.Machine learning models identified ERAP2 as a novel biomarker associated with ovarian ageing. POI patients exhibited significantly elevated serum ERAP2 levels compared to controls (5.78 ± 2.29 ng/mL vs. 4.81 ± 2.20 ng/mL, p = 0.018). With a prospective follow-up of these POI patients, ERAP2 was found to be a new biomarker for predicting intermittent recovery of ovarian function (AUROC = 0.763, 95% CI 0.734-0.792) and clinical pregnancy (AUROC = 0.768, 95% CI 0.749-0.787). Integrating ERAP2 into existing indices significantly improved their prediction accuracy both in predicting intermittent recovery of ovarian function (IDI = 0.166, p = 0.008) and in clinical pregnancy (NRI = 0.442, p = 0.034; IDI = 0.208, p = 0.018).Serum ERAP2 can serve as a biomarker for intermittent recovery of ovarian function and clinical pregnancy in patients with POI. Combining ERAP2 with other clinical indicators may facilitate personalised intervention strategies for patients with POI in clinic.© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Laeverin (LVRN) is a cell-surface immunoregulatory factor that is specifically expressed in embryo-derived extravillous trophoblast, which invades maternal spiral arteries without immune rejection during human placentation. Here, it is found that various epithelial cancer cell lines upregulated LVRN expression in association with the expression of POU5F1 after spheroid formation under floating conditions. Immunohistochemically, LVRN expression is detected in the lesions of vascular, lymphatic, and peritoneal invasion of ovarian, cervical, endometrial, breast, and lung cancers. LVRN-positive circulating tumor cells are also identified in the blood of uterine cervical and endometrial cancers, showing that LVRN expression is induced in cancer cells in the distant metastatic phase. Monomethylauristatin E-conjugated anti-LVRN antibody induced cell death in ovarian cancer-derived cell lines in the liquid phase in vitro and inhibited their peritoneal dissemination in nude mice in vivo. These findings indicate that LVRN is a unique and promising cell-surface target molecule for liquid-phase metastasizing cancer cells.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Soybean is acknowledged as an excellent plant-based protein source; however, its nutritional efficacy is compromised by the presence of soybean trypsin inhibitor (STI), which diminishes bioavailability and may induce metabolic disorders. To mitigate the inhibitory effects of STI, this study focused on the purification and characterization of STI-degrading protease (SDP) from Bacillus amyloliquefaciens phb03. The results revealed that SDP is an alkaline salt-tolerant protease with optimal activity at 40 °C, pH 9.0, and 2 M NaCl, retaining over 67% activity in 3 M NaCl after 4 d. SDP was identified as a glutamyl aminopeptidase phb03 (GAPP) through LC-MS Q-E analysis, with a molecular weight of approximately 39 kDa and demonstrating an efficient degradation of 95% STI. Subsequently, heterologous expression of GAPP in Bacillus subtilis WB800 yielded a peak enzyme activity of 411.94 ± 0.37 U·L-1, exhibiting significant STI degradation activity, particularly under high-salinity conditions. It is speculated that the structural compactness and enhanced flexibility in the catalytic center of GAPP contribute to its stability and catalytic activity under high-salt conditions. This degradation protease offers a promising solution to enhancing protein utilization in soybeans affected by STI, with the potential for industrial applications.
Background: Laeverin is an extravillous trophoblast marker playing a significant role in trophoblast migration. We endeavored to estimate the association between the amniotic and serum laeverin concentrations at 16-22 weeks of gestation and the fetal and placental ultrasound measurements in high-risk uncomplicated pregnancies. Methods: A prospective cross-sectional study of consecutively recruited singleton pregnancies undergoing amniocentesis was performed. Fetal structural malformations and/or aneuploidy were the exclusion criteria. Fetal biometric parameters and placental growth/perfusion were assessed by ultrasound in 44 high-risk pregnancies who had no pregnancy complications and any other chronic disease. Maternal serum and amniotic laeverin levels were essayed with sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Results: Serum laeverin levels are decreasing marginally with the maternal age in mid-gestation. Laeverin levels in the serum correlated minimally negatively with head size of the fetus (β = -0.38; p < 0.05; 95% confidence interval (CI) -0.03-0.01), whereas the amniotic level correlated strongly with the fetal abdominal circumference (β = -0.74; p < 0.05; 95% CI: -0.34--0.09). In addition, the amniotic laeverin level correlated moderately and positively with the placental volume (β = 0.46; p < 0.05; 95% CI: 0.01-0.08). Conclusions: Laeverin levels detected in the serum and in the amniotic fluid denote the fetoplacental growth in uncomplicated high-risk pregnancies.
Osteosarcoma (OS) is the most common primary malignant bone tumor. Recent evidence suggests that the novel long noncoding RNA DHRS4 antisense RNA 1 (DHRS4-AS1) serves an important role in cancer progression and metastasis. However, its function and molecular mechanism in OS remain largely unknown. In the present study, DHRS4-AS1 expression was detected in OS cells by quantitative PCR. Gain- and loss-of-function experiments were conducted to study the effects of DHRS4-AS1 on the proliferation and apoptosis of OS cells. The potential mechanism of DHRS4-AS1 was examined through bioinformatics analysis and rescue experiments. DHRS4-AS1 was downregulated in OS cell lines. DHRS4-AS1 depletion promoted proliferation and inhibited apoptosis in OS cells, whereas DHRS4-AS1 overexpression had the opposite effects. Further research suggested that DHRS4-AS1 inhibited OS progression by regulating the microRNA-362-5p/aminopeptidase puromycin sensitive axis. The present findings suggested that DHRS4-AS1 may serve as a potential therapeutic target for OS.© 2025. The Author(s).
Research on SARS-CoV-2, the viral pathogen that causes COVID-19, has identified angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) as the primary viral receptor. Several genes that encode viral cofactors, such as TMPRSS2, NRP1, CTSL, and possibly KIM1, have since been discovered. Glutamyl aminopeptidase (APA), encoded by the gene ENPEP, is another cofactor candidate due to similarities in its biological role and high correlation with ACE2 and other human coronavirus receptors, such as aminopeptidase N (APN) and dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP4). Recent studies have proposed a role for ENPEP as a viral receptor in humans, and ENPEP and ACE2 are both closely involved in the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system proposed to play an important role in SARS-CoV-2 pathophysiology. We performed bioinformatic analyses using publicly available bulk (>17,000 samples from 49 distinct tissues) and single-cell (>2.5 million cells) RNA-Seq gene expression datasets to evaluate the expression and function of the ENPEP gene. We also investigated age- and sex-related changes in ENPEP expression. Overall, expression of ENPEP was highest in the small intestine enterocyte brush border and the kidney cortex. ENPEP is widely expressed in a subset of vascular smooth muscle cells (likely pericytes) in systemic vasculature, the heart, and the brain. ENPEP is expressed at low levels in the lower respiratory epithelium. In the lung, ENPEP is most highly expressed in para-alveolar fibroblasts. Single-cell data revealed ENPEP expression in a substantial fraction of ependymal cells, a finding not reported before in humans. Age increases ENPEP expression in skeletal muscle and the prostate, while decreasing it in the heart and aorta. Angiogenesis was found to be a central biological function associated with the ENPEP gene. Tissue-specific roles, such as protein digestion and fat metabolism, were also identified in the intestine. In the liver, the gene is linked to the complement system, a connection that has not yet been thoroughly investigated. Expression of ENPEP and ACE2 is strongly correlated in the small intestine and renal cortex. Both overall and in blood vessels, ENPEP and ACE2 have a stronger correlation than many other genes associated with SARS-CoV-2, such as TMPRSS2, CTSL, and NRP1. Possible interaction between glutamyl aminopeptidase and SARS-CoV-2 should be investigated experimentally.Copyright: © 2024 Arppo et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42367646 is a review article
Endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1) regulates immune responses by proteolytically processing peptides presented by major histocompatibility class I molecules (MHC-I). ERAP1 can reduce the immunogenicity of cancer cells by destroying cancer-associated antigenic peptides or contribute to autoimmunity by generating self-antigenic peptides. ERAP1 inhibition has emerged as a tractable approach for cancer immunotherapy and specific classes of autoimmune diseases. We describe the discovery of a potent and selective ERAP1 inhibitor that targets its regulatory allosteric site. The compound has favorable in vivo pharmacokinetics, oral bioavailability, can regulate the immunopeptidome of cancer cells, and enhance tumor antigenicity in vivo controlling growth. When administered in the murine collagen-induced arthritis model, we observed no exacerbation of autoimmune responses but rather a dose-dependent therapeutic benefit. Our results demonstrate that ERAP1 inhibition is a tractable approach to modulating immune responses, provide mechanistic insight, and are valuable in vivo tools for interrogating ERAP1 biology and further drug development.
Generative design and machine learning are increasingly prevalent in medicinal chemistry. To pilot the comprehensive use of automated molecular design on a project, the BRADSHAW platform was used to optimize a series of inhibitors of Endoplasmic Reticulum Aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1), an emerging target in cancer immunotherapy and autoimmune diseases. Through four consecutive iterations applying in silico molecular generation, property prediction and filtering, we conducted a multiparameter optimization of potency, physicochemical properties and pharmacokinetics. Continuous refinement of Machine Learning (ML) models led to improved scoring accuracy and compound quality, culminating in identification of in vitro and in vivo tool molecules. We also discuss our reflections on the pilot and integration of automated design into medicinal chemistry projects, including observations of the human factors resulting from increased use of computational design, and recommendations for future projects.
Manipulation of the activity of Endoplasmic Reticulum AminoPeptidase 1 (ERAP1) has emerged as a powerful tool for the modulation of the cellular antigenicity and concomitant adaptive immune responses, with potential applications in cancer immunotherapy and Major Histocompatibility class (MHC)-associated autoimmunity being explored. Small molecule inhibitors often target allosteric sites of ERAP1 to achieve superior selectivity. However, recent findings suggested that ERAP1 functional perturbation may also affect cellular metabolism, raising concerns on the safety of this approach. To address this, we treated a melanoma cancer cell line with near saturating doses of an allosteric ERAP1 inhibitor and compared metabolite homeostasis to untreated and knock-out cells. Analysis of 8625 detected metabolite features revealed non-significant changes in metabolite composition in both inhibitor concentrations tested and only small changes in the ERAP1 knockout (KO) cells, limited to up to 25 metabolite features, most notably choline. Our results suggest that pharmacological inhibition of ERAP1 that targets allosteric sites, does not induce sufficiently large metabolic shifts to alter metabolite homeostasis. This is distinct from genetic deletion of the protein, which induces additional effects, albeit limited. These results encourage the exploration of allosteric ERAP1 inhibitors as pharmacological agents for the modulation of immune responses in the clinic.
Endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidases 1 and 2 (ERAP1 and ERAP2) play a critical role in antigen processing by trimming N-terminally extended peptides within the ER, thereby shaping the repertoire of peptides presented by Major Histocompatibility Complex Class I (MHC I) molecules. Polymorphic variants in these enzymes give rise to functionally distinct allotypes, influencing peptide trimming efficiency and specificity, modulating CD8+ T cell responses in both health and disease. This chapter outlines a cellular model system for assessing ERAP1 and ERAP2 peptide trimming activity, using peptide-specific T cell activation as a surrogate readout. By employing transient transfection and co-culture with either T cell hybridoma (B3Z) or cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL), this approach enables the evaluation of peptide processing efficiency of ERAP1/2 based on the presentation and recognition of optimally generated MHC I-restricted epitopes.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1) digests antigenic precursors up to the optimum length for binding to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I. This zinc-dependent aminopeptidase has been found in a catalytically active closed conformation and in open conformations that expose its substrate-binding cavity to the bulk solvent. Therefore, its activity has been linked to catalytic cycles between conformational states that accommodate substrate binding, peptide hydrolysis and product release. During the last decade, X-ray crystallography in conjunction with biophysical and enzymatic studies has deciphered the remarkable peptide-length dependence of ERAP1, the allosteric regulation mechanism, and the role of disease-associated polymorphisms. In this regard, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations have contributed to atomic-level investigations of ERAP1 conformational dynamics. This chapter provides a detailed protocol to generate the systems required to carry out and analyze atomistic MD simulations of ERAP1 with a bound inhibitor in explicit solvent, starting from different conformational states. This protocol is also applicable to the analysis of the conformational dynamics of other aminopeptidases in the antigen presentation pathway.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
TP53 mutations are early truncal events across cancers 1,2 . These are perceived to encode tumour-specific neoantigens representing prime cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) targets 3,4 . However, studies systematically examining the physical cell surface display of p53 peptides bound to major histocompatibility complex molecules (pMHC), their relative antigenicity, and resultant immunogenicity have yet to be conducted. Here, we develop an epitope discovery platform using p53-reconstituted lung cancer cells as well as various tumour cells as pMHC sources. Combining data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (MS), nanoscale chromatography, and peptide detection based on probabilistic measure and three-dimensional ion visualization techniques allows attomole sensitivity identification of pMHCs. This approach excluded ∼97% of algorithm-based virtual p53 immunopeptidomes, highlighting that only a few p53 pMHCs can be presented by common human MHC (human leukocyte antigen, [HLA]) alleles. Strikingly, surface expressed neoantigens are restricted to the corresponding set of such limited self-p53 peptide arrays and unaffected by enhancing p53 proteasomal turnover. Further curtailment of MS-validated, high affinity p53 neoepitopes that are structurally deviant from self-pMHC occurs in established tumours due to immune selection against the antigen presenting MHC allele or by a novel mechanism involving p53 neoepitope destruction by endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1). In contrast, given the extremely weak MHC affinity and resultant short-lived cell surface pMHC expression, the common p53 neoepitope R175H/HLA-A*02:01 escapes immune selection despite CTL with high quality T-cell receptors. Rigorous tumour-protective immunoediting makes effective truncal neoepitope targeting a challenge, requiring attentive MS analysis and functional vetting to focus protective cytolytic responses.
Over the past decade, advances in genetic and genomic analyses, including genome-wide association studies, have provided substantial insights into the pathogenesis of Behçet's disease (BD). These studies revealed potential pathogenic mechanisms such as the preparation and presentation of peptides by HLA Class I antigens, mainly HLA-B51, and endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 1, recognition of presented peptides by CD8 T cells, dysregulated innate and adaptive immune response, including autoinflammation, activation of Th17 cells, natural killer cells, and M1-polarized macrophages, as well as disordered mucosal barrier defense. The genetic architecture of BD shares similarities with Crohn's disease, spondyloarthritis, as well as childhood-onset autoinflammatory diseases such as familial Mediterranean fever, A20 haploinsufficiency, periodic fever, aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis, cervical adenitis syndrome, or late-onset autoinflammatory diseases such as VEXAS syndrome and trisomy 8-related autoinflammatory diseases. This review summarizes the current understanding of the immunogenetic basis of BD, emphasizing how the interplay between changing environmental exposures and inherited or acquired genetic variants contributes to its heterogeneous and variable phenotypic expression.Copyright: © 2025 Saudi Journal of Ophthalmology.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is the main cause of end-stage renal disease. The renin-angiotensin system and inflammatory pathways are suggested to contribute to renal injuries in diabetes. Endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1) breaks Ang II into less harmful derivatives. This study aimed to investigate the expression level of ERAP1 and TLR4 genes in association with serum Ang II in DN patients.In 80 type 2 diabetic (T2DM) patients with nephropathy, 80 T2DM patients without nephropathy, and 60 healthy controls, polymorphisms of the ERAP1 gene (rs28096, rs34750, rs26653, rs3734016, and rs30187), as well as ERAP1 and TLR4 gene expression were evaluated with RT-PCR. Serum Ang II level was quantified using ELISA.Serum Ang II levels were significantly higher in DN patients compared to T2DM patients without nephropathy and healthy controls (P-values: 0.012 and 0.006, respectively). ERAP1 expression was also enhanced in the DN group compared to T2DM and healthy individuals (P-value: 0.033 and 0.017, respectively), and showed a significant association with Ang II levels [R: 0.43, R2: 0.184 (p-value = 0.02)]. In both patient groups, TLR4 expression was increased compared to healthy controls (P-value: 0.003 and 0.004). ERAP1 rs30187 TT was more frequent in the DN group (P-value 0.021).Increased levels of Ang II and enhanced expression of ERAP1 might be prognostic of developing nephropathy in T2DM patients.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Tehran University of Medical Sciences 2025. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) is associated with prostate cancer (PCa) development and lethality and exhibits immunosuppressive properties in other models. We investigated IGF-1's tumor-intrinsic immune effects in PCa to understand mechanisms underlying its poor immunotherapy response. Transcriptional profiling of human (DU145, 22Rv1) and murine (Myc-CaP) PCa cells revealed that IGF-1 suppresses cytokine signalling, antigen processing and presentation, and additional immune regulatory pathways. We further examined the expression of components involved in cancer cell recognition and immune evasion: the antigen processing machinery and PD-L1 checkpoint. IGF-1 downregulated key elements such as transporters associated with antigen processing (TAPs), endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase-1 (ERAP-1), and Class I β2-microglobulin, without significantly altering Class I allele expression. These changes were associated with reduced surface presentation of Class I complexes on Myc-CaP cells, suggesting disrupted peptide transport, processing, and/or presentation. In contrast, IGF-1 upregulated the immune checkpoint CD274 (PD-L1) via IGF receptor/AKT/ERK-dependent signalling. Analysis of TCGA Firehose Legacy PCa data showed higher CD274 expression in tumors with elevated IGF1 and IGFBP5. Multiplex immunofluorescence in primary PCa confirmed increased PD-L1 in patients with high serum IGF-1, supporting its role in immune evasion. Overall, these findings reveal a novel IGF-1-driven immunosuppressive mechanism that may underlie PCa's resistance to immunotherapy.© 2025. The Author(s).
Antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) are a rapidly growing therapeutic modality that directly modulate splicing or expression of disease-causing genes. ASOs are internalized through various endocytic mechanisms that converge on the endolysosomal pathway. Our work here aims to evaluate changes to the endolysosomal system following repeated ASO exposure. Histological examinations of nonhuman primates following repeated intrathecal administration of ASOs reveal dose-related neuronal microvesicular vacuolation in the hippocampus, cortex, and spinal cord. These changes are not associated with any neuronal degenerative changes or glial activation. Examination by electron microscopy reveals lysosomes containing stacked membranous material. We established an induced pluripotent stem cell-derived motor neuron (iPSC-MN) model that recapitulates these lysosome changes. ASO exposure did not cause any changes in iPSC-MN viability. To characterize lysosomal changes, we isolated lysosomes from iPSC-MNs after ASO treatment and quantified their protein and lipid contents by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Our lipidomics studies documented increases in bis(monoacylglycerol)phosphate and lactosylceramide following ASO administration; proteomic analysis showed changes in several proteins, including decreases in four lysosomal hydrolases (Carboxypeptidase Q, ß-galactosidase, Cathepsin A, and α-l-Fucosidase). Altogether, this work advances our understanding of the cellular consequences following prolonged ASO administration and may guide further investigations to characterize these effects.
Vanin-1 is an enzyme highly expressed in the kidneys, liver, and small intestines. Inhibition of this enzyme has been postulated as a novel approach in the treatment of several inflammatory diseases. BI 764122, BI 1585773, and BI 1595043 are very potent inhibitors of this enzyme. These three analogs share the same (S)-N-(nicotinoyl)pyrrolidin-3-yl)-N-methyl acetamide moiety. The preparation of these analogs labelled with carbon-14 was accomplished via carbon-14 carboxylation with carbon dioxide of corresponding aryl halides, followed by amide bond formation with (S)-N-(methyl)-N-(pyrrolidin-3-yl)acetamide. For metabolic considerations, the radioactive carbon was also incorporated in a cyclopropyl in [14C]-BI 764122 synthesis. The deuterium labelling of these three compounds was completed using the common moiety (S)-N-(methyl-d3)-N-(pyrrolidin-3-yl)acetamide-d3, which was prepared in three steps and then coupled to the corresponding aryl acids via amide bond.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Host survival during infection depends on the balance between pathogen resistance and tissue tolerance mechanisms. Although resistance pathways are well characterized, the molecular determinants of host tolerance remain poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that vanin-1, an ectoenzyme known for its role in vitamin B5 metabolism, unexpectedly regulates host tolerance during influenza infection through modulation of cellular redox status. Mice lacking vanin-1 showed enhanced survival following lethal influenza infection without alterations in viral burden, immune responses, or tissue pathology. While vanin-1 deficiency impairs vitamin B5 metabolism, neither vitamin B5 supplementation nor deficiency affected survival during infection, indicating a vitamin B5-independent mechanism. RNA sequencing analysis revealed enhanced expression of antioxidant pathway genes in vanin-1-deficient mice, with Nrf2 serving as a key upstream regulator. Mechanistically, vanin-1-deficient mice maintained higher glutathione levels during infection and showed reduced lipid peroxidation, suggesting protection against oxidative stress-induced cell death. Importantly, pharmacological inhibition of glutathione synthesis abolished the survival advantage in vanin-1-deficient mice, while glutathione supplementation protected wild-type mice from lethal infection. Our findings reveal an unexpected role for vanin-1 in regulating host tolerance through antioxidant pathways and identify a potential therapeutic target for enhancing survival during severe viral infections.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of National Academy of Sciences.
Former studies indicate, that urinary Vascular Non-Inflammatory Molecule 1 (Vanin-1) may be an early biomarker of acute tubular necrosis. We evaluated the diagnostic performance of Vanin-1 regarding the detection of acute kidney injury (AKI) and the differentiation of prerenal from intrinsic AKI compared to other known biomarkers.Urinary Vanin-1, Neutrophil gelatinase-associated Lipocalin (NGAL), Kidney injury molecule 1 (KIM-1) and calprotectin concentrations were assessed in 112 hospitalized subjects, 51 with intrinsic and 61 with prerenal AKI. 27 healthy subjects served as controls. Exclusion criteria were postrenal AKI or renal transplantation. Only patients with severe AKI were eligible. Results were expressed as urinary creatinine ratios.Median urinary Vanin-1/creatinine was significantly higher in patients with AKI (1912 [812.1-4808] vs. 344.2 [165.2-553.4] pg/mg, p = 0.001; AUROC 0.86 [95% CI 0.80-0.93], p = 0.001). The AUROC for NGAL-, KIM-1- and calprotectin/creatinine were 0.92 (95% CI 0.87-0.97; p = 0.001), 0.96 (95% CI 0.92-0.99; p = 0.001), 0.82 (95% CI 0.74-0.90; p = 0.001), respectively. The diagnostic accuracy of urinary Vanin-1/creatinine in the differentiation of prerenal from intrinsic AKI was low (AUROC 0.64 [95% CI 0.54-0.75, p = 0.01]). The respective AUROCs for NGAL/creatinine, calprotectin/creatinine and KIM-1/creatinine were 0.71 ([95% CI 0.61-0.80], p = 0.001), 0.77 ([95% CI 0.68-0.86], p = 0.001) and 0.54 ([95% CI 0.44-0.65], p = 0.001).To our knowledge, this is one of the largest human studies evaluating urinary Vanin-1 in AKI. Urinary Vanin-1/creatinine ratio was higher in patients with AKI compared to controls. However, its diagnostic accuracy in the differentiation of intrinsic from prerenal AKI was lower than of other biomarkers.© 2026. The Author(s).
Asthma is a heterogeneous disease, underscoring the urgent need for reliable diagnostic biomarkers. Vanin-1, a well-recognized sensor of oxidative stress, has been implicated in various inflammatory disorders; however, its diagnostic value in asthma remains to be fully elucidated. This study aimed to evaluate serum Vanin-1 levels in asthmatic patients and explore their correlations with systemic oxidative stress biomarkers-malondialdehyde (MDA) and glutathione (GSH)-as well as inflammatory cytokines, pulmonary function parameters, and to assess its diagnostic potential.A case-control study was conducted, enrolling 169 participants: 129 asthmatic patients and 40 age- and sex-matched healthy controls. Serum concentrations of Vanin-1, MDA, GSH, cytokines (IL-4, IL-13, IL-17, IFN-γ), and total IgE were measured. Pulmonary function tests were also performed. Statistical correlations were analyzed using Spearman's rank test, and diagnostic efficacy was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves.Compared with healthy controls, asthmatic patients exhibited significantly elevated serum levels of Vanin-1 (7.54 ± 1.62 ng/mL vs. 4.59 ± 1.30 ng/mL, P < 0.001) and MDA [0.11 (0.09, 0.12) nmol/mg protein vs. 0.08 (0.06, 0.10) nmol/mg protein, P < 0.001], but markedly reduced GSH [1.44 (1.16, 1.57) nmol/mg protein vs. 2.06 (1.65, 2.37) nmol/mg protein, P < 0.001]. Vanin-1 level was positively correlated with MDA (ρ = 0.342, P < 0.001) and negatively correlated with GSH (ρ = - 0.329, P < 0.001). No significant correlations were observed between Vanin-1 and IL-4, IL-13, IL-17, IFN-γ, eosinophil counts, or pulmonary function indices. ROC analysis demonstrated that Vanin-1 had robust diagnostic utility, with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.884 (95% CI: 0.832-0.936, P < 0.001). At an optimal cutoff of 6.12 ng/mL, the sensitivity and specificity were 69.0% and 92.5%, respectively.Serum Vanin-1 is significantly elevated in asthmatic patients and is closely associated with an oxidative stress imbalance. It may serve as a potential biomarker for distinguishing asthma patients from healthy individuals.© 2026. The Author(s).
Persistent symptoms following SARS-CoV-2 infection are the hallmark of post-COVID condition (PCC), also referred to as long COVID. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. In this study, we employed data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS)-based plasma proteomics to identify molecular alterations associated with PCC. DIA-MS proteomic analysis revealed a clear distinction between the plasma proteome of uninfected individuals and those previously infected with SARS-CoV-2, irrespective of PCC status. PCC samples demonstrated downregulation of the antioxidant protein peroxiredoxin 6 (PRDX6) and upregulation of oxidative stress-associated proteins, particularly vanin-1 (VNN1) and paraoxonase-3 (PON3). Additionally, individuals with PCC exhibited significantly elevated levels of six proteins-PCSK9, CST3, C1Q, CPB2, KNG1, and GAPDH-associated with glycolysis, complement and coagulation cascades, and inflammatory pathways. Validation by ELISA does not necessarily reflect the proteomics data suggesting the requirement for alternate methods of validation. Nonetheless, oxidative stress, as measured by 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), further showed that PCC samples had significantly higher levels of DNA damage, compared with convalescent individuals. Antioxidant markers, including reduced and oxidized glutathione (GSH and GSSG), were significantly lower in PCC samples than in uninfected controls. Collectively, these findings indicate that plasma proteomic alterations persist for at least 3 months following SARS-CoV-2 infection, with additional disruptions in oxidative stress and inflammatory pathways characterizing individuals with PCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Targeted protein degradation (TPD) using PROteolysis TArgeting Chimeras (PROTACs) is a powerful therapeutic strategy for degrading difficult-to-drug cytosolic proteins in the proteasome. Here, we present a strategy for extracellular TPD by reshaping the interaction between the lysosome sorting receptor sortilin and its ligand progranulin for engineering SORtilin-based lysosome TArgeting Chimeras (SORTACs). SORTACs induce ternary complex formation followed by endocytosis and target degradation. SORTAC activity can be genetically encoded, demonstrated by converting an IgG-binding nanobody to an IgG-degrading nanobody or by chemical conjugation, enabling conversion of therapeutic antibodies from binding their target to driving its degradation. Importantly, we generated PROTAC-like small molecule SORTACs with nanomolar range potency against two inflammatory proteins, the cytokine TNFa and the membrane protein vanin-1. Our results demonstrate that SORTACs constitute a modular platform for rapid generation of degraders of extracellular targets and with the potential to have wide impact in drug discovery.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Invasive Ductal Carcinoma (IDC), which is the most common histological subtype of breast cancer, is highly aggressive and progresses rapidly. Acyl-CoA thioesterase 7 (ACOT7) is a key regulator of cell survival, the cell cycle, and lipid and glucose metabolism. However, the mechanism of ACOT7 in IDC is still unclear. Our study aims to investigate the clinical significance of ACOT7 in IDC.A comparative analysis of ACOT7 expression in IDC and matched normal tissues was performed using the limma R package on datasets from GEO and TCGA. Prognostic evaluation was conducted using Kaplan-Meier survival curves from the Kaplan-Meier plotter. Furthermore, a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network of ACOT7 was constructed by GeneMANIA, and the correlation between ACOT7 expression and the level of tumor immune infiltration was explored via the TIMER database. In order to further analyze the biological functions of ACOT7, we performed Gene Ontology (GO) analysis, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis, and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) using the clusterProfiler package. To validate this, we profiled ACOT7 mRNA expression across clinical samples (tumor and adjacent normal) and in vitro models (cell lines) via Real-Time quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-qPCR).Bioinformatic analysis of public databases revealed that ACOT7 mRNA expression was significantly upregulated in IDC patients compared to normal tissues. Elevated ACOT7 expression was associated with poorer overall survival, a finding further validated in cell lines and clinical tissue samples. Furthermore, ACOT7 transcriptional levels showed a significant correlation with the degree of tumor immune infiltration. Functional enrichment analysis indicated that ACOT7 is primarily involved in cancer-related regulation, autoimmune diseases, and multiple metabolic pathways.Our study indicates that elevated ACOT7 expression is a significant marker of adverse clinical outcomes. This effect it likely mediated through the remodeling of the tumor immune microenvironment and the reprogramming of metabolic pathways, which collectively fuel the malignant procession of IDC. These results provide a solid theoretical foundation for targeting ACOT7 as both a prognostic biomarker and a potential therapeutic target in IDC.Copyright © 2026 Song, Quan, Shan, Chen, Du, Li and Li.
A 10-month-old domestic shorthair kitten was evaluated for progressive neurological dysfunction characterized by ataxia, episodic opisthotonus, impaired vision, dysphagia and seizures. Clinicopathological findings included marked hypocobalaminemia and abnormal concentrations of urinary methylmalonic acid, methylcitrate, and propionylglycine. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed generalized cerebral and cerebellar atrophy, with mild ventriculomegaly. Despite dietary modification, cobalamin supplementation, antiepileptic therapy, neurological deterioration progressed, culminating in refractory seizures and euthanasia. Post-mortem examination revealed multiorgan and central nervous system changes, characterized by neuronal degeneration and necrosis, cortical atrophy, globular eosinophilic intracytoplasmic material within neurons and gliosis. Methylmalonic aciduria is a rare metabolic disorder resulting from defects in cobalamin metabolism or methylmalonyl-CoA mutase activity.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American College of Veterinary Internal Medicine.
Methylmalonic acidemia (MMA), the most prevalent type of inherited metabolic disorder, is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern due to MUT gene mutations that impair methylmalonyl-CoA mutase (MCM) enzyme activity. These mutations lead to the toxic accumulation of methylmalonic acid, which causes mitochondrial dysfunction, metabolic disruptions, and multisystem damage. Newborn screening followed by confirmatory biochemical and genetic tests, such as acylcarnitine analysis and urine organic acid profiling, are widely accepted and routinely used in biochemical genetics laboratories. However, these conventional methods have limited ability to detect novel, clinically relevant biomarkers that may offer deeper insights into the pathophysiology of MMA. This study highlights the importance of untargeted metabolomics to identify candidate biomarkers that could potentially predict long-term prognosis or represent novel therapeutic targets.LC-HRMS was used to analyze serum samples from patients with genetically confirmed MUT-type methylmalonic acidemia (n = 27) and healthy controls (n = 27). Differential metabolite and pathway analyses were performed to identify metabolic alterations associated with MMA.A total of 267 dysregulated metabolites were identified in patients with MMA, including 185 upregulated and 82 downregulated metabolites. Downregulated metabolites included glutamine, isoleucine, and deamido-NAD+, whereas upregulated metabolites included acylcarnitines, succinyladenosine, and leukotriene B4. These dysregulated metabolites were primarily associated with key altered pathways, including arachidonic acid metabolism, nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism, sphingolipid metabolism, glutathione metabolism, and purine metabolism. Notably, potential biomarkers such as 11,12-epoxyeicosatrienoic acid (AUC = 0.964) and MG (PGF2alpha/0:0/0:0) (AUC = 0.953) are implicated in pathophysiological mechanisms of MMA and its standard treatment through their association with inflammation, oxidative stress, and altered fatty acid metabolism.These findings identify candidate disease-associated metabolites and provide insight into the metabolic disturbances associated with MMA. However, these results should be considered exploratory and require validation in larger, independent, age-matched, and longitudinal cohorts before clinical application. Methylmalonic acidemia (MMA), the most prevalent type of inherited metabolic disorder, is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern due to MUT gene mutations that impair methylmalonyl-CoA mutase (MCM) enzyme activity. These mutations lead to the toxic accumulation of methylmalonic acid, which causes mitochondrial dysfunction, metabolic disruptions, and multisystem damage. Newborn screening followed by confirmatory biochemical and genetic tests, such as acylcarnitine analysis and urine organic acid profiling, are widely accepted and routinely used in biochemical genetics labs. However, these conventional methods have limited ability to detect novel, clinically relevant biomarkers that may offer deeper insights into the pathophysiology of MMA. This study highlights the importance of untargeted metabolomics to identify candidate biomarkers that could potentially predict long-term prognosis or represent novel therapeutic targets. LC-HRMS was used to analyze serum samples from patients with genetically confirmed MUT-type methylmalonic acidemia (n = 27) and healthy controls (n = 27). A total of 267 dysregulated metabolites were identified in patients with MMA, including 185 upregulated and 82 downregulated metabolites. Downregulated metabolites included glutamine, isoleucine, deamido-NAD+, and the upregulated metabolites included acylcarnitines, succinyladenosine, and leukotriene B4. These dysregulated metabolites were primarily associated with key altered pathways, including arachidonic acid metabolism, nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism, sphingolipid metabolism, glutathione metabolism, and purine metabolism. Notably, potential biomarkers, such as 11,12-epoxyeicosatrienoic acid (AUC = 0.964) and MG (PGF2alpha/0:0/0:0; AUC = 0.953) are implicated in pathophysiological mechanisms of MMA and its standard treatment through their association with inflammation, oxidative stress, and altered fatty acid metabolism. These findings identify candidate disease-associated metabolites and provide insight into the metabolic disturbances associated with MMA. However, these results should be considered exploratory and require validation in larger, independent, age-matched, and longitudinal cohorts before clinical application.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury (HIRI) remains a critical clinical challenge, significantly impacting the success of liver transplantation and postoperative recovery following resection. The study investigated the roles of mitochondrial acetyl-CoA acetyltransferase1 (ACAT1) and transcription factor EB (TFEB) in orchestrating cellular responses to HIRI, specifically focusing on mitophagy and ferroptosis pathways. Using a combination of in vivo models and cellular molecular techniques,we found that ACAT1 plays a pivotal hepatoprotective role. By fostering TFEB-mediated mitophagic processes and curtailing ferroptosis, ACAT1 emerges as a critical moderator of cellular resilience against oxidative stresses induced by reperfusion. These findings elucidate the molecular interplay underlying HIRI and identify ACAT1 as a potential therapeutic target for mitigating hepatic damage and enhancing patient outcomes in liver surgery and transplantation scenarios.© 2026 The Authors.
Methylmalonic acidemia is an autosomal recessive genetic disorder primarily caused by defects in methylmalonyl-CoA mutase and cobalamin (vitamin B12) metabolism. These defects disrupt the tricarboxylic acid cycle and oxidative phosphorylation, leading to the abnormal accumulation of metabolic products such as methylmalonic acid, propionic acid, and methylcitric acid. This accumulation results in damage to multiple systems, including the nervous, hepatic, and renal systems. Tethered cord syndrome results from pathological spinal cord traction due to congenital/acquired factors, causing conus medullaris malposition, neuronal degeneration, and progressive sensorimotor deficits. This report details a diagnostically complex case highlighting an unusual clinical intersection between these two conditions.© 2026 The Author(s). Annals of Clinical and Translational Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Neurological Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42259537 is a review article
Primary hyperoxalurias (PH) are rare autosomal recessive inherited disorders that disrupt the metabolism of glyoxylate and oxalate. The most common type, primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1), is caused by a deficiency in the liver enzyme alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGT), leading to the overproduction and excessive urinary excretion of oxalate.On routine evaluation, the patient presented with deranged renal function and echogenic kidneys. Imaging via KUB X-ray revealed radio-opaque kidney stones, small shrunken kidneys, and nephrocalcinosis, indicating progression to end-stage kidney disease (ESKD). Additional systemic manifestations included increased lumbar bone density and pulmonary fibrosis. Diagnosis was definitively confirmed through elevated 24-hour urinary oxalate levels and genetic screening showing an AGXT gene mutation. This necessitated combined liver-kidney transplantation (CLKT): the liver graft provides the missing AGT enzyme to stop oxalate production, while the kidney graft replaces damaged organs and discontinues chronic dialysis.PH1 must be suspected in pediatric patients presenting with recurrent urolithiasis or nephrocalcinosis, especially in clinical cases of consanguinity. Early interventions - high fluid intake, crystallization inhibitors, and pyridoxine - can help preserve kidney function. For patients reaching ESKD, combined transplantation is the most effective approach to correct the underlying metabolic error and stop oxalate accumulation.This case highlights the diagnostic challenge of PH1, where the initial presentation with flank pain and urinary symptoms may mimic a urinary tract infection, placing the patient at potential risk of urosepsis if misdiagnosed or untreated. CLKT remains the definitive treatment in advanced disease.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Primary hyperoxaluria (PH) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by a heterogeneous presentation that leads to kidney failure and involvement of other organs. The aim of this study was to determine the number of cases with suspected PH in Iran that have had a genetically verified diagnosis.A survey distributed among members of Iranian society of pediatric nephrology (IranSPN) to collect overall data on hyperoxaluria (HOX) in their centers, as well as those who performed whole exome sequencing (WES) or sanger sequencing genetic study. Data is presented as frequency and number blocks.Nineteen out of 130 members filled out the questionnaires. About two-thirds of the responders were suspected to have HOX in the presence of recurrent multiple kidney stones. PH was genetically confirmed in 80 children above 10 years. Alanine-Glyoxylate Aminotransferase (AGXT) was the most frequent reported genetic abnormailtiy. The majority of their patients required kidney replacement therapy. Combined or sequential liver- kidney transplantation was less frequent. Conservative treatment was the only therapy applied to all children prior to end-stage kidney disease.This simple survey revealed that definitive diagnosis of PH occurs at older age accompanied with higher rate of kidney transplantation.
Pediatric urolithiasis, though uncommon, carries significant morbidity when driven by underlying metabolic disorders. Classical homocystinuria, caused by cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) deficiency, is a rare autosomal recessive inborn error of sulfur amino acid metabolism. While ectopia lentis, skeletal anomalies, and thromboembolic events define its classical triad, urolithiasis presenting within the first year of life remains exceptionally rare in surgical literature. A one-year-old male, born to consanguineous parents with known homocystinuria, presented with gravel-like urinary deposits since five months and progressive dysuria since six months. Ultrasonography revealed a 10 mm right renal calculus, a 23 mm vesical calculus, and features of chronic cystitis. He underwent cystolithoscopy, open cystolitholapaxy, and double-J (DJ) stenting. Repeat imaging at two months revealed a 17 mm right staghorn calculus with mild hydronephroureterosis. Intraoperatively, an intraparenchymal pelvis was encountered with the staghorn calculus densely adherent to the indwelling stent, precluding conventional retrieval. Nephrectomy was deferred in favour of nephron-sparing surgery. The calculus was extracted en bloc, a fresh DJ stent inserted, and watertight ureteral re-anastomosis performed. Homocystinuria can drive aggressive multi-level urolithiasis in infancy. Open pyelolithotomy with ureteral re-anastomosis remains a viable nephron-saving strategy when minimally invasive approaches are anatomically unfeasible. Sustained metabolic-surgical multidisciplinary management is essential for long-term renal preservation.Copyright © 2026, Winnifred et al.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) causes over 200,000 cancers annually, including immunoblastic lymphomas in immunosuppressed hosts. Most transformed cells arrest, yet survive when deprived of the essential amino acid methionine. We instead find that EBV transformed lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs), which model the EBV latency III program-driven B-cell lymphoproliferative diseases of immunosuppressed hosts, rapidly die upon methionine restriction. Methionine restriction elevated LCL lipid reactive oxygen species and triggered ferroptosis. Whereas methionine restriction hypomethylates the EBV genome and triggers viral reactivation in latency I Burkitt cells by lowering the cellular methylation potential, the LCL latency III program instead redirected methionine toward redox defense, without altering the SAM/SAH ratio. Stable-isotope tracing revealed that latency III strongly induces transsulfuration, synthesizing cysteine de novo to support glutathione pools. The EBV oncoprotein LMP2A, which mimics B-cell receptor signaling, supported newly infected human B cell cystathionine-β-synthase and cystathionine-γ-lyase expression and methionine dependence, phenocopied by immunoglobulin crosslinking. In vivo , dietary methionine restriction impaired LCL xenograft outgrowth and depleted tumor cystine. Combined methioninase and cyst(e)inase administration blocked both cysteine sources, collapsed tumor glutathione levels, and triggered ferroptosis. Our results define methionine metabolism as a targetable ferroptosis vulnerability of EBV-transformed B cells.Methionine restriction triggers EBV-transformed lymphoblastoid B cell ferroptosisEBV latency III induces transsulfuration to sustain LCL cysteine and glutathione Methioninase or dietary methionine restriction strongly impair LCL growth in vivo Methioninase plus cyst(e)inase collapses xenograft GSH levels and drives ferroptosis.
Classical homocystinuria (OMIM #236300), a rare inherited metabolic disorder caused by cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) deficiency, is characterized by markedly elevated homocysteine levels and associated multisystem complications. While the role of homocystinuria in venous thromboembolism is well recognized, there is limited evidence of impact on aortic pathology. We report the first known case of thoracic aortic dissection in a patient with poorly controlled classical homocystinuria. The patient, a 29-year-old female, was diagnosed in childhood after presenting with Marfanoid features and neurodevelopmental issues, and had persistently elevated homocysteine levels. She had morbid obesity (BMI: 52.7 kg/m2) with no known hypertension or aortic disease. She died suddenly from a ruptured thoracic aortic dissection. Post-mortem whole exome sequencing confirmed homozygosity for a pathogenic CBS mutation NM_000071.2: c.1058C>T; p.(Thr353Met) without any additional variants implicated in monogenic aortopathy or aortic dissection. Notably, her younger brother also has classical homocystinuria but no evidence of aortic dilation to date. This case adds to emerging evidence that elevated homocysteine may contribute to structural vascular damage. Our findings underscore the need to consider aortic surveillance in patients with classical homocystinuria, particularly those with inadequate metabolic control or additional risk factors such as obesity, and highlight the importance of early, sustained treatment to mitigate potential vascular risk.© 2026 The Author(s). JIMD Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of SSIEM.
Gastric cancer (GC) is one of the leading causes of cancer-related deaths, particularly in early-stage GC, which is frequently asymptomatic, and there are no reliable molecular markers available for diagnosis.To identify potential candidate genomic biomarkers for GC with respect to genetic variations and expression changes in genes related to hydrogen sulfide (H2S) metabolism and antioxidant defence.We included 15 patients with newly diagnosed gastric adenocarcinoma in a paired case-control molecular design based on tumour tissue and adjacent histologically normal gastric mucosa. Biopsy tissues were used to extract genomic DNA and total RNA. Complementary DNA (cDNA) was synthesised, followed by standard polymerase chain reaction, Sanger sequencing, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis. The selected target genes were cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS), cystathionine gamma-lyase (CTH), 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase (MPST), catalase (CAT), and glutathione peroxidase 1 (GPX1).A total of 53 insertion/deletion/duplication variants without amino acid change and 11 predicted amino acid-changing sites plus multiple homozygous substitution variants were identified through sequence variants screening. Most variants were heterozygous and not present in external databases. Common high-frequency variants included CBS 19,430 C > CG, CTH 28400G > GT, CAT 33470G > GA, and changes associated with GPX1613_618delGGCGGC. Expression analysis indicated upregulation of CBS, CAT, and GPX1 (by approximately 1.40-, 1.73-, and 1.93-fold, respectively), downregulation of MPST (3.11-fold), and slight downregulation of CTH.Somatic mutations and altered expression of CBS, CTH, MPST, CAT, and GPX1 in GC tissues indicate coordinated remodeling of sulfur metabolism and redox-defence pathways. Nevertheless, the low ROC performance suggests that these genes should not yet be viewed as viable solo diagnostic biomarkers. Instead, they are exploratory molecular signatures and candidate markers that must be validated on larger series of independent patients, matched tumour-normal sequencing, protein/enzyme lateral re-confirmation and functional studies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Durable mucosal healing is the primary therapeutic goal in ulcerative colitis (UC). Intestinal epithelial stemness and microbiota homeostasis drive this healing process. Cystathionine-β-synthase (CBS) is a key enzyme in endogenous sulfur metabolism. Sulfur metabolism is essential for mitochondrial energy production and mucosal integrity. However, the precise role of CBS in UC pathogenesis remains unclear. Single plant-derived polyphenols, such as resveratrol or curcumin, show limited clinical efficacy due to low bioavailability. The combined effect of these botanical agents on CBS-mediated gut homeostasis requires further investigation.This study aimed to define the molecular function of CBS in colitis and to evaluate the therapeutic mechanism and clinical translational potential of a combined plant-derived resveratrol-curcumin treatment for UC.A comprehensive bench-to-bedside translational approach was employed. The study integrated human clinical sample analysis, in vivo animal experiments using transgenic models, in silico molecular docking, and a pilot clinical trial.CBS expression was quantified in colonic biopsies from UC patients and healthy controls. Dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) was used to induce colitis in wild-type (WT) and CBS knockout (Cbs-/-) mice. Clinical phenotypes, mucosal protein expression, microbiota composition, and short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) profiles were systematically assessed. Molecular docking evaluated the binding affinity between the CBS protein and the resveratrol-curcumin combination. The in vivo efficacy of this combination was tested in both WT and Cbs-/- mice. Finally, a pilot clinical trial assessed the combination therapy alongside mesalamine in UC patients.Colonic CBS expression was downregulated in both UC patients and colitis mice. CBS deficiency worsened DSS-induced clinical damage. It disrupted intestinal barrier homeostasis and severely impaired SCFA production. Molecular docking demonstrated strong binding affinity between the resveratrol-curcumin combination and the CBS protein. In vivo, this combined treatment effectively alleviated colitis symptoms. It reduced pro-inflammatory cytokines, upregulated mucosal proteins via CBS activation, and restored microbiota structure. Notably, these mucosal protective effects were completely abolished in Cbs-/- mice, confirming CBS as the essential target for this combined protective effect. In the pilot trial, the addition of resveratrol and curcumin to mesalamine improved clinical outcomes in UC patients.CBS acts as a crucial endogenous protector in the colon. It maintains epithelial stemness and microbiota metabolic homeostasis. The plant-derived resveratrol-curcumin combination specifically targets and restores CBS expression, promoting epithelial regeneration and microbiota remodeling. These findings highlight host-microbiome interactions in UC pathogenesis and offer a novel, targeted polyphenol strategy to achieve mucosal healing.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Cystathionine β-synthase (CBS) has emerged as an important therapeutic target implicated in cancer and Down syndrome, yet the discovery of selective CBS inhibitors remains challenging due to limited structural diversity of known ligands and the scarcity of target-focused virtual screening (VS) benchmarks. In this study, we present the first comprehensive evaluation of CBS-specific artificial intelligence (AI) models for structure-based VS, supported by a carefully curated and up-to-date data set of experimentally validated CBS inhibitors, true inactives and decoys. Using this data set, we developed CBS-specific binary classification models trained on docking-derived features and evaluated them in a rigorous five-fold cross-validation framework that employed similarity-controlled splits, ensuring structural independence between training and test sets while minimizing intra-fold class bias. Predictive performance was assessed primarily using the normalized enrichment factor of true actives at 1% (NEF1%) alongside balanced accuracy. Across all folds, the CBS-specific AI models demonstrated consistently high screening power and robust classification performance. Importantly, we benchmarked their performance against a diverse panel of 16 established VS pipelines, including widely adopted docking-based scoring schemes, modern deep-learning (DL) docking tools, and recent co-folding approaches for protein-ligand binding prediction. The CBS-specific AI classifiers substantially outperformed these state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods in early enrichment (NEF1% = 0.764 ± 0.191), highlighting the advantage of target-focused training for VS tasks. Our results further reveal that generic DL docking and co-folding approaches struggle to achieve reliable screening performance when applied to targets under-represented in or entirely absent from their training data, as appears to be the case for CBS. This finding underscores a key limitation of broadly trained foundation-style models in prospective drug discovery campaigns involving less-studied proteins. Overall, this work reinforces the benefits of target-specific AI scoring models tailored to individual proteins, highlights the value of high-quality curated data sets for such efforts, and provides practical guidance for selecting VS strategies in case of data-limited targets. To promote transparency and reproducibility, all input and output files, curated data sets and source code are freely available via GitHub and Zenodo.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cellular hydropersulfides (RS-SH) derived from hydrogen sulfide (H2S) such as glutathione hydropersulfide (GS-SH) are excellent hydrogen atom transfer agents, and quench radicals to protect cells from ferroptosis, a form of iron-mediated cell death associated with an unchecked build-up of lipid radicals. Here, using principles of enzyme-inhibitor design, a series of new artificial substrates for the endogenous hydropersulfide-generating enzyme, 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase (3-MST) was developed. We find that the lead molecules generated GS-SH, catalyzed by 3-MST, permeated cells to enhance endogenous hydropersulfides, protected cells from ferroptosis, and reduced systemic inflammation in an animal model. Together, this calibrated approach to promote cell's own radical trapping antioxidants using its biosynthetic machinery to prevent ferroptosis has tremendous implications in redox biology and therapeutics.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42435179 is a review article
Anoikis resistance is crucial for ovarian cancer (OvCa) transcoelomic metastasis, during which exfoliated OvCa cells survive as spheroids before invading the omentum. Here, we demonstrate that cystathionine β-synthase (CBS), an H2S-producing transsulfuration pathway enzyme, is a key determinant of OvCa spheroidal viability and metastatic potential. Analysis of publicly available patient datasets, as well as an in-house tissue microarray, revealed that high CBS expression positively correlates with both poor progression-free survival and clinically observed peritoneal/omental metastasis. Integrated functional and proteomic analyses indicated that CBS silencing induces apoptosis in 2D monolayers. Consistent with this, CBS silencing in spheroids caused apoptosis and disrupted spheroid architecture. Mechanistically, this phenotype was associated with downregulation of oncogenic stemness and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Further, through proteomic and bioinformatic analyses, we identified ITGB1 to be the hub protein in OvCa spheroidogenesis. Interestingly, knockdown of CBS led to abrogation of the ITGB1-mediated downstream pathway. Moreover, by proteomic and network analyses, we identified SP1 as a key transcriptional regulator of CBS-induced pro-spheroidal transcriptional programs of stemness and invasiveness. Stabilization of SP1 through persulfidation by H2S supplementation restored spheroidal viability and underlying protein signaling. Further, our results reveal that loss of CBS, through ITGB1 repression, disrupts spheroid architecture, leading to reduced metastatic docking on the murine omental surface in vivo. Collectively, these findings identify CBS as a central regulator of anoikis resistance and OvCa transcoelomic metastasis, highlighting the therapeutic potential of targeting CBS-dependent SP1-ITGB1 regulation to control metastatic spread.© 2026. The Author(s).
Abnormal uterine bleeding (AUB) is a primary symptom indicative of endometrial cancer (EC), yet its diagnosis still primarily relies on invasive biopsy. This study aimed to develop and validate a non-invasive, interpretable machine learning (ML) model integrating local epigenetic (exfoliated cell CDO1 methylation) and systemic metabolic indicators for EC triage.CDO1 was identified as a potential biomarker via bioinformatics. Its diagnostic performance was assessed using quantitative methylation-specific PCR (qMSP) in a clinical cohort of 267 women with AUB. Subsequently, a multimodal ML framework was developed that incorporated logistic regression (LR), support vector machine (SVM), Random Forest (RF), and eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) algorithms to integrate methylation data with clinical metabolic profiles. Model interpretability was ensured by SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) analysis, with final testing in an internal holdout cohort.CDO1 hypermethylation was identified as a significant epigenetic alteration associated with metabolic pathways in EC. Within our clinical cohort, CDO1 methylation emerged as a strong independent risk factor, with an odds ratio (OR) of 12.76 and a 95% confidence interval (CI) ranging from 6.31 to 25.80. Using LASSO regression, four critical predictive variables were identified: CDO1 methylation, menopausal status, diabetes and age. After integrating CDO1 methylation and metabolic profiles, the support vector machine model demonstrated stable performance in the validation set, achieving an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.775 (95% CI: 0.669-0.880), with a sensitivity of 0.800 and a specificity of 0.733. SHAP analysis was used to elucidate the contribution of each feature to the predictive model. The finalized SVM-based model's diagnostic utility was further confirmed in an internal holdout cohort, yielding an AUC of 0.904 (95% CI: 0.838-0.969), with a sensitivity of 0.833 and a specificity of 0.905, demonstrating its preliminary clinical reliability. Using our model with a cutoff of 0.647 in the internal holdout cohort (n = 160), 24 patients were triaged for biopsy, with 2 EC cases missed, representing a clinical false-negative rate of 16.7%. The finalized SVM-based predictive model was developed into a free online risk calculator (https://phw1996.shinyapps.io/EC_risk/) for real-time clinical triage.Our SVM-based model offers a non-invasive and highly specific approach for the triage of patients experiencing AUB. By correlating localized molecular changes with systemic metabolic dysregulation, this tool supports personalized risk stratification and clinical triage. It is designed for relative risk stratification, and external recalibration is required for clinical absolute risk estimation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in Type 1 Diabetes (T1D), but a subset of individuals remains free from macrovascular or renal complications despite decades of hyperglycaemia and a significant risk factor burden. We used a targeted proteomic approach (Olink Cardiovascular panel III, targeting 92 proteins) to characterize the proteomic profile of cardiovascular resilience in T1D by comparing 92 patients with long-standing T1D (age 59.8 [53.2, 69.1], duration 40.0 [35.0, 45.2] years) free from macrovascular complications or nephropathy against a reference group of 57 T1D patients with accelerated vascular pathology (age 42.0 [32.0, 56.0], duration 22.0 [18.0, 27.0] years), proliferative retinopathy and/or nephropathy in relation to diabetes duration, termed Rapid Progressors (RP). Twenty proteins differed significantly between RP and Escapers (False Discovery Rate [FDR] < 0.05) after adjustment for age, sex, HbA1c, and eGFR: Caspase-3 was significantly higher in RP (Adjusted difference: + 2.12 Normalized Protein eXpression [NPX], p < 0.001). Proteins associated with platelet activation and leukocyte adhesion with increased levels in RP included Junctional Adhesion Molecule A (+ 1.40 NPX), Glycoprotein VI (GP6: + 1.29 NPX), and P-Selectin (+ 0.82 NPX) (all p < 0.001). PECAM-1 (+ 0.55 NPX) and TNFRSF14 (+ 0.43 NPX), were also elevated. RP also showed higher levels of metabolic and tissue-remodelling proteins; Transferrin Receptor (+ 0.53 NPX) and Fatty Acid Binding Protein 4 (+ 0.52 NPX), as well as higher Bleomycin Hydrolase, Trefoil Factor 3, GDF-15, U-PAR, and Cystatin B. Conversely, von Willebrand Factor (vWF) levels (- 1.35 NPX, p < 0.001) and Paraoxonase 3 (PON3) was lower in RP (- 0.34 NPX, p = 0.003). In conclusion, escaping complications in long-term T1D appears to be associated with active molecular mechanisms. Progression is marked by apoptosis (Caspase-3), fibrosis (CHI3L1) and platelet activation (GP6), whereas resilience is associated with a distinct signature involving higher vWF and PON3. These findings highlight a profound biological divergence between extreme T1D phenotypes and provide a foundation for further research into vascular resilience.© 2026. The Author(s).
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive malignancy with limited treatment options due to the absence of targetable receptors. Theaflavin-3,3'-gallate (TF-3), a polyphenol abundant in black tea, has demonstrated anticancer activity across multiple cancer types, including prostate and ovarian cancers, suggesting its potential as a broad-spectrum antitumor agent. However, the specific mechanisms underlying its effects in breast cancer remain to be fully elucidated. In this study, we show that TF-3 significantly inhibits TNBC cell proliferation, migration, and colony formation while inducing apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that these antitumor effects are accompanied by upregulation of cysteine dioxygenase type 1 (CDO1), suggesting its potential involvement. Metabolomic profiling demonstrated that TF-3 treatment profoundly reprograms the TNBC metabolome, with amino acid and lipid metabolism pathways being primary targets. Functional experiments showed that CDO1 knockdown partially attenuates TF-3 induced apoptosis, whereas CDO1 overexpression enhances caspase-3/9 activation, indicating a contributory rather than exclusive role for CDO1. Furthermore, bioinformatic analyses identified CDO1 as a potential diagnostic and prognostic biomarker, with its expression correlating with immune cell infiltration (particularly macrophages and T cells) in the tumor microenvironment; however, these associations are correlative and require experimental validation. Collectively, our findings establish TF-3 as a promising therapeutic candidate for TNBC and underscore the critical involvement of CDO1 in its antitumor effects, providing a foundation for future combination strategies targeting metabolism and immune modulation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Obesity is a chronic disease with complex etiology, characterized by excessive accumulation of fat tissue, which poses a health hazard and increases, among others, risk of cardiovascular diseases. Hydrogen sulfide (H2S), an endogenous gaseous transmitter, plays an important role in the cardio- vascular system, affecting blood pressure and heart function.The aim of this study was to determine the effect of high-fat diet-induced (HFD-induced) obesity to hydrogen sulfide metabolism in mice hearts.The research material consisted of hearts collected from male wild-type C57BL/6 mice fed for 8 weeks with a normal diet (ND) or high-fat diet. Ex vivo analyses included testing the activity of selected sulfur enzymes (cystathionine gamma-lyase - CGL, 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase - MPST, and thiosulfate sulfurtransferase - TST), determining the sulfane sulfur level, and examining the ability of tissues to produce hydrogen sulfide.Tissues collected from HFD-fed mice were characterized by a lack of CGL activity, increased TST activity, and higher levels of sulfane sulfur compared to group of ND mice. Additionally, the capacity to produce H2S was higher in the hearts of HFD mice.Our study shows that HFD-induced obesity affects hydrogen sulfide levels and sulfur enzyme activity in mice hearts. It can be speculated that the increased ability of HFD mice tissues to produce H2S is a compensatory mechanism for obesity-induced changes. The conducted research indicates the key importance of sulfurtransferases, MPST and TST, in sulfur metabolism in the heart and indicates a new area for further analysis.
Members of the genus Halanaerobium are widely distributed in hypersaline environments, including oil and gas reservoirs, and saline lake sediment. However, a comprehensive understanding of their physiological traits, metabolic capacities, adaptive strategies, and biogeography remains limited. In this study, a strictly anaerobic and halophilic strain, H. saccharolyticum_B KY39 was isolated from produced water in the Zhongyuan Oilfield, China. Strain KY39 grew at 20-45°C, 2-30% salinity, pH 5.3-9.0, and up to 50 MPa hydrostatic pressure. It could ferment various carbohydrates (e.g., glucose, xylose, sucrose, and maltose) or use mannitol and pyruvate as electron donors under Fe(III)-reducing conditions. Comparative genomic analyses of 31 high-quality Halanaerobium strains revealed an open pangenome. Genes involved in osmotic and pressure stress responses, including those related to osmoprotectant biosynthesis and ion transport, were highly conserved. The thiosulfate sulfurtransferase (TST) gene, responsible for converting thiosulfate to sulfite, was universally present. Notably, compared to the strains from saline lakes, those from oil and gas reservoirs possessed larger genomes and harbored a broader repertoire of genes related to peptidoglycan biosynthesis, nitrogen fixation, sulfur metabolism, biofilm formation, and carbohydrate uptake, suggesting enhanced metabolic flexibility and environmental adaptation. Moreover, a survey of the available metagenomes revealed that Halanaerobium species were globally distributed across diverse environments exhibiting a broader salinity range. In addition to oil and gas reservoirs and saline lakes, they also widely reside in soils, fermented foods, and marine ecosystems. Collectively, these findings advance the systematic understanding of ecological plasticity and metabolic versatility of Halanaerobium, shedding light on their ecological roles and potential industrial impacts.Members of the genus Halanaerobium are prominent inhabitants of surface and deep subsurface hypersaline environments, yet their ecological roles and adaptive strategies remain poorly understood. Here, through the isolation of a novel strain from the production fluid of an oil field combined with comparative genomic analyses across the genus, we revealed the metabolic versatility, stress tolerance, and global distribution of Halanaerobium. Our findings underscore the ecological plasticity, functional diversity, and niche differentiation within this genus, providing fundamental insights into its potential industrial and environmental applications.
Naringenin (NAR) and hesperetin (HES) are citrus flavanones that have been shown to exert various geroprotective effects. However, key regulators of these processes remain unexplored. To address this gap, we investigated the mechanisms through which NAR and HES modulate hepatic redox control, persulfidation, and senescence-associated pathways in 24-month-old male Wistar rats. Animals were treated orally with NAR or HES (15 mg/kg b.w.) for 4 weeks, while control groups remained physiologically intact or received vehicle. Liver tissue was analyzed using a dimedone-based switch method to evaluate overall protein persulfidation (P-SSH), Western blot, qPCR, and histological analysis, including quantification of IHC staining and IF labeling. Our results showed that both citrus flavanones increased total P-SSH levels while exerting distinct regulatory effects on the H2S metabolic network. Only HES upregulated gene expression of H2S-producing enzymes (cystathionine beta-synthase CBS, cystathionine gamma-lyase CSE, and mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase MST) and catabolic enzymes (sulfide:quinone oxidoreductase SQR and thiosulfate sulfurtransferase TST), together with CBS protein, whereas NAR decreased CSE protein expression. Both NAR and HES treatment activated the Nrf2 signaling pathway, as evidenced by increased nuclear translocation of Nrf2 in the treated groups. Concurrently, NAR and HES increased Sirt1 expression, which was accompanied by decreases in p16 and β-galactosidase expression, indicating attenuation of hepatic senescence. Together, these findings highlight a synergistic interplay among persulfidation, H2S metabolism, and Nrf2/Sirt1 signaling as a key mechanism by which citrus flavanones support hepatic resilience during aging.© 2026 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
Salmonella enterica survival depends on evading CD8+ T-cell recognition, a process governed by the MHC Class I antigen presentation pathway. The cytosolic aminopeptidases-bleomycin hydrolase (BH), puromycin-sensitive aminopeptidase (PSA), and thimet oligopeptidase (TOP)-are critical "final trimmers" that generate the precise peptide epitopes required for MHC Class I loading. This study investigated whether S. enterica cell extract modulates the transcriptional expression of these key enzymes in HT-29 cells, potentially revealing a mechanism of immune evasion mediated by bacterial structural components.Human colorectal adenocarcinoma HT-29 cells were treated with varying concentrations of S. enterica extract. The gene expression levels of BH, PSA, and TOP were quantified using qRT-PCR at multiple time points (6, 12, 24, 48, and 72 hours) post-treatment. Data were statistically analyzed to evaluate significant modulations relative to untreated controls.The transcriptional response to S. enterica extract was highly selective, with TOP demonstrating the most robust and rapid induction. Significant upregulation of TOP occurred as early as 6 hours post-treatment and reached its maximum induction at 48 hours. Conversely, BH levels remained largely indistinguishable from untreated controls. PSA expression showed no statistically significant alterations relative to the control group throughout the study. These findings suggest that S. enterica components preferentially target the "terminator" peptidase TOP to potentially disrupt the MHC Class I antigen presentation pathway.S. enterica cell extract significantly and selectively alters the expression of TOP, a critical cytosolic peptidase involved in the final stages of antigen processing. This targeted modulation likely serves as a mechanism for immune evasion by facilitating the destruction of immunogenic epitopes, thereby rendering infected cells less visible to the adaptive immune system.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Tehran University of Medical Sciences.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common cause of cancer deaths worldwide, and has a poor prognosis in advanced stages. Whereas there are limited effective biomarkers of CRC. Herein, we aimed to explore the potential prognostic value of immune and ferroptosis-related genes (IFRGs).CRC-related data were extracted from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases. Kaplan-Meier, receiver operating characteristic (ROC), and multivariate Cox regression analyses were used to test the prognostic value of IFRGs. The immune cell infiltration and immunotherapy response predictive analyses were also conducted. The level of cysteine dioxygenase type 1 (CDO1) mRNA and protein expression in CRC and normal tissues was examined using quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western blotting analysis, respectively.Thirty-eight IFRGs were obtained through differentially expressed gene analysis and cross-analysis. Of them, CDO1 mRNA and protein expression levels were significantly reduced in CRC tissues compared to normal tissues. CDO1 remained as an independent prognostic biomarker after multivariate Cox regression. Additionally, CDO1 hypermethylation was associated with poorer prognosis of CRC patients. CRC patients with differential CDO1 expression or methylation status both showed significantly distinct immune cell infiltration and immunotherapy responses.Our study revealed CDO1 as an IFRG with a prognostic role in CRC. It may provide a rationale for developing novel treatment strategies, such as demethylating agents or combination immunotherapy protocols, for CRC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cellular senescence and mitochondrial dysfunction are prevalent in adipose tissues and disrupt metabolic homeostasis during aging, but the mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we investigated the role of histone deacetylase 9 (HDAC9), an epigenetic regulator of adipogenic differentiation, in aging-related adipose tissue senescence and mitochondrial dysfunction. HDAC9 expression correlated positively with age in mouse adipose tissues. Compared to age-matched wild-type (WT) mice, Hdac9 knockout (KO) mice gained less weight and had reduced fat mass during aging, in conjunction with reduced senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SABG) staining and expression of senescence markers in adipose tissues. Additionally, preadipocytes isolated from Hdac9 KO mice exhibited reduced baseline and stress-induced senescence compared to WT mice. Mechanistically, HDAC9 gene deletion resulted in coordinated upregulation of mitochondria-associated genes, in association with increased mitochondrial DNA content and adipose tissue mitochondrial oxygen consumption parameters (e.g., increased basal respiration, proton leak). Furthermore, thiosulfate sulfurtransferase (TST), whose downregulation is associated with mitochondrial dysfunction, was reduced in adipose tissues of aging mice and upregulated by HDAC9 gene deletion. Finally, silencing TST in preadipocytes upregulated expression of senescence markers and increased SABG staining. We conclude that deletion of HDAC9 ameliorates the development of adipose tissue senescence and mitochondrial dysfunction with aging, at least in part via upregulation of TST, suggesting that targeting HDAC9 may be a promising strategy to maintain healthy adipose tissue during aging.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
BACKGROUND: Archaea are a major domain of life that inhabit diverse and often extreme environments, contributing to biogeochemical cycles and participating in nutrient cycling within plant rhizospheric soils. This study applies metagenomic whole-genome shotgun sequencing to characterize the archaeal component of the rhizospheric microbiome associated with the wild plant species Moringa oleifera in Saudi Arabia. RESULTS: Based on KEGG-annotated enzymes, Thaumarchaeota and Euryarchaeota emerged as the predominant archaeal phyla in the rhizosphere, with higher abundance than in bulk soil. The most abundant archaeal enzymes were assigned to metabolic pathways related to nitrogen and sulfur metabolism, carbon transformations, and responses to oxidative stress, indicating a putative contribution to nutrient turnover and stress-related functions. Network analysis further identified archaeal chemotaxis-related regulators and two-component sensor kinases linked to the root–soil interface. Key enzymes detected included urease, glutamine synthetase, thiosulfate sulfurtransferase, and catalase-peroxidase. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that archaeal communities form a distinct functional module within the M. oleifera rhizosphere, potentially influencing soil nutrient dynamics and plant performance. The chief limitation is reliance on DNA-based metagenomic data from a single site and time point, without multi-omics or detailed soil characterization, restricting temporal and ecological generalization. Nonetheless, the dataset provides a genome-scale view of archaeal functional potential and offers testable directions for future experimental and process-oriented studies.
House dust mite (HDM) Blomia tropicalis is a major global inducer of allergic asthma, yet its epigenetic impact on airway tissues remains poorly understood. The aim of this study was to perform an exploratory, hypothesis-generating screening of the DNA methylation changes that occur in lung tissue of mice with robust allergic inflammation compared to saline-exposed controls.We sensitized and challenged BALB/c mice with B. tropicalis extract or purified allergens Blo t 2 and Blo t 13 or saline solution in a model of acute allergic airway inflammation, then assessed lung DNA methylation across over 285.000 CpG sites using the Infinium Mouse Methylation BeadChip (Illumina) (n = 6 mice per group, 24 lung samples).Allergen-exposed mice exhibit distinct lung DNA methylation profiles compared to controls following exposure to Blo t 2, Blo t 13, or B. tropicalis extract. Analysis of differentially methylated regions (DMRs) revealed 137, 179 and 313 DMRs in mice exposed to Blo t 2, Blo t 13, or B. tropicalis extract, respectively. Genes in key differentially methylated regions included protocadherin alpha genes (Pcdha1 to Pcdha6), cadherin 8 (Cdh8) and interleukin 11 receptor alpha (Il11ra). Genes in DMRs were enriched in several biological processes including homophilic cell adhesion via plasma membrane adhesion molecules and nervous system development. Notably, there was also found significant differences in mRNA levels of neuronal growth genes such as (Gdf7), N-acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase 2 (Naalad2), prune homolog 2 with BCH domain (Prune2), cerebellin 1 precursor (Cbln1) and, in the proapoptotic gene Bcl2l11.Exposure to B. tropicalis allergens is associated with lung DNA methylation changes in genes implicated in allergic asthma and inflammatory responses, offering novel epigenetic insights and key targets of house dust mite-induced airway allergy. This exposure may involve a joint neuro-immune epigenetic reprogramming in the lung, altering the methylation of cell-adhesion and local neural signaling genes, alongside key lipid inflammatory drivers. Our results support the hypothesis that Blomia tropicalis exposure disrupts the airway epithelial barrier and sensitizes the local pulmonary neuroendocrine network, strongly predisposing the tissue to hyperreactivity and allergic inflammation.Copyright © 2026 Llinás-Caballero, Acevedo, Merid, Donado, Espinoza, Mondol, Reina, Regino, Benedetti, Zakzuk, Puerta, Melén and Caraballo.
Hypertension is linked to a shortened erythrocyte lifespan, with endothelial cells acting as non-professional phagocytes to clear senescent erythrocytes. However, whether increased erythrophagocytosis contributes to endothelial inflammation remains unclear. Frataxin (FXN) plays a crucial role in controlling iron balance and metabolism. This study investigated the role of FXN-mediated iron engulfment in regulating endothelial pro-inflammatory phenotype.Hypertensive models were established by infusing angiotensin II (Ang II) into endothelial cell-specific Fxn knockout mice for 14 days. Erythrocyte senescence was evaluated using scanning electron microscopy and metabolomics. Endothelial erythrophagocytosis and inflammation were assessed via immunofluorescence staining. Integrated proteomics along with surface plasmon resonance (SPR) analyses were employed to identify key proteins and protein-protein interactions during erythrophagocytosis.Erythrocytes from Ang II-infused mice displayed signs of senescence, including swelling and acanthocytic morphology. Metabolomics revealed a progressive metabolic decline in erythrocytes. Endothelial cells efficiently cleared senescent erythrocytes, while proteomics identified decreased FXN and increased thioredoxin-interacting protein (TXNIP) protein levels. Although FXN function did not affect phagocytosis efficiency, its absence led to mitochondrial iron overload, elevated lipid peroxides, and activation of the TXNIP/NLR family pyrin domain-containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome both in vivo and in vitro. Molecular docking showed FXN interacts with the thioredoxin-2 (TRX2)/TXNIP redoxisome, forming a trimeric complex. FXN acetylation at Lys-192 (FXNK192) caused TXNIP dissociation from oxidized TRX2, liberating TXNIP for NLRP3 activation. Furthermore, Fxn acetylation-deficient mice exhibited reduced endothelial oxidative stress and inflammation.Excessive endothelial erythrophagocytosis triggers NLRP3 inflammasome activation by destabilizing the FXN/TRX2/TXNIP complex.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is a leading cause of end-stage renal disease, with proximal tubule fibrosis being a key pathological feature. Our previous study identified significant upregulation of cytosolic nonspecific dipeptidase 2 (CNDP2) in the renal tubules of a DKD mouse model, yet its functional role remains unclear.This study aimed to investigate the role of CNDP2 in renal tubular fibrosis during DKD, focusing specifically on the "sulfur-containing amino acids (SAAs) metabolism-mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)" signaling axis.We employed integrated in vivo and in vitro models. Kidney- specific Cndp2 knockdown was achieved using an adeno-associated virus vector, and the CNDP2 inhibitor bestatin was used for pharmacological intervention. Renal function, fibrosis, the Ragulator-Rag GTPase-mTOR signaling pathway, amino acid profiles, and ultrastructural changes were assessed. A dietary intervention restricting SAAs was also applied.CNDP2 was specifically upregulated in renal tubules under DKD conditions. Both genetic knockdown and pharmacological inhibition of CNDP2 significantly improved renal function and attenuated fibrosis. Mechanistically, CNDP2 hydrolyzes dipeptides, leading to elevated levels of SAAs (cysteine/cystine). This promotes the activation of the Ragulator-Ras-related GTPase (Rag) complex, resulting in subsequent hyperactivation of mTOR signaling and driving tubular fibrosis. Notably, dietary restriction of SAAs similarly ameliorated DKD pathology.CNDP2 drives renal tubular fibrosis in DKD by activating mTOR signaling through disruption of SAAs metabolism. Our findings reveal a novel "CNDP2-SAAs-mTOR" pathway, identifying CNDP2 as a promising therapeutic target for DKD intervention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Sepsis-induced excessive inflammation contributes to mortality, but restricting hyperinflammation in sepsis remains challenging. Here, we identify dipeptidase 2 (DPEP2) as an immunotherapeutic target in sepsis by integrating single-cell and bulk RNA sequencing data from septic patients. In patients with sepsis, peripheral monocytes/macrophages have reduced DPEP2 expression, with DPEP2 levels negatively correlating with inflammation severity, disease progression, and clinical outcomes. In vitro, Dpep2 knockdown enhances macrophage-mediated inflammation, while in septic mice in vivo, macrophage-specific Dpep2 loss decreases survival by exacerbating inflammation and organ damage. Mechanistically, sepsis-induced EGR1 represses Dpep2 transcription, leading to reduced DPEP2-mediated enzymatic cleavage of leukotriene D4 (LTD4). Increased LTD4 redirects the metabolic flux toward prostaglandin E2 overproduction, amplifying NF-κB activation and lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammatory cytokine production. Lastly, lipid nanoparticle (LNP)-mediated delivery of Dpep2 mRNA expression to monocytes/macrophages mitigates inflammation and organ damage in septic mice. Our findings thus suggest a protective function for DPEP2 in sepsis-induced hyperinflammation via immunometabolic regulation, and also present LNP-mediated Dpep2 mRNA delivery as a potential therapy for septic hyperinflammation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41701881 is a review article
β-Alanine is a non-essential β-amino acid used as a dietary supplement for improvement of exercise performance. The hepatic influence of β-alanine has been controversial in previous studies and its effects on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) are uncertain. In the present study, we examined the role of β-alanine on diet-induced NAFLD in mice and determined the hepatic S-amino acid (SAA) metabolism to identify the cellular mechanisms. Male C57BL/6 mice were provided with a choline-deficient, L-amino acid-defined, high-fat diet (CDAHFD) for 2 weeks to induce NAFLD, and simultaneously supplemented with β-alanine (3%, w/v) in drinking water. CDAHFD-induced liver injury, steatosis, and oxidative stress as shown by the increased serum alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase activities, and hepatic triglyceride and lipid peroxide levels, respectively, but β-alanine alleviated these changes. The CDAHFD promoted significant changes in SAA metabolites, including reduced S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) and hypotaurine levels, and elevated homocysteine and taurine levels in the liver. β-Alanine attenuated the decrement of the SAM induced by the CDAHFD via the restoration of methionine adenosyltransferase activity, which appeared to ameliorate fat accumulation by stimulating hepatic lipid export via very-low-density lipoprotein secretion. Moreover, the induction of fatty acid β-oxidation, as shown by the elevations of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator 1-α, carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A, and acyl-CoA dehydrogenase medium chain proteins, may contribute to the anti-steatogenic effect of β-alanine. Normalizations of hepatic homocysteine and hypotaurine levels due to the restorations of cystathionine β-synthase and cysteine sulfinic acid decarboxylase, respectively, along with increased glutathione levels may be the mechanisms of inhibition of CDAHFD-induced oxidative stress by β-alanine. These results suggest that β-alanine can improve NAFLD via its antioxidant and anti-steatotic effects by restoring hepatic SAA metabolism.© The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Korean Society of Toxicology 2025. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Mastitis, an inflammation of the bovine mammary gland, reduces dairy productivity and poses significant health risks to Ethiopian dairy cattle. This study aimed to identify genomic regions associated with milk somatic cell score (SCS) and estimate its genetic parameters. The dataset included 1647 phenotypic cows, 6964 genotyped animals, and 39,976 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers. A single-step genome-wide association study (ssGWAS) was conducted, accounting for fixed effects of parity, genomic breed composition, altitude, and lactation stage, and random effects of herd-year-calving-season and permanent environment. Genetic variance using 20 adjacent SNPs sliding windows explaining ≥1% of the total genetic variance were used for candidate genes and quantitative trait loci (QTL) identifications. The estimated heritability of SCS was 0.11 ± 0.06. Genomic regions on BTA 15, 19, and 26 were identified associated with SCS, encompassing 116 genes, including MPP7, MPP8, MMP13, BIRC2, BIRC3, BTRC, SRSF1, and MPO, which are involved in immunity, inflammation, apoptosis, antimicrobial defense, and tissue remodeling. Gene enrichment analysis revealed that the genes are involved collagen catabolic process and IL-17 signaling pathway. These findings provide insights into genomic regions that could be targeted in genomic selection to improve mastitis resistance in Ethiopian dairy cattle.
To develop a low-cost, environmentally friendly taurine fermentation method for sustainable marine fish culture using feed derived from photosynthetically produced agricultural products, it is crucial to study cysteine sulfinic acid decarboxylase (CSAD), a key enzyme in the taurine biosynthetic pathway in applicable microorganisms. In this study, a method was devised to screen for CSAD genes using Escherichia coli growth as an indicator, based on sulfur assimilation following the decarboxylation of l-cysteic acid, a taurine precursor compound. The E. coli used has a double deletion mutation of cysA (sulfate/thiosulfate ABC transporter) and ssuD (FMNH2-dependent alkanesulfonate monooxygenase) genes. If needed, an additional defect in enzyme genes, such as cysC (adenylyl-sulfate kinase), which participates in the pathway reducing sulfate to sulfite, is also introduced. Using this method, it was demonstrated that the glutamic acid decarboxylase gene from Yarrowia lipolytica possesses CSAD activity. The identified decarboxylase was further confirmed to act on l-cysteine sulfinic acid. Additionally, two observations made during method refinement to reduce background growth in screening are discussed: that SsuD is involved in sulfur assimilation from an unknown sulfur compound and that certain mscK (mechanosensitive channel) missense mutations enable external sulfate above a specific concentration to enter the cell.
Bivalves, such as oysters and scallops, are rich in taurine and play crucial roles in marine ecosystems as well as in aquaculture. However, mechanisms governing the taurine biosynthesis in bivalves remain poorly understood. Cysteine sulfinic acid decarboxylase (CSAD) and glutamate decarboxylase-like 1 (GADL1), as members of pyridoxal phosphate-dependent decarboxylase (PLP_deC) family, catalyze the decarboxylation step in taurine synthesis. To investigate their evolution and function in bivalves, a genome-wide identification of these genes was conducted in five bivalve species. A total of 61 PLP_deC genes were identified, of which 23 were predicted to be involved in taurine synthesis. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that these genes cluster into two distinct groups: CSAD/GADL1-like and GAD-like. Notably, bivalves possess only one Gad gene, in contrast to the two typically found in vertebrates, whereas they harbor three to five Csad/Gadl1 genes, compared with just two in vertebrates. Three bivalve Csad genes exhibited high expression levels across most of developmental stages and adult tissues, suggesting their essential roles in development and the maintenance of normal physiological activities. Molecular docking analysis revealed that oyster CSADs exhibit higher substrate-binding specificity for cysteine sulfinic acid, while GAD shows higher specificity for glutamate. Heterologous overexpression assays demonstrated that oyster CSAD and GAD can significantly increase cellular taurine levels. This study is the first to provide evidence of the expansion of Csad genes in bivalve genomes and their involvement in taurine synthesis, offering novel insights into understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying the high taurine content in bivalves.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Studies have shown that 129 mice generate more severe inflammatory responses than C57BL/6 (B6) mice shortly after influenza virus infection. However, the mechanisms for regulation of the magnitudes and kinetics of innate immune responses in different hosts remain to be fully understood. In this study, we found that cysteine sulfinic acid decarboxylase (CSAD), an essential enzyme in the taurine synthesis pathway, inhibits excessive inflammation after viral infection. CSAD KO mice in B6 background initiate stronger inflammatory responses and are more vulnerable to viral infections, exhibiting a phenotype resembling 129 mice. Interestingly, CSAD is differentially expressed in 129 and B6 mice; CSAD is highly expressed in B6 mice than in 129 mice. CSAD inhibits the NF-κB signaling pathway during various virus infections and stimulations. CSAD directly interacts with IKKα at the kinase domain, thus limiting the fast and strong phosphorylation of IKKα and then the downstream signaling pathway. Therefore, CSAD is a novel regulator to fine-tune the intensity of the NF-κB signaling pathway.IMPORTANCEThe mechanisms by which host factors regulate the intensity of innate immune responses are important because excessive inflammatory response can be harmful to the host. CSAD, an enzyme in the taurine synthesis pathway, inhibits excessive inflammatory responses after viral infection or stimulation by interacting with IKKα of the NF-κB signaling pathway, thus limiting the downstream activation of signaling and reducing the cytokine and chemokine gene expression. Our studies reveal for the first time that CSAD plays an important role in regulating innate immune responses, adding novel regulators to the complex networks of the NF-κB signaling pathway. Furthermore, our results also help us further understand the variations in the innate immune responses among individuals and provide a novel perspective for the development of new drugs or therapies for infectious diseases.
Nicotinamide mononucleotide adenylyltransferase 1 (NMNAT1), a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) synthetase in Preiss-Handler and salvage pathways, governs nuclear NAD+ homeostasis. This study investigated the role of NMNAT1 in alcohol-associated liver disease (ALD). Decreased NMNAT1 expression and activity were observed in the liver of patients with alcohol-associated hepatitis and either liver or primary hepatocytes from ALD mice. F-box and WD repeat domain containing 7 (FBXW7)-regulated interferon regulatory factor 1 (IRF1) ubiquitination degradation contributed to the alcohol-inhibited NMNAT1 transcriptional level. Hepatic NMNAT1 knockout aggravated alcohol-induced hepatic NAD+ decline and further hepatic steatosis and liver injury. Metabolomics and transcriptomics interaction revealed that the cysteine sulfinic acid decarboxylase (CSAD)-regulated taurine pathway was involved in NMNAT1-disrupted hepatic lipid metabolism in ALD. Hepatic CSAD overexpression or taurine supply attenuated hepatic NMNAT1 knockout-aggravated ALD. Hepatic NMNAT1 loss inhibited NMN-protected ALD. Replenishing hepatic NMNAT1 reversed liver lipid accumulation in ALD mice. These findings identified NMNAT1 as a promising therapeutic target for ALD.
Balanced and temporally coordinated generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and antioxidants is crucial to productive clearance of pathogens in marine molluscan invertebrates, such as the oyster. Despite the presence of an oyster homolog of the myeloperoxidase (MPO) gene in its genome and a hyperabundant pool of intracellular taurine, it remains unclear how precisely ROS-based antibacterial immunity and pro-survival antioxidant production are orchestrated during microbial infections. Herein, we leveraged HKOCl-3, an established probe selective for hypochlorous acid (HOCl), to visualize the dynamics of bactericidal HOCl production in oyster hemocytes challenged with Vibrio parahaemolyticus, a clinically significant Gram-negative pathogen. We hypothesized that taurine (2-aminoethanesulphonic acid), an organosulfur osmolyte that scavenges HOCl efficiently, forms taurine chloramine (TauCl) in vivo to modulate hemocytic immune response, while mitigating host injury. In molecular imaging and flow cytometry, rapid production of HOCl was observed following V. parahaemolyticus challenge. TMB (3,3',5,5'-tetramethylbenzidine) assay confirmed the concomitant formation of TauCl in oyster hemocytes under V. parahaemolyticus stimulation. This TauCl biosynthesis was executed by the cysteine dioxygenase and cysteine sulfinic acid decarboxylase (CDO/CSAD) pathway, as verified by qRT-PCR. The potency of TauCl bactericidal activity was broadly comparable to that of HOCl in bacterial clearance assay. As a pro-survival agent, TauCl mitigated apoptosis in V. parahaemolyticus-challenged hemocytes, while this effect could be nullified by the chloramine scavenger bilirubin. In terms of transcriptomic changes, TauCl stimulated the phagosomes, endocytosis, FoxO signaling pathways, and induced upregulation of various antioxidant enzymes, thereby favoring redox homeostasis in hemocytes. Activation of pro-survival transcription was achieved by TauCl direct binding to Keap1. Overall, our work demonstrated for the first time how phagocyte-derived HOCl and TauCl act as immune effectors within an intimately overlapping window of host defense, with theoretical implications for understanding ROS metabolism and immunomodulation in broader disease contexts.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To investigate the cellular composition and differentiation trajectory of synovial chondromatosis (SC) and diffuse tenosynovial giant cell tumor (D-TSGCT) in the temporomandibular joint (TMJ).Single-cell RNA sequencing was applied to analyze the cellular composition, differentiation trajectory, and intercellular communication of SC and D-TSGCT. Cell culture and morphological experiments were applied to validate the chondrogenic differentiation potential of fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) in the initial stage of SC and to explore the expression and regulation of differential genes during chondrogenic differentiation.SC was mainly composed of FLS and chondrocytes, while D-TSGCT had a relatively complex cellular composition. Genetically, chondrogenesis-related genes such as COMP and SMAD2 were upregulated in the early stage of SC. TGFβ pathway and collagen catabolic process were subsequently activated, ultimately leading to cartilage formation. CSF1 and CD68 were overexpressed at the forming stage of D-TSGCT, and the macrophage pathway was enriched in the later phase. Based on experimental verification, COMP could induce chondrogenic differentiation of FLS by activating TGFβ/SMAD signal pathways in vitro.FLS are the common starting point of synovial-derived tumors, but differentiate toward different endpoints in the SC and D-TSGCT. COMP/TGFβ/SMAD signaling pathways can promote chondrogenic differentiation of synovium in SC.© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Prediabetes, also known as impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), is a common metabolic disorder and is often considered a risk factor for the development of diabetes. Metformin (MET) is a widely used medication for the treatment of diabetes and has the potential to improve insulin sensitivity and blood sugar control. This work aimed to investigate the impact of MET treatment on serum miRNA expression in IGT patients and explore the quantitative changes in miRNA after MET treatment.Peripheral blood samples were collected from 6 prediabetic patients, and serum miRNA expression was analyzed before and after MET treatment. Differentially expressed miRNAs were identified, and gene ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analyses were performed to explore the biological processes and pathways involved.Fourteen miRNAs (8 upregulated and 6 downregulated) were identified in IGT patients. The top 5 miRNAs based on differential fold change (FC) were identified. Following MET treatment, hsa-miR-455-5p, hsa-miR-505-3p, hsa-miR-21-5p, and hsa-miR-33a-5p were downshifted, while hsa-miR-96-5p was increased in patients (P < 0.05). The differentially expressed miRNAs were linked with collagen catabolic process (CCP), postsynaptic density (PD), and extracellular matrix structural constituent (EMSC). Enrichment analysis (EA) revealed involvement in signaling pathways like advanced glycation end products (AGEs) and their receptor (RAGE) signaling pathway in diabetic complications, signaling pathways regulating pluripotency of stem cells, and TNF signaling pathway.MET modulates miRNA expression in prediabetic patients, potentially influencing pathways related to insulin sensitivity and metabolic regulation. These findings may guide future therapeutic strategies for early diabetes intervention.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Rapid industrialization has introduced a range of chemicals into the environment, posing significant risks to fetal and child brain development. Using the Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD), we constructed chemical exposome frameworks for seven neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs) and identified chemical pollutants of epidemiological concern, including air pollutants (n = 8), toxic elements (n = 14), pesticides and related compounds (n = 18), synthetic organic chemicals (n = 16), and solvents (n = 5). Gene set enrichment analysis validated and revealed significant toxicogenomic associations between these chemical pollutants and NDDs, including autism spectrum disorder (ASD) (12 pollutants, proportional reporting ratio (PRR) 3.56-7.21) and intellectual disability (ID) (9 pollutants, PRR 3.13-5.59). Functional annotation of pollutant-specific gene sets highlighted shared biological processes, such as metabolic processes (e.g., xenobiotic metabolic process, xenobiotic catabolic process, and cytochrome P450 pathway) for ASD and cognitive processes (e.g., cognition, social behavior, and synapse assembly) for ID (Bonferroni-corrected p-values < 0.05). Time trajectory analysis of developmental transcriptomic data from the BrainSpan database for ASD (275 genes) and ID (93 genes) revealed three distinct expression patterns of chemical-pollutant-associated genes-higher prenatal, postnatal, and perinatal expression-indicating common and divergent underlying mechanisms across critical windows of chemical pollutant exposure.
