Reproductive performance is a key determinant of pig production, yet the placental molecular characteristics associated with breed-related reproductive differences remain incompletely understood. We compared Landrace sows, a highly prolific European commercial breed, with Chuanzang black sows, a Chinese local composite breed with lower reproductive performance. Term placental tissues were collected from 12 sows, with three sows in each breed × parity group: Chuanzang black parity 2, Landrace parity 2, Chuanzang black parity 5, and Landrace parity 5. One placenta per sow was analysed by integrated transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic profiling. Landrace sows showed higher total litter size, birth litter weight, weaning litter weight, and placental efficiency than Chuanzang black sows at both parities. Multi-omics analyses revealed breed-related differences in placental molecular profiles. Compared with placentas from Chuanzang black sows, placentas from Landrace sows showed stronger representation of extracellular matrix organisation, cell adhesion, and metabolic regulation pathways, including ECM-receptor interaction and focal adhesion. By contrast, placentas from Chuanzang black sows showed stronger enrichment of immune- and inflammation-related pathways than placentas from Landrace sows. Cross-omics integration indicated stronger transcript-protein concordance and more differential metabolites at parity 2 than at parity 5. Vitamin B6 metabolism was the most consistent pathway detected across the three omics layers, with pyridoxal kinase identified as a candidate molecular feature within this pathway. These findings suggest that breed-related reproductive differences are associated with coordinated variation in placental structure, immune regulation, and metabolic function, and provide candidate molecular features for further validation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP) is an essential cofactor required for metabolic functions including amino acid biosynthesis. While the pathways of PLP synthesis are well characterized, it is unclear how newly synthesized PLP is delivered to apo PLP-dependent enzymes (PLP-DEs) in the cell. The highly conserved PLP Homeostasis Protein (PLPHP) is hypothesized to act as a PLP carrier that traffics the cofactor to PLP-DEs. Prior studies have shown transfer of PLP between PLPHP homologs and PLP-DEs in vitro. Data herein support a role for this transfer in vivo. This study utilizes a Salmonella enterica mutant strain with a synthetic requirement for PLPHP homolog, YggS. Genetic and biochemical analyses suggest that the synthetic phenotype of a yggS aspC mutant results from inefficient maturation of the aromatic amino acid aminotransferase, TyrB. This requirement for YggS can be bypassed with accumulation of B6 vitamer PMP, or upregulation of pyridoxal kinase (PdxK). Using TyrB as a target, we provide the first demonstration that YggS of S. enterica can mediate transfer of PLP to a PLP-DE in vitro. In total, this study defines multiple in vivo maturation pathways for TyrB and provides a working model for the role of YggS in the maturation of TyrB.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Microbiology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP), a vital cofactor in cellular metabolism, is a high-value compound widely used in the food and pharmaceutical industries. However, the efficient biosynthesis of PLP remains a significant challenge. In this study, we established a salvage pathway for the synthesis of PLP from pyridoxine (PN) using PN kinase (PdxK) from Salmonella enterica and pyridoxine 5'-phosphate oxidase (PdxH) from Saccharomyces cerevisiae as the key enzymes. To increase economic viability, an ATP regeneration system was integrated, enabling the use of AMP and polyP as substrates instead of expensive ATP. Additionally, an O2 circulating system was incorporated to provide sufficient oxygen supply and a H2O2-free environment. PdxH was identified as the rate-limiting enzyme, so we performed directed evolution of ScPdxH through random mutagenesis coupled with high-throughput screening. The optimized mutant, ScPdxH2-3E, exhibited a 3.4-fold increase in k cat/K m compared to the wild-type enzyme. Using a two-step bioconversion process, we achieved the production of 35.2 g/L pyridoxine 5'-phosphate (PNP) with a molar conversion of 94.7%, and 21.3 g/L PLP, corresponding to a final molar conversion yield of approximately 57.5% from PN in a 1-L bioreactor. This work demonstrates an efficient, sustainable and scalable strategy for the industrial production of PLP.© 2026 The Authors.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41898732 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 41888341 is a review article
BACKGROUND: Sodium overload-induced cell death is a novel mode of cell death that differs from other modes and is a very promising new target for cancer therapy. In addition, sodium overload-induced cell death plays a crucial role in cancer progression and patient prognosis. Therefore, our study aims to establish a survival prediction model for patients with lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) based on related genes, exploring the immune landscape and providing new insights for future individualized treatment protocols. METHOD: We analyzed the expression and clinical significance of TRPM4-related genes in LUAD using data from TCGA and GEO databases. We used transcriptomics, immune infiltration assays, and spatial transcriptomics (ST). Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was used to assess the relationship between TRPM4-related genes and prognosis. Enrichment analyses identified biological processes and pathways associated with TRPM4 and also assessed its relationship with the immune microenvironment and drug sensitivity. RESULTS: We identified 19 oncogenic driver genes and modeled proportional hazard regression. The results showed that the survival rate of the high-risk group was significantly reduced in both the training and testing sets. Additionally, the high-risk group exhibited lower levels of immune cell infiltration and immune checkpoint expression compared to the low-risk group. Based on 19 genes, LMNA, PPP2R1A, and PDXK were identified as key genes by single-cell sequencing and spatial transcriptome sequencing.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41831164
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41801654
Necrotizing soft tissue infections (NSTIs) are rapidly progressive and life-threatening diseases caused by diverse bacterial pathogens. While classical virulence factors, such as toxins and secretion systems, have been extensively characterized, the role of metabolic fitness in supporting bacterial survival within the nutrient-restricted host environment remains underexplored. Edwardsiella tarda, a human-pathogenic bacterium implicated in NSTIs, represents an emerging model for studying non-canonical pathogenic strategies. Here, we employed transposon-directed insertion site sequencing (TraDIS) to identify genes critical for E. tarda survival in a murine soft tissue infection model. A genome-wide screen revealed 41 genes significantly depleted during the infection, including those involved in iron and zinc acquisition (fetB, zupT), vitamin biosynthesis (pdxK, cobA), and polyamine metabolism (speB). Functional assays using defined minimal media demonstrated that supplementation with vitamin B6 or putrescine enhanced bacterial growth, validating their contribution to fitness under nutrient-limited conditions. Our findings indicate that E. tarda pathogenesis is driven not solely by classical virulence factors but also by its ability to acquire essential nutrients and adapt metabolically to host-imposed nutritional stress. This study provides the first genome-wide fitness map for E. tarda during soft tissue infection and reveals new targets for therapeutic intervention that disrupt nutrient acquisition systems. These results also emphasize the broader relevance of metabolic adaptation as a determinant of virulence in invasive bacterial infections.IMPORTANCENecrotizing soft tissue infections (NSTIs) are severe, rapidly progressing bacterial infections with high morbidity and mortality. Although classical virulence factors such as toxins have been widely studied, much less is known about how pathogens adapt metabolically to survive within the nutrient-restricted environment in host tissues. This study uses Edwardsiella tarda, an emerging NSTI pathogen, as a model to identify genes required for in vivo fitness using transposon insertion sequencing. By revealing the critical roles of nutrient acquisition and metabolic adaptation, rather than toxin production alone, this work challenges conventional paradigms of bacterial virulence. Our findings suggest that targeting bacterial nutrient acquisition pathways may offer a novel therapeutic approach to control invasive infections. Furthermore, this study provides the first genome-wide fitness map of E. tarda during soft tissue infection, offering a valuable resource for future research into polymicrobial wound infections and host-pathogen nutrient competition.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41483399
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains the third leading cause of mortality among cancer patients in developed countries. Each new study in this field can contribute to better detection, diagnosis, and treatment of this disease. Our study aimed to assess transcriptional activity of genes associated with the biotransformation of xenobiotics and endobiotics in all three phases in the CRC adenocarcinoma, including correlations between them, as well as the aromatic hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) pathways. Based on transcriptome analysis (1252 mRNAs) of the CRC tissue and healthy colon, the upregulation or downregulation of 46 significant mRNAs was presented. The study also revealed the downregulation of AKR7A2 and upregulation of SLC5A6 and SLC29A2, previously undistinguished and potentially therapeutically valuable in CRC. The diagnostic potential of ADH1C, GGT5, NQO2, and SLC25A5 was demonstrated. It was stated that the AHR, EPHX1, GSTP1, and SLC25A32 did not correlate in healthy intestinal tissue whereas AHCY, ALDH1A1, NNMT, GSTM4, UGT2B17, and SLCO1B3 did not correlate in CRC. The disturbed transcriptional activity of genes related to the biotransformation process at all stages of CRC suggests that this may be the cause of its occurrence; the genes ought to be taken into account in preventive strategies and the treatment of patients.
Hepatic fibrosis is a reversible pathological phenomenon caused by the abnormal proliferation of connective tissues in the liver for self-repair after persistent liver injury. Among these tissues, the activation status of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) is crucial. Glycyrrhizic acid (GA) agents have been proven to have excellent anti-fibrosis effects, but their targets are unclear.To investigate the anti-hepatic fibrosis effect of GA and its target in activated HSCs.A mouse model of hepatic fibrosis was prepared with 20 % carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) and GA was administered continuously for 4 weeks. Subsequently, the levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), type Ⅲ procollagen peptide (P III P), laminin (LN), hyaluronic acid (HA), and type Ⅳ collagen (Col Ⅳ) were measured. Liver tissues were subjected to hematoxylin and eosin (HE), Masson, and Sirius red staining and proteome sequencing analysis. Based on LX-2 cells, activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) was used to investigate the potential targets of GA, which was further validated by the cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA), immunofluorescence co-localization, molecular docking, small interfering RNA (siRNA) and western blot (WB) assays.In vivo, GA significantly reduced serum ALT, AST, HA, P III P, Col IV, and LN levels. HE, Masson, and Sirius red staining showed that GA significantly ameliorated hepatic inflammatory response and collagen deposition in CCl4-treated mice. Proteome sequencing results showed that GA mainly regulated glutathione S-transferase family members involved in glutathione metabolism. In vitro, GA significantly inhibited LX-2 cell proliferation and reduced reactive oxygen species accumulation. ABPP suggested that aldo-keto reductase family 7 member A2 (AKR7A2) was the major binding protein of GA in LX-2 cells. CETSA, fluorescence co-localization, molecular docking, and surface plasmon resonance further validated GA binding to AKR7A2. The WB results showed that GA up-regulated AKR7A2 expression both in vitro and in vivo and was corroborated by siRNA experiments.GA targeted AKR7A2 in LX-2 cells to defend against sustained oxidative stress injury, thereby inhibiting the proliferation of activated HSCs and reversing hepatic fibrosis.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Atorvastatin (ATO), as a cholesterol-lowering drug, was the world's best-selling drug in the early 2000s. However, ATO overdose-induced liver or muscle injury is a threat to many patients, which restricts its application. Previous studies suggest that ATO overdose is accompanied with ROS accumulation and increased lipid peroxidation, which are the leading causes of ATO-induced liver damage. This study is, therefore, carried out to investigate the roles of anti-oxidant pathways and enzymes in protection against ATO-induced hepatotoxicity. Here we show that in ATO-challenged HepG2 cells, the expression levels of transcription factor NFE2L2/Nrf2 (nuclear factor erythroid 2 p45-related factor 2) are significantly upregulated. When Nrf2 is pharmacologically inhibited or genetically inactivated, ATO-induced cytotoxicity is significantly aggravated. Aldo-keto reductase-7A (AKR7A) enzymes, transcriptionally regulated by Nrf2, are important for bioactivation and biodetoxification. Here, we reveal that in response to ATO exposure, mRNA levels of human AKR7A2 are significantly upregulated in HepG2 cells. Furthermore, knockdown of AKR7A2 exacerbates ATO-induced hepatotoxicity, suggesting that AKR7A2 is essential for cellular adaptive response to ATO-induced cell damage. In addition, overexpression of AKR7A2 in HepG2 cells can significantly mitigate ATO-induced cytotoxicity and this process is Nrf2-dependent. Taken together, these findings indicate that Nrf2-mediated AKR7A2 is responsive to high concentrations of ATO and contributes to protection against ATO-induced hepatotoxicity, making it a good candidate for mitigating ATO-induced side effects.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 38301882 is a review article
Gliomas, including anaplastic gliomas (AG; grade 3) and glioblastomas (GBM; grade 4), are malignant brain tumors associated with poor prognosis and low survival rates. Current classification systems based on histopathology have limitations due to intratumoral heterogeneity. The treatment and prognosis are distinctly different between grade 3 and grade 4 gliomas patients. Therefore, there is a need for molecular markers to differentiate these tumors accurately. In this study, we aimed to identify a gene expression signature using an artificial neural network (ANN) in application to microarray and serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) data for grade 3 (AG) and grade 4 (GBM) gliomas discrimination. We acquired gene expression data from publicly available datasets on glial tumors of grades 3 and 4-a total of 93 grade 3 gliomas and 224 grade 4 gliomas. To select genes for classification, we implemented an artificial neural network-based method using a combination of self-organized maps (SOM) and perceptron. In general, we implemented a multi-stage procedure that involved multiple runs of a genetic algorithm to identify genes that provided optimal clusterization on the SOM. We performed this procedure multiple times, resulting in different sets of genes each time. Eventually, we selected several genes that appeared most frequently in the reduced sets and performed classification using them. Our analysis identified a set of seven genes (BCAS4, GLUD2, KCNJ10, KCND2, AKR7A2, FOLR1, and KIAA0319). The classification accuracy using this gene set was 87.5%. These findings suggest the potential of this gene set as a molecular marker for distinguishing grade 3 (AG) from grade 4 (GBM) gliomas.© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Enzymes catalyzing the reduction reaction of xenobiotics are mainly members of the aldo-keto reductase (AKR) and short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase (SDR) superfamilies. The intestine, together with the liver, is responsible for first-pass effects and is an organ that determines the bioavailability of orally administered drugs. In this study, we evaluated the mRNA and protein expression levels of 12 AKR isoforms (AKR1A1, AKR1B1, AKR1B10, AKR1B15, AKR1C1, AKR1C2, AKR1C3, AKR1C4, AKR1D1, AKR1E2, AKR7A2, and AKR7A3) and 7 SDR isoforms (CBR1, CBR3, CBR4, DCXR, DHRS4, HSD11B1, and HSD17B12) in each region of the human intestine using next-generation sequencing and data-independent acquisition proteomics. At both the mRNA and protein levels, most AKR isoforms were highly expressed in the upper regions of the intestine, namely the duodenum and jejunum, and then declined toward the rectum. Among the members in the SDR superfamily, CBR1 and DHRS4 were highly expressed in the upper regions, whereas the expression levels of the other isoforms were almost uniform in all regions. Significant positive correlations between mRNA and protein levels were observed in AKR1A1, AKR1B1, AKR1B10, AKR1C3, AKR7A2, AKR7A3, CBR1, and CBR3. The mRNA level of AKR1B10 was highest, followed by AKR7A3 and CBR1, each accounting for more than 10% of the sum of all AKR and SDR levels in the small intestine. This expression profile in the human intestine was greatly different from that in the human liver, where AKR1C isoforms are predominantly expressed. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: In this study comprehensively determined the mRNA and protein expression profiles of aldo-keto reductase (AKR) and short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase isoforms involved in xenobiotic metabolism in the human intestine and found that most of them are highly expressed in the upper region, where AKR1B10, AKR7A3, and CBR1 are predominantly expressed. Since the intestine is significantly involved in the metabolism of orally administered drugs, the information provided here is valuable for pharmacokinetic studies in drug development.Copyright © 2023 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics.
Human AKR 7A2 broadly participates in the metabolism of a number of exogenous and endogenous compounds. Azoles are a class of clinically widely used antifungal drugs, which are usually metabolized by CYP 3A4, CYP2C19, and CYP1A1, etc. in vivo. The azole-protein interactions that human AKR7A2 participates in remain unreported. In this study, we investigated the effect of the representative azoles (miconazole, econazole, ketoconazole, fluconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, and posaconazole) on the catalysis of human AKR7A2. The steady-state kinetics study showed that the catalytic efficiency of AKR7A2 enhanced in a dose-dependent manner in the presence of posaconazole, miconazole, fluconazole, and itraconazole, while it had no change in the presence of econazole, ketoconazole, and voriconazole. Biacore assays demonstrated that all seven azoles were able to specifically bind to AKR7A2, among which itraconazole, posaconazole, and voriconazole showed the strongest binding. Blind docking predicted that all azoles were apt to preferentially bind at the entrance of the substrate cavity of AKR7A2. Flexible docking showed that posaconazole, located at the region, can efficiently lower the binding energy of the substrate 2-CBA in the cavity compared to the case of no posaconazole. This study demonstrates that human AKR7A2 can interact with some azole drugs, and it also reveals that the enzyme activity can be regulated by some small molecules. These findings will enable a better understanding of azole-protein interactions.
Inflammatory breast cancer (IBC) is one of the most rare and aggressive subtypes of primary breast cancer (BC). Our study aimed to explore hub genes related to the pathogenesis of IBC, which could be considered as novel molecular biomarkers for IBC diagnosis and prognosis. Material and Methods. Two datasets from gene expression omnibus database (GEO) were selected. Enrichment analysis and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network for the DEGs were performed. We analyzed the prognostic values of hub genes in the Kaplan-Meier Plotter. Connectivity Map (CMap) and Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD) was used to find candidate small molecules capable to reverse the gene status of IBC.157 DEGs were selected in total. We constructed the PPI network with 154 nodes interconnected by 128 interactions. The KEGG pathway analysis indicated that the DEGs were enriched in apoptosis, pathways in cancer and insulin signaling pathway. PTEN, PSMF1, PSMC6, AURKB, FZR1, CASP9, CASP6, CASP8, BAD, AKR7A2, ZNF24, SSX2IP, SIGLEC1, MS4A4A, and VSIG4 were selected as hub genes based on the high degree of connectivity. Six hub genes (PSMC6, AURKB, CASP9, BAD, ZNF24, and SSX2IP) that were significantly associated with the prognosis of breast cancer. The expression of CASP9 protein was associated with prognosis and immune cells infiltration of breast cancer. CASP9- naringenin (NGE) is expected to be the most promising candidate gene-compound interaction for the treatment of IBC.Taken together, CASP9 can be used as a prognostic biomarker and a novel therapeutic target in IBC.Copyright © 2022 Mingdi Zhang et al.
Members of the aldo-keto reductase and short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase enzyme superfamilies catalyze the conversion of a wide range of substrates, including carbohydrates, lipids, and steroids. These enzymes also participate in the transformation of xenobiotics, inactivation of the cytostatics doxo- and daunorubicin, and play a role in the development of cancer. Therefore, inhibitors of such enzymes may improve therapeutic outcomes. Plant-derived compounds such as anthraquinones have been used for medicinal purposes for several centuries. In the current study, the inhibitory potential of selected anthrone and anthraquinone derivatives (from plants) was tested on six recombinant human carbonyl reducing enzymes (AKR1B1, AKR1B10, AKR1C3, AKR7A2, AKR7A3, CBR1) isolated from an Escherichia coli expression system. Overall, the least inhibition was observed with the anthrone derivative aloin, while IC50 values obtained with the anthraquinone derivatives (frangula emodin, aloe emodin, frangulin A, and frangulin B) and the aldo-keto reductase AKR1B10 were in the low micromolar range (3.5-16.6 μM). AKR1B1 inhibition was significantly weaker in comparison with AKR1B10 inhibition (IC50 values > 50 μM). The strongest inhibition was observed with the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase CBR1. AKR7A2, AKR7A3, and AKR1C3 were not, or less inhibited by inhibitor concentrations of up to 50 μM. Analysis of the kinetic data suggests noncompetitive or uncompetitive inhibition mechanisms. The new inhibitors described here may serve as lead structures for the development of future drugs.Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
1. Aflatoxins (AFs) are metabolites which especially have toxic effects on proteins, and are detoxified by the aflatoxin-B1 aldehyde reductase (AFAR) pathway. In this pathway, the aldo-keto reductase family 7, member A2 (AKR7A2) enzyme, which is controlled by nucleic-related erythroid factor 2 (Nrf2), plays an active role. However, data on the efficacy of this critical pathway in broilers is limited.2. The aim of the following study was to investigate the changes in the expression levels of AKR7A2, Nrf2, and caspase-3, and the effects of Nigella sativa seeds (NS), thymoquinone (TMQ), and bentonite (BNT) in broilers exposed to AFs.3. One-hundred broilers were divided into ten groups (control (CNT); AF; NS; TMQ; BNT; AF+TMQ; AF+NS; AF+BNT; AF+BNT+NS; AF+BNT+TMQ) and fed for 28 d. AF, TMQ, NS and BNT were added to diets at levels of 2 mg/kg, 300 mg/kg, 50 g/kg and 10 g/kg respectively.4. The addition of AF to the diet decreased AKR7A2 and Nrf2 levels dramatically, but increased caspase-3 (P < 0.01). TMQ, NS and BNT additions to the diet eliminated all negative effects caused by AF (P < 0.01); and AKR7A2 and Nrf2 were further raised in TMQ and NS groups when compared to the control group. TMQ and NS showed a positive effect on detoxification parameters when given together with BNT.5. Supplementation with NS and TMQ enhanced AF detoxification via the AFAR pathway, by increasing AKR7A2 and Nrf2 levels, in addition to reducing hepatocyte apoptosis.
Aldehyde dehydrogenase 1A1 (ALDH1A1) has emerged as a promising therapeutic target because of its critical roles in cancer stem cell maintenance and chemoresistance. However, the development of highly selective ALDH1A1 inhibitors remains challenging because of the extensive structural conservation shared with the closely related isoforms ALDH2 and ALDH1A2. In this study, we developed an integrated computer-aided drug design (CADD) and artificial intelligence (AI) framework to systematically identify selective ALDH1A1 inhibitors from a heterocyclic compound library. The multistage virtual screening workflow integrated deep learning-assisted molecular docking, convolutional neural network (CNN)-based scoring, and stringent isoform selectivity filtering. Subsequently, a LightGBM-based classification model was applied to prioritize candidate inhibitors, advancing LDN-27219 and TUG-1375 for dynamic validation. The dynamic stability and binding energetics of the selected protein-ligand complexes were further evaluated using molecular dynamics simulations and molecular mechanics-Poisson-Boltzmann surface area (MM/PBSA) calculations. Collectively, the computational analyses suggest that LDN-27219 exhibits favorable binding characteristics and represents a promising lead candidate for subsequent experimental validation. This integrated AI-CADD framework provides an efficient and reliable strategy for the rapid identification and prioritization of structurally novel, isoform-selective ALDH1A1 inhibitors for future drug discovery efforts.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Reliable biomarkers for high-grade serous carcinoma (HGSC) with prognostic and microenvironmental relevance remain limited. Here, we developed a machine learning-guided cross-cohort transcriptomic framework to identify stable biomarkers in HGSC. Three GEO cohorts comprising 68 samples (34 HGSC and 34 normal) and 21,355 genes were integrated, and five classifiers were benchmarked under strict Leave-One-Dataset-Out (LODO) validation. Differential expression and random-effects meta-analysis were used to support cross-cohort feature prioritization, and external validation was performed in TCGA-OV tumors (n = 427) versus GTEx normal ovaries (n = 88). This framework identified a robust 22-gene consensus panel with strong cross-cohort discrimination between HGSC and normal tissue. Among these, ALDH1A2 and SPON1 emerged as the only two genes consistently prioritized by all five models. Prognostic analysis showed opposite clinical associations, with higher ALDH1A2 linked to poorer progression-free and overall survival and higher SPON1 linked to better outcomes. Immune-module analysis further demonstrated that predicted HGSC probability was positively associated with T cell, cytotoxic/NK, Treg, checkpoint, and inflammatory programs, indicating an immune-active yet immunoregulatory microenvironment. Together, these findings define a reproducible 22-gene HGSC signature and highlight ALDH1A2 and SPON1 as robust diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers.
Patients suffering from aquaporin-4 antibody-positive neuromyelitis spectrum disorder may present with radically different types of lesions in the central nervous system. They may show large tissue destructive lesions, as typically seen in medulla, spinal cord, and optic nerves, and lesions with much better tissue preservation, as seen in the area postrema. The causes for the resilience of the area postrema to the action of aquaporin 4-antibodies are currently unclear. We performed detailed immunohistochemical analysis combined with spatial transcriptomics and functional annotation clustering, and identified key differences in the immunological landscape between the area postrema and the medulla. In the area postrema, only few chemokines were upregulated in response to AQP4 antibodies. Therefore, the immune response was dominated by local microglial/macrophages which displayed a low grade of microgliosis and an overall low level of activation. Il-1β expression was below our cut-off for detection. This was in marked contrast to lesions in the medulla, which were characterized by the expression of many chemokines underlying the recruitment of macrophages and neutrophils from the periphery to this site, and by Il-1β expression. Aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member A2 (Aldh1a2), the key molecule for retinoic acid synthesis, was strongly expressed in the area postrema, but not in the medulla. Because retinoic acid can prevent the activation of astrocytes and microglia, can reduce the production of cytokine/chemokine transcripts, can alleviate the expression of IL-1β, and can promote an M1- to M2-transition in macrophages, our data implicate a protective role of retinoic acid at this site.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of International Society of Neuropathology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42353441 is a review article
Human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) can be used as a scalable source of lymphocytes for adoptive cell therapies, contingent on the robust generation of definitive hematopoietic intermediates. Early WNT activation with CHIR99021 during mesoderm induction promoted the formation of KDR+ ALDH1A2+ mesoderm, which is essential for subsequent generation of T cells in a retinoic acid (RA)-dependent manner. Integrated scRNA-seq and ATAC-seq defined a WNT-dependent developmental trajectory from hPSCs to KDR+ ALDH1A2+ mesoderm. Gene regulatory network modeling predicted HDAC2 and E-box transcription factors as regulators of RA-responsive mesodermal differentiation downstream of WNT. HDAC2 knockout impaired, while HDAC2 overexpression enhanced KDR+ ALDH1A2+ mesoderm formation. E-box factor manipulation had no discernible effect. An orthogonal chemical screen confirmed that HDAC2 inhibition suppressed KDR+ ALDH1A2+ mesoderm, whereas modulating histone methylation enhanced their formation. These findings reveal mechanisms by which WNT signaling promotes RA-responsive mesoderm, and they suggest methods to improve the generation of lymphocytes from hPSCs.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Elevated cholesterol levels are associated with the risk of the most socially significant cardiovascular diseases, such as atherosclerosis, ischemic heart disease, and myocardial infarction.In this study, we sought to study the genetic architecture of lipid metabolism by conducting genome-wide association studies of total cholesterol, LDL-C, and HDL-C levels in a sample of the Russian population (n = 8,732) who were not carriers of variants linked to familial hypercholesterolemia and did not take lipid-regulating agents. Based on the detected associations and machine learning methods, several polygenic score models were constructed for each lipid type, and the link between polygenic scores and atherosclerosis, ischemic heart disease, and myocardial infarction was examined in an additional sample of patients diagnosed with either of these diseases (n = 3,954).A meta-analysis of the results of the conducted genome-wide association studies showed that total cholesterol and LDL-C were largely associated with the same variants located in the HMGCR, CERT1, POLK, ANKDD1B, APOC3, BCL3, CBLC, BCAM, NECTIN2, TOMM40, APOE, APOC1, APOC4, and SMARCA4 genes, while HDL-C was associated with variants located in the LPL, ALDH1A2, LIPC, and CETP genes. Men and women differed in genetic predictors of lipid levels, with variants in the SMARCA4 and LDLR genes associated with cholesterol levels only in women.The models developed in this study consider age and a modifiable factor, BMI. Therefore, the personalized polygenic profiling approach presented in this study enables life-long CVD risk assessment.© 2026 Mamchur, Bruttan, Daniel, Kashtanova, Zelenova, Dzhumaniiazova, Ivanov, Matkava, Blinova, Mitrofanov, Golubnikova, Kumar, Maralova, Shingaliev, Ezhov, Meshkov, Chubykina, Pogorelova, Tripoten, Balahonova, Viskova, Komarova, Gurtsiev, Gomyranova, Vorobeva, Hotuleva, Kolyaskina, Yudin, Makarov, Keskinov, Kuzmina, Boytsov, Yudin and Skvortsova.
Ménière disease (MD) is a chronic inner ear disorder characterized by recurrent vertigo, fluctuating sensorineural hearing loss, and tinnitus, but its etiology remains poorly understood. We performed a genome-wide meta-analysis of 8,969 MD case subjects and 1,962,542 control subjects across five biobanks, identifying five independent genome-wide significant loci and estimating an observed-scale SNP heritability of 7% (SE 0.8%), indicating a modest but significant contribution of common genetic variation to MD risk. The genome-wide significant signals comprise two independent variants at EYA4, two at EYA1, and one near CYP26A1, with odds ratios between 1.1 and 1.25. Associations at two additional loci, LMO4 and ALDH1A2, fell just below the genome-wide significance threshold (5 × 10-8 <p < 5 × 10-7). Fine-mapping and integrative functional analyses implicate two convergent biological processes: developmental regulation of the inner ear, involving EYA4, EYA1, and LMO4, and retinoic acid metabolism, with associations near CYP26A1/C1 and ALDH1A2, suggesting disrupted retinoic acid signaling in sensory and fluid-pressure homeostasis. These developmental regulator genes are robustly expressed in fetal and adult human inner ear cell types, supporting a model in which altered developmental programs predispose individuals to adult vestibular and auditory dysfunction. Phenome-wide and genetic correlation analyses further reveal shared genetic architecture between MD and related traits, including vertigo, tinnitus, hearing loss, migraine, and sleep apnea, situating MD within a broader spectrum of sensory and neurological disorders. Collectively, these findings establish a genetic framework for Ménière disease risk and implicate developmental regulators of the inner ear and retinoic acid signaling as key contributing pathways.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Excessive abdominal fat deposition reduces production efficiency and metabolic health, whereas yolk lipid content is directly linked to egg quality and reproductive output. These two fat-related traits are often in conflict from a breeding perspective, yet whether they share common genetic and molecular determinants-and whether such sharing could inform divergent selection for lean abdomen with lipid‑rich yolk-remains unclear. Here, we analyzed 22 fat deposition-related traits in a population of 248 laying hens, together with genome-wide genotyping data, transcriptomic data from 10 tissues. Our results showed marked heterogeneity in the genetic architecture of fat deposition-related traits, with a higher degree of signal sharing among biologically related traits but limited overlap across different trait categories. Multi-trait association and trait-trait colocalization analyses further identified multiple shared loci between abdominal fat-related (AF) and egg yolk-related (EY) traits, including several shared candidate signals on chromosomes 2, 10, and 11. Integrative analyses incorporating multi-tissue cis-eQTL data further prioritized shared candidate regulatory genes, including MYO10, GPT2, VPS35, ADAM10, ALDH1A2, and MYO1E. Representative AF-EY shared loci, including 2__74614272, rs318039150, and rs741038415, showed opposite effect tendencies between abdominal fat- and yolk-related traits, whereas loci involving ADAM10, ALDH1A2, and MYO1E showed more directionally consistent associations, indicating both potential antagonistic and coordinated regulatory relationships. Together, these findings reveal a complex shared molecular basis linking abdominal fat deposition and yolk lipid deposition during the extended laying period and provide a framework for dissecting coordinated regulatory mechanisms and informing molecular breeding in laying hens.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sheep pulmonary adenocarcinoma (SPA), a chronic contagious lung neoplasm induced by jaagsiekte sheep retrovirus (JSRV), represents a unique animal model for studying virus-driven lung carcinogenesis. This study aimed to systematically dissect host transcriptional reprogramming in naturally infected lung tissues using whole-transcriptome sequencing and to identify core regulatory factors associated with SPA pathogenesis.Lung tumor tissues from naturally SPA-infected sheep and matched healthy lung tissues were collected as experimental samples. High-throughput whole-transcriptome sequencing was performed to profile coding and non-coding RNA expression. Differentially expressed mRNAs (DE-mRNAs), long non-coding RNAs (DE-lncRNAs), microRNAs (DE-miRNAs), and circular RNAs (DE-circRNAs) were identified through bioinformatic analyses. Functional enrichment analyses (Gene Ontology, GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes,KEGG) were conducted to elucidate the biological roles of these differentially expressed molecules. An integrative multi-omics approach was employed to construct a host endogenous competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) regulatory network. Key differentially expressed molecules were further validated by RT-qPCR.A total of 2067 DE-mRNAs, 72 DE-lncRNAs, 210 DE-miRNAs, and 477 DE-circRNAs were identified. Functional enrichment analyses revealed significant involvement of these molecules in key oncogenic signaling pathways, including MAPK, PI3K-Akt, mTOR, and Hippo. Integrative analysis enabled the construction of an SPA-specific ceRNA network, highlighting several critical regulatory axes: Novel_circ_008415-oar-miR-16b-ALDH1A2, MSTRG.36927.2-oar-miR-16b-CD22, and MSTRG.36932.1-oar-miR-16b-BCL2/CCND1. RT-qPCR validation confirmed that the expression trends of these key molecules were highly consistent with the sequencing data.This study provides a comprehensive whole-transcriptome landscape of lung tissues from sheep naturally infected with SPA, uncovering the potential roles of non-coding RNAs-mediated via ceRNA mechanisms-in regulating tumor cell apoptosis, immune evasion, and malignant proliferation. Our findings offer novel molecular insights into JSRV-induced oncogenesis, identify candidate biomarkers for early diagnosis, and lay a theoretical foundation for the development of targeted therapeutic strategies against SPA.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Fatty liver hemorrhagic syndrome (FLHS) is a critical disease threatening the laying hen industry. Inulin, a widely used prebiotic, has shown promise in alleviating metabolic disorders, but its role in mitigating FLHS in laying hens is not fully understood. Here, we investigated the effects and underlying mechanisms of inulin-mediated alleviation of FLHS in a high-carbohydrate low-protein diet (HCD)-induced laying hen model. We found that inulin supplementation significantly ameliorated HCD-induced hyperlipidemia, hyperglycemia, hepatic steatosis, liver injury, and oxidative stress. These phenotypic improvements were accompanied by enhanced fatty acid oxidation and suppressed lipid synthesis and inflammation. Microbiota analysis revealed that inulin reshaped the HCD-perturbed cecal microbiota, with Faecalibacterium identified as the only dominant genus substantially depleted by HCD and restored by inulin. Targeted metabolomics showed that inulin elevated cecal spermidine levels, which strongly correlated with Faecalibacterium abundance and improved metabolic traits. Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) from inulin-treated donors replicated the protective effects, confirming the causal role of gut microbiota in mediating inulin's anti-FLHS activity. Further mechanistic investigation using the representative species Faecalibacterium prausnitzii demonstrated that inulin enhanced spermidine production through transcriptional activation of the spermidine biosynthetic pathway. Spermidine, in turn, upregulated hepatic ALDH1A2 expression, enhancing retinoic acid synthesis and activating the AMPK-SIRT1 axis, thereby reducing lipid accumulation in hepatocytes. Collectively, these findings establish a novel Faecalibacterium-spermidine-ALDH1A2-retinoic acid-AMPK-SIRT1 axis through which inulin alleviates FLHS, highlighting inulin as a dietary intervention targeting the gut-liver axis and offering novel therapeutic avenues for preventing this disorder in laying hens.© 2026. The Author(s).
Background/Objectives: Multiple myeloma (MM) is the second most common hematological malignancy and remains incurable because of its complex and heterogeneous pathogenesis. UNC13B (unc-13 homolog B) encodes Munc13-2, a presynaptic protein that is involved in vesicle exocytosis. While its role has been explored in neurological diseases, its function in cancer biology remains largely uncharacterized. This study aimed to elucidate the role of UNC13B in regulating MM cell proliferation and apoptosis. Methods:UNC13B mRNA expression was assessed across human MM cell lines. ARD cells, which exhibited the highest UNC13B expression, were transduced with a UNC13B-specific shRNA via a lentiviral vector. Cell proliferation, apoptosis, and expression of associated proteins were evaluated by means of the Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay, flow cytometry, and Western blot analysis. Results:UNC13B was significantly upregulated in MM cell lines. The knockdown of UNC13B in ARD cells markedly inhibited cell proliferation and induced apoptosis. These changes were accompanied by the downregulation of proliferation-related proteins and upregulation of pro-apoptotic markers. Western blot analysis suggests that UNC13B may exert its effects by modulating key regulatory proteins, including PINK1, CDK2, AKR7A3, and Bim. Conclusions: Our findings suggest that UNC13B supports MM cell survival and proliferation, potentially through the regulation of oncogenic and apoptotic signaling pathways. UNC13B may represent a novel therapeutic target in multiple myeloma.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40896201 is a review article
Human aldo-keto reductases (AKRs) and hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases (HSDs) are oxidoreductases involved in the metabolism of steroidal hormones and xenobiotics; however, their inter-individual variability, tissue abundance, and subcellular localization remain understudied. This study employed quantitative proteomics to address these knowledge gaps utilizing cryopreserved human hepatocytes and subcellular intestinal and hepatic tissue fractions. Among 12 quantified AKRs, the abundance of AKR1C4 and AKR7A3 increased with age, showing 10- and 9-fold higher abundance in adults than neonates, respectively. Similarly, out of 14 HSDs, nine isoforms showed age-dependent variability. HSD17β2 abundance decreased with age, which was twice as abundant in neonates compared to children (6-12 years), whereas the abundance of HSD17β6 and HSD17β13 increased with age, exhibiting 7- and 28-fold higher abundance in adults relative to neonates, respectively. HSD3β7, HSD17β2, HSD17β8, and HSD17β11 were more abundant in males, whereas AKRs, except AKR1A1, showed no significant sex differences. Subcellular localization analysis revealed that AKRs are predominantly localized in the cytosol, whereas HSDs are enriched in microsomes. AKR1B10, AKR7A3, HSD17β2, and HSD17β11 were primarily expressed in the intestine, whereas AKR1C2 and HSD17β10 were abundant in the liver. The conversion of testosterone to androstenedione exhibited strong correlations between protein abundance and activity for HSD17β2, HSD17β11, and HSD17β12. Significant protein-protein correlations were observed between HSD17β2 and HSD17β11 (r = 0.81) and AKR1A1 and AKR1E2 (r = 0.91). These findings provide valuable insights into physiological levels including the variability in AKRs and HSDs, which can support the development of physiologically-based pharmacokinetic models to predict the pharmacokinetics of their substrate drugs.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Acrolein (ACR) is an endogenous reactive unsaturated aldehyde that can be detoxified by the aldo-keto reductase (AKR) enzyme system. While it has been shown that accumulation of ACR is associated with several health problems, including inflammation, oxidative stress, and cardiovascular disease the study aimed to analyze whether an endogenous accumulation of ACR is causal for vascular dysfunction in an akr7a3 mutant zebrafish model. Enlargement of the hyaloid and retinal vasculature, as well as alterations in the larval pronephros and thickening of the glomerular basement membrane in the adult kidney were found upon ACR accumulation. Transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses, followed by functional validation, revealed that the up-regulation of genes controlling the arachidonic acid metabolism and activation of the leukotriene pathway are responsible for the observed microvascular changes. In conclusion, the data have identified an intrinsic function of ACR in akr7a3 mutants that activates the arachidonic acid metabolism and subsequently disrupts vascular integrity by promoting an inflammatory response. Thus, ACR is causal in the development of vascular disease.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
AKR7A3 is a member of the aldo-keto reductase (AKR) protein family, whose primary purpose is to reduce aldehydes and ketones to generate primary and secondary alcohols. It has been reported that AKR7A3 is downregulated in pancreatic cancer (PC). However, the mechanism underlying the effects of AKR7A3 in PC remains largely unclarified. Here, we explored the biological function, molecular mechanism and clinical relevance of AKR7A3 in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). AKR7A3 expression was downregulated in PDAC compared with adjacent normal tissues, and the lower AKR7A3 expression was related to poor prognosis. In addition, our results demonstrated that AKR7A3 could be a potential diagnostic marker for PDAC, especially in the early stages. Knockdown of AKR7A3 promoted PDAC progression and chemoresistance, while inhibiting autophagy flux. Mechanistically, AKR7A3 affected the metastasis, autophagy, and chemoresistance of PDAC by regulating PHGDH. Overall, the present study suggests that AKR7A3 inhibits PDAC progression by regulating PHGDH-induced autophagy. In addition, AKR7A3 inhibits chemoresistance via regulating PHGDH and may serve as a new therapeutic target for PDAC.© 2023 The Authors. Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
The human aldo-keto reductase (AKRs) superfamily is involved in the development of various tumors. However, the different expression patterns of AKRs and their prognostic value in gastric cancer (GC) have not been clarified. In this study, we analyzed the gene expression and gene methylation level of AKRs in GC patients and the survival data and immune infiltration based on AKRs expression, using data from different databases. We found that the expression levels of AKR1B10, AKR1C1, AKR1C2, and AKR7A3 in GC tissues were lower and the expression level of AKR6A5 was higher in GC tissues than in normal tissue. These differentially expressed genes (AKR1B10, AKR1C1, AKR1C2, AKR7A3, and AKR6A5) were significantly correlated with the infiltration level. The expression of SPI1 and AKR6A5 in GC was positively correlated. Survival analysis showed that GC levels of AKR6A5 reduced or increased mRNA levels of AKR7A3, and AKR1B10 was expected to have higher overall survival (OS), first progression (FP) survival, and postprogression survival (PPS) rates and a better prognosis. Moreover, the expression of AKR1B1 was found to be correlated with the staging of GC. The methylation of AKR6A5 (KCNAB2) at cg05307871 and cg01907457 was significantly associated with the classification of GC. Meta-analysis and ROC curve analysis show that the expression level of AKR1B1 and the methylation of cg16156182 (KCNAB1), cg11194299 (KCNAB2), cg16132520 (AKR1B1), and cg13801416 (AKR1B1) had a high hazard ratio and a good prognostic value. These data suggest that the expression and methylation of AKR1B1 and AKR6A5 are significantly related to the prognosis.Copyright © 2023 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Three-dimensional genome organization stabilizes cell-type-specific gene expression, yet the tissue-restricted factors that maintain chromatin insulation remain poorly understood. Here, we identify the muscle-specific ribosomal protein Rpl3l as an unexpected nuclear regulator of genome architecture in atrial cardiomyocytes. Rpl3l is enriched in the nucleus and nucleolus, where it binds its own genomic locus and stabilizes a CTCF-anchored chromatin boundary that represses the T-type calcium channel gene Cacna1h. Loss of Rpl3l weakens local chromatin insulation, increases long-range contacts across the Rpl3l-Cacna1h locus, derepresses Cacna1h, and increases susceptibility to atrial fibrillation (AF), which is suppressed by pharmacological inhibition of T-type calcium channels. Furthermore, AF-associated RPL3L variants exhibit impaired nucleolar localization, reduced rRNA binding, and defective repression of CACNA1H in human iPSC-derived atrial cardiomyocytes. Together, these findings reveal a ribosomal protein-chromatin axis linking genome insulation to ion-channel dosage control and cardiac rhythm stability, expanding the repertoire of cell-type-specific genome architecture regulators.
Depression has been increasingly associated with cancer progression and patient outcomes, yet its molecular and immunological correlates within tumors remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to investigate depression-associated gene signature across cancers and evaluate their relationship with tumor biology, immune microenvironment, and clinical outcomes, with a focus on breast cancer.A depression-related gene signature comprising 382 genes was obtained from the Molecular Signatures Database and used to compute a DScore via single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA) across over 10,000 tumor samples from 33 cancer types in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Tumor microenvironment features were assessed using ESTIMATE and CIBERSORT, and cell-type-specific patterns were evaluated using single-cell RNA sequencing. CACNA1H was validated using qPCR and IHC in breast cancer samples.DScore exhibited tissue-specific patterns across cancers and was elevated in several tumor types, including gastrointestinal, brain, renal, and endocrine malignancies. Higher DScore was associated with older age, advanced stage, and poorer survival across multiple malignancies, including breast, ovarian, uterine, and lung cancers, whereas inverse associations with survival were observed in selected brain, kidney, and endocrine cancers. Higher DScore was further associated with genomic instability, an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME), and poorer survival across multiple cancers, particularly in breast and ovarian cancers. In breast cancer, this phenotype was characterized by monocytic-lineage enrichment, increased M2 macrophages, and reduced CD8⁺ T-cell infiltration. Consistent with these findings, higher DScore was associated with reduced benefit from immune checkpoint therapy in breast and bladder cancers, with non-responders exhibiting higher DScore predominantly enriched in monocytic-lineage cells. CACNA1H was identified as a depression-related gene correlated with poor prognosis in breast cancer and was validated in independent cohorts.Depression-associated gene expression patterns are linked to tumor biology and immune features across cancers, with particularly strong relevance in breast cancer. These findings highlight the need for further research into how psychological, molecular, and immune factors interact in cancer progression and treatment response.© 2026 Chen et al.
Disruption of cation homeostasis is increasingly recognized as a driver of breast cancer (BC) progression, yet a clinically actionable gene signature that quantifies this disturbance has been lacking. This study aims to systematically explore the value of cation homeostasis-related genes in the prognosis assessment of BC through bioinformatics analysis, construct and validate a prognostic model based on these genes, and integrate immune mechanism and drug sensitivity analyses to provide novel biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets for precise prognosis evaluation and individualized treatment of BC.There are 4,006 cation-homeostasis-related genes (CHRGs) integrated with transcriptomic profiles of 1,081 The Cancer Genome Atlas-breast invasive carcinoma (TCGA-BRCA) tumors and 99 normal breast tissues. After differential-expression filtering [|log2fold change (FC)| >2, false discovery rate (FDR) <0.05], 477 CHRGs were retained. Univariate-Cox, least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) and multivariable modelling identified an 8-gene signature (NTSR1, CEMIP, CACNA1H, SAA1, CXCL13, CLIC6, SLC1A1, S100B). The model was internally validated in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) (n=1,000) and externally replicated in GSE20685 (n=327). Functional annotation, immune-infiltration profiling, and Genomics of Drug Sensitivity in Cancer (GDSC) drug-sensitivity prediction were performed.The 8-gene signature stratified patients into high- and low-risk groups with significantly divergent 5-year overall survival probabilities [hazard ratio (HR) =2.34, 95 % confidence interval (CI): 1.79-3.06, P<0.0001; area under the curve (AUC)5-year =0.74]. Multivariable analysis confirmed the risk score as an independent prognostic factor together with age and N-stage (P<0.001). Mechanistically, high-risk tumors exhibited N-/O-glycan reprogramming, TNF-α/NF-κB hyper-activation, CD8+ T-cell depletion and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) expansion. Camptothecin, CDK9 and multiple ion-channel inhibitors displayed selective efficacy in high-risk samples [half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) shift P<0.01].Our study provided the first CHRG-based prognostic model that simultaneously captures tumor-intrinsic aggressiveness and immune-evasive capacity in BC, offering quantitative biomarkers and actionable therapeutic targets for precision oncology.© AME Publishing Company.
Transient insults to the brain can convert neurons chronically hyperexcitable. Key molecular mechanisms that link hypoxic events, e.g. in the context of episodic ischemia, to neuronal hyperexcitability remain vague. The transcription factor hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (HIF1α) is a central mediator of the cellular response to hypoxia and may contribute to epileptogenesis by regulating ion channel expression. Here, we identify the T-type calcium channel CaV3.2 (encoded by Cacna1h) as a putative transcriptional target of HIF1α and investigate its role in hypoxia-associated changes in neuronal excitability. Oxygen deprivation followed by reoxygenation (OD/R) induced a persistent increase in neuronal firing rate. In murine organotypic brain slices, hypoxic conditions increased HIF1α and Cacna1h expression at the transcript level, and in human organotypic brain slices hypoxia increased HIF1α and Cacna1h protein expression. Using neuronal cell lines and primary cortical neurons we show that HIF1α activation through HIF1α overexpression, consistently increases Cacna1h expression. In NS20Y cells, overexpression of a normoxia-stable HIF1α variant increased Cacna1h promoter activity in both fluorescent and dual-luciferase reporter assays. The same effect was observed in primary cortical neurons, where HIF1α overexpression also elevated network activity measured by multielectrode array recordings, replicating the effect of the OD/R model. Together, these findings identify HIF1α as a putative transcriptional regulator of CaV3.2 in neurons and reveal a conserved hypoxia-responsive HIF1α-CaV3.2 pathway that promotes neuronal excitability across experimental models. This pathway may represent a potential molecular entry point for future studies aimed at understanding and ultimately modulating hypoxia-associated epileptogenic processes.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42272247 is a review article
Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are key regulators in tumorigenesis, including cervical cancer (CC), but their specific roles and molecular mechanisms in CC remain incompletely understood. This study further explored the functional role of hsa_circ_0000231 in CC cells and its underlying molecular mechanisms.The circular nature of circ_0000231 was confirmed using Sanger sequencing, divergent primer PCR, RNase R digestion assay, and subcellular fractionation assay. Gain-of-function experiments involved transfecting SiHa and HeLa cells with circ_0000231-overexpressing plasmids, whereas loss-of-function experiments utilized shRNA-mediated silencing of circ_0000231 in MS751 cells and siRNA-mediated knockdown of CACNA1H in SiHa and HeLa cells. Gene expression levels were verified by qPCR. RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) assay was used to confirm the direct interactions of circ_0000231 and CACNA1H with IGF2BP2, and mRNA stability assay was employed to evaluate the effect of circ_0000231 and IGF2BP2 on CACNA1H mRNA stability. Cell proliferation, cycle distribution, apoptosis, migration, and invasion were analyzed using MTT, flow cytometry, and Transwell assays, respectively. mRNA transcriptome sequencing was performed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in CC cells after circ_0000231 overexpression, and protein levels were detected by Western blot.Compared with non-tumorigenic immortalized human keratinocyte Hacat cells, hsa_circ_0000231 was upregulated in most CC cell lines (HeLa, SiHa, MS751) but not in Caski cells. It exhibited resistance to RNase R digestion and was predominantly localized in the cytoplasm of MS751 cells. Overexpression of circ_0000231 promoted cell proliferation, cell cycle progression, migration, and invasion, while inhibiting apoptosis in CC cells. Conversely, silencing circ_0000231 in MS751 cells exerted the opposite effects. mRNA transcriptome sequencing and KEGG pathway analysis identified the MAPK pathway as an enriched pathway. Intersection analysis of DEGs in HeLa and SiHa cells revealed that CACNA1H, a MAPK pathway-related gene, was upregulated in circ_0000231-overexpressing cells. Silencing CACNA1H reversed the pro-tumor effects of circ_0000231 overexpression, specifically attenuating MAPK pathway activation, restoring apoptosis, and inhibiting cell viability, migration, and invasion. Furthermore, RIP assay confirmed that both circ_0000231 and CACNA1H could bind to IGF2BP2. Knockdown of circ_0000231 or IGF2BP2 significantly reduced the mRNA stability of CACNA1H in MS751 cells, indicating that the hsa_circ_0000231/IGF2BP2 axis enhances CACNA1H mRNA stability.Hsa_circ_0000231 acts as an oncogenic circRNA in CC by promoting cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, and activating the MAPK pathway via CACNA1H. Mechanistically, circ_0000231 regulates CACNA1H mRNA stability through binding to IGF2BP2, which clarifies the molecular mechanism underlying circ_0000231-mediated CC progression. These findings extend the current understanding of circ_0000231 regulatory networks in CC and highlight circ_0000231 as a potential therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42194655 is a review article
Although structural heart abnormalities are not typically associated with short QT syndrome (SQTS)-related sudden unexpected death, few autopsy studies have examined the underlying pathology and genetic factors of SQTS. Therefore, comprehensive pathologic examinations and whole-exome sequencing were conducted in four men (aged 24, 28, 31, and 45 years) with sudden unexpected death and a short QT interval (sQT). No variants were identified in genes currently known to be associated with SQTS. An enrichment analysis was performed to identify potential genetic causes and mechanisms. None of the men had a history of cardiovascular disease, familial sudden death, or arrhythmia. Rare variants in SCN10A, ANK2, KCNQ2, and CACNA1H were detected, potentially associated with cardiac electrophysiology. One case exhibited apical hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with a rare PLEC variant. The other three displayed left ventricular hypertrabeculation with poor compaction, deep recess formation, myocardial fibrosis, micronecrosis, and minimal inflammatory cell infiltration. The enrichment analysis indicated that these variants were associated with cardiac electrophysiology and morphogenesis. These results showed that individuals with sQT may be at risk of sudden death even without a clinical or family history. This risk may be increased by cardiomyopathy-related gene variants in preclinical or early disease stages. Electrocardiographic evaluation to identify sQT cases followed by morphologic and genetic evaluations improves the assessment of a sudden death risk in individuals with sQT.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD) is a prevalent cardiovascular disorder characterized by calcium deposition in the aortic valve, associated with high morbidity and mortality. Mechanical stress plays a key role in its pathogenesis, highlighting the importance of identifying mechanosensitive ion channel-related genes (MICRGs). In this study, transcriptome data from GSE83453 of patients with CAVD and healthy controls were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and MICRGs were used to pinpoint key genes. The intersection of DEGs, WGCNA modules, and MICRGs identified CACNA1H as a candidate gene. External validation with GSE51472 and GSE55492 confirmed these findings. Both in vitro and in vivo studies confirmed that CACNA1H inhibition alleviates CAVD progression by repressing the osteogenic response. Mechanistically, CACNA1H inhibition attenuated phosphorylation of P65, a key regulator of the NF-κB pathway. These results suggest that CACNA1H may serve as a promising biomarker and therapeutic target for CAVD.© 2026 The Author(s).
Calcium ion (Ca²⁺) dysregulation contributes to both noise-induced (NIHL) and age-related hearing loss (ARHL). Voltage-gated Ca²⁺ channels (VGCCs) regulate Ca²⁺ influx and are, therefore, candidate therapeutic targets for acquired hearing loss. The T-type channel CaV3.2 (CACNA1H) has been proposed to influence cochlear function and vulnerability. Here, we characterized the distribution and age-dependent expression of Cacna1h in the mouse cochlea, and tested whether CaV3.2 modulation could mitigate NIHL or ARHL using genetic deletion and/or pharmacological blockade. Transcriptomic analyses of isolated cochlear sensorineural and metabolic substructures showed that Cacna1h expression remains stable from 6 weeks to 2 years of age. Auditory brainstem responses together with immunofluorescence and quantitative image analyses revealed elevated wave I thresholds and reduced amplitudes in 6-week-old CaV3.2 knockout (KO) compared to wildtype (WT) and heterozygous (HET) mice, despite comparable inner hair cell (IHC), IHC afferent presynaptic ribbon, and outer hair cell (OHC) densities. After noise exposure, threshold shifts were similar across genotypes, with comparable hair cell and ribbon densities across the genotypes. At one year of age, CaV3.2 KO mice exhibited greater functional decline and OHC loss than WT and HET mice. Differences in cochlear function at 6 weeks were not explained by SGN subtype distribution or efferent terminal organization. In aged mice, mibefradil treatment reduced OHC loss but did not preserve cochlear function. These findings suggest that embryonic CaV3.2 deletion resulted in early baseline auditory deficits, consistent with their possible developmental requirement, and did not confer protection against noise-induced or age-related hearing loss.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42567718
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42567697
In this study, to develop a robust probiotic delivery system, high molecular weight 1,3-β-D-glucan curdlan gum (CUR) was employed as a functional wall material. It was combined with whey protein isolate and high oleic sunflower oil to prepare solid/oil/water (S/O/W) emulsion microcapsules using electrostatic spray drying (ESD) technology. Additionally, pectin and high oleic sunflower oil were utilized as functional wall materials. All the microcapsules exhibited low water content (3.66%-5.04%) and water activity (aw 0.178-0.230), which is beneficial for long-term storage stability. Following drying, the survival rate of probiotics in each treatment group exceeded 90%. It is worth noting that the microcapsules containing 5% CUR exhibit the most effective overall protective effect: following heat treatments of 63 °C for 30 min and 75 °C for 10 min, the loss of viable bacteria was only 1.18 and 1.39 Log CFU/g, respectively. After 12 weeks of storage at 4 °C and 25 °C, the survival rates were maintained at 93% and 66%, respectively. Its excellent performance is attributed to the fact that CUR can form a dense gel network structure at high temperatures, which effectively blocks heat transfer and oxygen penetration. Scanning electron microscopy and Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy confirmed that microcapsules containing 5% CUR form a relatively dense physical barrier and maintain structural integrity. The above results demonstrate that incorporating CUR into a S/O/W emulsion system, combined with ESD technology, is a promising strategy for wall materials to enhance the thermal tolerance and shelf-life stability of probiotic microcapsules.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Depression, anxiety, and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) are common, militarily relevant mental health disorders that severely impact operational readiness and can disqualify service members from flying class and special duty positions. While observational studies frequently correlate heavy alcohol consumption with these conditions, distinguishing direct causation from reverse causality (e.g., "chemical coping") remains difficult. This study uses Mendelian Randomization (MR) to estimate the causal effect of alcohol consumption on depression, anxiety, PTSD, and alcohol use disorders.We conducted a retrospective MR study using data from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) All of Us Research Program (Controlled Tier Dataset v7). We utilized two genetic variants strongly associated with alcohol consumption, rs671 (in the ALDH2 gene) and rs1229984 (in the ADH1B gene), as instrumental variables. Mental health and alcohol-related outcomes were defined by Electronic Health Record (EHR) diagnoses. Self-reported alcohol consumption was derived from the AUDIT-C survey. Logistic regression was performed within genetic ancestry groups, followed by a random-effects meta-analysis.Observational data demonstrated large, highly significant observational correlations. For example, heavy drinkers (10+ drinks, 4+ times/week) were 3.29 times more likely to have PTSD than light drinkers (1-2 drinks, monthly or less), and adjusted models showed an odds ratio (OR) of 8.88 for PTSD if diagnosed with an alcohol condition. Despite these strong observational correlations, MR meta-analyses utilizing rs1229984 and rs671 yielded null causal estimates for PTSD, depression, and anxiety (MR ORs near 1.0), while confirming genetically predicted alcohol consumption is definitively causal for alcohol-related conditions.This MR study demonstrates that alcohol consumption is not a major instigating cause of PTSD, depression, or anxiety. The strong epidemiological correlation between alcohol use disorders and psychiatric comorbidities is likely driven by "chemical coping" (self-medication) or shared confounding factors, rather than direct alcohol exposure. Additional MR studies are required to confirm the "chemical coping" (self-medication) hypothesis of these mental health conditions driving alcohol use.Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Association of Military Surgeons of the United States 2026.
Adult stem cells are thought to drive the regenerative potential of the endometrium and contribute to the pathogenesis of endometriosis; however, their identity and defining features remain to be characterized. Here, we used in vivo and in vitro approaches to demonstrate that cells with high aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 activity (ALDHHI cells) were long-lived progenitors in the endometrium with a higher organoid formation capacity, long-term passaging potential, and stemness gene signatures. Using lineage tracing with an Aldh1a1creERT2/+; Rosa26LSL-tdTomato reporter mouse, Aldh1a1+ epithelial cells expanded during postnatal development, Aldh1a1+ stromal cells expanded during estrous cycling, and both populations of Aldh1a1+ cells were present during postpartum repair. In response to ovariectomy or exogenous estradiol, we found that ALDH1A1+ cells localized to glandular crypts of the endometrium or throughout the luminal epithelium, respectively, indicating that their spatial localization is hormone-sensitive. Functionally, we found that selective ablation of ALDH1A1+ cells in Aldh1a1creERT2/+; Rosa26LSL-DTR mice decreased endometrial gland number and FOXA2 expression. These findings were recapitulated in the human endometrium, where endometrial epithelial organoids with high ALDH activity (ALDHHI cells) showed a higher organoid formation capacity than ALDHLO cells and displayed unique transcriptomes with fewer luminal-like ciliated cells. Overall, our studies indicate that ALDH1A1+ cells are hormone-sensitive adult stem cells in the endometrium with regenerative potential that are critical for endometrial development and function.© 2026, Tang et al.
Transcriptional reprogramming under genotoxic stress is essential for the survival and pathogenesis of Candida albicans. While many DNA damage response (DDR) genes are well-characterized, the functions of pathogen-specific, stress-inducible genes remain poorly understood. Here, we characterized GEI1 (Orf19.3109), a gene significantly induced by genotoxic agents and oxidative stress, which lacks a clear ortholog in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Interestingly, although GEI1 expression is triggered by DNA damage stress, its deletion does not impair genotoxin tolerance. Instead, the gei1Δ mutant shows increased resistance to oxidative stress, characterized by reduced intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation. Furthermore, loss of GEI1 leads to hyper-secretion of extracellular aspartyl proteases (Saps) and results in a hypervirulence phenotype in the Galleria mellonella infection model. Transcriptomic profiling and CRISPR-interference (CRISPRi) assays revealed that loss of GEI1 function triggers the hyperactivation of antioxidant defenses and protease secretion. We demonstrate that the hypervirulence of the gei1Δ mutant is primarily driven by the transcriptional derepression of SAP1, SAP3, SAP5 and the putative alcohol dehydrogenase ADH4. Repression of these downstream effectors in the gei1Δ background reduced protease secretion and restored virulence to wild-type levels. Overall, our findings uncouple transcriptional induction from conventional DNA repair functions and reveal a novel regulatory checkpoint where GEI1 links genotoxic stress signaling to the suppression of key pathogenic traits, highlighting a complex strategy by which C. albicans balances stress adaptation and virulence control.
Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) is useful for early detection of gastric cancer; however, quality indicators for its performance remain unestablished. We aimed to investigate the candidate quality indicators for EGDs conducted in patients undergoing surveillance following endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) for gastric neoplasms.This study is a single-center, retrospective, observational analysis. We analyzed data from post-ESD surveillance EGDs between April 2015 and March 2022. The data were divided into Periods A (April 2015-March 2017) and B (April 2017-March 2022). From Period A, we calculated each endoscopist's gastric biopsy rate (gBR), gastric positive biopsy rate (gPBR), and mean examination time as potential quality indicators for EGD performance. In Period B, we calculated the gastric neoplasm detection rate, encompassing cancer and adenoma, as the primary outcome measure. We analyzed the associations between endoscopist quality indicators in Period A and clinical outcomes in Period B.A total of 6792 EGDs from 2552 patients, conducted by 12 endoscopists, were analyzed. A positive correlation with gastric neoplasm detection rate was observed for gBR (r = 0.621, p = 0.03), but not for the other indicators. Endoscopists with a high gBR (> 36%) had a significantly higher gastric neoplasm detection rate than those with a lower gBR (≤ 30%) (3.6% vs. 2.0%, p < 0.05).A higher gBR was associated with an increased gastric neoplasm detection rate in patients undergoing post-ESD surveillance. This finding suggests the potential of gBR as a quality indicator for EGD performance in this setting.© 2026 Japan Gastroenterological Endoscopy Society.
Hypophosphatasia (HPP) occurs in patients referred for suspected osteoporosis. In our cohort, ALP below 25 IU/L predicted a positive genetic diagnosis, yet higher values did not rule out the clinical diagnosis of HPP. Lower ALP correlated with increased fracture risk independent of genetic results, underscoring the clinical importance of recognising HPP to prevent use of contraindicated treatments.Hypophosphatasia (HPP) is a rare inherited metabolic disorder affecting bone and teeth, characterised by osteomalacia, stress fractures, and pseudofractures. It remains underdiagnosed and may coexist with osteoporosis, risking inappropriate anti-resorptive therapy. This study characterised the biochemical, clinical, and densitometric features of adults with low alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and identified predictors of genetically confirmed HPP.We retrospectively analysed adults referred to our centre for thyroid, endocrine, osteoporosis, or rheumatological conditions in whom low ALP was identified. Data extracted included fracture history, dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA), trabecular bone score (TBS), biochemical parameters including pyridoxal-5-phosphate (PLP), and ALPL variant testing. ALPL-positive and ALPL-negative groups were compared using regression analyses.Of 33 patients, 20 carried pathogenic ALPL variants. All individuals with ALP ≤ 25 IU/L had a detectable disease-causing variant, though ALP was often higher in variant-positive patients. PLP levels differed significantly between groups, whereas bone-specific ALP, standard biochemical markers, and DXA T-scores did not. Overall fracture prevalence was similar between groups; however, each 7.8 IU/L decrease in ALP significantly increased fracture probability, independent of genotype. Peripheral fractures predominated, consistent with adult HPP. One patient received bisphosphonates before diagnosis.Very low ALP strongly indicates HPP, yet the clinical spectrum extends beyond strict biochemical thresholds. ALP level-independent of genetic status-predicts fracture risk, suggesting residual enzyme activity is clinically relevant. These findings highlight the limitations of DXA and FRAX in HPP and underscore the need for thorough biochemical evaluation and broader clinical awareness to prevent contraindicated osteoporosis treatments.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to the International Osteoporosis Foundation and the Bone Health and Osteoporosis Foundation.
Bleeding and perforation remain major complications after gastric endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD). Simple clip-based closure techniques, including the reopenable-clip over-the-line method (ROLM) and the ORIGAMI method, have recently been developed in Japan, but clinical evidence supporting their use is limited. This study evaluated the feasibility and clinical effectiveness of post-ESD gastric ulcer closure using these techniques in a community hospital.This single-center retrospective study included patients who underwent gastric ESD between April 2021 and October 2025. Patients treated from May 2023 onward who received endoscopic closure using ROLM or the ORIGAMI method were assigned to the closure group, while those treated earlier without closure comprised the non-closure group. The primary endpoint was ESD-related adverse events within 14 days, including delayed bleeding and perforation. The secondary endpoints were suturing time, number of clips used, and postoperative hospital stay.A total of 137 patients were analyzed (closure group, n = 51; non-closure group, n = 86). Baseline characteristics, including bleeding risk assessed by the BEST-J score, were comparable between groups. The incidence of delayed bleeding or perforation was significantly lower in the closure group than in the non-closure group (2.0% vs. 12.8%, p = 0.0317), and no delayed bleeding occurred in the closure group. Postoperative hospital stay was significantly shorter in the closure group. Endoscopic closure was successfully achieved in nearly all patients using either technique.Prophylactic closure of gastric ulcers after ESD using ROLM or ORIGAMI with standard clips is feasible in community hospitals and reduces post-ESD complications and hospital stay.
Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) allows for en bloc endoscopic resection of T1 esophageal adenocarcinoma arising on Barrett's esophagus (BE). Although the safety of the procedure is well established, the oncological adequacy of the procedure and the long-term follow up of the patients have not been prospectively studied.We conducted a prospective, multicenter study involving 9 French and Belgian centers. We included patients treated with ESD for a visible endoscopic lesion of more than 15mm documented with dysplasia, with a 3-year follow up. The primary endpoint was the histologically complete resection rate for adenocarcinoma and high-grade dysplasia (HGD).A total of 141 patients were included in the study between December 2016 and January 2019. The R0 resection rate was 85% for adenocarcinoma and HGD, and 81% for invasive adenocarcinoma. The complication rate was 17%, of which 5% were early complications and 12% were late complications, mainly esophageal strictures. During a median follow-up length of 36.3 months, recurrence was observed in 15% of the patients and was endoscopically manageable in 44%. Eight patients (6%) underwent esophagectomy for a high-risk adenocarcinoma. Overall, 14 patients (12%) died during follow up, 3 of them (2.5%) from esophageal adenocarcinoma.Endoscopic resection by ESD is a safe and effective technique to treat T1 esophageal adenocarcinoma, allowing avoidance of esophagectomy in 94% of the patients.Copyright: © 2026 Hellenic Society of Gastroenterology.
Aldosterone synthase inhibitors (ASIs) demonstrated significant blood pressure (BP) lowering efficacy in patients with uncontrolled hypertension, but evidence in chronic kidney disease (CKD) remains limited. This meta-analysis explores the effects of selective ASIs on BP levels in CKD. Secondary outcomes were albuminuria (UACR), eGFR change and hyperkalemia incidence. Five RCTs (1,148 patients) were included; 2 used baxdrostat, 2 lorundrostat, and 1 study used vicadrostat. Treatment with ASIs was associated with a significant placebo-adjusted reduction in SBP of-7.9 mmHg [95% confidence interval (CI) -10.0 to -5.9, I2 = 0%] and DBP of -3.1 mmHg (95% CI -5.9 to -0.2, I2 = 62%) and reduced UACR by -31.7% (95% CI -54.5 to -8.9, I2 = 91%). The pooled placebo-adjusted eGFR change was -2.05 ml/min/1.73 m2 (95% CI -3.15 to -0.95, I2 = 0%). The risk of hyperkalemia was higher with ASIs, but with high heterogeneity (risk ratio, 4.04 [95% CI 0.94 to 17.35], I2 = 76%). In conclusion, selective ASIs present a potential treatment option for BP control and albuminuria reduction in patients with CKD.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Many primary aldosteronism (PA) patients harbor concomitant mild autonomous cortisol secretion (MACS), termed "Connshing syndrome." The prevalence and cardiometabolic impact of this co-secretion have not been quantitatively synthesized.To determine the pooled prevalence of MACS in PA and evaluate its association with cardiovascular (CV) events, type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), and obesity.PubMed, Embase, Cochrane, Web of Science, and Scopus through January 2026.Following PRISMA 2020 and MOOSE guidelines (PROSPERO: CRD420261334965), studies reporting MACS prevalence [post-1 mg dexamethasone suppression test (DST) cortisol ≥1.8 μg/dl] in PA were included. Prevalence was pooled using random-effects models. Odds ratios (ORs) were calculated for cardiometabolic outcomes. Certainty was evaluated using GRADE.Fourteen studies (2356 patients) were included. Pooled MACS prevalence was 26.2% [95% confidence interval (CI): 24.1-28.4; I2 = 24.2%; prediction interval: 21.6-31.4%], consistent across European (27.0%) and East Asian (25.2%) cohorts (P = 0.62). MACS + PA patients had higher odds of CV events (OR 1.60; 95% CI: 1.07-2.38; P = 0.021) and T2DM (OR 1.37; 95% CI: 1.00-1.86; P = 0.048), but not obesity (OR 1.10; P = 0.411). Sensitivity analyses confirmed robustness. GRADE certainty was moderate for prevalence and low for CV events.Approximately one in four PA patients has MACS, associated with a 60% higher CV event risk. These findings support routine DST screening in PA and have implications for perioperative management and cardiometabolic risk stratification.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
In primary aldosteronism (PA), the HISTALDO framework classifies aldosterone-producing lesions as 'classical' (solitary nodule) or 'non-classical' (multinodular or diffuse) based on CYP11B2 immunohistochemistry, but interpretation is complicated by frequent micronodules, even in patients without PA. The CYP11B2 size ratio (B2R), a quantitative measure of size disproportion between CYP11B2-positive nodules, offers an objective way to assess lesion architecture and has shown value in predicting cure versus relapse. In this study, diagnostic classification was intentionally B2R-guided, generating a modified HISTALDO B2R system in clinical routine.Prospective evaluation of the prognostic value of B2R-guided classification in routine pathology and assessment of postoperative outcomes across B2R-defined subgroups.Specimens of 70 adrenalectomies underwent multisection CYP11B2 staining; 61 patients had at least 6 months of follow-up (mean age 53 years, 54% were females). All had adrenal vein sampling and confirmatory testing before unilateral laparoscopic adrenalectomy. Imaging showed unilateral findings in 51%, bilateral in 8% and no detectable nodules in 41%. A B2R ≥8.1 defined classical lesions; B2R < 8.1 non-classical. Outcomes at 6-12 months were assessed using PASO criteria, which classify biochemical and clinical success as absent, partial or complete.Biochemical cure was achieved in 95% of patients with classical B2R morphology, compared with 40% of those with non-classical B2R morphology (p < 0.001). Complete clinical success was also significantly more frequent in the classical B2R group than in the non-classical group (57% versus 25%, p = 0.0235). Medication-based measures supported these findings: patients with classic histology showed a trend towards reductions in antihypertensive medication expressed as defined daily doses (DDD) (median ΔDDD 2.83 versus 2.00, p = 0.1254), and a significantly greater reduction in potassium supplementation (median ΔDDD 1.25 versus 0.00, p < 0.001) compared to those with non-classical histology.B2R-guided HISTALDO yields biologically distinct subgroups with clear prognostic separation. Earlier work using the original HISTALDO definition reported ~40%-45% persistent biochemical aldosteronism in non-classical cases. Our findings reproduce this poor non-classical outcome profile in a larger and more consistently defined B2R-classified cohort. Importantly, incorporating B2R reduces misclassification of tumours as non-classical when background nodularity is present despite a dominant CYP11B2-positive lesion.© 2026 The Author(s). Histopathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Complete Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome (CAIS) is a rare X-linked disorder caused by pathogenic variants in the androgen receptor (AR) gene, leading to resistance to androgens in individuals with a 46, XY karyotype.This study aims to describe the clinical and genetic profile of CAIS patients from a tertiary care hospital in northern India. Thirteen consecutive patients with a clinical diagnosis of CAIS evaluated at our centre between August 2013 to May 2025 were included. The evaluation included detailed clinical assessment, hormonal evaluation and genetic analysis. Genetic analysis was performed by using a customized next-generation sequencing panel that included AR gene and nine other genes including WNT4, SRD5A2, CYP21A2, POR, HSD17B3, NR5A1, CYP17A1, SOX9, and CYP11B1. The panel covered whole genes including non-coding regions (splice-site and introns).Ten patients presented at puberty with primary amenorrhea and three patients presented in the pre-pubertal period with bilateral inguinal hernias and phenotypically female external genitalia. Pathogenic or likely pathogenic AR variants were identified in 10 of 13 (76.9%) patients. These include likely three novel variants (missense variant c.2198 A > G; in-frame long deletion c.403_1420delGCGG and splice-site deletion c.1616+3_1616 + 6delAAGT) and two known variants (frameshift insertion c.239_240insGCAGCAGC and canonical splice-site variant c. 2608-1G > T). Notably, 7 of the 10 variants were splice-site variants.This is the largest study of CAIS patients from India. The main contribution of our study is the detection of likely three novel and two known pathogenic variants of AR gene associated with CAIS in a Kashmiri cohort. The high frequency of splice-site variants highlights the need to include non-coding regions in the analysis of AR gene for accurate molecular diagnosis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Polyendocrine Metabolic Ovarian Syndrome (PMOS) formerly known as Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS), characterized by hyperandrogenism, affects approximately 7.1-15.1% of women of reproductive age. While disease-causing CYP21A2 and CYP11B1 variants are well-studied, the contribution of synonymous variants to clinical and hormonal variations remains unclear. This study investigated whether synonymous and non-synonymous variants associated with phenotypic heterogeneity.A total of 275 premenopausal women (110 PMOS women and 165 healthy controls) underwent comprehensive clinical-biochemical evaluation. All exons and exon-intron boundaries of CYP21A2 and CYP11B1 were analyzed using direct sequencing. Genotype-phenotype associations were evaluated using non-parametric statistical tests and genetic model-based logistic regression analyses. Genotype and allele frequencies were similar between PMOS patients and controls; however, several variants showed distinct genotype-phenotype associations. Following false-discovery rate correction within predefined biological blocks, p.Val282Leu and non-classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia (NCAH)-related CYP21A2 variants remained significantly associated with elevated adrenocorticotropic-hormone(ACTH), while combined p.Leu9_Leu10insLeu/p.Arg103Lys/p.Ser269Thr/ p.Ser494Asn variants was linked to reduced ACTH. Carriers of NCAH-associated CYP21A2 allele exhibited significantly reduced sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) and higher modified Ferriman-Gallwey(FGS) levels. CYP21A2 synonymous p.Leu40=/p.Pro46 = variant associated with lower BMI. Additionally, combined CYP11B1 p.Leu75=/p.Asp82 = genotype remained significantly associated with reduced SHBG, while p.Arg43Gln/p.Ala386Val was associated with reduced FGS.The findings underscore the variant-specific and cumulative impact of CYP21A2 and CYP11B1 alterations on the adrenal axis and systemic androgen bioavailability. These results suggest that synonymous variants may actively modulate hormonal and clinical traits, contributing to the inter-individual variability of PMOS-related phenotypes independently of overt PMOS risk.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Selective aldosterone synthase inhibitors (ASIs), including baxdrostat and lorundrostat, target CYP11B2 while sparing cortisol synthesis, offering a novel strategy for resistant and uncontrolled hypertension. Yet existing meta-analyses have included nonselective agents or omitted the latest phase 3 data. We searched PubMed, Scopus, Cochrane, and Web of Science from inception to March 7, 2026, for randomized controlled trials of selective ASIs versus placebo. Random-effects dose-level network meta-analyses were performed for 16 efficacy and safety outcomes. Trial sequential analysis assessed evidence firmness, and certainty was rated using the GRADE CINeMA framework. Six randomized controlled trials (2856 patients across 30 countries) were included. ASIs reduced office systolic blood pressure versus placebo [mean difference (MD) -8.22 mm Hg; 95% CI, -9.43 to -7.00; I2 = 0%]. Baxdrostat 2 mg achieved the greatest reductions in office systolic blood pressure (-10.24 mm Hg), office diastolic blood pressure (-4.40 mm Hg), and ambulatory systolic blood pressure (-14.53 mm Hg). ASIs lowered serum aldosterone and raised plasma renin activity. Safety signals included reduced eGFR (MD -6.91 mL/min/1.73 m2), hyperkalemia [risk ratio (RR) 5.04], hyponatremia (RR 2.11), and symptomatic hypotension (RR 3.17), with dose-dependent risks most pronounced for lorundrostat 100 mg.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Recent studies have linked modifiable risk factors (RFs) to melanoma, basal cell carcinoma (BCC), and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). This study aimed to investigate the causal relationships between 11 modifiable RFs and these skin cancers and to identify novel therapeutic targets using multi-omics approaches.Exposure data were obtained from genome-wide association studies (GWAS). Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses were performed using the inverse variance weighted (IVW) method as the primary approach, and results from discovery and replication cohorts were combined by meta-analysis. Functional Mapping and Annotation (FUMA) and summary-data-based MR (SMR) were used to prioritize therapeutic targets. Drug prediction, phenome-wide association studies (PheWAS), and single-cell analyses were conducted to evaluate target druggability and biological relevance.Actinic keratosis (AK) was associated with an increased risk of melanoma (OR = 1.24, 95% CI 1.07-1.43, P < 0.01), whereas alcohol consumption was negatively associated with SCC risk (OR = 0.77, 95% CI 0.62-0.95, P = 0.02). No causal relationships were observed between the investigated RFs and BCC. One potential therapeutic target for melanoma (EDEM2, PSMR = 0.03) and five candidate therapeutic targets for SCC (MAPK3, PSMR = 5.30E-04; NRBP1, PSMR = 4.32E-04; ANKK1, PSMR = 1.89E-06; IL27, PSMR = 3.04E-03; ADH5, PSMR = 0.02) were identified. Drug prediction, PheWAS, and single-cell analyses further supported the therapeutic potential of these genes.AK appears to increase the risk of melanoma, whereas alcohol consumption may be protective against SCC. EDEM2 may represent a potential therapeutic target for melanoma, while MAPK3, NRBP1, ANKK1, IL27, and ADH5 are promising candidate targets for SCC. Further experimental and clinical studies are warranted to validate these findings.Copyright © 2026 Qin, Huoshen, Li, Li, Sun and Yi.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509785 is a review article
The menopausal transition is a key period marked by changes in cardiometabolic health and adrenal function, representing an important window for targeted interventions to improve women's health. Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists improve metabolic parameters, while physical exercise provides well-established benefits; however, their effects during the menopausal transition remain insufficiently explored. This study examined the effects of liraglutide (0.186 mg/kg; corresponding to the human equivalent dose of 1.8 mg/day used for type 2 diabetes treatment) and exercise on the adrenal gland in a rat model of menopausal transition. Three-month-old females served as young controls (CY), while 16-month-old acyclic females were assigned to control (C), liraglutide (L), exercise (E), or combined treatment (L+E). Compared with CY, the C group showed increased body mass and adrenal alterations, including reduced adrenal weight and volume, cortical atrophy, increased collagen content, decreased STAR, and increased pAMPKα optical density (p ≤ 0.05). Sf1 and Star were upregulated in L, E, and L+E compared with C, most prominently in L (p ≤ 0.05), while Cyp11b2 was increased in L and L+E (p ≤ 0.05). Hormone analysis showed reduced 17β-estradiol, corticosterone, and aldosterone in C compared with CY. Corticosterone was further reduced in L compared with C, while aldosterone increased in L and L+E compared with C (p ≤ 0.05). In conclusion, the menopausal transition induced adrenal morpho-functional remodeling. Liraglutide intervention had the greatest impact on steroidogenic output, both alone and in combination with exercise, while exercise alone showed no significant effect.
Asthma is characterized by airway inflammation and bronchoconstriction. Recent therapies have addressed inflammation but not bronchoconstriction. S-Nitrosoglutathione (GSNO) is an endogenous smooth muscle relaxant that also impacts β2-adrenergic (β2AR) response. Airway GSNO levels are often low in asthma.We studied the effects of inhaled GSNO (iGSNO) in human asthma.We measured the effects and metabolism of iGSNO, with a focus on FEV1, β2AR agonist response and fraction of exhaled NO (FeNO), and expression of GSNO metabolic genes from bronchoscopic biopsies using spatial transcriptomics.iGNSO increased FEV1 and B2AR response; the magnitude of increase was related, and additive, to the B2AR response (p < 0.001). AKR1A1, encoding a GSNO degrading enzyme, was upregulated in airway epithelium, and higher AKR1A1 expression was associated with reduced iGSNO bronchodilation. Sustained elevation in FeNO after iGSNO, indicating reduced GSNO catabolism, was a biomarker for iGSNO effect.iGSNO could represent personalized asthma therapy, augmenting B2AR agonist benefit.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Macauba kernel protein isolate (MKPI) is nutrient-rich and ideal for plant-based diets, with potential for generating bioactive peptides upon hydrolysis. This study evaluated the effects of MKPI-derived hydrolysates (HD) on intestinal development, antioxidant defenses, and hepatic glucose metabolism using an in ovo (Gallus gallus) model, combined with peptide characterization and in silico bioactive prediction. Fertile broiler eggs (n = 9/group) were assigned to four groups: (1) non-injected (NI), (2) H₂O, (3) MKPI (IS), and (4) hydrolysates (HD). Intra-amniotic administration was performed on day 17, and tissues were collected at hacth (day 21). HD sequencies were identified by nanoLC-ESI-MS/MS and analyzed using the BIOPEP-UWM database. Hydrolysis reduced protein sizes (<15 kDa) and increased antioxidant capacity for the fractions. Both IS and HD groups induced changes in intestinal morphology, including increased villus height, surface area, and crypt depth compared to NI; however, villus-related improvements were also observed in the H₂O group, indicating a contribution of the injection procedure. In contrast, IS and HD specifically increased crypt depth and goblet cell diameter. Antioxidant-related genes (SOD, GSH-Px, CAT) were upregulated in IS and HD groups. HD further modulated hepatic gene expression (PCK1, G6PD, GAPDH, GLUT2), as well as intestinal SGLT1 expression, while MUC2 and DPP4 were unchanged. A total of 45 peptides were identified in HD, with predicted antioxidant and metabolic regulatory activities. Overall, HD modulated intestinal morphology, enhanced antioxidant responses, and influenced hepatic gene expression in an in ovo model.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Chronic stress is increasingly recognized as a driver of cancer metabolism, highlighting the need to elucidate the mechanism linking chronic stress to metabolic reprogramming. Here, we performed untargeted metabolomics on serum samples from esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) patients and integrated the results with clinical and stress-related assessments, revealing pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) enrichment accompanied by elevated epinephrine levels in patients with stress-associated features. β2-adrenergic receptor (ADRB2) activated by chronic stress stabilized MYCBP by competitively displacing VHL, thereby enhancing MYC transcriptional activity and upregulating key PPP enzymes, including G6PD and TKT. Unexpectedly, stress-associated stimulation not only activated ADRB2 signaling but also increased ADRB2 protein abundance. Mechanistically, stress exposure enhanced RNMT-dependent N7-methylguanosine (m7G) cap modification of ADRB2 mRNA, thereby increasing its translational efficiency. Together, these findings define an RNMT-ADRB2-MYCBP-PPP axis that integrates epitranscriptomic regulation with adrenergic signaling to promote metabolic reprogramming and malignant progression in ESCC. The stress-associated RNA modification-metabolism circuitry comprises potential therapeutic targets to overcome stress-associated ESCC progression.
Phyllanthus emblica Linn. contains abundant free phenolic (PEFP) and bound phenolic (PEBP), both of which have demonstrated potential antidiabetic activities. However, their comparative hypoglycemic effects and underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study investigated the effects of PEFP and PEBP using insulin-resistant HepG2 (IR-HepG2) cells and a high-fat diet/streptozotocin (HFD/STZ)-induced type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) mouse model. PEFP and PEBP showed no cytotoxicity toward HepG2 cells and significantly enhanced glucose consumption, glycogen synthesis, and hexokinase and pyruvate kinase activities in IR-HepG2 cells. Treatment with 160 μg mL-1 PEFP and PEBP increased glucose consumption in IR-HepG2 cells to 7.13 ± 0.30 and 6.73 ± 0.37 mmol L-1, respectively, restoring levels comparable to control cells (7.23 ± 0.69 mmol L-1). In HFD/STZ-induced T2DM mice, PEFP and PEBP significantly improved glucose homeostasis, insulin sensitivity, dyslipidemia, oxidative stress, and inflammatory responses after 10 weeks of intervention. High-dose PEFP and PEBP reduced fasting blood glucose from 13.02 ± 1.19 mmol L-1 in diabetic mice to 7.47 ± 1.18 and 9.87 ± 0.93 mmol L-1, respectively. At the molecular level, both treatments were associated with upregulation of insulin signaling-related genes (Insr, Irs1, Pik3r1, Pik3ca, and Akt1) and suppression of gluconeogenic genes (Foxo1, Pck1, and G6pc) in the liver. Notably, distinct functional patterns were observed. PEFP, particularly at high doses, showed stronger associations with restoration of insulin signaling and inhibition of gluconeogenesis, whereas PEBP was more closely associated with glucose utilization and glycogen storage. In addition, PEFP and PEBP inhibited jejunal α-glucosidase and α-amylase activities and altered gut microbiota composition. These findings demonstrate that PEFP and PEBP exert multifaceted antidiabetic effects, which were closely associated with the modulation of hepatic insulin signaling-related gene expression, intestinal carbohydrate digestion, and gut microbiota composition, highlighting their potential as functional food ingredients for T2DM management.
Pancreatic tumors frequently develop in nutrient-poor microenvironments due to impaired perfusion, forcing cancer cells to engage in metabolic adaptation for survival. This study identified the upregulation of transketolase-like 1 (TKTL1) as a nutrient-stress-responsive factor associated with metabolic adaptation of pancreatic cancer cells under amino-acid starvation, particularly glutamine scarcity. In particular, we found that TKTL1 induction was specifically observed in cancer cells and not in normal pancreatic ductal cells. Functional assays showed that TKTL1 overexpression increased proliferative capacity and tumor growth, whereas its knockdown attenuated these phenotypes and reduced cancer cell fitness under nutrient stress. Although TKTL1 exhibits weak intrinsic enzymatic activity, our data support a functional association with transketolase (TKT), accompanied by increased total transketolase activity. Protein-protein interaction assays further indicated that TKTL1 binds to TKT more prominently under nutrient deprivation than under nutrient-rich conditions. Furthermore, transcriptional analyses and NF-κB inhibition experiments suggest that TKTL1 upregulation is partially regulated by the NF-κB/p50 axis. Together, these findings are consistent with a model in which TKTL1 contributes to metabolic adaptation and stress tolerance in nutrient-deprived pancreatic cancer cells, in part through interaction with TKT, and suggest that the TKTL1 axis may represent a context-dependent therapeutic target in nutrient-limited tumors.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Although chromosome 14q deletion (14q-) is present in up to 40% of clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) cases, its immunologic and molecular impact remains unclear. Because TRAF3 and NFΚBIA, key regulators of nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) signaling, are located on 14q, we hypothesize that 14q- in ccRCC promotes increased inflammation and unique determinants of immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) response.We collected data from 825 patients with ccRCC from publicly available sources, our own independent retrospective study, and the Oncology Research Information Exchange Network. These data include bulk RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq), single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq), and whole exome sequencing (WES). We also include reverse phase protein array from DepMap cell lines (n=277). Next, we performed multiplex immunofluorescence for spatial analysis of immune cells on 23 patient slides with paired WES and ICB response. Finally, progression-free survival, 14q- status (assessed in bulk RNA-seq or whole exome sequencing), and kidney inflammatory marker EDNRB expression were assessed in two independent ICB immunotherapy trials.14q- status is associated with increased NF-κB-target transcription and p65 phosphorylation. Tumor scRNA-seq revealed increased expression of CCL20, an NF-κB target and lymphotactic protein. Simultaneously, single-cell and bulk RNA-seq demonstrated higher effector CD8+T cell infiltration in 14q- tumors compared with controls. We investigated myeloid panel mIF images from 14q- tumors and found dendritic cells (DCs) significantly aggregate with tumor cells in ICB responders compared with non-responders. Cell-cell communication analysis on DCs and tumor cells from a 14q- responder revealed tumor-derived EDN1 is uniquely interacting with EDNRB on DCs. In two ICB trials, 14q- combined with elevated EDNRB expression correlated with significantly improved progression-free survival.This is the first evidence that 14q- in ccRCC is associated with an antitumor inflammatory phenotype, possibly driven by aberrant NF-κB activation. Furthermore, 14q- with high EDNRB expression (EDNRB+) may serve as a predictive biomarker for ICB response in ccRCC. Finally, our results indicate patients with 14q-/EDNRB- may respond poorly to immunotherapy and new treatment options should be explored for this cohort.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
N-(1,3-Dimethylbutyl)-N'-phenyl-p-phenylenediamine quinone (6PPD-Q), a tire rubber antioxidant derivative, accumulates in air, soil, and water and has been found in urine, blood, and cerebrospinal fluid, posing significant health risks. Although 6PPD-Q exhibits intestinal toxicity, its role in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) remains unclear. The objective of this study was to identify key molecular targets of 6PPD-Q in IBD and to validate their involvement in 6PPD-Q-induced intestinal epithelial cell injury. Using network toxicology, machine learning, molecular docking, and in vitro experiments in human intestinal epithelial cells, we identified 60 overlapping 6PPD-Q-IBD targets, enriched in lipid metabolism, oxidative stress, and inflammation. Multi-model machine learning screened six core genes (NR1H4, ANXA5, SPARC, PCK1, PDK2, and CFB), with NR1H4 as a key mediator. Molecular docking showed strong binding of 6PPD-Q to NR1H4, exceeding that of its parent compound. In vitro experiments confirmed that 6PPD-Q caused lipid droplet and cholesterol accumulation, mitochondrial dysfunction (manifested as ATP synthesis inhibition, mitochondrial ROS burst, decreased membrane potential, and mitochondrial fragmentation), and significantly upregulated the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6, TNF-α, and IL-8, thereby triggering inflammatory responses. Moreover, 6PPD-Q exposure significantly downregulated NR1H4 expression. These findings reveal that 6PPD-Q increases IBD risk by interfering with lipid metabolism, disrupting mitochondrial function, upregulating inflammatory cytokines, and downregulating NR1H4, providing important evidence for understanding the risk posed by this emerging environmental pollutant to IBD and for developing preventive strategies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This study aimed to evaluate the profile of salivary proteins in young hookah and conventional cigarette users without apparent oral mucosal lesions, and to correlate the findings with clinical variables related to tobacco use.Whole saliva samples were collected from three groups: exclusive frequent hookah smokers, exclusive frequent cigarette smokers, and non-smokers. Participants were healthy young adults (18-40 years) of both sexes with good general and oral health. LC-MS/MS analyses were performed using Synapt G2 HDMS (Waters) coupled to the nano Acquity UPLC chromatography system (Waters). Database searches were performed using PEAKS Studio X+. The groups were compared and correlations between protein abundance and clinical variable, alcohol consumption, and duration of tobacco use were evaluated.The results revealed quantitative and functional changes in the salivary proteome of cigarette and hookah smokers, with enrichment of processes related to epigenetic regulation (chromatin/nucleosomes) and cell differentiation. However, cigarette exposure was associated with more pronounced functional pattern. Direct comparison of hookah and cigarette smokers identified three differentially abundant proteins (DAP) in the cigarette group (ALDH3A1, CSTA, and PGM2) and seven in the hookah group (LYPLAL1, IGLL5, PIP, PRSS8, UBA1, IGHV5-10-1, and SERPINB9). Finally, in silico validation using transcriptomic data from the TCGA PanCancer Atlas database for head and neck squamous cell carcinoma demonstrated that several genes corresponding to salivary DAP identified in smokers exhibit altered expression patterns in head and neck tumors, including Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, Scavenger receptor cysteine-rich protein DMBT1, Beta-2-glycoprotein 1 and Inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor heavy chain H4.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Research on Nicotine and Tobacco. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Primordial germ cells (PGCs) are the earliest precursors of gametes and essential cellular materials for poultry germplasm conservation and genetic modification. In this study, PGCs isolated from 2.5-day male and female Silkie chicken embryos were defined as circulating PGCs (cPGC_M and cPGC_F), whereas PGCs isolated from 8.5-day male and female embryos were defined as gonad-derived PGCs (gPGC_M and gPGC_F). RNA sequencing with three biological replicates per group was performed to characterize developmental-stage- and sex-associated transcriptional programs. Comparative transcriptomic analyses identified stage-associated differences in pathways related to cell-matrix interaction, focal adhesion, PI3K-Akt signaling, and stem cell pluripotency, with more differentially expressed genes detected in the female than in the male stage comparison. Sex-biased expression was detectable at the circulating stage, mainly reflecting W- and Z-linked expression differences, and the number of sex-biased genes was greater after gonadal colonization, primarily because more autosomal differentially expressed genes were detected. Candidate genes and pathways, including HINTW, DMRT1, SOX2, EDNRB, LPAR4, GFRA3, ECM-receptor interaction, ribosome-related modules, and calcium signaling, were associated with these comparisons and are presented as targets for future validation rather than as confirmed regulators. Because the study used three biological replicates per group, RT-qPCR corroboration was limited to six female stage-associated genes, and no functional perturbation assays were performed, the findings are descriptive and do not establish causal mechanisms of PGC migration, gonadal colonization, or sex differentiation. Within these limitations, the dataset provides an exploratory resource for subsequent studies of chicken PGC biology and biotechnology.
Cardiac arrest followed by cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CA/CPR) induces systemic ischemia and frequently results in acute kidney injury (AKI). The ketone body β-hydroxybutyrate (BHB) maintains mitochondrial and peroxisomal homeostasis through activation of the C/EBPβ-Pck1 axis, whereas Pck1 preserves mitoribosome integrity and mtDNA-encoded oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) translation. However, it remains unclear whether this pathway is disrupted during CA/CPR-induced AKI and whether empagliflozin can restore its activity. Male C57BL/6J mice and proximal tubule-specific Pck1 conditional knockout (CKO) mice were subjected to short-duration or standard CA/CPR protocols. Empagliflozin was administered orally for 7 days before CA/CPR induction. Circulating BHB levels, renal expression of C/EBPβ and Pck1, and markers of mitochondrial, peroxisomal, and mitoribosomal abundance and function were evaluated using established methods. CA/CPR markedly reduced circulating BHB levels and suppressed the C/EBPβ-Pck1 signaling axis. These changes were accompanied by depletion of peroxisomal markers, mitochondrial regulators, and mitoribosomal components as well as increased tubular apoptosis and albuminuria. Pck1 CKO mice exhibited severe organelle dysfunction and aggravated renal injury. In contrast, empagliflozin restored BHB levels, preserved C/EBPβ and Pck1 expression, and maintained mitochondrial, peroxisomal, and mitoribosomal integrity, thereby attenuating tubular injury and albuminuria. Notably, empagliflozin treatment increased BHB, C/EBPβ, and Pck1 levels in noninjured mice without inducing organelle expansion, suggesting that Pck1 activation alone is insufficient to promote mitoribosome biogenesis under basal conditions. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that empagliflozin protects against CA/CPR-induced AKI and identify Pck1 as a key metabolic regulator linking ketone signaling to organelle resilience.
Tsuan-Kan tea (TKT) is a solid-state-aged mixture of citrus and tea leaves. This study examined how aging temperature, humidity, and time affect the properties of TKT. Solid-state aging (SSA) enriched active ingredients (total phenol content: 1.25-2.51-fold; total flavonoid content: 1.29-2.52-fold; DPPH radical scavenging activity: 7.16-18.35-fold; ferric-reducing antioxidant power: 5.06-11.96-fold) by avoiding traditional processing losses. Flavanone glycosides (narirutin: 2.81 mg/g; hesperidin: 37.33 mg/g), 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (0.20 mg/g), and tea polyphenols (catechin: 109.80 mg/g; theaflavin: 1.82 mg/g) increased substantially under high-temperature and humidity. Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy suggested that hydrothermal environments promoted glycosidic bond cleavage (1078 cm-1) and enhanced π-π stacking between polyphenols and flavanone glycosides, improving solubility. During SSA, aroma profiles shifted from fruity and floral to woody and aged. Partial least squares regression revealed that nonenzymatic browning products, particularly 5-HMF (variable importance in projection [VIP] = 1.806), strongly correlated with α-glucosidase inhibition. Although naphthalene exhibited statistical collinearity (VIP = 2.300) and theoretical binding affinity in molecular docking, its potential toxicity as a thermal processing byproduct designates it as a quality control marker for process intensity. Overall, SSA enriches functional phytochemicals (e.g., polyphenols and 5-HMF) via non-enzymatic pathways, providing preliminary in vitro evidence for developing functional beverages.
Targeted therapies disrupt oncogenic signaling while inducing adaptive metabolic rewiring for cancer cell survival. However, the roles of acute metabolic shifts remain poorly understood. Here, we showed that inhibiting EGFR, KRAS, or BRAF drove resistance to cystine deprivation-induced ferroptosis in cancer cells harboring each driver mutation. Resistance to cystine deprivation emerged within 24 h of drug treatment and persisted during prolonged 9-day exposure. However, acquiring drug resistance during the 2-month drug exposure abolished the resistance to cystine deprivation, coupled with reactivation of MAPK signaling. Mechanistically, GPX4, which was induced by drug treatment, was crucial to prevent ferroptosis despite a reduction in intracellular cysteine and glutathione levels during cystine deprivation. Additionally, the oncogenic inhibitors altered ALDH isozyme expression profiles, potentially inducing resistance to 4-hydroxynonenal, which is a lipid aldehyde associated with ferroptosis. Our findings identify a novel cellular adaptation mechanism to oncogenic signaling inhibition, providing mechanistic insights into how cancer cells adjust their lipid redox balance during therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by cognitive decline and synaptic dysfunction. Increasing evidence suggests that impaired glucose utilization is a major contributor to AD pathogenesis. Neurons preferentially use glucose through the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP). In AD, the flux through the PPP is significantly reduced; however, the underlying mechanism is still elusive. This study was aimed to elucidate how PPP was affected in AD and its contribution to the AD pathogenesis.Proteomic analyses of temporal cortex synaptosomes from AD patients and controls were conducted to identify dysregulated pathways and significantly affected proteins. Functional analysis was performed by knockdown or restoration of protein expression in primary cultured neurons, as well as in wild-type and 5 × FAD mice. Pseudotargeted metabolomics and biochemical, molecular, electrophysiological and behavioral assessments were performed to evaluate metabolic characteristics, redox status, mitochondrial function, synaptic plasticity and cognition.Proteomic analysis of synaptic compartments identified glucose metabolism as the most significantly dysregulated functional network in AD. Further, transaldolase 1 (TALDO1), a rate-limiting enzyme in the PPP, was identified as a key enzyme affected in AD. TALDO1 was markedly downregulated at the early stage of AD. Downregulation of TALDO1 reduced glucose metabolism by inhibiting the PPP, TCA cycle and oxidative phosphorylation, causing broad metabolic collapse. Further, downregulation of TALDO1 depleted the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate and glutathione pools, weakening antioxidant defense, thus resulting in mitochondria impairment and reduced energy supply. These collectively drive synaptic dysfunction and cognitive decline. Conversely, restoring TALDO1 expression in 5 × FAD mice improved glucose uptake, mitigated oxidative stress, restored metabolic homeostasis, and rescued neuronal and cognitive functions.These findings identify TALDO1 as a key regulator of the impaired PPP in AD and may represent a promising therapeutic target for restoring neuronal metabolic homeostasis and function.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study investigated the preliminary role of γ-oryzanol (γ-O) against breast cancer through computational and in vitro analyses. Reference protein set (RPS) and functional enrichment set (FES) proteins were identified and subjected to network pharmacology. Pharmacogenomics analysis assessed expression profiles and survival associations. Molecular docking of γ-O with PIK3CA, AKT1, AKR1C3, ESR1, and MAPK1 was performed, followed by molecular dynamics (MD) simulation of the γ-O-PIK3CA complex. Brine shrimp lethality assay (BSLA) evaluated the effect of γ-O on nauplii survival and percentage lethality. Allium cepa root tip assay (ACARTA) assessed the effect of γ-O in number and length of roots. Cell viability assay evaluated MCF-7 cell viability after γ-O treatment. Target validation and network pharmacology suggested the relevance of RPS and FES with cancer-associated pathways. Pharmacogenomics analysis highlighted FES overexpression with reduced survival associations and cancer progression. Molecular docking predicted interaction of γ-O with PIK3CA (- 9.1 kcal/mol), AKT1 (- 7.2 kcal/mol), AKR1C3 (- 12.3 kcal/mol), ESR1 (- 8.3 kcal/mol), and MAPK1 (- 8.9 kcal/mol). MD simulation indicated the stability of γ-O-PIK3CA complex. γ-O treatment significantly (P-value < 0.05) reduced nauplii survival and increased percentage lethality. The number and length of roots reduced significantly (P-value < 0.05) in γ-O-treated roots. γ-O produced a significant (P-value < 0.05) concentration-dependent reduction in cell viability (half-maximal inhibitory concentration = 352.57 ± 48.51 µg/mL). BSLA, ACRTA, and cell viability assay demonstrated preliminary cytotoxic, anti-mitotic, and anti-proliferative effects of γ-O, aligned with computational target and interaction analyses. Further studies are required to validate its mechanistic relevance against breast cancer.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
To investigate the transcriptional profiling of ocular surface ectoderm (OSE) derived from human embryonic stem cells (hESC), and identified CACNG6 and AQP3 as the surface markers of OSE.hESCs were differentiated into OSE, neuroectoderm (NE), surface ectoderm (SE), and other surface ectoderm (OE) cells in vitro. RNA-seq was performed to analyze transcriptomic profiling of hESC-derived OSE, NE, OE, and SE. The differential expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, and Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) databases, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analyses were performed to screen the signals and hub genes associated to OSE commitment. Also, the highly expressed transcription factors (TFs) and membrane proteins (MPs) in OSE cells were identified.Transcriptome analysis revealed that OSE development is dually regulated by signals associated with both SE and NE development. The signaling pathways such as Hippo, encoding extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction, and transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) might delineate the surface ectodermal phenotype of OSE, with FN1, COL1A1, and TGFB1 identified as hub genes. Additionally, pathways such as axon guidance, might elucidate the influence of NE in OSE commitment, and with PAX6, LHX2, FOXG1, SOX2, MSI1, and DCLK1 recognized as the hub genes. Genes implicated in retinoic acid (RA) synthesis (ALDH1A1, ALDH1A3, and RDH10) exhibited high expression in OSE, indicating the significant role of the RA signaling pathway in OSE development. Furthermore, OSE-specific transcription factors and surface markers (CACNG6 and AQP3) were identified.This study reveals the transcriptome profiling of OSE, which could provide insights into the characteristics of OSE and the underlying molecular mechanisms involved in its derivation.International Journal of Ophthalmology Press.
ObjectiveTo investigate whether naringin enhances the chemosensitivity of nasopharyngeal carcinoma-derived CNE2 cells to paclitaxel and identify potential molecular mediators.MethodsCNE2 cells were treated with naringin alone or in combination with paclitaxel, cisplatin, or 5-fluorouracil. Cell viability, proliferation, and migration were assessed using cell counting kit-8 and Transwell assays. Transcriptomic profiling followed by bioinformatic analysis of Gene Expression Omnibus datasets (GSE53819, GSE12452, and GSE102349) was performed to identify nasopharyngeal carcinoma prognosis-related genes. AKR1C3 overexpression was established via lentiviral transduction, and pharmacological inhibition was performed using ASP9521. mRNA and protein expression were validated using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analysis.ResultsNaringin (160 μM) demonstrated a trend toward reducing the half-maximal inhibitory concentration of paclitaxel from 10.52 to 8.04 nM; however, it did not significantly alter sensitivity to cisplatin or 5-fluorouracil. Combined treatment with 2 nM paclitaxel and 160 μM naringin synergistically suppressed CNE2 proliferation and migration compared with that using either agent alone (p < 0.05). Bioinformatic analysis revealed that high AKR1C3 expression was correlated with improved survival in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma (p < 0.05), whereas high PAIP1, PRKDC, PTPRR, and COL12A1 expressions were correlated with poorer outcomes. Reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction confirmed that both naringin and paclitaxel upregulated AKR1C3 mRNA, with the combination producing the strongest effect. Gain-of-function studies demonstrated that AKR1C3 overexpression significantly enhanced paclitaxel sensitivity, with half-maximal inhibitory concentration values decreasing from 13.63 to 6.994 nM in CNE2 cells and from 8.534 to 4.668 nM in CNE1 cells. Furthermore, the specific AKR1C3 inhibitor, ASP9521, significantly attenuated the synergistic anti-proliferative and anti-migratory effects of paclitaxel + naringin in CNE2 cells, confirming that naringin enhances chemosensitivity to paclitaxel by upregulating AKR1C3 expression.ConclusionsNaringin sensitizes CNE2 cells to paclitaxel, potentially via AKR1C3 upregulation. This flavonoid may represent a low-toxicity adjunct to enhance the efficacy of paclitaxel in nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a major cause of cancer-related mortality among adults younger than 50 years of age, and many tumors show incomplete response or develop resistance to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-based chemotherapy. Therefore, new therapeutic approaches that improve CRC sensitivity to existing chemotherapeutic agents are needed. KRAS-associated signaling contributes to CRC growth, metabolic adaptation and treatment resistance. In this study, we investigated whether sulfasalazine (SSZ), a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved anti-inflammatory drug, could enhance the response of CRC cells to 5-FU and modulate KRAS/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-associated signaling. Public dataset analysis using cBioPortal, Kaplan-Meier Plotter and DepMap showed that KRAS is commonly altered in CRC. The analysis also showed that higher KRAS expression was associated with shorter overall survival in 1061 CRC patients, while CRC cell-line models demonstrated KRAS dependency. In 2D cultures, both KRAS-mutant HCT116 and KRAS-wild-type RKO cells showed lower cell viability, reduced colony formation and decreased KRAS expression after SSZ treatment. In 3D cultures, exposure to SSZ reduced early spheroid formation, both as a single treatment and when combined with 5-FU. In established spheroids, SSZ-containing treatments affected cell viability, spheroid growth and morphology, with the most noticeable suppressive effect observed in RKO aggregates. SynergyFinder+ dose-matrix analysis identified dose ranges where SSZ and 5-FU showed additive-to-synergistic effects, leading us to select 600 μM SSZ with 25 μM 5-FU for further validation. Western blot results from PEGDA microwell-derived 3D spheroids showed that SSZ + 5-FU treatment reduced KRAS expression and affected KRAS/MAPK-related signaling. This effect was more pronounced in RKO cells, where downstream pathway suppression was stronger. The combination treatment also increased apoptosis-associated PARP cleavage. At the same time, it reduced Cyclin D1 and GPX4 protein levels and changed the expression of stemness-related markers, including ALDH1A3, CD44, and CD133. Together, these results support SSZ as a candidate repurposed adjuvant that may improve the response to 5-FU in CRC spheroid models and support the use of PEGDA microwell-based 3D platforms for testing combination therapy approaches.
Small molecule-drug conjugates (SMDCs) represent an emerging prodrug strategy for precision targeted therapy. In this study, we developed a series of cathepsin B (CTSB)-activated SMDCs targeting Aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C3 (AKR1C3). Among these conjugates, SM-27 was identified as the optimized compound, which exhibited excellent inhibitory activity against AKR1C3 with an inhibitory concentration value of 9 ± 2 nM and could efficiently release the payload gemcitabine under the mediation of CTSB. The antitumor activity of SM-27 was dually dependent on the expression of AKR1C3 and CTSB, allowing it to precisely recognize and eliminate tumor cells with low toxicity to normal cells. In vivo xenograft tumor assays with SM-27 showed significantly superior tumor inhibitory efficacy to gemcitabine with markedly lower off-target toxicity. In conclusion, this study proposes a novel design strategy for SMDCs targeting AKR1C3, which provides a highly promising research approach to address the off-target issue in chemotherapy.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42468210 is a review article
Hypercholesterolemia (HCh) represents a prevalent comorbidity in patients with diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs), frequently exacerbating wound recalcitrance, yet the mechanisms linking systemic lipid perturbation to local immune dysregulation remain poorly defined. Here, we applied an integrated transcriptomic and machine learning approach to explore the molecular basis of this comorbidity. Initial analyses identified 70 shared DEGs between DFUs and HCh, primarily enriched in pathways related to lipid homeostasis disruption and inflammatory cascade activation. Subsequently, a four-algorithm machine learning pipeline highlighted AKR1C3 and CLIC3 as candidate diagnostic biomarkers, both consistently downregulated across disease states and supported by independent external validation cohorts (AUC = 0.779 and 0.920). Immune deconvolution further indicated a dysregulated microenvironment featuring sustained innate immune activation alongside adaptive immune impairment, which correlated with reduced AKR1C3 and CLIC3 expression. Drug repurposing analyses proposed that pirfenidone and statins might attenuate this pathological transcriptomic signature, while molecular docking simulations suggested stable binding of exemestane and indomethacin to AKR1C3 (binding energies: -8.0 and -7.3 kcal/mol, respectively). Collectively, these findings suggest that AKR1C3 and CLIC3 act as molecular bridges linking the TGF-β/lipid metabolism axis to local immune dysfunction, offering a rationale for early risk stratification and targeted drug repurposing in DFUs-HCh comorbidity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hepatic fibrosis is a prevalent outcome of chronic liver diseases. Although activation of hepatic stellate cell (HSC) is a primary driver of fibrogenesis, therapeutic strategies targeting retinoic acid (RA) metabolism in HSCs remain insufficiently investigated. This study aimed to elucidate the material basis of Huanggen formula (FHG), identify its principal bioactive constituents, and clarify the underlying antifibrotic mechanisms.The antifibrotic efficacy of FHG was assessed in a CCl4-induced mouse model. Widely-targeted and untargeted metabolomics were conducted to characterize FHG constituents and serum-absorbed components, followed by high-content screening to evaluate anti-HSC activation activity. Rhein was further examined in TGF-β1-stimulated LX-2 cells and CCl4-induced mice. Label-free proteomics, multiple reaction monitoring quantification, DARTS, CETSA, and molecular docking were performed to identify the molecular targets of rhein. ALDH1A3 inhibition, knockdown, and overexpression were employed to verify its functional role in LX-2 cells.FHG markedly alleviated metabolic disturbances and histopathological injury in fibrotic mice. Metabolomic analysis identified anthraquinones and flavonoids as the principal active classes, with rhein exhibiting potent anti-HSC activation effects. Rhein suppressed LX-2 activation, extracellular matrix (ECM) accumulation, and migration, and mitigated CCl4-induced hepatic fibrosis. Proteomic analysis indicated that rhein regulated ECM remodeling, mitochondrial function, and RA metabolism, accompanied by significant upregulation of DHRS4 and ALDH1A3. Mechanistically, rhein directly targeted to ALDH1A3, enhanced its expression, and increased intracellular ATRA level. The inhibition of ALDH1A3 partially abrogated the effects of rhein. Knockdown and overexpression experiments verify that ALDH1A3 is a critical negative regulator of HSC activation.Rhein is a key antifibrotic constituent of FHG and suppresses hepatic fibrosis by targeting ALDH1A3 and restoring RA metabolism. The ALDH1A3-ATRA axis represents a central mechanism and a promising therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562233 is a review article
Liver fibrosis and cirrhosis are major global health burdens with limited treatments. Activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) drive fibrosis through increased proliferation, migration, collagen deposition and glycolysis. The aim of this study is to elucidate the signaling events that lead to enhanced glycolysis, subsequent HSC activation, and liver fibrosis.Utilizing a phospho-kinase array, we identified with no lysine kinase 1 (WNK1) as a new kinase in primary human HSCs activated by the pro-fibrotic platelet-derived growth factor-B (PDGF). PDGF-mediated glycolysis in HSCs was attenuated by WNK1 selective inhibitor, WNK-IN-11, as measured by live-cell metabolic assay, Glifon-300 fluorescence, Glucose-Glo assay and glucose transporter 1 immunofluorescence. To understand how WNK1 promotes glycolysis, we employed chemical genetics where an engineered WNK1T301G mutant with a modified ATP pocket accommodated a specific ATP-γ-S analogue to thio-phosphorylate its substrates. Thio-phosphorylated proteins were analyzed by mass spectrometry which identified the glycolytic protein, triosephosphate isomerase 1 (TPI1), as a novel WNK1 direct substrate. TPI1 interacted with WNK1 in condensates, membrane-less phase separation structures. Condensate disruption and knockdown of TPI1 or WNK1 reduced HSC proliferation and migration in vitro. In vivo, pharmacological or genetic WNK1 inhibition significantly attenuated liver fibrosis in carbon tetrachloride and high-fat, choline-deficient, L-amino-acid diet mouse models. Finally, WNK1 inhibition reduced fibrogenesis ex vivo in human precision-cut liver slices.These findings identify WNK1 as a previously unrecognized kinase that promotes HSC activation and liver fibrosis via TPI1-mediated glycolysis, highlighting the WNK1-TPI1 axis as a potential therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.
Autosomal recessive diseases represent an important group of genetic disorders whose frequency may be reduced through population screening strategies or premarital diagnosis, particularly in low- and middle-income countries, where some of these conditions have personalized treatment options that are often not covered by healthcare systems. The aim of this study was to determine the frequency of carriers of autosomal recessive monogenic disorders among patients who underwent exome sequencing at a national pediatric referral hospital in Peru.An observational study was conducted in which carrier frequency was calculated based on pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants identified through exome sequencing. Additionally, assumptions from the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium were applied to estimate the expected frequency of affected individuals in the population. Exploratory analyses were performed to estimate the odds ratio to evaluate the possible association between the geographic origin of patients or their grandparents and the presence of recessive variants.The sample included 178 patients who underwent exome sequencing. In the analyzed cohort, approximately one pathogenic or likely pathogenic heterozygous variant per individual was identified, and at least 63.5% of participants were carriers of at least one genetic condition.Carrier frequencies for genes such as GJB2, PAH, and ABCA4 were slightly lower than those previously reported. Similarly, the estimated prevalence of potentially affected individuals showed variations compared with previous studies across different disease groups. These differences may be explained by demographic and evolutionary factors that influence population genetic structure.Copyright © 2026 Abarca Barriga, Vásquez-Sotomayor and Punil Luciano.
Tuber dormancy length is a key agronomic trait determining potato storage quality and planting suitability, yet the underlying molecular regulatory mechanisms remain poorly understood. In this study, we perform a time-course physiological, transcriptomic, and metabolomic analysis of a long-dormancy cultivar 'Chuanliangshu 10' and a short-dormancy cultivar 'Favorita' at harvest and storage. The short-dormancy cultivar 'Favorita' exhibits a significantly faster conversion rate of starch to soluble sugars during storage compared to 'Chuanliangshu 10'. Integrated transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses revealed that 'Favorita' likely accelerates dormancy release and sprouting through the coordinated regulation of multiple metabolic pathways. First, the expression of S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine hydrolase genes (SAHH1/2) in the cysteine and methionine metabolism pathway is significantly up-regulated, accompanied by a marked accumulation of the key metabolite glutathione (GSH). Second, the phenylalanine ammonia-lyase gene (PAL) is continuously and strongly up-regulated during dormancy release, coinciding with the accumulation of the intermediate metabolites fumarate and succinate of the phenylalanine metabolism pathway. Third, expression of the zeatin-deactivating gene CKX is strongly suppressed, resulting in zeatin accumulation and thereby promoting tuber sprouting. Last but not least, the pentose phosphate pathway genes including PGD, RPIA and TKTA are significantly upregulated during storage, indicating activation of this pathway. Collectively, this study systematically elucidates the physiological, transcriptomic, and metabolomic differences between potato cultivars with contrasting dormancy characteristics, providing a theoretical foundation and candidate gene resources for precisely regulating tuber dormancy and improving potato storage traits.© 2026 Scandinavian Plant Physiology Society.
A fundamental but unanswered question in neuropsychiatry is whether the psychiatric symptoms of epilepsy are caused by the same or a separate pathophysiology as seizures. To address this question, we investigated a monogenic form of epilepsy (pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy) caused by aldehyde dehydrogenase 7 family member A1 (ALDH7A1) mutations. ALDH7A1 global knockout mice exhibited both seizure-associated and maladaptive affective behavioral phenotypes. However, seizure phenotypes were caused by ALDH7A1 deletion in hepatocytes whereas maladaptive affective behaviors were caused by ALDH7A1 deletion in astrocytes. Deletion in astrocytes disrupted astrocyte redox homeostasis, impairing regulation of extracellular ion concentrations and reducing neuronal activity in the prelimbic cortex. Sulforaphane, which activates the NRF2 antioxidant pathway, restored prelimbic neuronal activity and rescued maladaptive affective behaviors in ALDH7A1 knockout mice but did not prevent seizures. These studies implicate astrocyte redox homeostasis and prelimbic hypoactivity in maladaptive affective behavioral phenotypes in a congenital form of epilepsy, which are mechanistically and therapeutically dissociable from seizure pathophysiology.
Mutations in ABCA4 cause Stargardt disease (STGD1) by disrupting retinoid handling and retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) homeostasis, yet the metabolic drivers of RPE degeneration remain unclear. Given that photoreceptor health relies heavily on the support of the RPE, loss of the RPE cells is central to STGD1 pathology. In this study, we show that dysregulation of diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase-1 (DGAT1) is associated with disrupted retinoid-lipid metabolism in STGD1 RPE cells, accompanied by excess retinyl esters and neutral lipid accumulation, impaired lipid processing, and reduced mitochondrial activity. These findings implicate DGAT1-mediated lipid remodeling as a contributing factor to RPE dysfunction in ABCA4-associated retinopathies.
Evaluation of etiology, phenotype, and long-term outcome, and defining the predictors of outcome in children with pyridoxine-responsive seizures.The study included all children with pyridoxine-responsive seizures treated in our hospital from 2006 to 2025. Serial video electroencephalography, brain MRI, metabolic, genetic analyses, and psychological assessment were done in all cases. All patients were divided into two groups: patients with pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy (PDE) associated with pathogenic variants in ALDH7A1, PNPO, and PLPBP (I group) and patients with pyridoxine-responsive epilepsy (PRE) due to other etiologies (II group). The early-onset seizures were initially treated by antiseizure medication (ASM), and if at least two of the ASMs failed to stop the seizures, pyridoxine was given (100 mg/day, iv). Analyzed parameters were age of seizure onset, period from seizure onset to pyridoxine introduction, brain MRI, type of seizures, etiology, ASM, and predictors for outcome. The outcome included seizure control and neurological development. Mann-Whitney test, Fisher's exact test, and Firth penalized logistic regression were used to test for statistical significance.Twenty-one patients were included: 10 in group I and 11 in group II with various etiologies. Median age at seizure onset in both cohorts was 2 (range 1-11) days. Mann-Whitney U test demonstrated no significant difference between the two groups (p = 0.79). The median time from seizure onset to pyridoxine treatment was 12 days in PDE (range 1-61 days) and 10 days (range 1-98) in PRE, and the difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.65). Developmental delay was present in 6/10 (60%) PDE patients and 5/11 (45.5%) PRE patients. Seizure freedom was attained in 8/10 (80%) PDE and 8/11 (72.7%) PRE patients. MRI abnormalities were seen in 8/10 (80%) PDE and 7/11 (63.6%) PRE patients. The difference in these parameters between the two groups was significant.Etiologic heterogeneity and phenotype overlapping between PDE and PRE, atypical presentations, and good initial response to pyridoxine regardless of genetic and neuroimaging findings suggest the introduction of pyridoxine in all infants when two ASMs have failed. Despite appropriate pyridoxine treatment, more than half of patients with PDE had developmental delay and resistant seizures, suggesting the complexity of the underlying mechanisms.Copyright © 2026 Kravljanac, Vučetić Tadić and Oparnica.
Rod-cone dystrophy (RCD) is an inherited retinal disorder primarily affecting rod photoreceptors, followed by cone degeneration. We present the case of a 26-year-old male with RCD and multiple systemic abnormalities (atrial septal defect, hypogonadism, liver disease with gastric varices, hypertriglyceredemia, hypothyroidism, adrenal insufficiency, and delayed epiphyseal closure) in the same individual. Ophthalmic evaluation revealed retinal pigment epithelial atrophy, bone spicule pigmentation, a macular hole in the right eye, and an epiretinal membrane in the left. Genetic testing identified a heterozygous ABCA4 c.3113C>T (p.Ala1038Val) mutation, previously associated with retinal dystrophies. We postulate that this case represents a unique blended phenotype, i.e., retinal disease due to ABCA4 and multiple systemic issues due to an unidentified syndrome.Copyright: © 2026 Oman Ophthalmic Society.
Objectives: The aim of this study was to report novel ABCA4 variants detected in a cohort of 259 patients with ABCA4 retinopathy with the intention of improving the diagnostic accuracy for ABCA4 retinopathy and expanding its genetic spectrum. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed 259 patients with ABCA4 retinopathy, comprising 190 patients from the Oxford Cohort and 69 patients from other centres with a clinical diagnosis of ABCA4 retinopathy who were referred for genetic testing. Patients with a phenotype consistent with ABCA4 retinopathy who had a novel ABCA4 variant were included. Phenotyping in the Oxford Cohort included clinical evaluation, retinal imaging, and electrodiagnostic testing. Genetic testing was performed using next-generation sequencing (NGS) and Sanger sequencing. In silico analysis was used to investigate the pathogenicity of novel variants. Results: Eleven novel variants were detected in 12/259 patients, with one variant detected in two unrelated patients. These variants included three missense, four truncating, three splice-site variants, and one exon deletion. The variants were distributed across eight exons and three introns of ABCA4. In silico analysis and phenotype correlation supported the potential pathogenicity of the novel variants. Phenotypes ranged from mild isolated flecks with preserved retinal architecture to extensive chorioretinal degeneration. Conclusions: Despite over 2200 ABCA4 variants being reported to date, a further 11 novel ABCA4 variants were identified in 259 patients using NGS panel-based sequencing and MLPA. The variants were located across the whole ABCA4 gene, emphasising the necessity to sequence the whole gene. Our reporting of these variants expands the known genetic spectrum of ABCA4 retinopathy, contributing to accurate diagnosis in this patient group and the identification of suitable patients for recruitment to potential therapeutic interventions.
Obesity is a major risk factor for colorectal cancer (CRC), yet the mechanisms linking obesity-associated gut dysbiosis to tumor progression remain unclear. Here, we show that a high-fat diet and fecal microbiota from patients with obesity-associated CRC deplete the GABA-producing commensal Bacteroides ovatus, resulting in reduced luminal GABA and accelerated tumorigenesis. Microbial GABA activates epithelial GABAB receptor signaling and induces TPI1 through the PI3K-HIF1α pathway. Increased TPI1-derived glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate inhibits PPP1CA, maintains YAP phosphorylation, restricts nuclear YAP activity, and suppresses pentose phosphate pathway flux, thereby limiting tumor growth. Consistently, obesity-associated CRC exhibits reduced fecal GABA, decreased TPI1 expression, and metabolic rewiring. A GABA-deficient B. ovatus mutant fails to restore GABA or suppress tumors despite normal colonization, whereas oral GABA supplementation or recolonization with wild-type B. ovatus markedly reduces tumor burden. These findings identify a microbiota-neurotransmitter-metabolism axis linking obesity to CRC and suggest microbiota-based GABA restoration as a potential preventive strategy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42549067 is a review article
Trichoderma is a filamentous fungus with substantial industrial and agricultural value; however, its practical application is constrained by abiotic stresses such as drought, high temperatures, and salinity, particularly when these stresses occur simultaneously. The molecular mechanisms underlying the responses of Trichoderma to combined abiotic stresses remain insufficiently understood. In this study, the stress-tolerant Trichoderma viride strain Tv-1511 was analyzed using RNA sequencing to characterize its transcriptomic responses under PEG-simulated drought stress, and the resulting data were integrated with previously generated transcriptomic datasets from high-temperature (42 °C, 24 h) and salinity (300 mmol/L NaCl, 72 h) treatments. Under 50% Polyethylene glycol (PEG)-simulated drought, 4510 differentially expressed genes were identified and enriched in secondary metabolite biosynthesis and β-lactam antibiotic synthesis based on Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analyses. Integrating these drought stress data with the high-temperature and salinity datasets revealed 36 commonly upregulated and 29 commonly downregulated genes across triple stresses, primarily involved in redox processes and secondary metabolite synthesis. RT-qPCR validation indicated that Trichoderma mounts a synergistic response to multiple stresses by activating genes like MET17, ALDH (aminoglycoside synthesis), and FeSOD, Cu/ZnSOD, GCLC, GLO1, GST. These findings elucidate key transcriptomic mechanisms underlying Trichoderma responses to single and combined abiotic stresses and provide a theoretical foundation for the targeted improvement of stress-tolerant strains to enhance their agricultural and industrial utility.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The glyoxalase pathway detoxifies reactive dicarbonyls generated during hyperglycemia, but the role of its epigenetic regulation in renal dysfunction and inflammatory dysregulation in older adults remains unclear. We investigated CpG-specific DNA methylation within the glyoxal detoxification pathway, focusing on the GLO1 gene, and examined associations with glycemic status, renal function, and systemic inflammation in hospitalized older adults. We identified a single CpG site within the GLO1 gene (cg26053840) significantly associated with fasting glycemia, suggesting that methylation levels at this locus reflects metabolic stress. Higher methylation at cg26053840 was also associated with impaired renal function, including increased serum creatinine and reduced estimated glomerular filtration rate. Additionally, GLO1 methylation correlated with multiple inflammatory indices, including C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio, and the CRP-to-albumin ratio. Associations with circulating cytokines and immune activation markers such as IL-6, IL-17A, GDF-15, CXCL9, CD163, and soluble RAGE further indicated broader immune-metabolic dysregulation. In silico analyses revealed a significant inverse correlation between cg26053840 methylation and GLO1 mRNA expression in the Broad Institute GDAC Firehose dataset. Genomic annotation further identified putative CEBPD and MYF6 transcription factor binding sites in proximity to the CpG site, suggesting a potential regulatory context. These findings support a model in which glycemic dysregulation increases methylglyoxal production, while reduced renal clearance enhances dicarbonyl stress, potentially driving epigenetic modulation of GLO1. These findings suggest the presence of a metabolic-epigenetic-inflammatory axis, although longitudinal and mechanistic studies are required to determine whether it contributes to organ dysfunction and vulnerability in hospitalized older adults.
Animal research diets are often autoclaved for sterilization. Autoclaved chow can also serve as a model for investigating the health effects of heat-processed foods. Emerging evidence finds that heat-processed foods adversely affect human health. We hypothesized that autoclaved chow would further impair metabolism in a mouse model of androgen-induced insulin resistance.C57BL/6J mouse breeding pairs were exposed to an autoclaved chow diet or a non-autoclaved, nutrient-matched control chow starting 2 weeks before mating and continuing through mating, pregnancy, and lactation. Diets were characterized by macronutrient and B vitamin analysis (B1, B5, B6), methylglyoxal and advanced glycation end products (ELISA), and reducing sugar content. Female 21-day-old weanlings received a 90-day continuous-release subcutaneous dihydrotestosterone implant to induce a polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)-like phenotype characterized by diet-independent, non-obese insulin resistance. Mice were kept on the assigned diet until experimentation 90 days post-androgenization. Metabolism was evaluated by measuring adiposity, fasting blood glucose and insulin, and glucose and insulin tolerance. Tissue markers of insulin signaling, methylglyoxal detoxification (GLO1), and inflammation (IL-6) were assayed via Western blot or quantitative PCR.Consistent with previous literature, PCOS mice on the non-autoclaved diet developed excess adiposity, glucose intolerance, and insulin resistance. Unexpectedly, the autoclaved chow improved adiposity, glucose tolerance, and fasting insulin in PCOS mice. Diet characterization revealed no differences in macronutrients and no B vitamin deficiency in either diet, but a significant decrease in sugar content and a corresponding increase in methylglyoxal due to autoclaving. The autoclaved diet differentially modulated insulin signaling markers in skeletal muscle and adipose and GLO1 expression in liver. IL-6 expression was unaffected by diet in liver and adipose.Autoclaved rodent chow improved the metabolic outcomes of a mouse model of PCOS. Despite nutrient-matching of the autoclaved diet by the manufacturer, we identified autoclave-induced discrepancies in sugar content and methylglyoxal. The autoclaved diet had tissue-specific effects on molecular markers of insulin signaling and methylglyoxal detoxification in PCOS mice, suggesting that diet preparation may be confounding animal studies. Our findings suggest that researchers should thoroughly validate and report dietary parameters in animal studies and consider them when interpreting and replicating findings.Copyright © 2026 Weidner, Vann, Ivey, Sechrist, Cole and Astapova.
Elevated environmental zinc levels pose significant toxicity to biological systems, necessitating adaptive responses to mitigate excessive zinc exposure. In C. elegans, a specific lysosome-related organelle, the gut granule, may increase in number and volume with high dietary zinc, thereby lowering cytosolic zinc concentration, though the mechanisms remain unclear. Our results suggest that GLO-1 predominantly controls granule biogenesis, whereas zinc-induced granule expansion involves distinct mechanisms. Further study revealed that high zinc upregulated GLO-1 activity through its GEF complex GLO-3-CCZ-1, by enhancing transcription of GLO-3 and post-translational modification of CCZ-1. Zinc transporter CDF-2 has been identified to mediate zinc influx into gut granules. In this study, analysis of 14 C. elegans CDFs reveals that ZK185.5 (CDF-3) and F19C6.5 (CDF-4) also localize in gut granules. Functional studies suggest that CDF-3, not CDF-4, complements CDF-2 in facilitating zinc influx into gut granules. Unlike CDF-2, the expression of CDF-3 is downregulated in a high zinc diet. These results suggest a modulation in the composition of CDFs within gut granules in response to environmental zinc. Together, our study reveals a sophisticated zinc detoxification mechanism of C. elegans gut granule to uphold cytosolic zinc homeostasis amidst fluctuating environments.Copyright: © 2026 Xie et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42318220 is a review article
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a common sensorimotor disorder with limited treatment options and incompletely understood pathophysiology. Genome-wide association studies have identified numerous risk loci, but translating these findings into causal genes and therapeutic targets remains challenging. We performed a proteome-wide association study (PWAS) integrating RLS genome-wide association study (GWAS) data from FinnGen with two brain pQTL datasets (ROSMAP and Banner). We validated the identified proteins using TWAS, SMR, and colocalization analyses using brain pQTL and eQTL datasets. To further investigate peripheral protein associations, we performed SMR using plasma pQTL data from the UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project (UKB-PPP). We also conducted a phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) to screen for potential off-target effects of the prioritized genes, followed by drug prediction using DSigDB and molecular docking. PWAS identified GLO1, along with GRWD1 and MAP2K5, as significantly associated with RLS. GLO1 was identified by brain-based SMR (p = 0.0001), colocalization (PP.H4 = 0.96), TWAS (p = 0.048), and was confirmed by plasma-based SMR (p = 3.16 × 10-9) as the only protein associated with RLS. PheWAS analysis, without associations for 783 non-RLS phenotypes, confirmed the specificity of GLO1. Among 27 predicted GLO1-targeting compounds, Gambierol had the strongest binding affinity (-8.3 kcal/mol). This proteogenomic study identifies GLO1 as a prioritized causal gene and promising drug target for RLS, combining brain and plasma data to provide new insights into pathogenesis and candidate drug development.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42195377 is a review article
Background/Objectives: Methylglyoxal (MGO) and subsequent activation of advanced glycation end products (AGEs)-RAGE receptor signaling has been implicated in the complications of diabetes mellitus (DM), such as bladder dysfunction. Chronic treatment with MGO leads to bladder overactivity, but the effects of acute MGO exposure have not yet been evaluated. Methods: In this study, we used female wild-type, endothelial nitric oxide (eNOS) knockout (eNOS-/-), and triple (neuronal/endothelial/inducible) NOS-/- mice to investigate the effects of incubation of MGO (10 to 300 µM) on bladder contractions induced by carbachol and electrical field stimulation (EFS). We also analyzed the activity of the MGO detoxification enzyme glyoxalase 1 (Glo1). Results: Incubation with MGO at 10 and 30 µM in urothelium-intact preparations produced marked detrusor hypercontractility to both carbachol and EFS that was abolished by urothelium removal. Detrusor hypercontractility was associated with the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), RAGE activation, Rho kinase sensitization, and activation of TRPA1 and TRPV4 channels. At higher concentrations (100 and 300 µM), MGO did not significantly affect the detrusor contractility to carbachol and EFS, but L-NAME pretreatment restored the hypercontractile state by MGO. Likewise, in bladder strips obtained from eNOS-/- or triple NOS-/- mice, MGO exposure (300 µM) significantly enhanced carbachol and EFS-induced contractions, indicating a major role for nitric oxide (NO) counteracting the hypercontractility. No concentration of MGO altered Glo1 activity in bladder tissues. Conclusions: In conclusion, progressive MGO accumulation may account for the transition from the initial hyperactive phase to the subsequent hypoactive decompensated phase of diabetic bladder dysfunction.
Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) is prone to metastasis, and patients with metastatic PTC have a poor prognosis. This study aimed to investigate the function of GLOD4 in PTC. Cancerous and paracancerous tissues were collected from patients with PTC. CO-IP was performed to detect the level of GLOD4 or ubiquitination modification, as well as to verify protein interactions of GLOD4 with UCHL1 or GLO1. Cell proliferation was detected by CCK-8 or EdU staining, cell migration and invasion by transwell assay, GLO1 enzyme activity by ELISA, total and mitochondrial methylglyoxal levels by commercial kits, mitochondrial ROS levels by flow cytometry, and oxygen consumption rate and ATP levels by seahorse energy metabolism analyzer. GLOD4 knockdown subcutaneous xenograft model was constructed in nude mice, HE staining was used to detect the histopathological condition of the tumor, and IHC was used to detect Ki67 and GLOD4 expression. GLOD4 levels were significantly upregulated in PTC tissues and cells, and overexpression of GLOD4 enhanced PTC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Mechanistically, UCHL1 could directly bind to GLOD4 and enhance its protein stability by promoting K48-linked deubiquitination, whereas the ability of GLOD4 to promote invasion and migration in PTC cells depends on this regulatory function of UCHL1. Furthermore, GLOD4 regulated GLO1 to detoxify methylglyoxal, a toxic by-product of glycolysis, to maintain mitochondrial homeostasis. GLOD4 knockdown inhibited PTC tumor growth in vivo. UCHL1 enhances the protein stability of GLOD4 through deubiquitination, promoting its interaction with GLO1 to cooperatively detoxify methylglyoxal, maintain mitochondrial homeostasis, and ultimately drive PTC progression.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Lipedema is a chronic disorder of subcutaneous adipose tissue characterized by disproportionate fat accumulation, pain, and progressive functional impairment, predominantly affecting women. Research remains fragmented across vascular, hormonal, metabolic, and gynecologic perspectives. Recent contributions have advanced specific axes: an international Delphi consensus, a systematic review of hormonal hypotheses, a stromal-vulnerability narrative, and a focused review of adipose biology; but no prior framework has integrated these domains into a single architecture annotated by level of evidence and capable of generating stratified, falsifiable research hypotheses. Here, we propose a hypothesis-generating translational framework that conceptualizes lipedema as the predominant adipose expression of a hormone-sensitive stromal vulnerability. The framework adds a specific molecular convergence axis, ERα/ERβ signaling imbalance interacting with intracrine steroid metabolism (aromatase, 17β-HSDs, AKR1C1), and resolves the disorder into four interacting biological pathways: (i) hormonal transition sensitivity across the female life course; (ii) metabolic-behavioral amplification; (iii) gynecologic-endocrine comorbidity; and (iv) intrinsic stromal-adipose susceptibility. The framework predicts that lipedema and its cognate expressions in hormone-responsive tissues (including gynecologic disease, connective tissue laxity, microvascular dysfunction, neurosensory amplification, and neuropsychological burden) may share a common stromal-endocrine substrate while preserving phenotypic specificity through dominant-pathway combinations. Four features distinguish this framework from prior syntheses: (a) ERα/ERβ signaling imbalance is articulated as a candidate molecular convergence axis linking adipose, gynecologic, connective-tissue, microvascular, and neuro-immune manifestations; (b) intracrine steroid metabolism (aromatase, 17β-HSDs, AKR1C1) is incorporated as the mechanistic anchor of stromal hormone-responsiveness; (c) per-component evidence-level annotation is applied throughout (Level 1A/1B: direct evidence in lipedema; Level 2: observational association; Level 3: mechanistic extrapolation); and (d) stratified, falsifiable research hypotheses are derived from dominant-pathway phenotypes. Two domains, metabolic burden and steroid signaling, emerge as promising translational research domains. Important limitations apply. Direct mechanistic evidence in lipedema-specific tissues is limited; much of the supporting biology is extrapolated from adipose, gynecologic, and metabolic literature; and most clinical data derive from observational cohorts in referral centers. This article therefore proposes a hypothesis-generating translational framework, not a clinical guideline or therapeutic recommendation.Copyright © 2026 Viana, Invitti and Schor.
Smoking is a well-established risk factor for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC), yet its impact on the tumor microenvironment (TME) remains incompletely understood. Using single-cell RNA sequencing of ESCC samples, we identified distinct TME compositions between smokers and non-smokers. Smokers exhibited altered epithelial cell subpopulations and a T-cell compartment skewed towards exhaustion, with higher proportions of exhausted T cells and fewer helper subsets. Cell-cell communication analysis revealed smoking-associated perturbations in key signaling pathways. Chronic cigarette smoke extract exposure validated the upregulation of malignancy-related genes (e.g., AKR1C1-3, LDHA, NFE2L2) in esophageal cells. Functionally, nicotine, a key smoke constituent, directly impaired CD8⁺ T cell cytotoxicity against ESCC cells in a dose-dependent manner, correlating with reduced granzyme B secretion and increased expression of exhaustion markers (Tim-3, PD-1), without inducing direct tumor cell apoptosis. These results demonstrate that smoking reshapes the ESCC TME, promoting an immunosuppressive niche through induction of CD8⁺ T cell exhaustion, suggesting a potential mechanism for smoking-associated ESCC progression.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Secondary "keto" bile acids (BAs) are produced by the gut microbiome and contain one or more ketones on the steroid core. Plasma concentrations of keto BAs are limited by hepatic reductase activity, leading to hydroxylation of keto BAs. Although the aldo-keto reductase 1 (AKR1) family is implicated, it is not known which enzymes provide this function in the liver. We hypothesized that AKR1C1 and AKR1C4 metabolize 3-keto BAs. Six BAs with 3-keto groups were tested as potential substrates using purified, recombinant His6-tagged AKR1C1-4, and kinetic parameters were determined. AKR1C1 and AKR1C4 were found to exhibit isoform-specific substrate specificity, which may be explained in part by the hydroxylation pattern at carbon 12 of the BA core. This may suggest distinct biological roles in mediating BA homeostasis in humans. Both enzymes produced only α-OH products, as determined by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. We further hypothesized that fatty acids would impair reductase activity. AKR1C4 was more susceptible to inhibition compared to AKR1C1, but unsaturated fatty acids, such as linoleic acid, were the most potent inhibitors for both. We observed a 2- to 10-fold difference in the IC50 of fatty acids for AKR1C4 depending on the tested substrate. Further mechanistic and structure-function studies aim to characterize the substrate-specific kinetic and inhibition patterns observed and to evaluate the translational impact of AKR activity on plasma BA concentrations and cellular signaling. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Keto bile acids are bioactive secondary metabolites that are reduced upon enterohepatic recycling to the liver. Here, the substrate specificity, kinetics, and inhibition potential of 2 aldo-keto reductase enzymes, AKR1C1 and AKR1C4, were evaluated. This study suggests that AKR1C1 and AKR1C4 exhibit disparate substrate specificity patterns, reductase activity, and susceptibility to inhibition by fatty acids, which may have broad implications in understanding changes in bile acid homeostasis in metabolic diseases.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42394431
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3892/ol.2018.9486.].Copyright: © 2026 Jiang et al.
Aldo-keto reductase isoforms AKR1C1-3 and 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 1 and 2 (17β-HSD1 and 17β-HSD2) are key enzymes in steroid metabolism and validated targets in hormone-dependent cancers.In this study, Δ15- and 15β-substituted estrone derivatives were evaluated as inhibitors of AKR1C1-3 and 17β-HSD1 using enzymatic assays, cell viability assaysand computational modeling. Cellular uptake of the fluorescent estrone-based inhibitor was investigated using confocal microscopy.The Δ15-estrone derivative showed potent and selective inhibition of 17β-HSD1 in the low nanomolar range, while 15β-O-propargyl and 15β-azide derivatives exhibited dual inhibitory activity against 17β-HSD1 and AKR1C2. The Δ15- and 15β-azide derivatives reduced cell viability in hormone-dependent breast, endometrial, and ovarian cancer cell lines in the sub- to low-micromolar range. A BODIPY-labeled 15β-O-propargyl analogue retained submicromolar inhibitory potency toward 17β-HSD1, representing the first fluorescent estrane-based inhibitor with preserved biological activity. Confocal microscopy confirmed efficient cellular uptake and predominant cytosolic localization in MCF-7 cells.These findings identify Δ15- and 15β-modified estrone derivatives as promising single- and dual-target inhibitors and introduce a fluorescent probe suitable for investigating intracellular steroid metabolism in hormone-dependent malignancies.
Aldo-keto reductase 1C3 (AKR1C3) is a key enzyme in androgen biosynthesis and a crucial driver of castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC), making it a promising therapeutic target. Unintended inhibition of its homologous isoforms AKR1C1 and AKR1C2 may cause off-target effects and is therefore highly undesirable. In this study, we rationally designed selective AKR1C3 inhibitors derived from the natural product osthole by optimizing the C8- and C7-substituents to target the SP1 and SP2 pockets, respectively, thereby achieving high selectivity for AKR1C3. Among the compounds synthesized, eleven exhibited potent inhibition of AKR1C3 (IC₅₀ < 0.1 μM) with high selectivity over AKR1C1. Notably, compounds 7k and 7o demonstrated significant antiproliferative activity in 22Rv1 cells (IC₅₀ = 3.05 μM and 5.45 μM, respectively). Crystallographic analysis revealed that the coumarin core anchors to the oxyanion site, while the C8-substitute interacts with the SP1 pocket, enhancing both potency and selectivity. In contrast to other coumarin-based inhibitors, osthole-derived compounds with extended C8-substitutions, interact with the SP1 pocket in a novel and distinct manner. These findings validate our design strategy of enhancing SP1 pocket binding to improve AKR1C3 selectivity over other AKR1C isoforms, and provide valuable structural insights for the further development of selective AKR1C3 inhibitors as potential therapeutics for CRPC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ferroptosis plays a critical role in the occurrence and progression of gastric cancer (GC). This study aimed to systematically identify key ferroptosis-related genes (FRGs) in GC, construct a high-performance multi-gene model for early screening, and elucidate their potential functional networks.Based on the GSE184336 transcriptomic dataset, GC-related modules were screened using weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA). Differentially expressed genes, WGCNA key module genes, and reported FRG sets were intersected to identify candidate key genes. Innovatively, over 100 combinations of feature selection and machine learning algorithms were applied to construct diagnostic models, and their robustness was validated in two independent external cohorts. Single-cell transcriptomic data were used to analyze model gene expression, and in silico gene knockout analysis was performed to assess potential functional pathways.A total of 53 ferroptosis-related intersecting genes were identified. These genes were significantly enriched in ferroptosis and tumor-associated pathways. The optimal multi-gene diagnostic model (glmBoost + PLS) achieved an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.934 in the training set and 0.991 and 0.969 in two external validation cohorts, comprising five key genes: AKR1C1, CTSB, EZH2, IDO1, and TIMP1. Single-cell analysis revealed high expression of TIMP1, CTSB, and EZH2 in myeloid cells, fibroblasts, and immune cells. In silico knockout analysis demonstrated that these five model genes played critical roles in metabolic reprogramming, cell cycle regulation, and extracellular matrix modulation.By integrating multi-algorithm diagnostic modeling with in silico gene knockout analysis, this study systematically identified key FRGs and regulatory networks in GC.© AME Publishing Company.
The diesel exhaust constituent 1-nitropyrene (1-NP) is classified as a probable human carcinogen and other constituents 1,8-dinitropyrene (1,8-DNP) and 3-nitrobenzanthrone (3-NBA) are classified as possible human carcinogens by the International Agency for Research on Cancer. These nitroarenes are activated by nitroreduction via nitroso- and hydroxylamino- intermediates on route to the corresponding amine product(s). Two types of DNA adduct can occur in this sequence. First, the hydroxylamino- intermediate can undergo sulphonation or acetylation giving rise to a strong leaving group so that stable covalent adducts can form. Second, back oxidation of these air sensitive intermediates can give rise to reactive oxygen species and nitrogen species (ROS, RNS) so that oxidatively damaged bases can form. Human aldo-keto reductases AKR1C1, AKR1C2 and AKR1C3 play prominent roles in the nitroreduction of these nitroarenes in human lung cell lines. We now report that when AKR1C1-AKR1C3 are transfected into V79-4 cells we observe a significant increase in HPRT gene mutation. The mutation is dependent on AKR1C enzyme activity since isoform specific inhibitors reduced the number of mutant colonies formed. ROS scavengers reduced the number of mutant colonies formed with 1-NP, 1-8-DNP and 3-NBA in the presence of transfected AKR1C1. Ethyl gallate and the superoxide dismutase mimetic (MnTBAP) reduced the number of mutant colonies formed. Nitric oxide scavengers, 2-(4-carboxyphenyl)-4,5-dihydro-4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-1H-imidazoyl-1-oxy-3-oxide and uric acid, also reduced the number of mutant colonies formed. Our results suggest that both 8-oxo-dG and 8-nitro-dG lesions may contribute to the mutation observed. Since AKR1C1-AKR1C3 are potently induced by NRF2, its activation might increase the mutagenicity of nitroarenes in the context of diesel exhaust exposure.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Acquired resistance to epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) remains a major clinical challenge in non-small cell lung cancer. Emerging evidence indicates that metabolic reprogramming and epigenetic alterations contribute to drug resistance, particularly through the evasion of ferroptosis, a regulated form of cell death characterised by lipid peroxidation. This study investigated the role of lactate-associated histone modifications in driving EGFR-TKI resistance. Resistant lung adenocarcinoma tissues and cell lines were analysed using transcriptomics, Cleavage Under Targets and Tagmentation (CUT&Tag) profiling, and biochemical assays. Glycolytic activity, lactate accumulation, and ferroptosis-related lipid peroxidation were assessed, followed by genetic and pharmacological interventions and in vivo xenograft validation. Resistant cells exhibited enhanced glycolysis and lactate accumulation, with pathway analyses highlighting ferroptosis evasion as a key resistance-associated process. Consequently, histone H4 lysine 8 lactylation (H4K8la) was significantly elevated in resistant tissues and cells. Mechanistically, H4K8la was enriched at transcription start sites, particularly at the promoter of aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C1 (AKR1C1). This epigenetic modification profoundly suppressed ferroptosis and promoted drug resistance. Disrupting this H4K8la-AKR1C1 defence axis restored lipid peroxidation, increased ferroptotic sensitivity, and resensitised resistant cells to EGFR-TKIs, as confirmed in vivo. These findings reveal a novel lactate-driven epigenetic mechanism that orchestrates ferroptosis escape and EGFR-TKI resistance, offering a promising therapeutic strategy to overcome treatment failure.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42537978 is a review article
To assess long-term safety and exploratory ophthalmic outcomes in patients treated with voretigene neparvovec-rzyl (VN) in US clinical practice.Prospective, multicenter, observational post-authorization safety study.Eighty-seven patients (169 eyes) receiving VN at 10 ocular gene therapy treatment centers.Eligible patients were ≥12 months old with viable retinal photoreceptors and received VN in ≥1 eye. Subretinal delivery followed a 3-port pars plana vitrectomy modified at surgeons' discretion (e.g., automated foot pedal delivery, pre-bleb injection, cannula cut, use of dye for visualization).Safety outcomes included treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) and occurrence of chorioretinal atrophy (CRA). Exploratory assessments included changes in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and full-field stimulus threshold (FST). Outcomes were analyzed descriptively; relative risk (RR) was estimated for subgroup comparisons.With a median 3.7 years of follow-up (range, 2.9-4.9), most patients (95%) reported ≥1 TEAE (387 events); 67% were procedure related, 9% were attributed to VN, and 82% were mild. CRA, including related terms retinal degeneration and retinal depigmentation, occurred in 24 patients (28%; 45 eyes), typically within 1 year, and was mild (80%) or moderate (20%). The area of CRA mostly localized to the retinotomy or bleb area, with 40% of eyes with CRA having atrophy outside the bleb area and highly correlated between fellow eyes (r=0.97; P<0.0001). CRA risk was higher with automated foot pedal administration of VN (RR, 5.33; 95% CI, 1.27-22.40) and in patients with myopia (RR, 8.40; 95% CI, 1.16-60.69). At 3 years, treated eyes showed sustained improvements in BCVA (-0.13 logMAR) and FST (-1.68 log10 cd·s/m2). BCVA and FST were comparable between CRA and non-CRA eyes, although a subset of CRA eyes showed greater FST improvement at most time points up to Year 3.This interim analysis supports the long-term safety of VN in a real-world US cohort, consistent with clinical trial results. CRA did not appear to diminish sustained functional and anatomical benefits with a minimum follow-up of nearly 3 years. Ongoing data collection will further clarify the occurrence, impact, and risk factors for CRA while continuing to monitor VN safety in clinical practice.Copyright © 2026 American Academy of Ophthalmology, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pigmented tissues of the vertebrate eye are essential for optical performance, metabolic support, and tissue homeostasis, yet their coordinated development has been difficult to study because melanin interferes with histological and immunohistochemical analyses. Here, we apply a gentle hydrogen peroxide based bleaching method compatible with IHC for Rpe65, Rhodopsin, ZO-1, Cralbp/Rlbp1, S100b, and Cd34, and examined Dct/Tyrp2 expression, to generate a unified developmental atlas of all pigmented tissues in the mouse eye. We also re-analyzed published single-cell RNA-seq datasets from developing and adult mouse eyes to examine gene expression patterns across pigmented ocular tissues. Using daily samples from embryonic day 14.5 (E14.5) through postnatal day 14 (P14), we tracked the emergence and maturation of pigmented cell populations in the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), choroid, ciliary body, and iris. The RPE, the earliest tissue to synthesize melanin, does not acquire continuous Rpe65 expression, apical-basal polarity, or full morphological maturity until eyelid opening. Neural crest-derived melanocytes in the choroid, ciliary body and iris undergo distinct maturation phases marked by early Dct expression, subsequent melanin synthesis, and late induction of S100b. In the innermost layer of the future iris epithelium, early Dct expression precedes postnatal pigmentation. Notably, we observe a coordinated burst of melanogenesis across multiple ocular and periocular tissues immediately after birth, suggesting regulation by systemic developmental transitions rather than light exposure. Together, these findings establish a comprehensive timeline for the maturation of pigmented ocular tissues, providing a clearer framework for studying eye development and disease.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
RPE65, an isomerohydrolase expressed in retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), is critical for the visual cycle. More than 115 missense variants of the RPE65 gene have been associated with Leber's congenital amaurosis (LCA), a severe childhood retinal dystrophy. Due to high genetic heterogeneity, the variant-specific pathogenic mechanisms remain largely uncharacterized. In this study we focus on an LCA patient carrying compound heterozygous RPE65 variants (c.200T > G, c.430T > C), aiming to dissect the mechanistic/functional basis of mutated protein-driven retinal degeneration and evaluate gene therapy-mediated restoration using patient-specific hiPSCs-RPE (iRPE). Transient overexpression of wild-type/mutant RPE65 in HEK293T cells showed both variants markedly destabilize the RPE65 protein through the autophagosome-lysosome degradation pathway and its isomerohydrolase activity required for the retinoid visual cycle. We further established a patient-specific iRPE platform suitable for enzymatic activity analysis. Characterization of patient-specific iRPE cells revealed those compound heterozygous variants did not compromise iRPE morphology, most gene expression, or core canonical physiological features of iRPE. However, they significantly downregulate endogenous RPE65 protein abundance and dampen enzymatic function. Subsequently, we delivered RPE65 via adeno-associated viral (AAV) vectors driven by either the ubiquitous CMV promoter or RPE-specific VMD2 promoter into patient iRPE to validate therapeutic potency, and verified that exogenous RPE65 supplementation effectively restores deficient isomerohydrolase activity in this disease model. Collectively, this work elucidates the variant-specific pathogenesis of RPE65-associated LCA and preliminarily assesses the efficacy of gene augmentation, providing preclinical experimental evidence to support the referral of this patient for clinical RPE65 gene replacement therapy.
This case describes congenital stationary night blindness (CSNB) with a fundus albipunctatus-like phenotype linked to compound heterozygous RPE65 variants, highlighting the diagnostic value of multimodal imaging and evidence-based variant interpretation.A retrospective case review including best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), color vision testing, fundus photography, spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT), full-field electroretinography (ERG), and next-generation sequencing with parental segregation analysis. Variant pathogenicity was assessed using in-silico prediction models (PolyPhen-2 HumDiv and HumVar), and findings were integrated with clinical and imaging data.A sixteen-year-old male reported lifelong nyctalopia and stable difficulty seeing in dim.BCVA was 20/30 OD and 20/25 OS with normal color vision. Fundus examination revealed multiple white-yellow flecks along the arcades and mid-periphery with macular sparing. SD-OCT demonstrated preserved outer retinal architecture and an intact ellipsoid zone, and full-field ERG showed preserved rod and cone responses. Genetic testing identified two RPE65 missense variants: c.433G>A (p.Ala145Thr), likely pathogenic, and c.946A>G (p.Asn316Asp), reported as a VUS. PolyPhen-2 analysis classified p.Asn316Asp as damaging (HumDiv/HumVar score 1.000), and parental segregation demonstrated the variants in trans. Integration of genotype and phenotype supports p.Asn316Asp as likely pathogenic.Compound heterozygosity for hypomorphic RPE65 variants can produce a stationary fundus albipunctatus-like phenotype rather than progressive retinal degeneration. Careful integration of multimodal phenotyping and variant interpretation was essential for confirming disease causality.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42425207 is a review article
Retinal degenerative diseases are a leading cause of irreversible blindness. Their pathogenesis is intricately linked to oxidative stress-induced dysfunction of retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells and subsequent retinal degeneration. Macroautophagy/autophagy, a critical cellular degradation pathway, plays a vital role in maintaining RPE homeostasis, yet its dysregulation in retinal degenerative diseases remains poorly understood. In this study, we observed that sodium iodate (NaIO3), an oxidative stress inducer, triggered lysosomal dysfunction via lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP), thereby impairing autophagic flux in RPE cells and exacerbating retinal degeneration. RNA sequencing identified LAMP3 (lysosomal-associated membrane protein 3) as a downregulated gene following NaIO3 treatment. Functionally, LAMP3 overexpression alleviated NaIO3-induced LMP, improved lysosomal function, and alleviated autophagic impairment. Furthermore, upregulation of LAMP3 reduced oxidative stress and apoptosis in RPE cells, while alleviating retinal degeneration in a NaIO3-induced mouse model. Mechanistically, our data suggested that NaIO3 upregulated the transcription factor SNAI1, which acts as a transcriptional repressor of LAMP3. SNAI1 knockdown increased LAMP3 expression, thereby facilitating the recovery of lysosomal function and the alleviation of autophagic impairment. Collectively, our findings indicate that the SNAI1-LAMP3 axis contributes to the regulation of the autophagy-lysosomal pathway in retinal degeneration, highlighting a potential therapeutic target for delaying disease progression.Abbreviations: AMD: age-related macular degeneration; AO: acridine orange; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; BAX: BCL2-associated X protein; BCL2: B cell leukemia/lymphoma 2; BSA: bovine serum albumin; CCK-8: cell counting kit-8; ChIP: chromatin immunoprecipitation; CM-H2DCFDA: chloromethyl-2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate; CTSD: cathepsin D; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DEGs: differentially expressed genes; DHE: dihydroethidium; EdU: 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine; ERG: electroretinography; GSEA: gene set enrichment analysis; H&E: hematoxylin and eosin; HsRPE: human primary retinal pigment epithelial; JC-1: 5,5',6,6'-tetrachloro-1,1',3,3'-tetraethylbenzimidazolylcarbocyanine iodide; LAMP1: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1; LAMP2: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 2; LAMP3: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 3; LGALS3: lectin, galactose binding, soluble 3; LLOMe: leu-leu methyl ester; LMP: lysosomal membrane permeabilization; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MMP: mitochondrial membrane potential; NAC: N-acetyl-L-cysteine; NaIO3: sodium iodte; NC: negative control; OCT: optical coherence tomography; PCA: principal component analysis; PI: propidium iodide; qRT-PCR: quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction; Rapa: rapamycin; ROS: reactive oxygen species; RP: retinitis pigmentosa; RPE: retinal pigment epithelium; RPE65: retinal pigment epithelium 65; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SNAI1: snail family zinc finger 1; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TJP1/ZO-1: tight junction protein 1; ZNF135: zinc finger protein 135.
RPE65-associated inherited retinal degeneration (IRD) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder for which a gene therapy (voretigene neparvovec) is available in selected patients with sufficient residual retinal structure. Most clinical and genetic data have been derived from Western cohorts, while information from Asian populations is limited. We conducted a multicenter retrospective study at three tertiary referral centers in Korea, including 11 patients (3 males and 8 females) from 9 unrelated families with biallelic pathogenic or likely pathogenic RPE65 variants. All patients reported symptom onset before 3 years of age. At the initial evaluation (median age, 29 years), best-corrected visual acuity ranged from hand motion to 0.3 decimal (median, 0.1), the mean Goldmann visual field radius on the III4e isopter was 2°, and full-field electroretinography showed extinguished rod and cone responses in every case. Fourteen distinct variants were identified with no novel variants; frameshift variants p.Asn356fs (c.1067dup/c.1067del) were relatively frequent (27.8% of alleles). Ultra-widefield fundus autofluorescence was extinguished and ellipsoid zone disruption was diffuse in all eyes. Most Korean patients presented at an advanced stage of disease, suggesting that the therapeutic window for gene therapy may already be limited and underscoring the importance of early recognition and timely genetic diagnosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Background/Objectives: Prostate cancer (PCa) remains a prevalent malignancy among men, often complicated by recurrence and unfavorable clinical outcomes. Consequently, precise risk stratification and timely clinical intervention are paramount. Initially, we delineated distinct expression profiles of histone modification regulators via unsupervised clustering, identifying PCa subtypes with divergent survival probabilities and biological phenotypes. Subsequently, we sought to develop a prognostic gene signature, derived from the transcriptomic variations among these regulator-defined subtypes, to predict outcomes in PCa patients following radical prostatectomy (RP). Methods: Clinical and transcriptomic data from PCa cohorts were retrieved from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) repositories for comprehensive analysis. Subtypes driven by histone modification regulators were established using unsupervised consensus clustering, followed by in-depth characterization of their molecular features and associated pathways. A risk-scoring model was then developed to evaluate its prognostic efficacy in this patient population. Results: Stratification based on histone modification regulators yielded four distinct PCa subtypes exhibiting heterogeneous survival outcomes, functional pathways, and genomic mutational landscapes. Following rigorous feature selection, a 21-gene risk signature (HIS_score)-comprising MXD3, CCDC28B, COL11A2, SLC39A5, GPT, DNASE1L2, PIF1, KRTAP5-9, TTLL10, KRTAP5-1, KRTAP5-10, HAGHL, MSLNL, AMH, NKAIN4, CCDC114, SLC9A3, SULT1E1, ALB, SLC6A14, and RPE65-was constructed. Survival analyses demonstrated that patients assigned to the high HIS_score cohort experienced significantly worse clinical outcomes compared to their low-score counterparts. Furthermore, we integrated this signature into a novel clinical nomogram to facilitate individualized prognostic assessments. Conclusions: Derived from transcriptomic disparities between extreme epigenetic subtypes, the HIS_score and its associated nomogram serve as robust prognostic instruments. These tools effectively encapsulate the downstream transcriptional sequelae of histone modification dysregulation, offering clinicians a valuable framework to accurately predict post-RP outcomes and expedite the formulation of personalized therapeutic strategies.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42346603 is a review article
Researches on Tripterygium glycosides tablets (TGT) often overlook renal toxicity from prolonged use. Rubus chingii Hu (RCH) is beneficial to kidney health and has an unclear role in reducing nephrotoxicity. This study used UHPLC-Q Exactive HFX to identify Kaempferol, Hydroxygenkwanin, and Luteolin as key active components of RCH. Network pharmacology revealed RCH could protect the kidneys by modulating TNF, IL-17, NF-kappa B, and JAK-STAT pathways through targets such as BCL2, CASP3, TNF, SIRT1, EGFR, and MMP9. Biochemical and pathological studies show that TGT induces kidney injury in rats, while RCH improves kidney function and reduces inflammation and oxidative stress. Western blot confirmed that RCH could regulate the expression of TNF-α, cleaved caspase-3, and SIRT1 proteins. Transcriptomics and metabonomics reveal significant enrichment in metabolic pathways like glycerophospholipid metabolism and inflammation signaling pathways such as PPAR and JAK-STAT. After RCH treatment, most differential genes remain stable, but all 20 key metabolites are restored. Further analysis indicates that steroid hormone biosynthesis and the PPAR signaling pathway are vital for RCH's protective effects, as it regulates CYP1B1, CYP4A1, CYP4A3, EHHADH, HMGCS2, and PPARG genes, alleviating TGT-induced nephrotoxicity.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
In humans, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) induces chloracne, a skin condition that presents with acanthosis, hyperkeratosis, comedones, and sebaceous gland (SG) atrophy (seboatrophy). Although chloracne-like phenotypes have been reported in TCDD-treated mice, the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Previous studies showed that TCDD-induced CYP1A1 protein is expressed in LRIG1+ progenitor cells in hair follicles, suggesting that TCDD targets specific cell populations within the pilosebaceous unit. To explore the effects of TCDD on the epidermis and pilosebaceous unit, we analyzed single-cell RNA expression in wild-type and Ahr-null mice at postnatal day 21 (P21) following in utero and lactational exposure. The results showed that TCDD preferentially induced the AHR target genes Cyp1a1 and Cyp1b1 in the lower infundibulum and subjacent junctional zone overlapping the LRIG1+ progenitor cell niche. TCDD also caused Ahr-dependent seboatrophy, accompanied by increased expression of Blimp1, a transcriptional repressor that regulates SG size. A second site of Cyp1a1 induction was the SG, where Cyp1a1 was markedly elevated in the basal proliferating cells and immature sebocytes. In a 3-day topical exposure study of early effects, TCDD produced a dose-dependent increase of Cyp1a1 expression in the SG that included the more differentiated sebocytes. This response was accompanied by expansion of the Scd1-positive area, elevated Nile Red lipid staining, and an increased number of Blimp1-high sebocytes, demonstrating that TCDD enhanced SG differentiation and lipid production in vivo. These changes preceded the onset of Ahr-dependent seboatrophy, providing new insight into the cellular and molecular events underlying chloracne pathogenesis.
Bisphenol A, a known endocrine disruptor, is a pervasive environmental contaminant because of its widespread use in everyday consumer products. It has been linked to numerous health hazards and shown to modulate the drug-metabolizing enzymes. There is a significant disparity in reported results in the literature, chiefly because of a focus on mRNA expression or substrate activity assays rather than on protein expression. The present study uses mass spectrometry-based targeted proteomics to investigate modulation in the expression of drug-metabolizing enzymes following environmentally relevant exposure to bisphenol A in a rat model. Furthermore, the plasma levels of endogenous metabolites of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1B1, the highest fold-modulated enzyme, were also monitored. The pharmacokinetics of diclofenac, a substrate of the CYP2C family and UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 2B7, were also studied. We identified 9 significantly altered proteins in hepatic drug metabolism, with 4 upregulated (CYP1B1, CYP1A2, UGT2B7, and UGT1A3) and 5 downregulated (CYP2A3, CYP2C13, CYP4A2, and UGT2B1). The upregulation of CYP1B1 leads to increased levels of endogenous metabolites, including retinoic acid and 4-hydroxyestradiol, which are teratogenic and procarcinogenic, respectively. The upregulation of UGT2B7 led to increased exposure to the acyl-glucuronide metabolite of diclofenac, which is known to cause hepatotoxicity, intestinal ulceration, and nephrotoxicity. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: This study uses a mass spectrometry-based targeted proteomics approach to monitor all relevant drug-metabolizing enzymes (DMEs) after exposure to bisphenol A in a rat model. The study presents protein-level data of relevant DMEs and identified 9 significantly altered DMEs in hepatic drug metabolism. The modulation of DMEs is reflected in alterations in numerous endogenous metabolite levels with plausible adverse consequences. Further, the pharmacokinetics of substrate xenobiotic modulated by these enzymes is also altered.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Primary congenital glaucoma (PCG) is a rare developmental disorder caused by dysgenesis of the trabecular meshwork and anterior chamber angle. We report a five-year longitudinal case of severe bilateral PCG in a male presenting at two months of age with photophobia, tearing, corneal edema, and markedly elevated intraocular pressure (IOP). The patient required four surgical interventions, including deep sclerectomy with mitomycin C and trabeculotomy ab externo, to achieve long-term IOP control. Serial axial length measurements documented rapid buphthalmos, and ultrasound biomicroscopy revealed progressive posterior staphyloma, peripheral anterior synechiae, and iris thinning consistent with anterior segment dysgenesis (ASD). Whole exome sequencing identified compound heterozygosity: CYP1B1 c.182G>A (p.G61E), the well-characterized Saudi founder mutation for PCG, and CPAMD8 c.3061G>A (p.V102M), a novel ultra-rare variant predicted to be damaging. The coexistence of these two heterozygous variants in genes affecting complementary anterior segment developmental pathways supports a digenic inheritance model. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of combined CYP1B1 and CPAMD8 variants in congenital glaucoma, underscoring the value of comprehensive genetic analysis in severe or atypical pediatric glaucoma presentations.Copyright © 2026 Abu-Amero and Sesma.
Patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) are exposed to high levels of uremic toxins and have an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Among these toxins, indolic compounds such as indoxyl sulfate (IS) are predictors of cardiovascular events and mortality in CKD patients and induce a procoagulant and proinflammatory vascular phenotype through activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR). Targeting AhR activation by indolic toxins may therefore help prevent cardiovascular complications in CKD. To this end, we investigated in vitro whether natural dietary AhR ligands (galangin, quercetin, curcumin and indole-3-carbinol) could antagonize IS-induced AhR activation and the associated inflammatory response in endothelial cells. The activation of the AhR genomic pathway was assessed by measuring the expression of AhR target genes (CYP1A1, CYP1B1, and AHRR) in endothelial cells and by evaluating AhR-dependent transcriptional activity using a CALUX-AHRE luciferase reporter assay in HG40/6 cells. In parallel, endothelial inflammation was evaluated by analyzing the expression of AhR-related inflammatory genes: F3/tissue factor, PTGS2/COX-2, CCL2/MCP-1, and CXCL8/IL-8. Quercetin was the only ligand capable of antagonizing IS-induced AhR transcriptional activity, as well as the upregulation of the endothelial AhR target genes CYP1A1 and CYP1B1. In contrast, galangin, curcumin, and I3C exhibited no inhibitory effects. Moreover, none of the tested dietary AhR ligands suppressed the IS-induced upregulation of endothelial inflammatory genes; instead, they tended to potentiate IS-induced inflammatory responses at high concentrations. In conclusion, among the AhR ligands tested, quercetin was the only one that attenuated IS-induced activation of the AhR genomic pathway in endothelial cells. However, it may also enhance IS-mediated endothelial inflammation, an effect also observed at specific concentrations of galangin, curcumin, and I3C. These findings suggest that the potential beneficial effects of natural dietary AhR ligands should be carefully considered in the context of CKD patients exhibiting high levels of indolic uremic toxins.
Inherited ocular disorders are a leading cause of early-onset visual impairment, particularly in populations with high consanguinity such as Iran, where a substantial proportion of affected individuals remain without a molecular diagnosis after conventional evaluation. We aimed to determine the diagnostic yield and variant spectrum of whole-exome sequencing (WES) in Iranian probands with congenital or early-onset ocular disorders that were genetically unresolved by prior testing.Thirty unrelated probands were recruited consecutively (July-September 2024). Genomic DNA underwent exome capture (Agilent SureSelect V7) and paired-end sequencing (Illumina NovaSeq 6000). Reads were cleaned with SOAPnuke, aligned with BWA-MEM, and variants were called with GATK HaplotypeCaller and DeepVariant, filtered by GATK VQSR, and annotated against public and Iranian-specific databases (GEMIRAN, IRANOM). Variants were classified per ACMG/AMP criteria. Diagnostic yield was defined as the proportion of probands with a causative or candidate variant concordant with phenotype.A causative or strong candidate variant concordant with the phenotype was identified in 21 of 30 probands (diagnostic yield 70.0%; 95% CI 50.6-85.3%). Pathogenic or likely-pathogenic variants were found in established genes including ABCA4, USH2A, RP1, CRB1, CEP290, GUCY2D, CYP1B1 and TYR. Among the identified genotypes, 54% were homozygous and 12% hemizygous (X-linked), consistent with consanguinity in 11/30 (36.7%) families; 35% were single heterozygous findings in autosomal-recessive genes, interpreted as incomplete genotypes pending detection of a second allele. Onset was infantile in 73% of probands.WES is an effective first-tier test for congenital and early-onset ocular disorders in the Iranian population, resolving roughly 70% of previously undiagnosed probands. Single-allele findings in recessive genes indicate that complementary copy-number and structural-variant analysis, deep-intronic assessment, periodic reanalysis, and reflex whole-genome sequencing are needed to maximise yield and support accurate genetic counselling.© 2026 The Authors.
Traditional Chinese medicines are based on complex mixtures of natural products and their multi-target mechanism of action. Therefore the discovery and validation of targets and mechanisms have always been challenging. In previous studies, using transcriptomic methods and Compound Kushen Injection (CKI) as a model drug, we identified multiple pathways and candidate target genes for validation, through which CKI exerts its pharmacological effects.This study aimed to demonstrate the involvement of multiple genetic targets in different pharmacological activities for natural products in Compound Kushen Injection.In this study, we selected eight key genes from four candidate pathways and used CRISPR/CAS technology to knock out these genes in four cell lines, validating their role in CKI activity.Although the sensitivity of different cell lines to gene knockout varied, overall, it led to reductions in various cellular activities. After the addition of CKI, we observed that, except for the minor impact of CDKN1A gene knockout on the effect of CKI, knocking out the other genes significantly affected the pharmacological efficacy of CKI in different assays. Among them, knockout of MYD88 and NFkB genes enhanced the efficacy of CKI. At the same time, we found that the genes IL24 and CYP1B1 play a crucial role in CKI inhibition of tumour cell migration, and the CYP1A1 gene is critical for the cell cycle arrest induced by CKI.These findings validate the results of our previous transcriptomic analysis and further demonstrate the complexity of pharmacological mechanisms of multi-target synergistic action of natural product mixtures.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Breast cancer remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality among women, with prolonged exposure to endogenous estrogens recognized as a major risk factor. This study aimed to design, synthesize, and pharmacologically evaluate novel 3,3'-diindolylmethane (DIM) derivatives as multi-target modulators of estrogen-related pathways in breast cancer.A series of DIM derivatives was synthesized and structurally characterized. Their biological activities were assessed through aromatase (CYP19A1) and CYP1B1 inhibition assays, E-screen assay for estrogen receptor activity, cytotoxicity assays in breast cancer (MCF-7 BUS, MDA-MB-231) and normal breast epithelial (MCF-10 A) cells, and scratch assay for cell migration. Molecular docking and in silico ADME analyses were conducted to support experimental findings.The derivatives demonstrated significant antiestrogenic activity by targeting multiple components of estrogen signaling. One compound exhibited potent aromatase inhibition (IC₅₀ = 0.79 µM), while two derivatives showed strong CYP1B1 inhibition (IC₅₀ = 0.37 µM and 0.71 µM). Selective cytotoxicity was observed in estrogen receptor-positive cells, with reduced effects on normal cells. Additionally, selected compounds significantly inhibited cell migration. Molecular modeling revealed favorable binding interactions within target enzymes, and ADME analysis indicated acceptable drug-like properties.These findings suggest that DIM derivatives act as selective, multi-target modulators of estrogen-related pathways and may serve as promising adjuvant candidates for hormone-dependent breast cancer therapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Tehran University of Medical Sciences.
Membranous nephropathy (MN) is a major cause of adult nephrotic syndrome characterized by immune complex deposition and podocyte injury. Oxidative stress and chronic inflammation contribute significantly to disease progression. The present study was conducted to explore the therapeutic effects of podocyte-abatacept loaded exosomes (Abt@Exos) on MN through regulating aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) regulated nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB)/ nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) signaling pathways. Abt@Exos were identified using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA). An animal model of MN was induced in Passive Heymann nephritis (PHN) rats, where the exosome therapy was administered intravenously every three days for three weeks. The parameters like renal function, inflammation, oxidative stress biomarkers, and pathology were estimated. RT-qPCR analysis was used to determine the gene expressions of β-actin, CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP1B1, AhR, NF-κB p65, Nrf2, IL-6, TNF-α, and COX-2. Abt@Exos administration showed effective results on proteinuria and renal pathological changes, upregulation of Nrf2 and HO-1 gene expressions, inhibition of NF-κB signaling pathway. In addition, treatment decreased reactive oxygen species (ROS), malondialdehyde (MDA), and pro-inflammatory cytokine levels while restoring superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity. These findings indicate that Abt@Exos improved renal injury in membranous nephropathy by restoring redox balance and suppressing inflammation through modulation of AhR-regulated Nrf2/NF-κB signaling pathways.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42455251 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42421959 is a review article
This study developed a prognostic model for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) based on cancer stem cell (CSC)-related modules identified by high-dimensional WGCNA (hdWGCNA).The scRNA-seq data were filtered, dimensionally reduced, and clustered for downstream analysis. CSC-related modules were identified by hdWGCNA. Based on the TCGA liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC) data, we developed a prognostic RiskScore model using univariate Cox, LASSO, and stepwise regression analyses and validated it in the ICGC-LIRI-JP dataset. Correlations between the model and the tumor immune microenvironment (TME) and drug sensitivity were analyzed.Nine cell subpopulations, including CSCs, were identified and were significantly enriched in tumors. hdWGCNA identified six CSC-related key modules. The prognostic RiskScore model, developed based on TXNIP, FTCD, and HAGH, exhibited an AUC > 0.6 in both cohorts. A high RiskScore was correlated with an immunosuppressive TME characterized by downregulated neutrophils, NK cells, and eosinophils, and higher sensitivity to chemotherapeutic agents such as Pyrimethamine and Vinorelbine.This study identified CSC-related modules associated with HCC prognosis, TME, and drug response, providing a potential mechanistic basis for the clinical application of the model.Potential prognostic and targeted therapy biomarkers were identified. The CSC-related module-based prognostic model may offer a new tool for personalized HCC treatment.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Radiation pneumonitis (RP) is a dose-limiting toxicity in lung cancer radiation therapy, often poorly predicted by static clinical and dosimetric models. We aimed to identify a robust, blood-based proteomic signature grounded in the longitudinal biological response to radiation to enable accurate, early risk stratification.We conducted a prospective study using high-throughput plasma proteomics on 267 longitudinal samples from a discovery cohort of 57 patients with lung cancer (non-small cell lung cancer and small cell lung cancer). To ensure statistical rigor and eliminate data leakage, feature selection was performed strictly within a 70% training partition. Linear mixed-effects models and Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis were used to identify protein trajectories associated with symptomatic RP (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v5.0 grade ≥ 2). An Elastic Net machine learning model was developed and evaluated on an independent test set. The 10-protein signature was subsequently validated via enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in a large, independent external cohort (n = 320).Longitudinal analysis identified a dysregulated immuno-thrombotic axis as a central driver of RP, characterized by significant enrichment in "Platelet Activation" and "Serpin" pathways. In patients experiencing grade ≥ 2 RP, we observed a "systemic exhaustion" profile marked by the progressive decline of key anticoagulant and anti-inflammatory proteins. The 10-protein model achieved an unbiased area under the curve of 0.744 (95% CI: 0.622-0.861), outperforming a baseline clinical model (area under the curve = 0.679). External validation in 320 patients confirmed the robustness of a 4-protein clinical core (PROZ, SERPINA7, SERPINA6, and HAGH), with Pvalues ranging from 10-8 to 10-33. This signature remained a significant independent predictor (P < .05) after adjusting for mean lung dose, V20, and immunotherapy status, and was distinct from markers of overall survival.A systemic immuno-thrombotic signature accurately predicts RP across different histologies and treatment regimens. This validated 4-protein core provides a clinically transportable tool for early risk stratification and personalized toxicity mitigation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Epilepsy is a common neurological disorder with high genetic heterogeneity and affects approximately 70 million people worldwide. Although several studies have combined Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) with bulk expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) to explore epilepsy risk genes, the cellular context of genetic regulation remains insufficiently defined.We integrated epilepsy GWAS data with brain bulk and single-cell eQTLs using summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) and Bayesian colocalization to identify causal genes. The identified genes were validated in an independent RNA-seq cohort of patients with refractory epilepsy. We then characterized cell-type specificity and intercellular signaling using single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and CellChat. Druggability and drug-repurposing analyses were performed using DSigDB to identify targeted therapeutic compounds for epilepsy.Seven epilepsy causal genes (FGFR3, PM20D1, ZNF564, HAGH, CAPN15, CCDC117 and DARS1-AS1) were identified, with FGFR3 and HAGH identified as druggable targets. FGFR3 was predominantly expressed in astrocytes and involved in an astrocyte-centered FGF2-FGFR signaling loop, whereas HAGH was enriched in neurons. DSigDB analysis highlighted the FGFR inhibitor, Ro-4396686, as the top candidate compound.Multi-scale integration of eQTL, GWAS and transcriptomic datasets reveals the genetic variants of epilepsy, with FGFR3-driven FGF signaling representing a principal molecular axis. This study reveals the cellular context of this disorder and highlights FGFR3 and HAGH as promising therapeutic targets.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to the Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
Long COVID is a complex condition where symptoms persist for more than 3 months after SARS-CoV-2 infection and affects an estimated 5-30% of individuals. While persistent inflammation has emerged as an important feature of this condition, it is unclear if immune responses from COVID-19 vaccination or SARS-CoV-2 re-infection exacerbate or mirror the initial inflammatory responses.We quantified 182 inflammatory and neurology-related proteins in plasma using multiplexed affinity proteomics. Plasma samples from the COVID PROFILE cohort conducted in Victoria, Australia, were collected 6-9 months after first infection, but before COVID-19 vaccination from individuals who had recovered from COVID-19 (n = 21) or from individuals with long COVID (n = 12). To establish baseline plasma profiles, protein levels were benchmarked against unvaccinated, SARS-CoV-2 naive individuals (n = 24). In addition, we performed longitudinal analysis in a subset of individuals (n = 34), where paired samples collected 2-4 weeks after a third COVID-19 vaccine dose and after SARS-CoV-2 breakthrough infection were available to assess inflammatory and neurology protein plasma levels after antigen exposure in these contexts.In this cohort Boruta feature selection and lasso regression models identified IL-20, HAGH, NAAA, CLEC10A, LXN, and MCP-1, TRAIL, G-CSF, NBL1, and CCL23 as best discriminating proteins when comparing the long COVID group to groups of either healthy or COVID-19 recovered. Notably, longitudinal analysis indicated differences in the levels of a subset of plasma proteins following primary infection compared to after COVID-19 booster vaccination and breakthrough infection within the groups.These findings suggest that there is an altered immune response outcome primarily observed in individuals with long COVID upon re-exposure.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mitochondrial dysfunction contributes critically to epileptogenesis. Therefore, identifying key mitochondrial function-associated genes in epilepsy may provide novel insights into its pathogenesis. We employed expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) and Mendelian randomization analyses to assess mitochondrial-epilepsy causality, with leave-one-out validation confirming the reliability and directionality of the results. The results revealed that hydroxyacylglutathione hydrolase (HAGH), oxysterol-binding protein-related protein 1A (OSBPL1A) and pantothenate kinase 2 (PANK2) were pivotal epileptogenic genes. HAGH modulates the mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) signaling and fatty acid metabolism pathways. OSBPL1A mediates apoptotic and reactive oxygen species (ROS) pathways. PANK2 regulates phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (AKT)/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling and Notch signaling cascades. Additionally, these genes participate in inflammatory pathways, including T cell receptor (TCR), mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling. We demonstrated that HAGH, OSBPL1A, and PANK2 constitute core pathogenic mechanisms in epilepsy. These genes potentially govern epileptogenesis through mitochondrial regulation via neuroinflammatory, immunomodulatory, and apoptotic pathways. Our findings provide a foundation for investigating epileptogenesis, discovering therapeutic targets, and identifying prognostic biomarkers.
Mitochondrial dysfunction is linked to hyperuricemia (HUA), but its genetic pathophysiology is not yet fully understood. We employed Mendelian randomization (MR) to integrate multi-omics data and explore the associations between mitochondrial-related genes and HUA.We conducted a summary data-based MR analysis to investigate potential targets associated with HUA by integrating mitochondrial-related DNA methylation, gene expression, and protein quantitative trait loci. Additionally, to further explore the potential associations between DNA methylation, gene expression, and protein abundance, we performed MR and co-localization analyses to examine causal relationships between candidate gene methylation and expression, as well as between gene expression and protein abundance.Through the integration of multi-omics evidence, we identified one primary gene, NUDT2, and three secondary genes, BOLA1, COMT, and HAGH. At the protein level, NUDT2 and COMT are negatively correlated with HUA risk, whereas BOLA1 and HAGH are positively correlated with HUA risk. Our analysis revealed a positive correlation between the methylation of cg06605933 in BOLA1 and its protein levels, which aligns with the negative effect of cg06605933 methylation on HUA risk. Additionally, we observed a positive correlation between NUDT2 gene expression and protein levels, confirming its beneficial effect on HUA risk. Strong co-localization support was found between the methylation of cg06605933 (PPH4 = 85.1%) in BOLA1 and protein abundance, as well as between NUDT2 gene expression (PPH4 = 96.6%) and protein levels.Our study identified mitochondrial genes NUDT2, BOLA1, COMT, and HAGH as potentially associated with HUA risk, supported by evidence from various omics levels.
The biological underpinnings of post-stroke cognitive function are largely unknown, and protein investigations can point towards important pathways for further study. We profiled plasma levels of 91 neurology-related proteins (Olink Neurology panel) and serum Neurofilament light chain (NfL) levels in 205 cases in the Sahlgrenska Academy Study on Ischemic Stroke. Blood was sampled in the acute and convalescent (3 months post-stroke) phase. Cognitive outcome was evaluated by the Barrow Neurological Institute Screen for Higher Cerebral Functions 7 years post-stroke. In linear regression models, 6 and 5 proteins in the acute and convalescent phase, respectively, were univariably associated with cognitive outcome at False Discovery Rate (FDR) < 0.05, and 9 and 8 at p < 0.05 after adjustment for age, sex, education and sampling day (model 1) and/or additional adjustment for stroke severity (model 2). Of these, 15 proteins contributed with information in multi-protein models on at least one time-point. These included brain-expressed proteoglycans (NCAN, BCAN, GPC5, SPOCK1); contactin-5 (CNTN5); metabolic enzymes (HAGH, NMNAT1); cluster of differentiation (CD)-proteins (SIGLEC1, CLEC10A, CD200R1); GDNF family receptor alpha-1 (GFR-alpha-1); brorin (VWC2); beta-nerve growth factor (beta-NGF); myostatin (GDF-8); and NfL. We identified novel candidate protein biomarkers of post-stroke cognitive outcome that likely reflect different biological processes, warranting further exploration.© 2025. The Author(s).
Gray matter demyelinating lesions, brain atrophy and meningeal inflammation are hypothesized to be relevant in multiple sclerosis (MS) disease pathogenesis, though their relationship to immune alterations in early MS is not well characterized. This study aims to investigate correlations between the concentrations of 112 serum proteins and 7 Tesla MRI-defined measures of disease severity in patients with early MS. In this analysis, patients with CIS or MS having a 7 Tesla brain MRI and blood sample both within five years of MS diagnosis were included (n = 57). Correlational analysis was adjusted for sex, age, and disease duration. Correlation between serum proteins and MRI-defined cortical and thalamic gray matter lesions, leptomeningeal enhancement (presence and foci number), deep gray matter (DGM) structure volumes, whole brain parenchymal volume and total T2 white matter lesion volume was assessed. In this study, cortical lesions were associated with higher IL-15, TNF-alpha, and BAFF levels, and lower levels of FcRL2. Leptomeningeal enhancement was associated with higher levels of PLXNB3 and lower levels of nCDase and CNTN5. Higher IL-1B levels correlated with lower DGM volume while higher levels of CDH6, SIGLEC9, and HAGH correlated with higher DGM volume. These novel associations between serum immune proteins and 7 T MRI outcomes may have relevance as disease biomarkers in early stages of MS.© 2025. The Author(s).
Gene expression networks associated with placebo effects are understudied; in this study, we identified transcriptomic profiles associated with placebo responsivity. Participants suffering from chronic pain underwent a verbal suggestion and conditioning paradigm with individually tailored thermal painful stimulations to elicit conditioned placebo effects. Participants reported pain intensity on a visual analog scale (VAS) anchored from zero = no pain to 100 = maximum imaginable pain. RNA was extracted from venous blood and RNA sequencing and validation tests were performed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) associated with placebo effects, controlling for sex and level of pain. Unbiased enrichment analyses were performed to identify biological processes associated with placebo effects. Of the 10,700 protein-coding genes that passed quality control filters, 667 were found to be associated with placebo effects (FDR <0.05). Most genes (97%) upregulated were associated with larger placebo effects. The 17 top transcriptome-wide significant genes were further validated via RT-qPCR in an independent cohort of chronic pain participants. Six of them (CCDC85B, FBXL15, HAGH, PI3, SELENOM, and TNFRSF4) showed positive and significant (P < 0.05) correlation with placebo effects in the cohort. The overall DEGs were highly enriched in regulation of expression of SLITs and ROBOs (R-HSA-9010553, FDR = 1.26e-33), metabolism of RNA (R-HSA-8953854, FDR = 1.34e-30), Huntington's disease (hsa05016, FDR = 9.84e-31), and ribosome biogenesis (GO:0042254, FDR = 2.67e-15); alternations in these pathways might jeopardize the proneness to elicit placebo effects. Future studies are needed to replicate this finding and better understand the unique molecular dynamics of people who are more or less affected by pain and placebo.© 2024 The Authors. Clinical Pharmacology & Therapeutics published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics.
Amidst the rising antimicrobial resistance in hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae (hvKP), phage therapy has emerged as a promising alternative. However, bacterial resistance to phages remains a critical challenge, with virulence attenuation representing a key characteristic of phage-resistant strains, albeit through incompletely elucidated mechanisms. This study investigated the phage-host interaction between phage vB_LZ2044 and hvKP strain NTUH-K2044, yielding a phage-resistant mutant PR_K2044. Comparative analysis revealed marked virulence attenuation in PR_K2044, accompanied by significant alterations in virulence-associated phenotypes, including capsular polysaccharide (CPS) production, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) integrity, urea metabolism, biofilm formation, and siderophore activity. Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) identified a singular nonsynonymous mutation (Ser332Leu) in the capsular synthesis regulator WcaJ. Transcriptomic analysis demonstrated coordinated regulation of multiple virulence-associated genes, including: CPS related genes (magA, wza, wzb, wzc, gnd, ugd, manB), LPS related genes (glf, wbbN, wbbO, wbbM, wzt, wabH), pili related genes (fimA, mrkC), outer membrane protein associated genes (ompA, acrB), nitrogen metabolism related genes (gcl, hyi, glxR, allB, allC, ureA), biofilm related gene fabZ and siderophore related gene ybtS. Our investigation integrating genomic, transcriptomic, and phenotypic analyses elucidates potential mechanisms underlying virulence attenuation and coordinated reprogramming in phage-resistant hvKP, providing critical insights for optimizing phage-based therapeutic strategies against multidrug-resistant pathogens and underscoring the need to consider adaptive trajectories when evaluating the therapeutic promise and evolutionary consequences of phage therapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Proteins directly impact disease development and act as drug targets. Therefore, we integrated genomic and lung tissue proteomics data to identify lung cancer susceptibility proteins, elucidating genetic mechanisms and candidate drug targets.We profiled the proteome and genome in non-neoplastic lung tissue from 200 lung cancer patients. Using this data, we constructed genetic models to predict abundance across the proteome in lung tissue. We applied these models to genome-wide association study (GWAS) data from 55,174 lung cancer cases and 1,294,174 controls to evaluate their associations with the risk of lung cancer, overall and by major histological subtypes. Bayesian colocalization and Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses were used to prioritize putative causal proteins, which were cross-referenced with three main drug-protein databases to identify potential therapeutic targets.We identified 29 proteins associated with lung cancer risk at a false discovery rate < 5%, including 25 for overall lung cancer, two (AQP3 and IL18) specifically for adenocarcinoma, and another two (HMGN2 and HLA-DMB) for squamous cell carcinoma. Of them, genes encoding 17 proteins reside at least 2Mb away from any known GWAS risk loci, including 14 for overall lung cancer (HYI, GPX1, GMPPB, DSP, HDDC2, MTCH2, SUOX, JMJD7, PDIA3, IL16, IQGAP1, SULT1A2, ARHGAP27, and TYMP) and three for subtypes (AQP3, IL18, and HMGN2). Among the 12 proteins located within the known risk loci, EPHX2, CLDN18, PSMD5, and CYP2S1 proteins showed an association independent of the proximal GWAS-identified lead variant. Colocalization and/or MR analysis suggested 11 potential causal proteins. Five of these candidate causal proteins (DSP, CLDN18, IQGAP1, IL18 and TYMP) are targeted by nine drugs already approved by the FDA or in phase III trials.Our study identified novel lung cancer susceptibility proteins and potential drug targets, offering valuable insights into lung cancer biology and future translational utilities.
The Huyan-I formula (HY-I), a patented six‑herb traditional Chinese medicine used clinically at Jiangsu Provincial Hospital of TCM for early‑stage chronic kidney disease (CKD), has demonstrated therapeutic efficacy; however, its molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Given the central role of cellular senescence and fibrosis in CKD progression, particularly through the senescence‑associated secretory phenotype (SASP), this study investigated whether HY-I ameliorates renal senescence and fibrosis by modulating SASP‑related signaling. By UPLC‑Q‑TOF-MS analysis, 211 components were identified in HY‑I, and 29 prototype compounds plus 19 metabolites were detected in the serum of HY‑I‑treated mice. Network pharmacology and molecular docking predictions indicated interactions with the STAT3/NF‑κB/NLRP3/SASP axis. In naturally aged mice and in D‑galactose‑induced senescent human renal tubular (HK‑2) cells treated with HY-I or resveratrol (positive control), HY-I significantly reduced senescent cell burden and senescence markers, suppressed activation of STAT3, NF‑κB, and NLRP3, downregulated SASP expression, and improved tubular injury and renal fibrosis as assessed by Western blot, immunohistochemistry, multiplex immunofluorescence, and histopathological staining (HE, Masson, PAS). These findings demonstrate that HY-I alleviates renal aging and fibrosis by inhibiting the STAT3/NF‑κB/NLRP3 pathway and attenuating the SASP, thereby providing a mechanistic basis for its clinical application in CKD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Premature ejaculation (PE) is a highly prevalent male sexual dysfunction with undefined etiopathogenesis and a lack of validated objective biomarkers. Lifelong premature ejaculation (LPE) represents a more severe and persistent form of the disorder. Noninvasive plasma protein biomarkers for LPE diagnosis and their association with dapoxetine treatment outcomes remain insufficiently investigated.This study aims to identify and validate novel plasma protein biomarkers for LPE via data-independent acquisition (DIA) proteomics, construct a diagnosis model and clinical nomogram, and explore the association between these biomarkers and clinical outcomes after dapoxetine treatment.The study comprised a discovery phase and a validation phase from three centers. Initially, DIA proteomic analysis was performed on plasma samples from 5 LPE patients and 5 matched healthy controls. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified and subsequently subjected to functional enrichment analyses, including GO, KEGG, and Reactome pathway analyses. Then, five core proteins were selected and validated using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in a larger cohort of 115 LPE patients and 60 healthy controls. LPE patients received 4-week on-demand dapoxetine treatment, with efficacy assessed by intravaginal ejaculatory latency time (IELT) and premature ejaculation diagnostic tool (PEDT) scores. The diagnostic model and the nomogram were constructed based on logistic regression, and the correlations between hub biomarkers and treatment efficacy were analyzed via the Spearman correlation analysis.Proteomic analysis identified 519 DEPs between groups, functionally enriched in neurotransmitter-related processes and metabolic pathways. ELISA validation confirmed significant differential expression of the five candidate proteins (PC, DDX39B, PPP2R2A, SLC8A2, HYI). The combined diagnostic model demonstrated excellent performance, with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.902, superior to any single marker, and the derived nomogram showed excellent calibration and clinical net benefit. Furthermore, posttreatment levels of PC, DDX39B, PPP2R2A, and SLC8A2 were negatively correlated with IELT and positively correlated with PEDT scores, whereas HYI exhibited the opposite correlation pattern, suggesting that these biomarkers were associated with clinical outcomes after dapoxetine treatment.This study successfully identifies a panel of five plasma protein biomarkers for LPE, which not only facilitate accurate noninvasive diagnosis but also may be associated with clinical outcomes after dapoxetine treatment.© 2026 American Society of Andrology and European Academy of Andrology.
Controlling the generation of toxic by-products in mammalian bioprocess to maximize therapeutic protein production and glycosylation patterns is a challenge. Intracellular metabolism is often not well-regulated and known to secrete toxic intermediate by-products which hampers cellular performance and negatively impacts critical quality attributes (CQA) of cells. Previous studies have identified trigonelline (TRI), n-acetyl putrescine (NAP), aconitic acid (AA), and cytidine monophosphate (CMP) generated through CHO cell metabolism and verified their negative impacts on growth and antibody production. In this approach, a genetic engineering strategy was developed to control downstream accumulation of inhibitory metabolites. The study successfully identified four different metabolic genes in CHO cells, including Cat (nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism) to control the generation of TRI, Got1 and Hoga1 (proline metabolism) to control the generation of NAP, Got1 (TCA cycle) to control the generation of AA, and Slc35a1 (n-glycan biosynthesis) to control the generation of CMP. Each target gene-of-interest (GOI) was cloned from CHO genomic library, inserted into linearized vector plasmid, and subsequently transfected into cells. CQA of the bioprocess realized 22-30% increase in peak cell density, 16-22% increase overall IVCD, with an improving growth rate during cellular expansion phase when comparing engineered cells against control cells. The study also conducted a follow-up quadruple transfection study where all four GOIs were co-transfected into cells at ¼ of the total DNA concentration per GOI. An increase in cellular performance was also realized, as increases in peak VCD (17% increase), cumulative IVCD (17% increase), and growth rate were achieved. Both studies also found higher IgG1 antibody synthesis when cell metabolism was better regulated, as the studies measured 4% to 40% titer increase across all engineered cells when compared against control cells. The study also measured higher levels of G1F and G2F glycans with decreased level of G0F across all transfected cells, further indicating improvement in bioprocess, as cells were able to produce a higher fraction of semi-complex and complex versus simple glycoforms. Further investigation revealed that Cat and Slc35a1 exhibited comparable expression levels in the MG condition to their single-gene conditions (within 1% and 10% difference, respectively), corresponding to modest titer improvements closest to the control. These findings suggest that when all four genes are co-expressed, Cat and Got1 may act as rate-limiting factors influencing both cellular phenotypes and titer production. In both studies, the concentrations of downstream metabolic inhibitors were measured to be significantly decreased when comparing engineered cells against control cells, further demonstrating that overexpression of genes to re-allocate metabolic fluxes away from synthesizing toxic by-products can significantly improve cellular growth and protein synthesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
HOGA1 is expressed mainly in the liver and kidney, and mutations of this gene were reported to be the cause of primary hyperoxaluria type III. In malignant tumors, HOGA1 has been reported to function as a suppressor in pancreatic cancer. But its role in renal cell carcinoma remained undetermined. This study aims to explore the expression, prognostic value, immune landscape, and drug response associations of HOGA1 in clear cell renal cell carcinoma(ccRCC).The Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was carried out to illuminate the protein expression of HOGA1 in ccRCC and normal renal tissues. Several publicly available databases and bioinformatics analyses were performed to detect the role of HOGA1 in ccRCC.Bioinformatics analysis and IHC indicated that HOGA1 expression was obviously reduced in ccRCCs compared with normal renal tissues. And Multivariate analysis clarified that HOGA1 mRNA expression was an independent prognostic factor in ccRCC. Patients with lower HOGA1 expression levels had a worse prognosis. Additionally, Enrichment analysis showed that HOGA1-associated genes were mainly enriched in drug metabolism in ccRCC. HOGA1 showed weak but statistically significant negative correlations with the IC50 value of Afatinib, Erlotinib, Rapamycin, and Sorafenib. In addition, HOGA1 expression was found to be correlated with immune infiltration and immune evasion.Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) remains a significant clinical challenge due to its aggressive nature and limited therapeutic options. Our analysis highlights HOGA1 as a potential tumor suppressor in ccRCC, with its reduced expression associated with poorer prognosis. Using bioinformatics tools, we revealed that lower HOGA1 expression correlates with increased immune evasion and metabolic dysregulation within the tumor microenvironment (TME), contributing to ccRCC progression. Specifically, we found that HOGA1 loss may enhance the recruitment of macrophages, myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), and cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), which play key roles in immune suppression and tumor survival. Moreover, HOGA1 expression was positively correlated with improved sensitivity to several chemotherapy drugs, suggesting its potential as a therapeutic target. These findings underscore the importance of HOGA1 in regulating both metabolic and immune landscapes in ccRCC and highlight its role as a novel prognostic biomarker. However, further validation through independent clinical cohorts and mechanistic studies, including in vitro and in vivo experiments, is needed to confirm these observations and explore the therapeutic potential of restoring HOGA1 function in ccRCC treatment.Overall, HOGA1 may serve as a suppressor in ccRCC. Downregulation of HOGA1 may facilitate the malignant progression of ccRCC by regulating TME and disrupting the metabolic balance. Consequently, HOGA1 may serve as a potential biomarker in ccRCC, though its therapeutic implications remain to be validated.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Objectives: Primary hyperoxaluria type III (PH3) causes kidney stones in children and adults. Gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS)-based metabolomics has been applied to study patients with primary hyperoxaluria types I and II, 2,8-dihydroxyadenine lithiasis, and xanthinuria types I to III. This study was performed to verify the usefulness of this technique for the diagnosis of PH3. Specifically, we evaluated an 8-month-old infant with recurrent kidney stones. Methods: GC/MS-based metabolomics was performed on spot urine samples using initial urease pretreatment without fractionation. Results: Metabolomics revealed increased levels of 2,4-dihydroxyglutarate and 4-hydroxyglutamate. No simultaneous elevations of these two critical biomarkers were observed in other patients, except for one case of PH3 confirmed by the identification of HOGA1 mutations. A moderate increase in 4-hydroxyglutamate has been observed only in cases of primary hyperammonemia, in which analytes such as orotate, uridine, glutamine, or proline, but not 2,4-dihydroxyglutarate, are biomarkers, thus distinguishing PH3 from primary hyperammonemia. Conclusions: GC/MS-based urine metabolomics enables the rapid screening and chemical diagnosis of PH3 and other congenital anomalies that cause urolithiasis. This technique can also be used to monitor disease progression, as patients with PH3 benefit from long-term follow-up, particularly when transitioning from childhood to adulthood. The timely identification of patients with hereditary urolithiasis is crucial. To address this, a discussion was had about the current diagnostic criteria.
BACKGROUND: Primary hyperoxaluria type 3 is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by HOGA1 mutations, leading to recurrent calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis. Diagnosis is often delayed, and 24-hour urine oxalate measurements can be unreliable in patients with normal kidney function. Urine microscopy can detect high-density calcium oxalate monohydrate crystals, providing a rapid diagnostic clue. CASE PRESENTATION: A 31-year-old woman with recurrent nephrolithiasis since age 9 had undergone prior percutaneous nephrolithotomy and ureteroscopy. Urine microscopy revealed abundant calcium oxalate monohydrate crystals (280/mm³), and stone analysis showed mixed calcium phosphate, calcium oxalate dihydrate and monohydrate. Genetic testing confirmed homozygous HOGA1 mutation (c.700 + 5G > T). Conservative management with hydration, dietary calcium, and potassium citrate normalized citrate but not crystalluria. Adjunctive phytate therapy led to disappearance of calcium oxalate monohydrate crystals within weeks. Renal function and residual stones remained stable over 24 months. CONCLUSION: Detection of > 200 calcium oxalate monohydratecrystals/mm³ is highly suggestive of primary oxaluria type 3. Urine microscopy is rapid, inexpensive, and complements genetic testing. Conservative therapy remains central, and adjunctive measures like phytate may help reduce crystallization risk.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41682620 is a review article
The chiral herbicide glufosinate-ammonium (racemic-GLA) is banned in the European Union due to developmental toxicity. Its herbicidally active l-enantiomer (l-GLA), marketed as a potential safer alternative, lacks developmental toxicity assessment. This study investigated the reproductive/developmental toxicity of l-GLA and racemic-GLA in pregnant mice at 13 and 130 μg/kg/day, achieving serum concentrations below or comparable to those reported in humans. Prenatal exposure to l-GLA and racemic-GLA at both doses caused fetal growth restriction (FGR), an approximate 10% reduction in placental weight, and structural abnormalities, including a smaller labyrinth zone, underdeveloped junctional zone, and increased apoptosis. l-GLA or racemic-GLA exposure impaired placental putrescine metabolism by downregulating arginase 1 (Arg1) and upregulating amine oxidase copper containing 1 (Aoc1) and monoamine oxidase A (Maoa) gene expression, resulted in reduced putrescine concentrations. Furthermore, impaired pyruvate metabolism, likely from 4-hydroxy-2-oxoglutarate aldolase 1 (Hoga1) downregulation, depleted pyruvate and increased lactate in the placenta. In human placental trophoblast cells, putrescine or pyruvate supplementation rescued impaired celluar migration and invasion caused by l-GLA or racemic-GLA. These results indicate that environmentally relevant doses of l-GLA/racemic-GLA impair trophoblast function via putrescine/pyruvate-mediated metabolic reprogramming, leading to placental dysfunction and FGR. These findings challenge the presumed safety of l-GLA as a racemic-GLA alternative.
Chemokine and chemokine receptors (CKRs) regulate cell growth, tumor immunity, migration, angiogenesis, and metastasis. We evaluated associations of inherited chemokine/CKR variants with subsequent primary melanomas among patients with a previous melanoma. Our population-based cohort included 2458 incident single primary and 1205 multiple primary melanoma (MPM) cases. We examined 215 a priori candidate polymorphisms selected based on prior evidence and predicted functional relevance, along with nine haplotype blocks. Logistic regression estimated odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals, adjusting for age at diagnosis, sex, age-by-sex interaction, and study center. Thirty variants across 14 genes were nominally associated with MPM (P < 0.05), with effect sizes ranging from 16 to 80%. Five haplotypes in CXCL12, CCL18, CXCR2, and CCR9 were significantly associated with MPM (Pglobal < 0.03) with stronger effects than individual-effect alleles. Functional annotation identified 160 associated index variants and linkage disequilibrium proxies acting as skin expression quantitative trait loci for CXCR2, XCR1, BCL9L, FYCO1, PNKD, RUFY4, and RP11-378A13.1 (P < 1.06E-05 to 4.3E-34). These variants were classified functionally as candidate causal variants based on convergent regulatory annotation and skin‑specific expression quantitative trait locus evidence, linking chemokine/CKR variants and haplotypes to downstream genes involved in epithelial-mesenchymal-like transition, matrix remodeling, and other tumorigenic processes, thereby implicating immune regulatory mechanisms in melanoma development. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to demonstrate an association of a priori chemokine/CKR variants with subsequent melanoma risk. Validation and evaluation of associations with tumor characteristics and survival are warranted.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Lactylation is a posttranslational modification involved in cellular metabolic and immune processes. Although dysregulated lactate metabolism has been implicated in type 1 diabetes (T1D), the genetic relevance of lactylation-related molecular traits remains poorly defined.Summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) was applied to integrate blood-derived methylation/expression/protein quantitative trait loci (mQTLs/eQTLs/pQTLs) for 353 lactylation-related genes with a T1D genome-wide association study (7467 cases and 10,218 controls). The HEIDI test evaluated heterogeneity. Shared genetic signals were assessed by Bayesian colocalization. Associations identified in the discovery analysis were replicated in the FinnGen_R12_T1D and FinnGen_R9_E4_DM1NEU cohorts. mQTL-eQTL SMR analysis evaluated methylation-expression regulatory relationships. Steiger directionality testing and GTEx tissue eQTL analyses were performed for prioritized genes.SMR prioritized PDAP1, PNKD, and HMGB1 as candidate genes associated with T1D. At the DNA methylation level, methylation at cg05715492 (PDAP1) was positively associated with T1D risk (OR = 1.29, 95% CI: 1.09-1.53), whereas cg05991184 (PNKD) showed an inverse association (OR = 0.73, 95% CI: 0.59-0.90). cg22712983, cg26786924, and cg04880052 in PNKD exhibited positive associations. cg25251738 (HMGB1) methylation was inversely associated with risk (OR = 0.85, 95% CI: 0.75-0.97). At the expression level, genetically predicted PDAP1 (OR = 0.26, 95% CI: 0.10-0.66) and HMGB1 (OR = 0.45, 95% CI: 0.22-0.91) expressions were inversely associated with T1D risk, whereas PNKD expression was positively associated (OR = 1.13, 95% CI: 1.04-1.23). mQTL-eQTL SMR analyses demonstrated significant methylation-expression associations at PDAP1, PNKD, and HMGB1 loci. Steiger directionality testing supported the observed associations. In GTEx datasets, higher PNKD expression was associated with increased T1D risk in both whole blood and spleen.PNKD, PDAP1, and HMGB1 were prioritized as lactylation-related candidate genes associated with T1D risk through integrated genetic analyses. This finding generates hypothesis for future investigations into the potential involvement of lactylation-related pathways in T1D pathogenesis.Copyright © 2026 Yu Ding et al. Journal of Diabetes Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
PRRT2 is associated with autosomal dominant paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia (PKD), benign familial infantile epilepsy (BFIE) and other diseases.To explore the phenotypic spectrum associated with PRRT2 mutations, we analyzed a patient carrying a 16p11.2 deletion including PRRT2.A retrospective analysis was conducted on the clinical and genetic characteristics of a patient with a 16p11.2 deletion containing PRRT2. A literature search was performed in CNKI, Wanfang, and PubMed from the establishment of the databases to December 2025, using the keywords "acute encephalopathy", "PRRT2", "paroxysmal non-kinesigenic dyskinesia", "ataxia", "copy number variation of chromosome 16", and "16p11.2 deletion", to identify case reports similar to the present case.This patient presented with infection-induced acute encephalopathy, acute-onset non-motor-induced movement disorders and ataxia phenotype. Genetic testing indicated a 16p11.2 deletion involving PRRT2, de novo. After immunotherapy and rehabilitation treatment, the patient achieved a favorable prognosis. Literature review identified only two complete international case reports similar to this case (specifically regarding ataxia), and genetic analysis showed that they were respectively a 16p11.2 deletion containing PRRT2 and a PRRT2 gene variation.The 16p11.2 deletion containing PRRT2 has been reported for the first time to present as an acute encephalopathy phenotype. Rare cases of paroxysmal non-motor-induced movement disorder (PNKD) and ataxia have also been reported. These findings underscore the importance of timely genetic testing and appropriate genetic counseling for patients presenting with unexplained acute encephalopathy and/or acute episodic non-motor-induced movement disorders, as well as those with ataxia symptoms.© 2026. The Author(s).
Body size represents a complex phenotype driven by genetic variation and epigenetic regulation, with the molecular processes underlying this trait remaining a central challenge to disentangle. To elucidate these fundamental mechanisms, we apply a multi-omics approach that combines ROH-based selection mapping with growth plate epigenomics in pigs. Taking advantage of divergent selection that separates pigs into miniature and larger-sized groups, we target genomic regions under this intense selection for height, which harbour functional variants with pronounced effects. We assemble a multi-omics dataset, identifying homozygous alternative SNPs in Aachen Minipigs and Mini-LEWE predicted to affect cis-regulatory elements potentially interacting with differentially expressed genes that drive body size in breed-dependent ways. Our results point to an lncRNA (ENSSSCG00000048200) near SDR16C5 and PLAG1, HPX and NET-related pathways, as central players in the growth plates. In summary, our study offers a multi-layered characterisation of regulatory mechanisms in the growth plates in the pig model.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sertoli cells (SCs) play a vital role in the seminiferous tubules, as they are involved in maintaining the microenvironment, providing structural and nutritional support for germ cells, and modulating the process of spermatogenesis. 3-Monochloropropane-1,2-diol (3-MCPD), a common food-processing contaminant, is known to impair male reproduction by interfering with SC function. However, the underlying toxicological mechanisms of 3-MCPD in SCs have not been fully elucidated. In this study, primary rat SCs exposed to 3-MCPD were analyzed using tandem mass tag (TMT)-based proteomics. A total of 285 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified, including 165 upregulated and 120 downregulated proteins. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis enrichment analyses revealed that 3-MCPD exposure significantly affected pathways related to glutathione (GSH) metabolism, oxidative stress response, retinoic acid (RA) metabolism, and meiosis. Biochemical assays demonstrated that 3-MCPD exposure profoundly reduced intracellular GSH reserves and increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels. RT-qPCR validation confirmed the changes of key functional genes, including Crabp1, Rdh10, Rbp1, ErbB3/4, Hmox1, Nqo1, Star, and Gstm1. Importantly, exogenous RA supplementation not only restored the impaired meiotic paracrine signaling molecules Nrg1/3 but also alleviated ROS accumulation and redox imbalance. These findings elucidate the comprehensive proteomic alterations in SCs induced by 3-MCPD and reveal a novel functional crosstalk between RA signaling and oxidative balance, offering new insights into potential intervention strategies against reproductive toxicity.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) is a persistent environmental pollutant linked to male reproductive toxicity, particularly sperm DNA damage, yet the underlying molecular alterations remain incompletely understood. This study established a mouse model of PFOA exposure (10 mg/kg/day for 8 weeks), which significantly increased the sperm DNA fragmentation index. Integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of testicular tissues identified 4781 differentially expressed genes and 639 differentially expressed proteins, with functional enrichment revealing pathways related to stress response, DNA repair, and metabolism. Four‑quadrant plot analysis pinpointed six molecules (ALDOC, FADS2, PNKD, RRP8, TAF9, and TRAPPC6A) exhibiting concordant dysregulation at both mRNA and protein levels. Mendelian randomization analysis further demonstrated significant genetic associations between these six genes and male infertility in humans. The dysregulation of five of these candidates was subsequently confirmed by qRT-PCR and/or Western blot, with ALDOC, TAF9, and TRAPPC6A showing consistent changes across all experimental approaches. These findings reveal that PFOA‑induced sperm DNA damage is associated with a complex molecular network and prioritize six candidate genes as targets for future functional investigation. This multi‑omics approach provides a comprehensive molecular landscape and offers refined targets for understanding PFOA reproductive toxicity.Copyright © 2026 Society for Biology of Reproduction & the Institute of Animal Reproduction and Food Research of Polish Academy of Sciences in Olsztyn. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Could the miRNA cargo of extracellular vesicles (EVs) secreted by eutopic endometrium from women with endometriosis be involved in the pregnancy complications related to endometriosis?EVs secreted by eutopic endometrium from women with endometriosis present altered miRNA that modulates biological processes related to pregnancy disorders.Communication between endometrial cells, immune cells, endothelial cells, and the embryo is essential for the correct establishment and development of pregnancy, and EVs have been proposed as key mediators of this dialogue. This study aimed to elucidate whether EV-mediated communication is altered in endometriosis, by analysing the miRNA cargo of EVs secreted by eutopic endometrium from women with endometriosis, after differentiation to the gestational phase, compared with the miRNA cargo of EVs secreted by eutopic endometrium from healthy women, also after differentiation to the gestational phase.This was a prospective experimental comparative study in which endometrial organoids were derived from eutopic endometrium of patients with endometriosis (n = 16) and healthy women (n = 15).Organoids were differentiated to mimic the gestational phase through supplementation with pregnancy hormones. EVs were then isolated from the culture medium, characterized, and their miRNA cargo was profiled by sequencing. Target genes of the significantly differentially expressed miRNAs were identified, and functional enrichment analysis was subsequently performed. Finally, the organoids were co-cultured with human endometrial stromal cells (hESCs) and human placental choriocarcinoma JAR cells, and the effects of EV-derived miRNAs were assessed by qPCR using representative target genes selected based on their roles in endometrium-embryo communication and epithelial-mesenchymal and mesenchymal-epithelial transitions (EMT-MET) in organoids, EMT in stromal (hESC) cells, and endometrium-embryo communication in JAR cells.EVs were successfully isolated. miRNA-seq showed eight significantly differentially expressed miRNAs (false discovery rate [FDR] < 0.05); six were downregulated: miR-1290, miR-1246, miR-320d, miR-4516, miR-12136, and miR-3065-5p; and two were upregulated: miR-191-5p, and miR-335-5p. These miRNAs target 3964 genes and GO enrichment analysis identified 789 biological processes (FDR < 0.05), mainly involved in embryo development and developmental growth, immune system function, angiogenesis, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. KEGG pathway analysis revealed 32 deregulated pathways (FDR < 0.05), including the PI3K-Akt pathway commonly related to the pathogenesis of preeclampsia. Validation in gestational epithelial endometriosis organoids showed upregulation of IGF2 and NR2F2, and downregulation of LIF. Within the EMT-MET group, PTK2B was downregulated, whereas WASF3 and RAC1 were upregulated. In hESC cells co-cultured with gestational epithelial endometriosis organoids, SFRP1, CDC42, RAC1, and WASF3 were upregulated, while PTK2B was downregulated, reflecting the miRNA cargo of ENDO-GEST-derived EVs. Similarly, in JAR cells co-cultured with gestational epithelial endometriosis, NR2F2 and IGF2 were upregulated, whereas MDFI, SP3, and RDH10 were downregulated. All results were consistent with the inverse expression patterns of their regulatory miRNAs in secreted EVs.All raw sequencing data are available through the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) under accession number GSE302961.This was an in vitro study in which the conditions of the endometrial organoid culture could not fully replicate the intrauterine environment. In addition, due to the limited amount of RNA obtained from EVs, sample pooling was required for downstream analyses, which may have reduced our ability to assess inter-sample variability.EVs secreted by eutopic endometrium from women with endometriosis present altered miRNA that modulates processes essential for a successful pregnancy and could serve as potential diagnostic biomarkers for endometriosis and pregnancy disorders. These results also open avenues for further research about potential targets to promote pregnancy success in women with endometriosis.This study was supported by the Spanish Ministry of Education through FPU (FPU21/00988 awarded to A.M.-P.), the Carlos III Health Institute, and cofounded by the European Social Fund (ESF) 'Investing in your future' through PI21/00184 and PI24/00961 (awarded to H.F.) and F122/00102 (awarded to A.B.-R.), a Sara Borrell Contract (CD23/00157 awarded to A.C. and CD24/00184 awarded to A.V.), and Miguel Servet Programme grants (CP20/00120 awarded to H.F. and CP19/00149 awarded to I.C.). This study was also supported by Fundació La Marató de TV3 (12/C/2024). The authors have no conflicts of interest to disclose.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.
Craniofacial development requires precise coordination of epithelial patterning and morphogenesis. However, the molecular mechanisms governing olfactory epithelium development remain incompletely understood. Retinoic acid (RA) signaling and Gata3 have each been independently implicated in craniofacial morphogenesis, particularly in the formation of the primitive choanae, which constitute the opening between the nasal cavity and the oral cavity. Here, we generated a tamoxifen-inducible, genetically controlled compound mutant mouse model to simultaneously disrupt Rdh10, a rate-limiting enzyme for RA signaling, and Gata3 during early craniofacial development. We show that while deletion of Rdh10 following tamoxifen administration at E8.5 does not result in obvious craniofacial abnormalities, combined loss of Rdh10 and Gata3 leads to fully penetrant bilateral choanal atresia and severe defects in olfactory epithelium morphogenesis. Immunohistochemical analyses revealed a marked reduction in PAX6 and SIX1 positive cells and a concomitant expansion of SOX2 positive cells in compound mutant embryos. These results demonstrate that RA-Gata3 signaling cooperatively regulates olfactory epithelium development by controlling the balance between progenitor maintenance and lineage specification. We propose that the RA-Gata3 signaling pathway orchestrates a transcriptional network involving Pax6, Six1, and Sox2 to ensure proper epithelial patterning, branching morphogenesis, and choanae formation during early craniofacial development.© 2026 The Author(s). Congenital Anomalies published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Teratology Society.
Fanconi anemia (FA) is a genetic disease characterized by congenital abnormalities and increased risk for bone marrow failure and cancer. FA is caused by mutation of 23 genes, the protein products of which function in the maintenance of genome stability. An important role for the FA proteins in the repair of DNA interstrand crosslinks (ICLs) has been established. While the endogenous sources of ICLs relevant to the pathophysiology of FA have yet to be determined, a role for the FA proteins in the detoxification of reactive metabolic aldehydes has been established. To discover new metabolic pathways linked to FA, we performed RNA-seq analysis on a previously established isogenic FA-D2 patient cell model. Multiple retinoic acid metabolism and signaling genes were differentially expressed in the FA-D2 patient cells, including ALDH1A1 and RDH10, two key enzymes in the retinoic acid pathway. Increased levels of ALDH1A1 and RDH10 were confirmed by immunoblotting. FA-D2 (FANCD2-/-) patient cells displayed increased aldehyde dehydrogenase activity compared to the FANCD2-complemented cells. Following exposure to retinaldehyde, FA-D2 (FANCD2-/-) patient cells exhibited increased DNA damage and checkpoint activation. Our findings provide an example of a novel link between retinoic acid metabolism and FA and suggest that retinaldehyde may be an additional reactive metabolic aldehyde relevant to the pathophysiology of FA.© 2026. The Author(s).
To evaluate the incidence of retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) remodeling after RPE tears in age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and assess its association with visual outcomes over a 5-year follow-up.This retrospective observational study reviewed AMD eyes with RPE tears and a minimum follow-up of 5 years. Changes in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) were recorded, and the presence and delay to development of tear-associated retinal pigment epithelial proliferation (TARP) were evaluated.Twenty-six eyes from 23 patients were included. Mean age was 80.08 ± 6.67 years. Baseline BCVA was 0.83 ± 0.52 logMAR (Snellen equivalent 20/125), and final BCVA declined to 1.05 ± 0.54 logMAR (20/200) (p = 0.028). Mean follow-up was 6.25 ± 1.25 years. Both the greatest linear diameter and the area of RPE loss increased significantly from baseline to year 5 (p = 0.012 and p = 0.009, respectively). TARP was observed in 54.2% of eyes at 5 years, with a mean onset of 293 ± 258 days. Final BCVA was significantly worse in eyes with subretinal hemorrhage (p = 0.02), while the presence of TARP was not associated with visual outcome (p = 0.21). At 5 years, BCVA declined in both groups (with and without TARP), with no significant difference (p = 0.21).Approximately half of the eyes with RPE tears developed TARP, typically within the first year. TARP did not confer a visual benefit. These findings suggest that anatomical remodeling of RPE tears may occur without translating into improved visual outcomes.
The inwardly rectifying K+ channel Kir7.1 is prominently expressed at the apical membrane of the choroid plexus epithelium (CPE) and defines the membrane potential of these cells. The unusual independence of its conductance of extracellular K+ ([K+]o) underpins an important role in the regulation of the concentration of this ion in the cerebrospinal fluid [K+]CSF. A similar function for retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) Kir7.1 has been proposed with respect to subretinal K+ ([K+]SRS) buffering. We have now studied the effect of expressing in mice the mutant Kir7.1-L241P, a blindness-associated Leber's congenital amaurosis mutation, on channel expression and function in the CPE and on [K+]CSF, taken as a proxy for less accessible [K+]SRS. We used genome-edited knockin mice carrying the L241P mutation of Kir7.1 and studied the electrical properties and NKCC1 cotransporter activity of CPE cells in vitro, as well as CSF secretion rate and [K+]CSF in vivo. CPE cells from Kir7.1-L241P knockin mice had a two-third reduction in K+ conductance with respect to that of cells from control animals. While CSF secretion rates and NKCC1 cotransporter activity were unaltered in mutant animals, [K+]CSF was significantly decreased while [Na+]CSF is increased. These results reaffirm the importance of choroid plexus Kir7.1 in the regulation of [K+]CSF. We speculate that the alteration in [K+]CSF regulation by mutation Kir7.1-L241P might be paralleled by a disease-related impairment of retinal [K+]SRS buffering.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to University of Navarra.
Futsal is characterized by intermittent high-intensity actions that impose substantial external (EL) and internal (IL) load demands. Although load monitoring using accelerometry and perceptual measures is widely applied, the interaction between EL, IL, and wellness status across the competitive microcycle in elite futsal players, particularly regarding task specificity, remains unclear. The aims were to (1) analyze the effects of microcycle day and task specificity on EL, IL, and wellness status; and (2) examine the relationships between these variables.Training sessions with higher task specificity would elicit greater EL, IL, and wellness disturbances, with match day (MD) presenting the highest load values.Prospective observational study.Level 3.Ten professional futsal players (age, 25.4 ± 4.8 years) from the Spanish first division were monitored during 43 training sessions and 11 official matches. Variables included microcycle day, task specificity, EL measured by accelerations (≥2 m/s2) and decelerations (≤-2 m/s2), IL assessed using rating of perceived exertion (RPE), and wellness status evaluated through the Hooper index (HI), including delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS), stress, fatigue, and sleep.MD produced significantly higher EL and RPE values (P = 0.04 to P < 0.001) than most training sessions. Among training sessions, those conducted 3 days before MD (MD-3) exhibited the highest task specificity, EL, and RPE. Strong positive correlations were found between task specificity and EL (rho = 0.85; P < 0.001), task specificity and RPE (rho = 0.80; P < 0.001), task specificity and fatigue (rho = -0.45; P < 0.001), EL and RPE (rho = 0.80; P < 0.001), and EL and fatigue (rho = -0.30; P = 0.03).Microcycle day and task specificity significantly influenced EL, IL, and fatigue during the competitive microcycle in professional futsal. Sessions with higher task specificity exhibited greater EL and IL, highlighting the importance of tailoring training tasks to modulate player load.Accurate monitoring and management of training load enhances understanding of the relationship between training stimuli and players' adaptive responses, supporting performance optimization and informing strategies for injury prevention and rehabilitation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562278 is a review article
Enjoyment across treadmill-based high-intensity interval training (HIIT) is unclear in women with cardiometabolic risk factors. Nineteen inactive women (53±13yrs; 29.1±7.1kg/m2) performed three HIIT protocols in randomized order: 4x4-min (80% volume of oxygen consumption reserve [VO2R]), 10x1-min (90%VO2R), and 8x15-sec (110%VO2R). Heart rate, rating of perceived exertion (RPE), and exercise enjoyment (short-form Physical Activity Enjoyment Scale ~5-min post-exercise) were assessed. The 4x4-min protocol elicited higher heart rate and RPE and lower enjoyment than other protocols (p<0.05). Enjoyment did not differ between 10x1-min and 8x15-sec (p>0.05), although 10x1-min elicited greater exertion (p<0.05). The 10x1-min protocol may balance enjoyment and exertion. ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT05758857.
DNA damage occasionally leads to mutations even in DNA repair-proficient cells via translesion synthesis (TLS), an efficient but error-prone DNA damage tolerance pathway. In the human genome, there are three closely related Y-family TLS polymerases (η, κ, and ι). Polymerase η is specialized for the error-free replication of UV adducts, while polymerase κ is known to replicate over various heterocyclic DNA adducts. The function of polymerase ι is less clear and this gene is missing from several vertebrate clades, yeast, most birds, and plants. Using wild-type and TLS polymerase (POLH, POLK, POLI) knockout human TK6 and RPE-1 cell lines and whole genome sequencing, we associate these polymerases to mutagenesis induced by the common chemotherapy agent cisplatin and the smoke-mimicking compound 4-nitroquinoline-1-oxide (4-NQO). We found that polymerase ι specifically introduces C>T mutations at both cisplatin and 4-NQO lesions, confirmed in two further cell lines. Using non-negative matrix factorization, we derived a polymerase ι-specific base substitution signature, which corresponds to COSMIC cancer mutational signature SBS31 with a cosine similarity of 0.97. By analyzing the mutational spectra in more than 3500 human metastatic tumors, we showed that SBS31 in platinum-treated samples and SBS92 in smoking-related cancers is associated with polymerase ι expression. Our study suggests an in vivo mutagenic function for polymerase ι and highlights its role in tissue-dependent chemotherapy-induced mutagenesis that may contribute to tumor heterogeneity.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560424 is a review article
Indoor cycling (IC), also known as spinning, is a physical activity that takes place in the gym, where participants with different levels of physical condition, age, and objectives pedal on a modified stationary bike to maintain the rhythm according to the music and the instructor's cues. However, it is necessary to investigate the effects of this practice on people with low levels of physical fitness. The objective of this review was to analyze the scientific literature on the effects of indoor cycling in relation to gender and in terms of physiological indicators, cardiac parameters, and perceived exertion in adults.This systematic review follows the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. The following databases were consulted: PubMed (Medline), Web of Science (WoS), and Scopus. The PICO strategy was used to search for documents. To assess the risk of bias, each of the included articles was evaluated using version developed by Law et al.A 20-minute IC session with an intensity of 80%-90% maximum heart rate (HRmax) confers positive effects on physiological processes. Gender, age, experience, and the use of heart rate monitors do not significantly affect HR or rating of perceived exertion (RPE), while environmental conditions such as sweat rate, in-creased temperature, and humidity significantly influence exercise intensity.IC was consistently associated with a high-intensity physiological demand and, in several studies, with improvements in cardiorespiratory fitness and cardiometabolic risk markers. Within this more limited evidence base, IC has also been examined in specific contexts such as cardiac rehabilitation and weight management in women with overweight, suggesting favorable metabolic adaptations, although the heterogeneity of populations and outcomes across studies warrants caution when generalizing these findings.© 2026 Becerra-Patiño, Montenegro-Bonilla, Martínez-Benítez, Pino-Ortega, Hernández-Jaña, Castillo-Paredes, Olivares-Arancibia, Yáñez-Sepúlveda and López-Gil.
Degenerative ocular diseases are among the leading causes of visual impairment worldwide and require innovative therapeutic approaches capable of promoting tissue regeneration. In this context, biomaterial-based cell therapies have emerged as promising alternatives, although challenges remain regarding the maintenance of a supportive microenvironment after transplantation. This study developed and characterized a hybrid biomembrane composed of poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) and decellularized corneal extracellular matrix (dCECM) to provide structural and biochemical support for ocular progenitor cells. PLGA membranes were fabricated and coated with dCECM layers. Their morphological, physicochemical, mechanical, and biocompatibility properties were evaluated. Biocompatibility was assessed using stem cells from the apical papilla (SCAP), periodontal ligament (PDLC), and corneal stroma (CSSC). The capacity of the membranes to preserve ocular progenitor markers (PAX6 and RX) and to exert cytoprotective effects on oxidatively damaged retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells was also investigated. Hybrid PLGA-dCECM membranes exhibited suitable thickness, increased hydrophilicity, improved tensile strength, and enhanced cell adhesion without evidence of chemical incompatibility. SCAP and CSSC maintained high expression of ocular progenitor markers, while co-culture with injured RPE cells reduced LDH release and cell death. The PLGA-dCECM biomembrane showed both structural support and bioactive cues, supporting its potential application in ocular regenerative therapies.© 2026 The Author(s). Macromolecular Bioscience published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Blood flow restriction (BFR) training is widely used to augment the effects of low-load resistance exercise, yet the influence of individualized BFR intensity on acute neuromuscular responses and early recovery remains incompletely understood, particularly in elite athletes. This study examined acute neuromuscular, morphological, and tolerability responses to low-load leg press exercise performed under individualized BFR conditions in elite male volleyball players. Thirty-three athletes completed four repeated exercise sessions at 0%, 40%, 60%, and 80% of arterial occlusion pressure. Vastus lateralis surface electromyography and ultrasound-derived muscle thickness were assessed before exercise and during the first 30 min of post-exercise recovery under standardized conditions. Session RPE, cuff-related discomfort/pain, and paresthesia were also recorded. Linear mixed-effects models were used for neuromuscular and morphological outcomes, and appropriate repeated-measures non-parametric tests were used for tolerability outcomes. Low-load exercise with individualized BFR elicited acute changes in neuromuscular and morphological indices. Higher occlusion pressures were associated with small but statistically detectable overall differences in response magnitude when responses were averaged across time. In contrast, recovery profiles over the first 30 min after exercise were comparable across restriction levels, consistent with the absence of condition-dependent time-course effects. All athletes completed all four conditions; however, tolerability worsened as occlusion pressure increased, with higher session RPE and more frequent cuff-related discomfort/pain and paresthesia at higher pressures. In elite male volleyball players, variation in individualized BFR intensity appears to influence the overall magnitude of acute responses more than the short-term recovery trajectory itself. The present data do not provide evidence that higher occlusion pressures confer superior short-term recovery characteristics in this elite cohort. Because tolerability worsened as occlusion pressure increased, pressure selection in applied settings should balance physiological stimulus against symptom burden.© 2026. The Author(s).
The beta-carotene oxygenase (BCO) gene family plays a key role in carotenoid metabolism, which is closely linked to body color formation in teleosts. However, its function in Lutjanus erythropterus remains unclear. Here, we identified four BCO gene family members in the genome and characterized their evolutionary conservation, tissue-specific expression, and potential roles in pigmentation. Tissue expression profiling revealed high expression of all BCO genes in the heart, with Bco1, Bco1l, and Bco2l also highly expressed in the intestine and liver. Developmental stage analysis showed that Bco1 maintained relatively high expression around hatching, and all genes peaked at 3 days post‑hatching (dph). In differently colored skin at 45 dph, Bco1 showed the highest expression in white skin, whereas Bco2b expression in black skin was approximately twice that in yellow and white skin. Astaxanthin feeding upregulated BCO expression in multiple tissues. Under different background culture conditions, Bco1 and Bco2b exhibited similar expression patterns, which followed a trend similar to total carotenoid content. These findings indicate a correlation between BCO gene expression and the body color of L. erythropterus, suggesting that these genes may serve as candidate genes potentially involved in body color formation in this species.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510724 is a review article
Due to the rising pollution levels across various sectors, discovering innovative methods to mitigate different types of pollution has become essential for enhancing crop growth and extending the lifespan of humans and animals. Using certain adsorbent, such as biochar (BCH), is beneficial in numerous studies, which led to its selection in this work. In this study, density functional theory (DFT) calculations at the ωB97XD/6-311+G(d) level of theory were used to model the studied systems, which have been chemically modified with boron and oxygen (B, BC2O, BCO2, and B-O) on the biochar complex to enhance ciprofloxacin (CPF) adsorption capacity and selectivity. A noticeable difference was observed in the properties of B/O-functionalized biochar compared to BCH. When examining the adsorption characteristics, the energies ranged from -30.9 to -34.8 kcal mol-1, with CPF-BC2O@BCH showing the highest potential for detection due to its lowest adsorption energy. This highlights the positive impact of functionalizing BCH for CPF adsorption which is a major pollutant when introduced into water bodies. Although CPF-BCH still demonstrated strong adsorption capability, various computational studies, including NCI, QTAIM, electronic properties, and sensor mechanisms, were conducted to validate the findings and provide insights into how BCH's adsorption behaviour changes upon modification.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1002/bco2.70191.].© 2026 The Author(s). BJUI Compass published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of BJU International Company.
The therapeutic potential of carnosine in healthy and diseased heart models is promising; however, the understanding of carnosine and β-alanine metabolism in cardiac tissue is lacking. Exploring how these compounds are metabolized in cardiac tissue is critical to determine their viability for in vivo supplementation studies. Two independent studies were conducted. Study 1 investigated the uptake of exogenous carnosine and β-alanine in cardiomyocytes and the influence of this on the expression of carnosine- and β-alanine-related enzyme and transporter genes. Study 2 investigated whether human cardiac tissue expresses carnosine and β-alanine metabolism proteins and the endogenous concentrations of carnosine and β-alanine. In Study 1, differentiated H9c2 cells were treated with 0.1-10.0 mM of carnosine or β-alanine for 4, 24 and 72 h. Gene expression was measured at 4 h using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and amino acid and histidine-containing dipeptides (HCD) concentrations were analyzed at all-time points using an amino acid analyzer. In Study 2, post-mortem human heart ventricle samples (n = 16) were analyzed for carnosine and β-alanine using HPLC-ESI+-MS/MS, and metabolism-related proteins using western blots. H9c2 cardiomyocytes expressed genes related to carnosine and β-alanine metabolism, except for the β-alanine transaminase, AGXT2. Carnosine supplementation did not affect gene expression, whereas β-alanine decreased transporter TAUT and PHT1 expression. Both exogenously supplied carnosine and β-alanine were taken up and accumulated in cardiomyocytes. Carnosine- and β-alanine-related enzymes and transporters are present in human heart ventricles. In conclusion, cardiomyocytes and the human heart express enzymes and transporters required to uptake β-alanine and synthesize carnosine.© 2026 The Author(s). The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is a global liver disorder with a rising incidence. Early-to-middle-stage MASLD remains amenable to clinical intervention; without timely management, it may progress to fibrosis and cirrhosis. Therefore, identifying novel targets through integrated multi-technical approaches is critical for preventing and treating MASLD.We developed an integrative multi-omics and spatial proteomic strategy combined with in vitro validation. CyTOF was applied to high-dimensional immunophenotyping of the MASLD liver microenvironment. Key cell populations were then sorted accordingly for mass spectrometry to uncover their core signaling. Focusing on identified key amino acid metabolic enzymes, we performed IMC for spatial single-cell proteomic profiling to localize metabolic aberrant subsets. Finally, functional phenotypes and mechanisms were validated in cell models.CyTOF revealed significant expansion of myeloid-derived cells. Thus, by targeting myeloid-derived cells, proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses identified two severely impaired amino acid metabolic pathways: the glycine metabolic pathway regulated by AGXT2 and the proline metabolic pathway regulated by PYCR3. We then focused on AGXT2 and PYCR3 for spatial exploration via IMC and ultimately identified a macrophage subset negative for both AGXT2 and PYCR3. These macrophages were significantly elevated within MASLD and exhibited high spatial colocalization with inflammatory cells and fibrotic cells. Compared with dysregulated M1 subsets (M1-C3), dysregulated M2 subsets (M2-C1) indicated stronger pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic potential. In vitro models using human and murine cells confirmed that AGXT2⁻PYCR3⁻ macrophages exhibited enhanced proliferation and migration, secreted higher levels of inflammatory cytokines, chemokines, and classic fibrotic proteins, and exerted strong inductive effects on hepatic fibrotic cells, with downregulation of intercellular GSH. Mechanistically, the NF-κB and MAPK/AP-1 pathways were involved in inflammatory responses, while the p-SMAD3(T8)/TGFβ pathway contributed to the fibrotic phenotype. However, the abnormal biological functions could be effectively rescued by supplementation with corresponding amino acids, accompanied by the reversal of aberrant signaling pathway activation.In summary, our study explores an initial link between amino acid metabolism and early-to-middle-stage MASLD. AGXT2⁻PYCR3⁻ macrophages are significantly enriched in MASLD with pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic potential, and amino acid supplementation can rescue their aberrant phenotypes in vitro, warranting further validation of their treatment potential.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chicken skin colour is an economically important trait influenced by consumer preferences across different markets. Previous studies established that white skin is dominant over yellow skin, with the β, β-carotene-9',10'-dioxygenase (BCO2) identified as the candidate gene. However, the precise causal mutation within this gene region has remained unidentified for over a decade, limiting the development of reliable molecular markers for breeding programs.Through genome-wide association analysis of 381 chickens, we confirmed that the BCO2 gene region on chromosome 24 was the major locus associated with skin colour. Transcriptome analysis revealed approximately 590-fold higher BCO2 expression in white-skinned than yellow-skinned chickens. By integrating whole-genome sequencing data from 63 individuals with high-quality genome assemblies, we identified a 24-bp insertion that showed near-complete co-segregation with the yellow skin phenotype in a backcross family of 180 individuals. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays revealed an insertion-dependent DNA-protein interaction, and DNA pull-down coupled with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) prioritised lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1 (LEF1) as a leading candidate interactor. Chromatin profiling revealed elevated trimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 27 (H3K27me3) and reduced chromatin accessibility at the gene locus in yellow-skinned chickens. Functional experiments revealed that knockdown of LEF1 or inhibition of enhancer of zeste homologue 2 (EZH2) significantly increased BCO2 expression, supporting a model in which the insertion is associated with LEF1/EZH2-sensitive, polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2)-linked repression and transcriptional silencing.The 24-bp insertion in the BCO2 regulatory region is a candidate causal variant for yellow skin in chickens, refining the genetic model of chicken skin colour variation and supporting a LEF1-PRC2-associated regulatory mechanism potentially involved in avian carotenoid metabolism. This finding enables the development of a reliable PCR-based diagnostic marker for skin colour, facilitating marker-assisted selection in poultry breeding and providing new insights into the genetic regulation of avian pigmentation.© 2026. The Author(s).
A major challenge facing prostate cancer (PCa) cells is oxidative stress, yet the precise role and underlying mechanisms remain inadequately elucidated. The study sought to investigate the association between oxidative stress and PCa prognosis, as well as to identify potential regulatory pathways involved.Oxidative stress-related genes and data were sourced from the Genecards, TCGA-PRAD, and GSE16560 databases. A risk model was developed using machine learning, including random forest and LASSO analyses. Survival analysis, functional and immune infiltrate analysis, as well as immunotherapy analysis were performed. The expression of MINK1 was examined, and the effects of MINK1 silencing on cell biological activities (including proliferation, migration, and invasion) were investigated, alongside analyses of MINK1-related pathways.Four genes (BCO1, MINK1, TAF1C, and MIS18BP1) were identified and utilized to develop an oxidative stress-risk score (OS-score). The high-OS-score predicted a poor prognosis, and OS-score was an independent prognostic factor for PCa. The OS-score demonstrated a positive correlation with CD8 + T cells, activated CD4 + T cells, and macrophages. Patients classified within the high-OS-score group were more effective in anti-PD-1 therapy (Nominal P = 0.001, Bonferroni corrected P = 0.011). A significant disparity was observed in the efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitor treatment between the high- and low-OS-score groups (P = 1.1 × 10-9), with a higher proportion of responders in the high-OS-score group compared to non-responders. The key oxidative stress gene, MINK1, was experimentally validated and found to be highly expressed in PC-3 and DU145 cell lines. Silencing MINK1 resulted in decreased proliferation, migration, and invasion activity. Additionally, MINK1 knockdown induced G0/G1 phase arrest and inhibited nuclear translocation of NF-κB.In summary, oxidative stress is associated with a poor prognosis in PCa. Oxidative stress-related gene MINK1 may regulate the cell biological activity through cell cycle and NF-κB signaling pathway. This study may provide new clues for the identification and development of new markers for the diagnosis and prognosis of PCa patients.Copyright: © 2026 Liang et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
1. The following study investigated the regulation of Intramuscular fat (IMF) deposition at different developmental stages in Jingyuan chickens. Pectoral muscles from hens at 42, 126 and 180 days of age were analysed using transcriptome sequencing and weighted gene co‑expression network analysis (WGCNA).2. A total of 1187, 1377 and 617 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in the three pairwise comparisons, respectively. Among these, MAPK8, ACSL4 and ACACB are known to be involved in IMF synthesis and metabolism through energy and amino acid metabolic pathways.3. The WGCNA data identified three modules (MEyellow, MEbrown, MEdarkred) that were significantly correlated with IMF content and age (p < 0.05). Functional analysis indicated that FOXO6, PTEN and EGFR were enriched in both FoxO and GnRH signalling pathways. This suggested potential roles in IMF deposition. Further investigation of DEG and the three modules revealed AGXT2 and LAMB1 as candidate genes that could influence IMF deposition in muscle.4. The data represents a transcriptomic resource for IMF deposition in Jingyuan chicken breast muscle. The results identified candidate genes for future molecular breeding aimed at improving meat quality.
Mitochondrial dysfunction is linked to urolithiasis, but causal genetic drivers remain unclear. We integrated multi-omics data using Mendelian randomization to identify mitochondrial-related genes causally associated with urolithiasis.We obtained mitochondrial methylation (mQTL), gene expression (eQTL), and protein abundance (pQTL) from respective quantitative trait locus (QTL) studies along with GWAS summary data for nephrolithiasis, ureterolithiasis and bladder calculus from the Million Veteran Program (discovery), with replication in FinnGen and UK Biobank. Summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) and colocalization were applied to infer causality.Integrated analysis identified FXN as the leading candidate for nephrolithiasis. Genetically elevated circulating FXN protein was inversely associated with nephrolithiasis risk (OR 0.69, 95% CI 0.56-0.84). This protective effect was supported at the epigenetic level: FXN methylation at cg14656297 and cg13974534 correlated with lower nephrolithiasis risk. For ureterolithiasis, higher GRHPR protein levels were protective (OR 0.81, 95% CI 0.71-0.91). In a mouse kidney stone model, Fxn expression and frataxin protein levels were decreased, providing correlative in vivo support consistent with human genetic findings.This multi-omics MR study links mitochondrial genes, particularly FXN, to urolithiasis risk. Although colocalization evidence was weak (PP.H4 = 0.0239) and replication in independent cohorts was not statistically significant, the multi-omics consistency across methylation, expression, and protein levels prioritizes FXN as a hypothesis-generating candidate for further investigation. Because all QTL data are blood- or plasma-derived, this study provides blood/plasma QTL-based genetic prioritization rather than kidney-specific causal inference.Copyright © 2026 Wu, Ye, Li, Wu, Guo, Bian, Sheng and Lai.
Identifying new drug targets is essential for improving breast cancer survival. The proteome provides a rich source for potential therapeutic targets. This study aimed to identify protein markers and therapeutic targets for breast cancer by using proteome-wide Mendelian randomization (MR).Protein quantitative trait loci (pQTL) data were obtained from four large-scale proteomic studies, including 17,267 circulating protein markers. Genetic associations with breast cancer survival were derived from a large-scale GWAS meta-analysis (37,954 cases, 2,900 deaths). Proteome-wide MR was performed to estimate causal effects of proteins on breast cancer survival, complemented by single-cell expression analysis to identify enriched cell types. Protein-protein interactions (PPI) and druggability assessments were also conducted to prioritize therapeutic targets.Genetically predicted circulating levels of 27 proteins were found to be associated with breast cancer survival. Among these, eight proteins (ADAM15, CD83, SH3BGRL3, SNCG, ANXA1, GRHPR, ALDH2, and MTHFD2) showed the strongest evidence of association, while four proteins (ARG2, RPL14, NFU1, and TXNL4B) demonstrated a strong but slightly weaker correlation. Notably, SH3BGRL3, GRHPR, ARG2, RPL14, NFU1, and TXNL4B were newly identified as circulating protein markers significantly associated with breast cancer prognosis. Druggability analysis revealed that 13 of these proteins were already targeted by existing drugs, offering potential for breast cancer treatment.We identified 27 genes encoding proteins associated with overall and subtype-specific breast cancer survival, providing potential prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets, and offering new avenues for improving breast cancer management.Copyright © 2025 Termedia & Banach.
The mitochondrial dicarboxylate carrier SLC25A10 mediates reversible exchange among succinate, malate, and phosphate, contributing to mitochondrial metabolic regulation. Structural studies establish a ping-pong mechanism, but most mathematical models still assume sequential binding, lacking mechanistic justification and overlooking the alternation of a single binding site. Here, we present the first mechanistically derived and thermodynamically consistent model of SLC25A10 based on a ping-pong framework. The model incorporates competitive binding of succinate, malate, and phosphate, heteroexchange, reversibility, and electroneutrality, and is calibrated using experimental datasets from intact mitochondria and reconstituted proteoliposomes. To estimate kinetic parameters and quantify their uncertainty, we employed Bayesian inference, enabling statistically rigorous calibration to uptake and competition assays. The model introduces new terms that quantify which substrate and from which side of the membrane is most likely to start the transport cycle. Beyond reproducing experimentally observed exchange kinetics, the model resolves non-equilibrium transport dynamics that are difficult to access directly in classical uptake assays. In particular, the simulations reveal a two-phase response in which an initial phosphate-driven high-flux uptake regime for malate and succinate is followed by a slower redistribution phase in which the two dicarboxylates continue to readjust primarily against each other. The model also predicts that mitochondrial morphology modulates early transport behaviour, with matrix swelling increasing and matrix condensation decreasing the initial SLC25A10 flux magnitude. More broadly, the framework provides a quantitative basis for studying how substrate competition, thermodynamic driving forces, and compartment geometry shape SLC25A10-mediated exchange, and it offers a transferable modelling strategy for other carriers in the SLC25 family.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42455436 is a review article
Aplastic anemia (AA) is an immune-mediated bone marrow failure syndrome marked by pancytopenia and a hypocellular, fatty bone marrow. Growing evidence indicates that intrinsic abnormalities in bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSCs), including inadequate hematopoietic support, cellular senescence, chronic inflammation, and enhanced adipogenic differentiation, contribute to disease pathophysiology. However, the epigenetic mechanisms underlying these abnormalities remain poorly understood. This work aims to define the epigenetic landscape of AA BM-MSCs and investigate key epigenetic regulators associated with niche failure.RNA sequencing data from AA patients and healthy controls were analyzed using bioinformatics methods, including differential gene expression analysis, Gene Ontology (GO) analysis, and Reactome pathway enrichment analysis. Principal component analysis revealed a clear separation between AA and control samples. Differential expression analysis identified 713 disrupted epigenetic regulators in AA BM-MSCs. Functional enrichment analysis indicated significant changes in pathways including chromatin remodelling, stem cell maintenance, DNA damage response, cellular senescence, inflammation, and lineage commitment. Quantitative real-time PCR validation confirmed overexpression of SETD1A, MLL1, EZH2, KDM3A, and PRMT1, and downregulation of DNMT3A, KDM2B, EHMT1, and KDM5C, consistent with the transcriptomic results.Our data show that AA BM-MSCs exhibit broad epigenetic dysregulation, which may contribute to bone marrow niche failure, chronic inflammation, senescence-associated changes, and reduced hematopoietic support. These findings provide novel insights into the epigenetic basis of AA pathobiology and suggest potential treatment targets to restore the function of the bone marrow microenvironment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Cellular metabolism critically influences tumor resistance. Biophysical stimulations such as mechanical vibration and electrical pulses can reprogram mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and T cells into tumor-suppressive states. Here, we investigated whether optical pulses (OP) could similarly promote an anti-tumor microenvironment. Using mechanical and electrical stimulation as controls, we examined optically stimulated MSCs and T cells and their conditioned medium (CM) in breast cancer and osteoclast models. OP elicited color-specific effects: blue light induced direct tumor cell death, whereas green and red light converted MSCs into induced tumor-suppressing (iTS) cells. This conversion was mediated by OPN4, independent of the Piezo1 pathway engaged by mechanical and electrical cues. Green/red pulses enhanced nucleosome scattering, increased the NAD⁺/NADH ratio, reduced the repressive histone mark H3K9me3, and activated demethylases KDM3A/KDM4. Proteomic profiling revealed enrichment of transferrin receptor (TFRC) and Annexin A2 (ANXA2) in CM, which may suppress tumors via CD44 interaction and are associated with reduced immune-evasive signaling, including Programmed Death-Ligand 1 (PD-L1). These findings demonstrate that visible light pulses can epigenetically reprogram MSCs and T cells, offering a potential therapeutic strategy for breast cancer and bone metastasis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a severe condition with high disability. We aimed to explore the role and mechanism of M2-EVs in SCI-induced inflammation in rats, providing novel treatment methods for SCI. Primary macrophages were differentiated into M2 macrophages. M2-EVs were extracted, followed by morphology detection and measurement of CD63, TSG101, and Calnexin. SCI rats were injected with M2-EVs, followed by assessment of hind limb motor ability, pathological changes, nerve cell morphology, and proinflammatory factor expression. LPS-stimulated spinal astrocytes were treated with M2-EVs. Cell viability, ROS levels, LDH and MDA contents, the expression of lncRNA FTX, FTX, KDM3A, and KLF3, the binding of FTX to KDM3A, and KDM3A enrichment and H3K9me2 on the KLF3 promoter were detected. Results exhibited that M2-EVs treatment increased BBB score, recovered the damaged spinal cord structure, reduced neuronal loss and proinflammatory factor expression. M2-EVs treatment increased cell viability and decreased inflammation. Mechanistically, M2-EVs delivered FTX into cells. FTX bound to KDM3A and inhibited KLF3 expression via blocking H3K9me2 demethylation. KDM3A and KLF3 overexpression partially reversed the inhibitory effect of M2-EVs on inflammation in SCI. In conclusion, M2-EVs suppress SCI inflammation by delivering FTX into cells and inhibiting the KDM3A/KLF3 axis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Gastric cancer remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, with chemotherapy resistance and severe side effects posing significant challenges. Metabolic reprogramming, particularly lactate-driven histone lactylation, plays a crucial role in tumor progression. Cryptotanshinone (CTS), a bioactive compound from Salvia miltiorrhiza, has demonstrated anti-tumor properties, yet its mechanisms in regulating lactate metabolism and lactylation in gastric cancer remain unclear.This study aimed to elucidate the molecular mechanisms by which CTS inhibits gastric cancer progression, focusing on its effects on enolase activity, lactate production, histone lactylation, and downstream metabolic-epigenetic regulation.We screened Salvia miltiorrhiza ethanol extract (SME) and identified CTS as a key component targeting enolase. Molecular docking, surface plasmon resonance, and limited proteolysis-mass spectrometry were used to confirm CTS-ENO1 interaction. In vitro and in vivo models, including cell lines, xenografts, and patient-derived organoids, were employed to assess anti-tumor effects. Glycolytic function, histone lactylation, and gene expression were evaluated via seahorse assay, western blot, Cut&Tag, and RNA-seq.CTS directly binds to and inhibits enolase ENO1, reducing phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) and lactate production. Decreased lactate levels led to reduced global histone lactylation, particularly at H3K18. CTS also enhanced HDAC2-mediated de-lactylation by lowering PEP, which otherwise inhibits HDAC2. Downregulation of H3K18la suppressed MGAT4A expression, impairing GLUT1 membrane localization and glucose uptake, thereby forming a feedback loop that inhibits glycolysis. CTS significantly suppressed tumor growth in xenograft and patient-derived organoid models, effects reversible by exogenous lactate.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Glycosylation is essential for hematopoietic cell homeostasis and malignant transformation. Dysregulated expression of glycosylation genes in leukemia cells accelerates disease progression and fosters drug resistance. Therefore, targeting these genes offers a promising avenue for anti-leukemic therapy. In this study, we explore the roles of N-glycans in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) differentiation using the ATRA-induced wild-type NB4 (WT/ATRA) or HL-60 cell model. We found that expression of N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase IVa (GnT-IVa, encoded by the MGAT4A gene) and its product (β1,4-GlcNAc-branched N-glycan) increased significantly during differentiation, as evaluated by lectin blot, real-time PCR, and flow cytometry. Interestingly, analysis of the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) public data showed that MGAT4A expression is significantly lower in APL patients, and higher MGAT4A expression was associated with favorable survival in AML cohorts. To address the role of GnT-IVa in differentiation, we established MGAT4A- and MGAT4B-knockout (KO) NB4 cell lines using CRISPR/Cas9. Compared to WT/ATRA cells, MGAT4A KO, but not MGAT4B KO, markedly suppressed ATRA-induced differentiation, as evidenced by reduced expression of CD11b and CD11c. We found that CD11b is a major glycoprotein carrying β1,4-GlcNAc-branched N-glycans. This modification enhanced CD11b stability, as CD11b expression declined more rapidly in MGAT4A KO cells in the presence of cycloheximide. In addition, MGAT4A KO suppressed ERK/MAPK signaling, which contributed to differentiation. Our study highlights the critical role of GnT-IVa in regulating APL differentiation, which may provide a basis for developing new differentiation therapies for APL.
Minor zygotic genome activation (ZGA) is crucial for early development and totipotency acquisition; however, the regulatory mechanisms controlling minor ZGA gene expression remain elusive. Here, we show that mouse minor ZGA is driven by spatiotemporally dynamic regulation of H3K9 dimethylation (H3K9me2). H3K9me2 levels at the minor ZGA gene loci are reduced at the early two-cell stage and are reestablished by the morula stage. Maternal depletion of the H3K9 demethylases KDM3A and KDM3B leads to increased H3K9me2 levels and impaired minor ZGA at the early two-cell, followed by arrest at the two-cell to four-cell stage. In mouse embryonic stem cells, H3K9 at the minor ZGA loci is dimethylated. Combined loss of the H3K9 methyltransferases G9a and SETDB1 results in the synergistic derepression of minor ZGA genes. Mechanistically, SETDB1 targets the transcriptional factor Dux, while G9a broadly represses minor ZGA genes through H3K9me2 deposition linked to lamina-associated heterochromatin formation. Therefore, H3K9me2 dynamics are unveiled as an important regulator of minor ZGA, highlighting the indispensable role of epigenetic control in early embryogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42568100 is a review article
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has a poor prognosis and limited treatment options. This study investigated the role and mechanism of Jiedu Xiaozheng Yin (JXY) in HCC using network pharmacology and in vivo/in vitro experiments. Active components of JXY and their potential therapeutic targets for HCC were identified via network pharmacology. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed to identify core targets, and bioinformatics analysis confirmed their association with HCC. LC-MS/MS was used to isolate major components, which were then subjected to molecular docking with core targets. The effects of JXY on HCC were further validated through in vivo and in vitro experiments. Analysis of 171 core target genes was performed using PPI network screening and enrichment analysis. Quercetin was identified as the primary active component of JXY. Molecular docking confirmed its interaction with CYP1A2, which is overexpressed in HCC tissues. In vivo, JXY and quercetin significantly increased CYP1A2 and PTEN expression, while decreasing p-PI3K and p-Akt levels in HCC-bearing mice, thereby suppressing tumor growth and lung metastasis and promoting apoptosis. In vitro, both JXY and quercetin inhibited HCC cell proliferation and migration. CYP1A2 knockdown partially reversed, while its overexpression enhanced, these inhibitory effects. Quercetin, the main active component of JXY, upregulates CYP1A2 to promote PTEN expression, thereby inhibiting the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway and suppressing HCC progression.© 2026. The Society for In Vitro Biology.
The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of many drugs vary with the time of administration, reflecting circadian rhythms in drug-target sensitivity and in drug concentrations at target sites. Cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4), which metabolizes approximately half of all clinically used drugs, exhibits circadian oscillations in expression and activity driven in part by transcriptional regulation via the clock output factors DBP and E4BP4. However, the amplitude of its enzymatic activity substantially exceeds that of its mRNA, implying additional post-transcriptional control, but the underlying mechanism remains largely unknown. Herein, we report that the endoplasmic reticulum-associated E3 ubiquitin ligase gp78 acts as a key regulator of circadian CYP3A4 activity in human hepatocytes. In clock-synchronized HepaRG cells, CYP3A4 protein and enzymatic activity oscillated in phase despite the absence of mRNA rhythms. Using HepaRG cells stably expressing CYP3A4 from a constitutive CMV promoter, CYP3A4 protein stability varied with the time of day, further supporting post-transcriptional control of its circadian rhythm. The protein levels of gp78 oscillated antiphasic to those of CYP3A4, and overexpression of wild-type gp78, but not its catalytically inactive RING-finger mutant, reduced CYP3A4 levels and abolished the rhythmicity, indicating that the ubiquitin ligase activity of gp78 is required for rhythmic CYP3A4 degradation. Our findings reveal gp78-mediated proteolysis as a key contributor to circadian CYP3A4 activity and provide a mechanistic basis for the dosing-time dependence of CYP3A4 substrate pharmacokinetics.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566738 is a review article
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 37018437
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 37018436
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566613 is a review article
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is a prevalent and life-threatening liver disease with limited effective therapies, necessitating the urgent identification of previously unidentified molecular targets and effective pharmacologic agents. This study identifies aldo-keto reductase family 1 member B10 (AKR1B10) as the MASH hallmark, showing elevated expression in patient tissues and serum, correlating strongly with disease severity. Genetic ablation of Akr1b10 in mice significantly attenuated high-fat/high-cholesterol (HFHC) diet-induced steatosis, inflammation, and fibrosis. Mechanistically, we found that tripartite motif protein 29 (TRIM29) functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase that directly binds AKR1B10, promoting its ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation, which ameliorates MASH progressions. Furthermore, the natural compound coptisine (COP) allosterically facilitated TRIM29-AKR1B10 interaction, accelerating AKR1B10 degradation and showing improved efficacy in MASH mice. Moreover, Trim29 overexpression enhances COP-mediated symptoms alleviation. Our findings delineate the TRIM29/AKR1B10 axis as a druggable signaling pathway and identify COP as a promising therapeutic candidate for MASH.
Amodiaquine (AQ), an antimalarial drug, is metabolized by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) to quinoneimine forms, which are proposed to cause liver injury; however, the underlying mechanism remains unclear. Ferroptosis, a type of regulated cell death driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, has been implicated in certain cases of drug-induced liver injury. Arylacetamide deacetylase (AADAC), a drug-metabolizing hydrolase, regulates hepatic iron homeostasis through non-enzymatic mechanisms and may protect against ferroptosis-associated drug-induced liver injury. This study aimed to elucidate the involvement of ferroptosis in AQ-induced liver injury and to assess the impact of AADAC deficiency. Oral administration of 150 mg/kg AQ with l-buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine, a glutathione synthesis inhibitor, induced liver injury in 42% of female C57BL/6J mice, as indicated by plasma alanine aminotransferase levels exceeding 1,000 U/L-these were defined as high-responders. Pretreatment with either a P450 inhibitor (1-aminobenzotriazole) or a ferroptosis inhibitor (deferoxamine) resulted in no mice with high plasma alanine aminotransferase levels by AQ treatment, suggesting that quinoneimine formations lead to ferroptosis-associated liver injury. Furthermore, Aadac knockout mice had a higher proportion of high-responders compared to wild-type mice, reinforcing the involvement of ferroptosis in AQ-induced liver injury. In human hepatocarcinoma-derived HepG2 cells overexpressing CYP3A4, pretreatment with deferoxamine effectively prevented AQ-induced cytotoxicity. Overexpression of AADAC also attenuated AQ-induced cytotoxicity in CYP3A4-expressing HepG2 cells, indicating a protective role for AADAC against AQ-induced ferroptosis in humans. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that AQ-induced liver injury is mediated by ferroptosis through P450-dependent metabolism and highlights a protective function of AADAC against AQ-induced ferroptosis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Fine particulate matter (PM2.5), a prevalent air pollutant, reaches pulmonary alveoli and triggers lung inflammation and systemic vascular dysfunction. The alveolar-vascular barrier enables local lung damage to spread to endothelium through soluble factors, making this model fit to analyze lung-systemic interactions. TNF-α and EGF separately dominate inflammatory cascades and endothelial regulation, yet their combined effects during PM2.5 toxicity are unclear. This research constructed a 3D alveolar-vascular barrier model with BEAS-2B, THP-1, and EA. hy926 cells were treated with 0 or 100 μg/mL SRM2786 PM2.5 for 24 h. PM2.5 enters alveolar epithelial cells via endocytosis, causing mitochondrial damage, cell apoptosis, and upregulated TNF-α, EGF, IL-8, TGF-α, and IL-1β. Extracellular TNF-α and EGF cross the barrier and activate the endothelial PI3K-Akt pathway. Increased Nrf2 and CYP1A1 verify progressive oxidative stress. This study illustrates inflammation- and oxidation-dependent crosstalk between alveolar injury and endothelial impairment, clarifying PM2.5 toxic mechanisms and aiding environmental toxicology studies and drug screening.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
An immune-competent, metabolically active gut-liver microphysiological platform (iGLoC) was engineered to investigate the pharmacokinetics, metabolism, hepatotoxicity, and drug-drug interaction (DDI) liabilities of the oral CDK4/6 inhibitor abemaciclib. The system integrates a mucus-secreting Caco-2/HT-29 intestinal epithelium co-cultured with THP-1-derived macrophages and 3D HepG2 spheroids in interconnected PMMA/PDMS microfluidic chips linked by a controlled-flow bridging channel. Intestinal barrier morphology, tight-junction integrity, transepithelial electrical resistance, P-glycoprotein transport, and paracellular permeability were functionally validated, while hepatic spheroids exhibited stable albumin and urea secretion and pharmacologically inducible CYP3A4 activity relative to 2D HepG2 monolayers, while remaining less CYP3A4-competent than primary hepatocytes. Following apical dosing with abemaciclib, serial sampling from apical, basolateral, and hepatic chambers combined with a validated UPLC-MS/MS assay enabled time-resolved quantification of parent drug and major metabolites (M2, M20). The platform reproduced an oral-like disposition profile characterized by luminal depletion, a transient basolateral peak, and delayed hepatic appearance, along with formation of clinically relevant metabolites. Pre-treatment with rifampicin (CYP3A4/P-gp inducer) or clarithromycin (CYP3A4/P-gp inhibitor) and induction of colitis-like injury with dextran sulfate sodium generated distinct, mechanistically consistent alterations in intestinal permeability, metabolite output, and hepatic exposure that mirrored reported clinical DDIs and inflammation-associated variability. Abemaciclib also elicited concentration-dependent hepatocellular injury and modulation of gut-immune cytokine responses at clinically relevant levels. iGLoC innovates through immune-competent gut-liver integration under flow, quantitative clinical PK validation for abemaciclib, and mechanistic resolution of CYP3A4/P-gp DDIs and inflammation effects. Collectively, these data demonstrate that iGLoC represents a human-relevant organ-on-a-chip platform capable of evaluating oral bioavailability, first-pass metabolism, metabolite formation, hepatotoxicity, and drug interaction potential. The system shows promise for preclinical assessment of small-molecule therapeutics, including those used in precision oncology applications.
Ovine species inhabiting harsh environments frequently develop enhanced functional adaptations. This study aims to (1) characterize rumen epithelial modifications in lactating Hulunbeier ewes under alpine conditions, and (2) elucidate how these adaptive responses are modulated by micronutrient supplementation and varying concentrate feed levels. Thirty lactating Hulunbeier ewes were randomly assigned to one of the three dietary groups and fed the same roughages with one of the following concentrates: 1) 550 g/d of local concentrate (LF) as the control, 2) 550 g/d of formulated concentrate (FF), and 3) 700 g/d of formulated concentrate (FS). Daily feed intake were recorded, and rumen epithelial tissues were collected for transcriptome analysis after slaughter on day 37 of the experiment. Transcriptomic analyses were performed on a subset of 11 ewes (LF, n = 4; FF, n = 4; FS, n = 3). No independent qPCR validation was conducted; results are therefore preliminary. In the exploratory cross-breed comparison, Hulunbeier sheep showed a suggestive trend toward enhanced expression of energy metabolism genes (ATP5MC2, ATP5PO, UQCRH) and genes encoding mitochondrial respiratory chain components relative to lowland Hu sheep. Supplementation with micronutrient premix upregulated key detoxification genes (CYP1A1, LOC101119706) and modulated immune-related pathways. In contrast, high concentrate levels promoted biosynthetic processes while suppressing cellular signaling functions. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis further indicated activation of thermogenesis pathways in the high-concentrate group, accompanied by altered expression of electron transport chain genes. PPARA may be involved in volatile fatty acid metabolism in response to micronutrient supplementation, but this requires direct experimental testing. Collectively, with the caveat of small sample size and lack of qPCR validation, these pilot-scale transcriptomic findings generate hypotheses that may underlie nutritional modulation of rumen function in alpine-adapted sheep; however, further validation with larger sample sizes and correlated phenotypic measurements is warranted. These results provide preliminary insights for developing targeted nutritional strategies to enhance ruminant production in breeds adapted to extreme environments.© 2026. The Author(s).
The role of the Maillard reaction in shaping dried abalone quality during drying was investigated. During the drying process, a progressive increase in browning intensity and in the color parameters ΔE and BI was observed in abalone muscle. SDS-PAGE analysis revealed aggregation of proteins such as myosin heavy chain, while PAS staining confirmed the formation of glycoprotein polymers. CD spectroscopy analysis indicated that the reaction led to a reduction in α-helix content from 29.89% to 6.52%, alongside increases in β-sheet and random coil contents to 48.52% and 28.48%, respectively, accompanied by a marked decrease in intrinsic fluorescence intensity. Dynamic substrate analysis showed significant reductions in glucose and key amino acids, including Glu, Lys, and Phe, facilitating the generation and accumulation of 18 Amadori and Heyns compounds. Seven compounds of Fru-Tyr, Fru-Phe, Glu-Met, Fru-pGlu, Fru-Lys, Glu-Gln, and Fru-Val, were identified as characteristic biomarkers of dried abalone through principal component analysis. A predictive model based on near-infrared spectroscopy and partial least squares regression achieved high predictive accuracy for these seven markers, with determination coefficients exceeding 0.90 and root mean square errors of prediction below 0.20. These findings demonstrate that the Maillard reaction induces protein glycation in abalone muscle, accompanied by the accumulation of Amadori/Heyns compounds, providing a theoretical basis for quality precise control in dried abalone processing.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Protein-polysaccharide conjugate systems have garnered significant attention due to their ability to remodel antioxidant and stability functions in food systems through conformational rearrangement and supramolecular assembly. This study constructed STP-polysaccharide conjugates using sheep testis protein hydrolysate (STP) as the substrate with polysaccharide in Cistanche (CIP), Astragalus (ASP), and Angelica (ANP), respectively, to systematically elucidate the relationship between structural variation, dominant interaction forces, and functional properties. Multispectral analysis revealed that the coupling effect significantly altered the structure, with functionally relevant hydrophobic groups and Tyr/Trp residues being either exposed or buried. Mechanistic analysis indicated that hydrophobic interactions, hydrogen bonds, and electrostatic interactions collectively drove the assembly and stabilization of the STP-polysaccharide system, with their contributions influenced by polysaccharide type. Functional evaluation indicates that, after conjugation, the DPPH free radical scavenging rate of STP-CIP increased to 89.39%. In vitro digestion and storage stability studies demonstrated that after polysaccharide conjugation, the digestibility index increased to over 75.18%, and the decrease of α-helix during storage was slowed, regulating the structural integrity of the system. These findings provide a basis for the structure-interaction-function oriented design of animal-derived protease hydrolysate-plant polysaccharide conjugate systems, offering references for developing multifunctional food ingredients with both antioxidant properties and stability.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH) pathway is an enzymatic pathway focused primarily on the hydroxylation of the amino acid L-phenylalanine (Phe) to L-tyrosine (Tyr). However, the functioning of this pathway can also have significant impacts on other downstream metabolites. In addition, both common and rare genetic variants have been demonstrated to significantly impair PAH pathway function. However, to our knowledge, the comprehensive PAH pathway including influences on related downstream metabolic pathways has not been mapped in an integrative manner. As such, we conducted a narrative review of the literature to describe the comprehensive PAH pathway, including influences on downstream related metabolic pathways, while mapping a visual depiction of these integrative processes. In addition to the hydroxylation of Phe to Tyr, the comprehensive pathway narrative describes Phe metabolism and transport across the blood brain barrier including competition with other large neutral amino acids, Tyr catabolism, and others. Discussion of the importance of these metabolic processes in the context of PAH genetic variation are also provided. With an increased focus on conducting health research from a systems biology perspective, this work is critical to improving our understanding of the downstream effects of amino acid metabolism and their possible impacts on health outcomes.
Photosystem II (PS II) sustains the biosphere by enabling oxygen evolution in the S3-to-S0 transition (duration ~1-2 ms) of its catalytic cycle. Using time-resolved Mn Kβ X-ray emission spectroscopy, we observed spectroscopic changes (which were unimpeded in D2O buffer) consistent with a modified electronic structure as early as ~50 μs in the transition. These changes are consistent with the reduction of the Mn centers at the ~50-200 μs time window in H2O and at ~50-500 μs in D2O, ahead of the reduction of the redox-active TyrZ•+. These results indicate the multi-step nature of O-O bond formation and O2 release by the oxygen-evolving complex (OEC), where an O-O bond is most likely formed prior to the final electron-transfer step. The D2O-induced extension of up to ~500 μs in the lifetime of the early transient state of a possible peroxo nature opens it up to further spectroscopic and structural analysis.
Dopamine and noradrenaline have conserved roles in control of physiology and behaviors of vertebrates. However, vertebrate genetic models completely devoid of catecholamines are not available. We generated genetically catecholamine-free zebrafish larvae by combining mutations in all three genes involved in L-DOPA biosynthesis: the tyrosine hydroxylase genes th and th2, and tyrosinase tyr. Here we show that catecholamine-deficient 5 day-old zebrafish larvae are viable and develop an anatomically normal nervous system, including the full complement of catecholaminergic neuron somata and projections. In contrast, selected physiological functions that depend on catecholamines are impaired, including hatching and heart rate regulation upon temperature challenges. Spontaneous locomotion and optomotor behaviors are also impaired. Despite the changes observed, it is surprising that larvae develop a largely normal behavioral repertoire. Our model will be useful to investigate the activities of additional neurotransmitters expressed in catecholaminergic neurons, and how physiology and neural circuit function are regulated in the absence of catecholamines.© 2026. The Author(s).
α-Synuclein (αSyn) is a major component of pathogenic Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites and is closely associated with Parkinson's disease. Among the various posttranslational modifications of αSyn, several have been implicated in the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons and are thought to promote Parkinson's disease through enhanced misfolding, aggregation, and accumulation of αSyn. Two such modifications, phosphorylation at Ser129 (S129Phos) and hydroxylation at Tyr136 (Y136DOPA), exert distinct effects on αSyn aggregation: S129Phos has been reported to either inhibit or promote aggregation, whereas Y136DOPA induces the formation of short oligomeric species. To gain insight into the molecular basis underlying the initiation of αSyn multimerization, we semisynthesized αSyn carrying either S129Phos or Y136DOPA and prepared recombinant unmodified full-length αSyn as a control. Vacuum-ultraviolet circular dichroism (VUVCD) spectroscopy revealed that these αSyn variants in their monomeric states possessed essentially identical secondary structures. These results suggest that the modifications themselves do not induce significant secondary structural changes in monomeric αSyn.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Peptide Science published by European Peptide Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Phosphoprotein phosphatase 1 (PP1) forms holoenzymes composed of a catalytic subunit (PP1c) and one or two of over 200 regulatory subunits (PP1Rs). Humans express four conserved PP1c isoforms: PP1cα, PP1cβ/δ, and splice variants PP1cγ1 and PP1cγ2. To systematically characterize PP1c isoform-specific interactions, we employed mass spectrometry to identify PP1cα, PP1cβ, and PP1cγ interacting proteins, determine their isoform specificity, and assess and quantify their abundance within the PP1 holoenzyme pool. Our data shows that PP1c forms hundreds of dimeric and trimeric holoenzymes, but the 10 most abundant PP1Rs make up 74% of PP1 holoenzymes, and they are highly uniform among PP1c isoforms. A key exception are myosin phosphatase N-terminal element (MyPhoNE)-containing PP1Rs, which form abundant holoenzyme complexes exclusively with PP1cβ. To define the determinants of MYPT1-PP1cβ specificity, we systematically assessed the contributions of MYPT1-PP1cβ interactions. First, we generated PP1cβ-PP1cγ chimeras and PP1cβ Tyr 305/Tyr307 point mutations to test the contribution of the PP1 C-terminal residues, and secondly, we used PP1cβ Thr197Gln (T197Q) mutation to test the effect of the MYPT1:MyPhoNE-specific interaction. Using genome editing, we demonstrate that PP1cβ T197Q-expressing cells exhibit altered PP1 holoenzyme composition and phosphorylation signaling, including increased phosphorylation of the Polo-like kinase 1 (Plk1) activation loop. Our studies further the understanding of the PP1c isoform-specific preference and demonstrate how a single amino acid change can alter PP1 holoenzyme composition and phosphorylation signaling, potentially explaining how recently discovered PP1cβ clinical variants impact PP1 biology.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The aim of this retrospective study is to analyze the outcome and survival of patients with well-differentiated metastatic neuroendocrine neoplasm (NEN) treated with peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT).The treatment was applied to 32 subjects, 18 men and 14 women, aged 39-79 years (median 65 years). The dominant grade of the tumor according to the Ki-67 index was G2 (75%) compared to G1 (25%). The average number of three-day protocol PRRT cycles was 4 (1.00-9.00). Lutetium-177- DOTA0,Tyr3,Thr8-octreotide (177Lu-DOTA-TATE) was used in 22 (69%), both 177Lu-DOTA-TATE and yttrium-90-DOTA0,Tyr3-octreotide (90Y-DOTA-TOC) in 8 (25%), and 90Y-DOTA-TOC in 2 (6%) patients. No adverse effects of PRRT were recorded excerpt one patient who has died soon after the first therapy due to ileus after surgery.Response to PRRT according to response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) 1.1. criteria showed that 9 (28%) patients had disease progression, 16 (50%) had stable disease, and 7 (22%) had partial remission. Significantly shorter time until progression or death of 18 months was detected for patients with disease progression than for other groups with stable disease (34.5 months, P<0.02) and partial remission (35 months, P<0.05). However, the values obtained for overall survival were not significantly different between the studied groups being 33 months in subjects with disease progression, and 34.5 and 35 months in groups with stable disease and partial remission, respectively. In 6 subjects, an asymptomatic low hemoglobin level was detected that did not require intervention (Grade1). In 2 subjects, nephrotoxicity occurred with glomerular filtration rate (GFR) values below 30mL/min/1.73m2 (Grade3).It can be concluded that PRRT according to a three-day nephroprotection protocol is a reliable and safe method of treatment for advanced NEN. Longer time to disease progression and overall survival in most patients underline the great potential of this treatment method in patients with advanced NEN.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552418 is a review article
To investigate the impact of decentralisation on communication, trust and professional relationships in the context of clinical trials and to identify practical strategies to support coordination and oversight in decentralised clinical trials (DCTs).Qualitative interview study using semi-structured interviews and thematic analysis.International decentralised and hybrid clinical trials conducted across multiple therapeutic areas and healthcare contexts.Thirty-one stakeholders involved in the design and delivery of DCTs, including investigators, trial managers, administrators, industry personnel and service vendors.Participants were purposively sampled from a series of DCT case studies. Semi-structured interviews were conducted via videoconferencing, audio-recorded and transcribed verbatim. Data were analysed using a thematic framework approach to identify themes relevant to communication, coordination and trial oversight. Reporting followed the Standards for Reporting Qualitative Research guidelines.Three interrelated themes were identified. First, DCTs operate as complex networks of formal and informal connections through which information, responsibilities and decisions flow. Second, effective communication and trust-building were viewed as central to participant safety, protocol adherence and collaboration, but were more difficult to establish in remote trial contexts. Third, unclear roles and responsibilities contributed to communication delays, coordination challenges and increased operational risk. Participants highlighted the value of proactively clarifying responsibilities and communication pathways during trial set-up and delivery. A social network perspective was identified as a useful heuristic tool for understanding these dynamics.DCTs place increased demands on communication, coordination and relationship-building across distributed teams. Proactively clarifying roles, responsibilities and communication pathways may support more effective trial delivery and oversight. Although focused on DCTs, these findings are relevant to other digitally mediated and multi-stakeholder models of health research delivery.N/A.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562886 is a review article
Calcium channel blockers (CCBs) show notable interindividual variability in antihypertensive response. This study evaluated the association of a pharmacogenomics (PGx)-guided antihypertensive strategy incorporating CACNA1C rs2238032 and CYP3A5 rs776746 with short-term blood pressure (BP) outcomes among Chinese patients with hypertension receiving CCB-containing regimens.This secondary exploratory analysis included patients receiving CCB-containing regimens from two previously completed multicenter randomized cohorts conducted in Hunan and Fujian provinces, China. The Hunan cohort assessed a 4-week PGx-guided strategy combined with structured management, while the Fujian cohort evaluated genotype-guided treatment during 4-8 weeks after an initial standardized management phase. The primary endpoint was BP control at the last follow-up; secondary endpoints included changes in systolic BP (SBP) and diastolic BP (DBP), medication use, and short-term safety outcomes. Multivariable regression models were used to adjust for prespecified clinical covariates.A total of 4608 patients in Hunan and 418 patients in Fujian were included. In the Hunan cohort, the genotype-guided group had higher 4‑week BP control (81.83% vs 25.07%; adjusted OR = 14.56, P < 0.001) and greater SBP/DBP decreases. In the Fujian cohort, genotype-guided therapy was associated with higher 8‑week BP control (81.74% vs 77.39%; adjusted OR = 2.43, P = 0.003) and greater DBP decrease. Associations were stronger among patients whose BP remained uncontrolled after standardized management. No short-term safety concerns were identified.A genotype-guided antihypertensive strategy incorporating CCB-related PGx information, including CACNA1C rs2238032 and CYP3A5 rs776746, was associated with improved short-term BP control among Chinese patients with hypertension receiving CCB-containing regimens, without an apparent short-term safety disadvantage. However, these findings should be interpreted as exploratory associations rather than proof of causal benefit. Further prospective randomized studies are needed to confirm these findings.© 2026 Deng et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552400 is a review article
Chemotherapy-related toxicities remain a major barrier to optimal outcomes in pediatric cancer care in low-resource settings. Genetic variation in drug-metabolizing and transport pathways contributes to interindividual differences in toxicity risk; however, pharmacogenomic data from African pediatric populations are limited. This study assessed the distribution of selected pharmacogenomic variants and chemotherapy-related toxicities profiles in Tanzanian children with cancer.A cross-sectional study was conducted among 155 pediatric patients with cancer (1-17 years) receiving chemotherapy at Bugando Medical Centre, Tanzania. Clinical data, clinician-reported toxicities, and patient-reported outcomes were collected. Eleven pharmacogenomic variants in genes involved in drug metabolism, transport, and detoxification pathways (CYP3A5, SLC19A1, TPMT, NUDT15, GSTP1, NCF4, CYBA, and CEP72), selected based on prior evidence of functional relevance and reported associations with chemotherapy response, were genotyped using the Agena MassARRAY® platform. Toxicities were graded using CTCAE version 5.0.Hematologic toxicities, including anemia (50.3%) and leukopenia (37.4%), and mucocutaneous toxicities such as alopecia (38.1%) and oral ulcers (24.5%) were common. Reduced muscle strength was observed in 78.1% of patients. Reduced-function CYP3A5 variants were frequent (CYP3A5*6: 38.1%; CYP3A5*3: 27.7%). Variants in GSTP1 rs1695 (MAF 0.46), CYBA rs4673 (MAF 0.44), and SLC19A1 rs1051296 (MAF 0.49) demonstrated substantial variability, indicating potential interindividual differences in drug metabolism and transport. However, no genotype-toxicity associations were assessed in this study.This study provides baseline data on pharmacogenomic variability among Tanzanian pediatric patients with cancer. The observed genetic diversity in pharmacogenes involved in drug metabolism and transport may be relevant to variability in chemotherapy-related toxicities, as reported in previous studies. These findings highlight the need for further research to evaluate genotype-toxicity relationships and to inform the future integration of pharmacogenomics into pediatric oncology care in resource-limited settings.Copyright © 2026 Katabalo, Fundo, Minja, Kashaigiri, Mwita, Liwa, Schroeder and Kidenya.
To develop and externally validate a liquid neural network (LNN)-based model for predicting peri-procedural hypoglycemia in hospitalized patients undergoing colonoscopy, and to develop a cross-platform web application integrating real-time SHAP-based interpretability analysis.A total of 719 hospitalized patients undergoing colonoscopy were retrospectively enrolled from Changshu No.1 People's Hospital and Changshu Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital between January and December 2025, with peri-procedural hypoglycemia as the outcome and 28 candidate variables. Internal validation was performed using stratified five-fold cross-validation combined with out-of-fold (OOF) prediction, and LASSO feature selection and SMOTE class balancing were carried out within the training folds. Logistic regression (LR), decision tree (DCT), random forest (RF), extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost), and LNN models were constructed, and model performance was evaluated in terms of discrimination, calibration, and clinical utility; SHAP was used for global and individualized interpretation, and a web application was developed using Python-Streamlit.The incidence of peri-procedural hypoglycemia was 15.2%. LASSO selected seven features: bowel preparation solution volume, sex, fasting duration, nutritional risk, insulin use, history of diabetes mellitus, and albumin. After SMOTE, the internal-validation AUCs in descending order were LNN 0.851 (95% CI: 0.804-0.893), RF 0.831, XGBoost 0.829, LR 0.765, and DCT 0.750; LNN simultaneously showed the best sensitivity-specificity balance (76.83%/85.50%) and the lowest Brier score (0.116), and decision curve analysis showed the highest net benefit across the 0.05-0.55 threshold range. The LNN-based web application achieved an AUC of 0.848 (95% CI: 0.758-0.921) in the external validation set of 168 patients, with a sensitivity of 74.07%, a specificity of 86.52%, and a negative predictive value of 94.57%; SHAP analysis identified nutritional risk (mean |SHAP| = 0.689), albumin (0.480), and sex (0.431) as the principal predictors.The LNN-based model can effectively assess the risk of peri-procedural hypoglycemia in hospitalized patients undergoing colonoscopy and maintained good predictive performance in external validation; the web application integrating real-time SHAP interpretation provides convenient, interpretable, individualized risk assessment, offering support for early screening and intervention decision-making. A publicly accessible demonstration of the web application is available at https://ml-model-for-hypoglycemia.streamlit.app/.Copyright © 2026 Xu, Zhao, Wang, Xia, Ding and Chen.
Pharmacogenomic (PGx) data in Thailand remain limited, and genetics-only surveys rarely quantify "realized actionability"-the overlap between actionable PGx phenotypes and real-world medication exposure. We profiled 4,662 Thai adults using SNP-array data and a pre-specified PGx panel (11 genes; 26 markers) with a hybrid required/optional calling policy for diplotype/phenotype assignment. CPIC level A/B gene-drug relationships were linked to hospital electronic medical record (EMR) prescription/dispensation data to quantify drug-specific realized actionability. Overall callability across gene-results was 98.62%, exceeding 99% for most genes and lower for CYP2C19 (95.99%) and NUDT15 (90.28%). Across nine phenotype-coded genes, 95.99% carried ≥1 CPIC-actionable result (median 2; IQR 2-3). Actionable prevalence among callable individuals was highest for CYP3A5 (58.54%) and CYP2C19 (56.67%), followed by ABCG2 (45.10%) and UGT1A1 (27.37%). EMR linkage identified 1,529 (32.58%) participants exposed to ≥1 study medication; omeprazole (n = 658) and statins were most common (atorvastatin n = 606; simvastatin n = 603). Among users, actionable phenotypes were frequent for CYP2C19-omeprazole (55.02%) and SLCO1B1-statins (21.95-23.05%). In conclusion, an Asian-optimized SNP array supports scalable PGx phenotyping in Thai adults. EMR linkage quantifies realized actionability and highlights high-yield targets (CYP2C19-proton pump inhibitors; SLCO1B1-statins) for pre-emptive implementation.Copyright: © 2026 Pasookhush et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42538168 is a review article
Deep learning models for medical image classification typically rely on millions of parameters or extensive pretraining, limiting deployment in resource-constrained settings. We investigate whether a hybrid quantum-classical architecture can achieve competitive diagnostic performance with extreme parameter efficiency and superior stability compared to lightweight classical counterparts.We propose the hierarchical quantum discrete cosine transform (H-QDCT), a lightweight pipeline combining classical patch-based preprocessing with quantum frequency-domain feature extraction. Images are partitioned into patches, amplitude-embedded into quantum states, and transformed via a quantum DCT that reorganizes information by spatial frequency. A hierarchical variational ansatz processes structural (low-frequency) and textural (high-frequency) components in disjoint qubits subspaces before global fusion. We evaluate H-QDCT on six clinically binarized MedMNIST datasets under grayscale constraints against both heavy and lightweight classical baselines.H-QDCT achieves competitive performance with only 1726 parameters, exceeding a 99.98% reduction compared to ResNet-18 (11.2M parameters). On PneumoniaMNIST, the model attains an AUC of 0.90, approaching the 0.93 of pretrained ResNet-18. Crucially, H-QDCT demonstrates superior robustness in data-scarce regimes: While the lightweight vision transformer (Tiny-ViT) collapsed to the majority class on DermaMNIST (F1 =0.00 ) and BloodMNIST (F1 =0.06 ), H-QDCT retained learnability on BloodMNIST (F1 up to 0.22) with stable convergence. Beyond binary screening, the architecture extends natively to multi-class differential diagnosis (from K=2 to K=9 ) without mode collapse, and on PneumoniaMNIST and PathMNIST its compact encoder surpasses a from-scratch ViT-B/16 ( ∼ 86 M parameters) in macro-F1 while using under 1,000 trainable parameters. The architecture operates entirely on grayscale inputs, confirming its reliance on morphological semantics rather than color bias.H-QDCT demonstrates that quantum spectral feature extraction achieves clinically meaningful classification with orders-of-magnitude parameter reduction. By mitigating the convergence instability inherent in small-scale classical transformers, H-QDCT establishes a robust design principle for compact, frequency-aware medical diagnostics on near-term quantum hardware.© 2026. CARS.
The intestine plays essential roles in digestion, immunity, and metabolism, but is highly sensitive to ionizing radiation during cancer treatment or environmental exposure. Although three-dimensional intestinal models more accurately replicate tissue architecture than conventional monolayers, they are frequently limited by insufficient oxygen delivery, leading to hypoxia-associated functional impairment. Incorporating physiologically relevant oxygenation strategies remains a key challenge in advanced in vitro systems. This study aimed to establish a physiologically relevant in vitro intestinal model by improving oxygen mass transfer within three-dimensional tissue constructs, thereby enhancing structural organization and functional maturation, and subsequently applying the system to investigate radiation-related mechanisms and evaluate potential protective agents.Based on a microengineered 3D cell-assembly platform, intestinal epithelial cells, endothelial cells, and fibroblasts were spatially organized to form a structured intestinal tissue model. The composition of the cells was optimised to improve tissue uniformity and the function of the epithelial barrier. To alleviate hypoxia in the three-dimensional construct, an oxygen-permeable microwell system was employed to enhance oxygen diffusion and promote epithelial differentiation, as evidenced by the upregulation of Isx, Cyp3a5, and Tff3. A vascularized chip that recapitulated the in vivo intestinal-stromal-vascular interface was created by incorporating microvascular networks self-assembled from endothelial cells within a hydrogel matrix.Following radiation exposure, the model exhibited characteristic symptoms of intestinal injury, such as decreased cell viability, impaired E-cadherin signaling, and compromised epithelial barrier integrity. Treatment with dimethyloxalylglycine (DMOG) mitigated these effects, confirming it's utility for assessing radioprotective drugs.This vascularized intestinal-on-a-chip model closely mimics the structure and function of the human intestinal microenvironment. It serves as a robust in vitro platform for studying radiation-induced intestinal injury and for screening candidate protective agents, offering valuable applications in radiation protection and regenerative medicine research.Copyright © 2026 Guo, Fu and Pang.
Prolificacy and coat color are key economic traits influencing sheep production. This study evaluated a reduced panel of 48 SNPs previously associated with these traits and assessed its applicability to locally adapted Brazilian sheep breeds. A total of 1152 samples from 15 breeds, conserved in situ at conservation nuclei and ex situ in the Brazilian Animal Germplasm Bank, were genotyped. Allelic, genotypic, and haplotypic frequencies were estimated to compare genetic variability between in situ and ex situ populations. Additionally, linkage disequilibrium (LD) among SNPs within GDF9, a key gene associated with prolificacy, was evaluated across local breeds, revealing strong LD among specific markers. The results highlight the importance of the FecGE (GDF9) variant for prolificacy in hair sheep, confirming the presence of mutant allele E in prolific breeds, such as Santa Inês and Morada Nova, and identifying, for the first time, a high frequency of such allele in the Brazilian Blackbelly, which provides new insights into the genetic basis of this prolific hair breed. Other prolificacy-related genes, BMP15 and BMPR1B, appear to have no functional role in locally adapted breeds, as initially hypothesized, considering genetic differences among European and tropical sheep. Allelic and genotypic variation in ASIP, MC1R, TYRP1, and MITF genes reflected differences between wool and hair sheep and between local and commercial breeds. Overall, the results indicate that the germplasm bank effectively preserves in situ diversity. In conclusion, the reduced SNP panel efficiently genotyped Brazilian sheep for prolificacy and coat color SNPs, confirming which markers are present and segregating in these breeds. However, its utility could be improved by removing markers of limited relevance in the targeted breeds.
Liancheng white ducks have a distinctive "white feathers, black beak, and green feet" phenotype, making them a useful model for studying pigmentation traits in waterfowl. The previous study found that the F1 generation of Liancheng white ducks crossed with white-feathered ducks and hemp-feathered ducks were all gray-black in color. This indicates the specificity and complexity of melanin deposition in Liancheng white ducks, which makes the selection and breeding of pigment traits through phenotyping difficult. The aim of this study was to investigate the candidate transcriptomic regulatory signals of melanogenesis in Liancheng white ducks. Skin, mouth skin, foot skin, liver, and muscle samples were collected from 130-day-old Liancheng white ducks. Morphological differences were observed via histological analysis, and extraction-based pigment levels were determined. The results showed that melanin granules were clearly observed in tissues other than the liver and were distributed mainly in the basal layer of the epidermis and around feather follicles; the pigment values in the tissues decreased in the order mouth skin > liver > foot skin > muscle and skin. However, the relatively high liver value should be interpreted cautiously because obvious melanin granule deposition was not observed histologically. Whole-transcriptome sequencing was performed on mouth skin and skin samples. In total, 3074 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened; upregulated genes associated with melanogenesis included melanocyte inducing transcription factor (MITF) and tyrosinase (TYR); downregulated genes included agouti signaling protein (ASIP) and adenylate cyclase 2 (ADCY2). Eighteen differentially expressed microRNAs (DEmiRNAs) were identified. Based on target prediction and pathway enrichment analysis, novel_290 and apl-miR-11588-3p were identified as candidate miRNAs potentially associated with melanogenesis-related pathways, and their predicted target genes included phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and Janus kinase 1 (JAK1). Additionally, 364 differentially expressed long noncoding RNAs (DElncRNAs) were identified; TCONS_00063335 and TCONS_00019814 were identified as candidate lncRNAs potentially associated with melanogenesis-related genes, including TYR and TYRP1. A putative ceRNA network was constructed based on the predicted miRNA-mRNA and miRNA-lncRNA relationships, and ENSAPLT00000025522-apl-miR-11588-3p-MAPK8IP3 was identified as a candidate network relationship associated with MAPK-related pigmentation pathways. However, because this relationship was inferred mainly from bioinformatic prediction and expression association analysis, further functional validation is required to confirm whether it contributes to melanogenesis regulation. These findings provide candidate transcriptomic and noncoding RNA information for the further investigation of tissue-specific pigmentation in Liancheng white ducks.
Feather color is an important economic trait and genetic marker in domestic ducks, and its genetic architecture is critical for selective breeding. The Yunnan Partridge duck is an important conserved population in Yunnan Province, China, comprising three plumage color types: spotted, gray, and yellow partridge. However, research on its genetic basis remains limited. This study aimed to elucidate the genetic diversity, population structure, and the genetic basis of hatchling plumage color in the Yunnan Partridge duck. Based on whole-genome sequencing data, the genetic diversity, population structure, and selection signals of the Yunnan Partridge duck population were analyzed, with results as follows: the highest proportion (29.6%) exhibited a minor allele frequency between 0.1 and 0.2. The mean observed heterozygosity (Ho = 0.1993) was lower than the expected (He = 0.2909). IBS and NJ tree supported three genetic clusters. Analysis of runs of homozygosity detected 3,474 fragments, yielding a low mean genomic inbreeding coefficient (FROH) of 0.05493. Based on genome-wide association study (GWAS) analysis, a significant genetic signal associated with plumage color was identified on chromosome 21 within the 2.25-2.4 Mb region, with ASIP determined as the key candidate gene. LD analysis revealed a strong haplotype structure in this region, with the high-frequency haplotypes H1 and H2 (chr21:2334307-2337146) showing highly significant differentiation between speckled and gray-feathered populations, indicating they are the primary genetic determinants of plumage color. In summary, Yunnan Partridge duck exhibits moderate genetic diversity and a low level of inbreeding, with ASIP is the major gene, haplotypes H1 and H2 can distinguish spotted and gray plumage. These findings provide effective molecular markers and a genetic basis for the conservation and targeted breeding of plumage color in the Yunnan Partridge duck.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The development and implementation of scalable and efficient security solutions have become a critical area of focus in cybersecurity research and practice. This trend is receiving more attention lately due to the increasing frequency and sophistication of cyber threats to Internet of Things (IoT) networks. This paper proposes a novel cryptographic co-processor architecture based on RISC-V, designed to offer both high efficiency and flexibility for IoT applications. The design introduces a generic interface for cipher blocks, supports parallel execution of cipher operations, and avoids custom modifications to the RISC-V instruction set architecture. The proposed design extends the RISC-V architecture without new instruction sets to support AES-128 and SHA-256 operations, demonstrating its capabilities through these ciphering blocks. The new processor architecture ensures efficient data transfers between memory and cipher units, without delaying the processor pipeline, by utilizing Memory-Mapped I/O (MMIO) and Direct Memory Access (DMA) modules to optimize data handling. The proposed design is implemented and verified on the Xilinx ZCU-102 FPGA board using the Vivado 2022.2 tool. The proposed design achieves throughput rates of 8.2 Gbps for the AES-128 cipher block and 482 Mbps for the SHA-256 cipher block, operating at a relatively low system clock frequency of 64 MHz. The throughput is calculated based on the core cycle count of each algorithm, as this metric is commonly adopted in the literature. Nevertheless, the total end-to-end cycles of the proposed design equal the core cycles plus the serializer and deserializer cycles. The cycle count of the serializer/deserializer depends only on the processor's data bus width. Also, the total power consumption of the proposed design is 1.575 watts. Achieving such high throughput at this reduced frequency is significant as it helps designers better minimize the power consumption, thereby enhancing the overall energy efficiency and performance of the system.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to analyze the genetic diversity and population structure of alpacas in Germany, Switzerland, and Austria (German-speaking regions, GSR), and to compare with that of the country of origin of the species (Peru). 179 animals from GSR and 151 from Peru were genotyped with a species-specific 76k SNP array. The observed and expected heterozygosity was 0.305 and 0.311 for GSR, and 0.310 and 0.312 for Peru. The mean FROH values were 0.029 for GSR and 0.023 for Peru. In general, results show that breeders in both analyzed regions efficiently maintain genetic diversity. Principal component analysis identified the GSR and Peru populations as separate from each other, but the relative proximity of both clusters indicates the shared genetic heritage. FST and XPEHH methods identified genomic regions under selection for traits such as coat color and adaptation. Genome-wide association studies comparing black and brown with white or grey alpacas identified associated genome regions containing the ASIP and KIT genes, respectively. The association of a recently identified keratin locus on chromosome 16 with differences in fleece type in alpacas was confirmed, while the putative causality of a TRPV3 variant was rejected.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Genetics Society of America.
The objective of this study was to determine the effects of winter environmental conditions and production systems on targeted mRNA expression profile of hair follicles (HF) in cattle, specifically focusing on genes regulating stress, inflammation, cellular integrity, and coat color. Two cattle breeds (Bos indicus, Brahman and Bos taurus, Angus) were subjected to two production systems without (NAT) or with a commonly used growth-promoting technology in commercial feedlots, TRT [100-200 mg of trenbolone acetate and 14-28 mg estradiol benzoate anabolic implants, in-feed monensin/tylosin (35/7 g/ton DM) and ractopamine hydrochloride (27 g/ton DM)] for a 180 day-period in Colorado State, USA (n = 50 steers/group). Growth performances were monitored and hair follicles were collected on a monthly basis from October 2023 to March 2024. Total RNA was extracted, reverse transcribed, and target genes were amplified by qPCR using 2^-ΔΔCt method. Angus cattle exhibited significantly higher ADG and FE from October through February compared to their Brahman counterparts, with the TRT production system further improving FE (P < 0.05) during November-December and January-February relative to the NAT system. A significantly higher gene expression of Cxcr2 and a lower expression of Asip were observed in the Angus breed compared to the Brahman counterparts. This breed-specific differential expression may reflect the differences in hair coat characteristics and physiological adaptive pathways. Compared to the NAT system, TRT treatment significantly upregulated the expression of Xcl1 and Asip while downregulating that of Cxcr2. These changes were consistent with the effects of anabolic steroids, antibiotics, and/or ractopamine. The expression of heat shock proteins (Hsp60, Hsp70, Hsp90), cytokines (IL6, IL18, Tnfα, Crp, IL10), chemokines and their related receptors (Xcl1, Cxcl12/14, Ccl2/4/5/20, Ccr2, Cxcr1/2), tight junction proteins (Cldn1, Ocln), and coat color-associated genes (Asip, Mc1r, Bmp2, Hoxc12, Lef1, Zhx3) followed seasonal patterns with peaks in October-November and/or December-February, which coincided with low temperatures. Collectively, to our knowledge, this is among the first studies showing a differential gene expression between breeds (Angus vs. Brahman), production systems (TRT vs. NAT), and season. By identifying hair follicle gene expression signatures associated with cold stress in beef cattle, this study provides a foundation for future mechanistic investigations.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42237701 is a review article
Coat color was an economic trait in sheep, and identifying the causal variations affecting its diverse phenotypes had long been of interest. We performed whole-genome sequencing (WGS) to investigate the genetic composition and conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) for coat color using our lab data for 115 sheep (80 newly sequenced) from four Liangshan populations. Additionally, we retrieved public data for 104 sheep (from six other breeds) and 44 wild sheep.Our study revealed that the Liangshan sheep population exhibited moderate genetic diversity and a closer genetic relationship with Yunnan sheep. Using WGS data, we performed a GWAS to identify genetic loci and causal variants influencing the black coat pigmentation in 115 Liangshan sheep (i.e., 85 white coat LSS vs. 30 black coat LSB). GWAS identified a 1.526 Mb region (including the MC1R gene) on CHI14, spanning from 12,982,495 bp to 14,508,891 bp, as significantly associated with black coat (- log10P > 8.67). MC1R was highly expressed in the LSB group (mean = 15.394), significantly higher than in the LSS group (mean = 2.371; P = 0.032). A contingency table analysis revealed a highly significant difference in genotype frequencies at the MC1R mutation site c.361G > A between the LSB and LSS populations (Fisher's exact test, P = 8.268 × 10-25). Molecular docking results further demonstrated that the c.361G > A mutation in MC1R of the LSB population disrupted a hydrogen bond between MC1R residue Asn121 and ASIP residue Phe119, reducing their molecular interaction. Haplotype analysis showed that 96.67% of LSB individuals carried the H2 haplotype, with strong linkage disequilibrium (r2 = 1) maintained across the region.This study clarified the population structure of Liangshan sheep and confirmed the MC1R c.361G > A mutation as a key locus influencing the black coat of LSB, potentially acting via the H2 haplotype.© 2026. The Author(s).
The sex-linked barring of chicken feather pattern is a fascinating trait, and it has great application value in chicken breeding by enabling autosexing. In this study, the transcriptome changes in skin follicle tissues from the back (SKs) and crown of the head (SKHs) were explored by RNA-seq in Wenshang Barred chickens during their feather pattern formation. The key genes and signaling pathways regulating sex-linked barring formation in chickens were analyzed. As a result, a total of 2291 and 4496 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were found in SKs and SKHs, respectively, during barred feather formation. The expression pattern clusters of Profile 6 and Profile 7 were the important and mainstream expression trends of the DEGs. Melanogenesis KEGG pathway and GO terms of melanocyte differentiation, melanosome organization and melanin biosynthetic biological processes were significantly enriched in the DEGs, including the well-known TYR, TYRP1, EDNRB and PMEL genes, clustered in Profile 6 expression pattern. A series of DEGs, including CDKN2A, SFN, CDKN2B and CDK1, were significantly enriched in the cell cycle pathway and were mostly clustered in Profile 7. Protein‒protein interaction (PPI) network analysis revealed TYR, TYRP1, CDKN2A and SFN were the hub genes. It was speculated that CDKN2A may target SFN to regulate the melanocyte cycle arrest, causing the formation of white bands of sex-linked barring. TYR, TYRP1, EDNRB and PMEL genes may play important regulatory roles by melanogenesis pathway in the early growth of black feathers, as well as in the later formation of black stripes. The different expression patterns of SLC45A2, KIT, MC1R, ASIP, DCT and SOX10 in SKs and SKHs may contribute to the different formation processes of barred feather patterns on the head and the back. These results provide new insights into the regulation of sex-linked barred feather patterns in Chinese native chicken and provide a valuable theoretical foundation for future chicken breeding and related efforts.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The reprogramming of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) from a pro-tumoral M2 to an anti-tumoral M1 phenotype is an attractive therapeutic strategy whose clinical translation is undermined by the systemic toxicity of currently available pharmacological approaches. Here, we demonstrate that non-invasive and localizable pulsed electromagnetic fields (PEMFs) induce macrophage reprogramming downstream of transient receptor potential canonical 1 (TRPC1) channel activation. Brief (10 min) PEMF exposure polarized macrophages toward an M1 phenotype by activating Stimulator of Interferon Genes (STING)-dependent NF-κB inflammatory pathways that were abolished by TRPC1 knockdown or inhibition. PEMF exposure directly enhanced the immunogenicity of breast cancer cells and modified macrophage-cancer crosstalk to promote M1 macrophage polarization and the attraction of STING-activated macrophages to the cancer cells. In co-cultures, PEMF exposure stimulated macrophage-mediated phagocytosis of cancer cells in a STING- and TRPC1-dependent manner. In spheroids, PEMFs induced the reprogramming of TAMs to an M1 status and selectively enhanced infiltration of M1 macrophages, resulting in STING-mediated phagocytosis of cancer cells. In mice, 2 weeks of twice-weekly PEMF exposure resorbed engrafted tumors and selectively eliminated cancer cells within tumors while promoting immune cell recruitment. PEMFs offer a non-invasive manner to locally reprogram TAMs within the tumor microenvironment to preferentially eliminate cancer cells.© 2026 The Author(s). Smart Medicine published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH on behalf of Wenzhou Institute, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD), amyloid beta (Aβ) plaques and hyperphosphorylated tau tangles drive neurodegeneration and cognitive decline. Disrupted calcium homeostasis-particularly via transient receptor potential canonical-1 (TRPC1) channels-contributes to tauopathy and disease progression. This study investigated the therapeutic potential of 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate (2-APB), a modulator of TRP channels, in a scopolamine-induced rat model of AD. Adult Wistar rats were assigned to six groups: normal control, disease control (scopolamine 2.5 mg/kg), three 2-APB treatment groups (2.5, 5.0 and 10.0 mg/kg) and a donepezil group (5.0 mg/kg), each with six animals. Treatments lasted three weeks. Cognitive performance was assessed using the Morris water maze, memory consolidation and open field tests. Biochemical assays measured acetylcholinesterase (AChE), calcineurin, oxidative stress markers (GSH, MDA) and inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β). Protein and gene expression analyses (Western blot, qRT-PCR) evaluated tau, GSK-3β, TRPC1, MARK2, and calcineurin A/PPP3CA, alongside histopathological and immunohistochemical studies. 2-APB treatment significantly reduced pro-inflammatory cytokines, alleviated neuroinflammation, and decreased oxidative stress. Cognitive function improved, correlating with normalized AChE activity and preserved neuronal structure. At the molecular level, 2-APB reduced tau hyperphosphorylation at Ser396 and Thr231, likely through suppression of TRPC1-associated calcium entry and consequent modulation of calcium-dependent kinases (MARK2) and phosphatases (calcineurin), as well as the GSK-3β pathway. However, given that 2-APB is a broad-spectrum calcium signaling modulator - known to act on IP₃ receptors, SOCE/ORAI pathways, and multiple TRPC subtypes in addition to TRPC1-the present findings provide supportive evidence linking TRPC1 modulation to the observed neuroprotective effects. Although, the involvement of additional interconnected signaling mechanisms cannot be excluded and these findings should be interpreted within the context of 2-APB's pleiotropic pharmacological profile. Downregulation of TRPC1 and calcineurin A/PPP3CA gene expression supported 2-APB's role in restoring calcium balance and mitigating tau pathology. These results highlight 2-APB's potential in addressing key AD features-tauopathy, oxidative stress, neuroinflammation and cognitive impairment-warranting further preclinical and clinical research as a potential therapeutic for AD and related tauopathies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42503223 is a review article
Calcium dysregulation is increasingly recognized as a convergent mechanism underlying neuronal vulnerability and glial overactivation in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Transient Receptor Potential Canonical (TRPC) channels are potential key modulators of Ca2+ signaling in multiple cell types in central nervous system (CNS), mediating different pathophysiological roles. However, their cell type-specific remodeling and cellular origins of these changes in human AD tissue remain poorly defined. This study investigated their expression patterns with main focus on the two closely related members of TRPC3 and TRPC6 across human AD brains and two relevant mouse models. Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded cortical and hippocampal tissues from AD patients and age-matched controls were examined using immunohistochemistry. Spatial relationships between TRPC3/TRPC6 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytes were assessed in adjacent serial sections. TRPC3 expression was markedly increased in AD cortex and hippocampus whereas TRPC6 was significantly reduced primarily in pyramidal neurons. TRPC3-positive regions showed close spatial correspondence with reactive astrocytes, particularly in the hippocampal and subcortical white matter regions, suggesting a partial astrocytic origin. TRPC6 exhibited negligible overlap with GFAP. These observations were reproduced in brain sections of both 5xFAD and PS19 transgenic (Tg) mice compared to their littermate controls. Our findings reveal a conserved pattern of divergent TRPC remodeling across human and mouse models with AD pathology. In addition, TRPC1 expression was significantly reduced in AD samples while TRPC4 and TRPC5 had no significant change in expression. Taken together, selected TRPC family members may undergo differential remodeling during AD pathogenesis, with TRPC3 and TRPC6 showing the most prominent and consistent alterations.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of International Society of Neuropathology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42370596 is a review article
Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a life-threatening vascular disease characterized by vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) dysfunction and disrupted calcium homeostasis. While transient receptor potential canonical 6 (TRPC6) and transient receptor potential canonical 1 (TRPC1) are known to mediate receptor-operated calcium entry (ROCE) and store-operated calcium entry (SOCE), respectively, the specific contributions of SOCE and ROCE to AAA pathogenesis, and the regulatory interaction between transient receptor potential melastatin 8 (TRPM8) and TRPC1 remain unexplored. In this study, we analyzed human AAA tissues, a papain-induced mouse model, and angiotensin II (Ang II)-treated human aortic smooth muscle cells using histology, wire myography, calcium imaging, and patch-clamp electrophysiology. We observed significant upregulation of TRPM8, TRPC1, and TRPC6 in both human and experimental AAA, with TRPC1 identified as a key mediator of SOCE under pathological conditions. Pharmacological activation of TRPM8 by menthol attenuated TRPC1-mediated SOCE and associated vasoconstriction, effects that were partially reversed by the TRPM8 antagonist A-2. In Ang II-treated cells, TRPM8 activation reduced SOCE and store-operated calcium currents (ISOCC), effects that were largely abolished by TRPC1 knockdown. These findings suggest that TRPM8 may limit excessive calcium ion (Ca2+) influx and vascular remodeling in AAA, pointing to a potential endogenous mechanism to counteract maladaptive calcium signaling in AAA progression.
The TRPC1/5 heteromer exhibits electrophysiological and ligand-binding properties distinct from TRPC5 homomers, enabling tissue-specific cellular regulation. Here we present the cryo-EM structure of the TRPC1/5 heterotetramer at 2.8 Å resolution, revealing an asymmetric assembly of three TRPC5 subunits around one TRPC1 subunit. TRPC1 contributes a unique pore-loop configuration and specialized inter-subunit interfaces that sculpt an asymmetrical ion conduction pathway, altering gating and ion selectivity. The heteromer harbors a ligand-binding pocket at the TRPC1-TRPC5 interface absent in homomeric channels. Using this insight, we design JD03-02, a high-affinity antagonist preferentially targeting this pocket with >10,000-fold selectivity for TRPC1/5 over TRPC5 homomers. In mouse models, JD03-02 produces potent anxiolytic and antidepressant effects with reduced off-target activity. These findings elucidate the structural basis of TRPC1/5 function and can guide precision drug design targeting heteromeric ion channels in neuropsychiatric disorders.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42165259
Intracellular calcium (Ca2+) signaling controls myoblast proliferation, fusion, and myofiber formation. In myoblasts, Transient Receptor Potential Canonical (TRPC) channels, with TRPC1 as a predominant isoform, mediate store-operated Ca²⁺ entry (SOCE) and are essential for myogenesis. PDLIM5 (ENH1), a PDZ-LIM scaffold protein, organizes signaling events, including ion channel regulation and transcriptional control in muscles. This study aims to test the hypothesis that PDLIM5 regulates TRPC1-mediated Ca2+ entry in myoblasts. Thapsigargin-induced SOCE was suppressed by the SOCE inhibitors Gd3+ and 2-APB, as well as by TRPC1 siRNA, supporting the involvement of TRPC1 in SOCE in C2C12 myoblasts. Additionally, SOCE inhibition decreased the number of nuclei per myotube and reduced the size of myotubes. ENH1 siRNA knockdown significantly downregulated TRPC1 and STIM1 mRNA expression, increased basal cytosolic Ca2+ level, and impaired SOCE response and myotube maturation. Overexpression of ENH4, a skeletal muscle-specific short splice variant of ENH1, similarly repressed TRPC1-mediated SOCE and myotube formation. Conversely, ENH1 overexpression enhanced SOCE without altering the mRNA levels of TRPC1, Orai1, or STIM1. Immunoprecipitation showed a physical interaction between ENH1/ENH4 and TRPC1. In differentiated myotubes, TRPC1 also contributed to thapsigargin-induced SOCE, as evidenced by the reduced Ca2+ entry following TRPC1 knockdown. ENH1 knockdown and ENH4 overexpression significantly attenuated SOCE in myotubes; notably, ENH1 knockdown also increased basal cytosolic Ca2+ level. In contrast to myoblasts, ENH1 overexpression did not enhance SOCE in myotubes, concomitant with the absence of a detectable interaction between ENH1 and TRPC1, whereas ENH4 retained its association with TRPC1. These findings suggest that ENH1 and ENH4 differentially modulate TRPC1-dependent Ca2+ entry in C2C12 cells, thereby regulating myogenic differentiation and contributing to skeletal muscle formation and development.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is one of the leading causes of mortality and disability, with many patients developing long-term sequelae. Depression is among the most common psychiatric complications following TBI, yet its underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Transient receptor potential canonical 1 (TRPC1) has been implicated in neurological disorders, but its role in post-TBI depression is not well understood.A controlled cortical impact (CCI) model was used to induce moderate TBI in mice. At 4 weeks post-injury, depressive-like behaviors were assessed using the tail suspension test (TST), forced swim test (FST), and sucrose preference test (SPT). Subsequently, reactive astrocytes and microglia were quantified, along with the expression of inflammatory cytokines, in the ipsilateral hippocampus. Synaptic function was also evaluated.Behavioral tests revealed that TBI mice exhibited significant depressive- and anxiety-like behaviors at 4 weeks post-injury. Concurrently, TRPC1 expression was downregulated in the ipsilateral hippocampus, accompanied by reduced levels of synaptic-associated proteins, elevated pro-inflammatory cytokines, and increased reactive astrocytes and microglia. Further experiments demonstrated that TRPC1 overexpression attenuated neuroinflammation, restored synaptic function, and ameliorated depressive-like behaviors in TBI mice.This study suggests that TBI may trigger depression by downregulating TRPC1, thereby promoting neuroinflammation and synaptic dysfunction. Conversely, TRPC1 overexpression mitigates these effects, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target for post-TBI depression.Copyright © 2026 Pan, Li, Fan, Xia, Liu, Chen, Sun, He, Zhou, Li and Li.
Chemoresistance remains a major obstacle to effective treatment in gastric cancer (GC), with a notable scarcity of clinically applicable biomarkers and therapeutic targets. In this study, we employed an integrated proteomic approach analyzing paired serum samples from GC patients at disease control and progressive disease stages during chemotherapy, exosomes from chemoresistant and chemosensitive GC cells, and corresponding whole-cell proteomes to identify tumor-associated exosomal drivers of chemoresistance. Cross-dataset integration identified aminopeptidase N (APN/CD13) as selectively enriched under chemoresistant conditions. Functional validation demonstrated that APN depletion via shRNA or CRISPR restored cisplatin sensitivity in refractory cells, whereas APN overexpression conferred chemoprotection. A neutralizing anti-APN monoclonal antibody resensitized resistant cells and showed superior efficacy compared with the broad-spectrum peptidase inhibitor bestatin in vivo. Mechanistically, APN sustained a ferroptosis-suppressive state: its inhibition increased ROS and lipid peroxidation, shifted transcriptomic profiles toward pro-ferroptotic pathways, and downregulated the lipid peroxide detoxifier AKR1C2, which correlated with poor prognosis and APN expression in the TCGA-STAD cohort. Exosomal transfer assays confirmed that APN-enriched vesicles disseminated chemoresistance and ferroptosis evasion to sensitive cells, accelerating tumor progression during chemotherapy, whereas APN-deficient exosomes lacked this capacity. Clinically, serum exosomal APN levels robustly distinguished progressive disease from disease control in a cohort of 105 patients (AUC = 0.85; optimal cutoff 0.936 ng/mL). Collectively, these findings position exosomal APN as a dual-function tool, serving both as a dynamic liquid biopsy biomarker and an antibody-targetable node for monitoring and overcoming chemoresistance in gastric cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Endometriosis is a common complex gynecological condition that is difficult to efficiently diagnose and remains poorly understood. Menstrual fluid provides a non-invasive source of disease-relevant tissue and has been identified as promising for endometriosis diagnostics. Peripheral blood-based assays have yielded few clinically relevant targets, thus we hypothesize that cells specific to the uterus will exhibit more disease-related differences and may lead to insights into disease development and potential diagnostic markers.We profiled 10 menstrual fluid samples, from 5 donors with endometriosis and 5 donors without, using both single-nucleus RNA sequencing and bulk RNA sequencing. We tested for differential abundance of cell types, differential gene expression within cell types, and differential cell communication between cell types by disease status. Finally, we compared the results of both single-nucleus and bulk RNA sequencing analyses to identify potential diagnostic targets.We identified endometrial and immune cell types present in menstrual fluid, with large inter-individual heterogeneity in cell type representation. While most cells were immune, the cell types with the greatest number of differentially expressed genes were endometrial epithelial cells followed by stromal cells. Epithelial cells in particular recapitulated some gene expression differences previously described in the context of endometriosis, although most identified differences were novel. Cell-cell communication in endometriosis was characterized by a loss of interactions between epithelial and stromal cells related to developmental and growth genes WNT2B, IGF2 and TGFB2, but a gain of cell-cell communications between dendritic cells and other cell types, especially within the BMP signaling pathway. Bulk RNA sequencing revealed that some of the differentially expressed genes found in epithelial cells could be replicated in the whole tissue, highlighting the following genes as biomarker candidates: TIMP2, AKR1C2, DMBT1, FERMT1, and KCNK5.We identified a set of promising genes that may contribute to endometriosis pathophysiology understanding and have potential as diagnosis biomarkers in whole menstrual blood. Further assessment of their stability over time within each patient and in a larger cohort will confirm whether this represents a viable non-invasive strategy to reduce diagnostic delays.© 2026. The Author(s).
BackgroundThe main aim of this study is to identify prognostic biomarkers through integrating bioinformatics analysis in gastric cancer, which is a significant global health challenge.MethodsGene expression datasets related to blood, tissue, and saliva in gastric cancer were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and analyzed. The bioinformatics approaches included the identification of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and enrichment analysis, as well as Kaplan-Meier Plotter survival analysis. The DEGs were also validated through The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Additionally, DEGs-associated lncRNAs and microRNAs were identified. Subsequently, Tumor and Immune System Interaction Database (TISIDB) was utilized to examine the correlation of the genes of interest with immune and molecular subtypes.ResultsTwenty-six common DEGs were identified across blood, tissue, and saliva samples. Among them, 17 genes showed significant expression based on TCGA data. RAB23, LOX, ELL2, ELK3, CENPF, CD44, ANP32E, AKR1C2, and SMAD5 displayed significant association with patient survival. Particularly, ELL2 exhibit decreased expression in all specimens. The results indicated that ELL2 has a significant correlation with the immune system. The ELL2 gene regulates immune cell functions in gastric cancer, potentially influencing cancer immune responses, and tumor progression.ConclusionELL2 downregulated expression and its correlation with survival across blood, tissue, and saliva samples using bioinformatics analysis underscores the necessity of more investigation to fully comprehend its function in cancer immunology.
The clinical utility of integrated proteogenomic biomarkers for predicting chemotherapy response in triple-negative breast cancer remains underexplored. We prospectively analyzed paired baseline and post-treatment tumor samples from 50 patients with stage II-III TNBC treated with anthracycline- and taxane-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy, integrating whole-exome sequencing, RNA sequencing, global proteomics, and phosphoproteomics.Non-negative matrix factorization clustering identifies five proteogenomic subtypes. The immune-enriched subtype demonstrates the highest pathologic complete response rate (55.6%), whereas no pathologic complete response was observed in the xenobiotic metabolism or epithelial-mesenchymal transition subtypes. Immune-related pathways are enriched in tumors with pathologic complete response, while epithelial-mesenchymal transition pathways are enriched in non-pathologic complete response tumors. The estrogen response pathway is selectively enriched in non-pathologic complete response tumors at the proteomic level and inversely correlated with immune activation. Post-translational modification and in vitro analyses suggest estrogen-linked GRK2 activation contributes to chemotherapy resistance. ITGB8 copy number loss is associated with higher pathologic complete response rates and immune activation, while non-pathologic complete response tumors of the immunomodulatory subtype show increased expression of AKR1C2 and ABCA13. Comparison of baseline and post-treatment tumors reveals AURKB pathway activation in residual disease, with Aurora B kinase inhibition synergizing with paclitaxel. A predictive model incorporating these biomarkers outperforms RNA-based models in predicting response.Integrative proteogenomic profiling enables robust prediction of chemotherapy resistance in triple-negative breast cancer and identifies actionable biomarkers providing a framework for advancing personalized therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
There is a need for novel therapies for diabetic retinopathy (DR) because existing therapies treat only certain features of DR and do not work optimally for all patients. While proteomic studies provide insight into disease pathobiology, they are often limited to small sample sizes due to high costs, limiting their generalizability and reproducibility. Moreover, they often yield lists of tens to hundreds of proteins with differential expression, making it difficult to prioritize the most biologically relevant biomarkers beyond using arbitrary fold-change and false-detection rate cutoffs. Here, we applied a two-stage multimodal AI approach: first, we integrated EHR and proteomics data to rationally prioritize candidate protein biomarkers and, next, validated these biomarkers in an independent cohort. These protein biomarkers of DR are rooted in the EHR data and thereby more likely to be biological drivers of disease.We obtained EHR data from a large number of patients with and without DR (N=319,997) from the STARR-OMOP database and obtained aqueous humor liquid biopsies from a subset of these patients (N=101) for high-resolution proteomic profiling. We developed Clinical and Omics Multi-Modal Analysis Enhanced with Transfer Learning (COMET) to perform integrated analysis of proteomics and all available EHR data to identify protein biomarkers of DR. The model was trained in two phases: first, it was pretrained using patients with EHR data alone (N=319,896), and then, it was fine tuned using patients with both EHR and proteomics data (N=101), allowing it to learn both clinical and molecular features associated with DR. Findings from COMET were then validated with liquid biopsies from an independent, validation cohort (N=164).t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding (t-SNE) analysis of EHR and proteomics data identified proteins clustering with related EHR features. Levels of STX3 and NOTCH2, proteins involved in retinal function, were correlated with a diagnosis of macular edema, a record of a visual field exam, and a prescription for latanoprost, highlighting protein-EHR alignment. The pretrained, multimodal COMET model was superior (AUROC=0.98, AUPRC=0.91) compared to models generated using either EHR or proteomics data alone or without pretraining (AUROC: 0.76 to 0.92; AUPRC: 0.47 to 0.74). The proteins SERPINE1, QPCT, AKR1C2, IL2RB, and SRSF6 were prioritized by the COMET model compared to the models without pretraining, supporting their potential role in DR pathobiology, and were subsequently validated in an independent cohort.We used multimodal AI to prioritize protein biomarkers of DR that are most strongly linked to EHR elements, as well as identifying other protein biomarkers associated with disease features like diabetic macular edema. These findings serve as a foundation for future mechanistic studies and highlight the synergistic value of using multimodal AI to fuse EHR and proteomics data for enhanced proteomics analysis.
Primary intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a severe stroke subtype characterized by high mortality and disability rates, largely attributable to secondary brain injury (SBI). While programmed cell death (PCD) pathways contribute to SBI, their mechanisms remain incompletely understood. This research investigated PANoptosis, a newly defined integrated PCD pathway, and its interactions with immune responses in ICH.The transcriptomic dataset GSE24265 was analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs), which were intersected with a PANoptosis-related gene set. PANoptosis-related DEGs were analyzed through protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, functional enrichment, and machine learning (LASSO and Random Forest) to identify signature genes. The diagnostic utility was evaluated using nomograms and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. Immune interactions were assessed using CIBERSORT. Key findings were validated in clinical specimens using qRT-PCR and Western blot.We identified 50 PANoptosis-related DEGs in ICH and derived five signature genes (AKR1C2, SLC2A14, FTL, TNFRSF12A, and SLC2A3) that were significantly upregulated and had high diagnostic accuracy. These genes were implicated in an inflammatory cell death hub, as their expression correlated with altered proportions of T follicular helper and T gamma delta cells, linking PANoptosis to immune dysregulation. Experimental validation confirmed the upregulation of mRNA levels of SLC2A3, SLC2A14, and TNFRSF12A in perihematomal tissues, along with increased protein levels of SLC2A3 and SLC2A14. Functional enrichment analysis linked these genes to HIF-1, NF-κB, and TNF signaling pathways in ICH PANoptosis.Our study identifies PANoptosis as a pathological hub connecting SBI and neuroinflammation in ICH, with five signature genes serving as key diagnostic biomarkers. Notably, SLC2A3 was significantly elevated in peripheral blood, highlighting its potential as a non-invasive plasma biomarker for ICH. These genes likely contribute to neuroinflammation through immune crosstalk and metabolic reprogramming, offering novel mechanistic insights and potential therapeutic targets for SBI post-ICH.© 2026 Chen et al.
This study aimed to investigate the association of the AKR1C2-I4-sv245 polymorphism in the aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C2 (AKR1C2) gene with litter size in Xiang pigs. Polymorphism analysis demonstrated that the "ID" genotype was dominant in Xiang pigs, while "D" was the dominant allele. The DD genotype was most common in high-fertility Xiang pigs (XL), while the ID genotype was predominant in low-fertility Xiang pigs (XS). The association analysis results indicated that the litter size of the XL group in Xiang pigs was significantly higher than that of the XS group across all parity levels (P < 0.05). A significant association was observed between the AKR1C2-I4-sv245 polymorphism and the litter size in Xiang sows (P < 0.01), with the DD genotype exhibiting a higher litter size than the ID and II genotypes. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that the deleted segment contained a short interspersed element (SINE), three exon splicing enhancers, four intron splicing enhancers, and other regulatory elements associated with gene expression. Transfection of HEK-293T cells with the EGFP reporter gene confirmed the inhibitory effect of the SINE on transcription, demonstrating that its insertion significantly repressed reporter gene expression. Relative expression analysis showed that AKR1C2 mRNA and protein levels were higher in the DD genotype compared to the II genotype and in the ID genotype compared to the II genotype. Collectively, these results substantiated the regulatory role of SINE in gene expression and highlighted the potential of AKR1C2-I4-sv245 as a promising DNA marker for improving litter size in Xiang pigs.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565097 is a review article
Basal cell carcinoma (BCC), the most common skin cancer, is driven by UV-induced DNA damage and shaped by immune surveillance. Although GWAS has identified over 140 risk loci, their cell-type-specific effects remain obscured by tissue-level averaging.We integrated BCC GWAS summary statistics from a UK-based cohort (17,416 cases, 375,455 controls) with single-cell expression quantitative trait locus (sc-eQTL) data from 12 immune cell types in the OneK1K resource. Using the OTTERS framework combined with ACAT-O, we performed single-cell transcriptome-wide association analysis (scTWAS); bulk TWAS using GTEx whole blood served as a conventional tissue-averaged benchmark for comparison, rather than a definitive gold standard. Functional enrichment was conducted via Gene Ontology (GO).Bulk TWAS using GTEx whole blood identified 35 BCC-associated genes (FDR < 0.05), including MC1R and CASP8. In contrast, single-cell transcriptome-wide association study (scTWAS) across 12 OneK1K cell types revealed 207 non-redundant susceptibility genes, predominantly in CD4ET, MONOC, and BIN. Functional enrichment uncovered cell-type-specific programs: MHC class II antigen presentation (CD4ET), PRR-mediated innate immunity (MONOC), and pro-inflammatory secretion (BIN)-all absent in bulk results.Our exploratory scTWAS using healthy donor PBMC-derived eQTLs uncovered cell-type-specific BCC associations missed by bulk analyses, providing hypothesis-generating insights into immune-related genetic effects in BCC. This underscores how single-cell resolution can overcome signal dilution from cellular heterogeneity, though validation in tumor-derived immune populations is warranted.Copyright: © 2026 Du et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Plumage coloration in birds is a complex genetic trait involving both direct pigmentation genes and their modifiers. The Columbian pattern, characterized by black feathers restricted to the neck, wing tips, and tail, remains poorly understood at the genetic level. This study aimed to conduct a genome-wide association study of the Columbian pattern across 29 chicken breeds of diverse origins. Blood samples were collected from breeds with (n = 11) and without (n = 18) the Columbian pattern. Genotyping was performed using the Illumina Chicken 60K SNP chip, and GWAS was conducted using EMMAX with Bonferroni correction. A total of 10 significant and nine suggestive SNPs on chromosomes GGA1, 2, 5, 7, 10, and 11 were identified. Eight significant SNPs mapped to a ~0.7 Mb region on GGA11 containing MC1R and multiple functionally diverse genes involved in melanocyte adhesion (CDH1), signaling (WWP2, NFAT5), transcription (ZFHX3, TCF25), protein degradation (PSMD7, ATXN1L), and vesicular trafficking (AP1G1). On GGA2, a significant SNP within a lncRNA gene was located in a QTL for yellow plumage, with positional candidates (ROCK1, GREB1L, CABLES1, TMEM241, ANKRD29) suggesting links to pheomelanin deposition. A suggestive locus near DLK1 on GGA5 was also identified. This study refines the genetic architecture of the Columbian pattern, implicating a core region on GGA11 modulating melanocyte function and a distinct locus on GGA2 involved in pheomelanin synthesis.
Urban environments impose novel selective pressures that can drive rapid phenotypic and genetic change in wild populations. While previous studies have focused on broad urban-rural contrasts or cross-city comparisons, less is known about how phenotypic traits vary across fine spatial scales within cities, where environmental gradients and geographic features may create localized heterogeneity. We studied spatial variation in coat colour morph of the eastern grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) across the Montreal Metropolitan Area, focusing on grey and melanic morphs, the latter of which is caused by an incompletely dominant MC1R mutation. We conducted standardized scan sampling surveys across 197 parks and supplemented this data with citizen science observations from iNaturalist and SquirrelMapper. As an archipelago segmented by major waterways, Montreal exhibits a spatial mosaic where phenotypic gradients are partitioned by physical barriers. We examined variation in melanism in relation to urbanization, local environmental conditions (e.g. temperature and canopy cover) and geographic structure. Unlike patterns in many cities where melanism peaks in urban cores, melanism in Montreal was generally negatively correlated with urbanization, but the strength and direction of urban-rural clines varied sharply across the city's complex island landscape. Abrupt shifts in morph frequency corresponded with major waterways, including the Saint-Lawrence River and its tributaries, suggesting that rivers might act as partial barriers to dispersal which partition the landscape into distinct phenotypic regions. Consistent with the thermoregulatory advantages of melanism, melanic morph frequency increased most in areas with cooler winter temperatures and higher canopy cover. Structural equation modelling revealed that urbanization indirectly suppresses melanism by altering these two variables. Our results suggest that phenotypic patterns within cities are not uniform but are instead shaped by fine-scale environmental heterogeneity and geographic barriers, highlighting the need to move beyond simple urban-rural contrasts when predicting phenotypic variation in urban populations.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Animal Ecology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Ecological Society.
The biodistributions of radiometalated peptides and small molecules are greatly influenced by the charge conferred by the metal-chelator complex. Careful fine-tuning of this charge thus represents an attractive method to optimise pharmacokinetic properties. For this to be an effective strategy, numerous suitable chelators must be available for a given radiometal; each possessing a different net charge. Herein we report the synthesis of 2-(4,7,10-tris(2-amino-2-oxoethyl)-1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecan-1-yl)pentanedioic acid (DOTAMGA), a bifunctional chelator for the 203/212Pb theranostic pair containing a single negative charge, previously unattainable with reported radiolead chelators. DOTAMGA was incorporated into a radiopharmaceutical targeting the melanocortin 1 receptor (MC1R), a receptor highly expressed by melanomas, and evaluated in vivo against the commonly used radiolead chelator 1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane-1,4,7,10-tetraacetic amide (TCMC).DOTAMGA was synthesised and conjugated to the MC1R targeting peptide MC1RL for subsequent investigation alongside TCMC-MC1RL. DOTAMGA-MC1RL and TCMC-MC1RL exhibited comparable affinity for MC1R in a series of competition binding assays with MC1R expressing cells. DOTAMGA-MC1RL was effectively labelled with 212Pb and 203Pb under standard radiolabelling conditions, and UV-Vis experiments demonstrated more rapid Pb2+ complexation than TCMC-MC1RL. Both 212Pb-labelled compounds remained > 90% intact after 24 h incubation in human serum. In B16F0 melanoma bearing C57BL/6 mice, DOTAMGA-MC1RL exhibited reduced hepatic uptake compared to TCMC-MC1RL, though a reduction in tumour uptake and resulting tumour to organ uptake ratios were also observed.DOTAMGA represents a promising tool to optimise the pharmacokinetic properties of 203/212Pb radiopharmaceuticals, and is a useful addition to existing radiolead chelators on account of its unique charge.© 2026. The Author(s).
Germline genetic variation can influence the number of nevi on the skin. However, nevi can be classified in many ways (e.g., by shape, size or evolution); little is known of how genetics influences the density of different nevus morphologies on the body. Here, we explore how germline genetics influences the density of flat, raised and atypical nevi, and identify which classification correlates most with genetic risk of melanoma. We estimate heritability and perform genome-wide association analysis of flat, raised, and atypical nevus count within the Brisbane Twin Nevus Study (N = 3862). We compare the effect estimates of genetic loci associated with each morphology. We also assess how well each morphology correlates with the genetic risk of melanoma using a polygenic risk score of melanoma. Heritability estimates revealed both unique and shared genetic effects between morphologies. We identified two loci near IRF4 and MC1R showing opposing effects on flat and raised nevus counts. Variation in raised nevus count showed the strongest correlation with melanoma risk using polygenic risk scores. Although some genetic effects are shared between nevus morphologies, they appear to be genetically distinct phenotypes. Given the opposing effects of IRF4 and MC1R on flat and raised nevus counts, future studies of nevus count should consider, where possible, analysing each nevus morphology separately as well as combined.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Melanocyte-preferential drug delivery remains challenging due to limited targeting strategies for pigmentary disorders. Here, melanocortin 1 receptor (MC1R)-targeted liposomes (MELA-lipos) functionalized with melanotropic peptides are developed for melanocyte-directed delivery. Peptide-lipid conjugation is confirmed through multidimensional NMR spectroscopy and MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. γ-MSH-conjugated MELA-lipo (MELA-lipoγ-MSH) shows threefold enhanced cellular uptake in B16F10 melanoma cells compared to bare liposomes, with internalization occurring through lipid raft-dependent endocytosis and macropinocytosis. Tri-culture experiments demonstrate melanocyte-preferential uptake over keratinocytes and fibroblasts. α-Arbutin-loaded MELA-lipoγ-MSH achieves 52.3% melanin inhibition and sustained tyrosinase suppression (25.4% at 72 h) in cell culture. In reconstructed human skin models, MELA-lipoγ-MSH results in melanin reduction and decreased tyrosinase expression. These findings indicate that MC1R-targeted liposomal delivery achieves melanocyte-preferential internalization and anti-melanogenic efficacy, suggesting translational potential in the topical management of pigmentary disorders and cosmetic depigmentation applications.
The Dominant white (I) allele in chickens suppresses the expression of black eumelanin, resulting in white plumage. However, both previous reports and our observations showed that some heterozygous (I/i+) individuals exhibited black-flecked plumage rather than completely white plumage, unlike homozygous dominant white chickens. This phenomenon suggests incomplete penetrance and incomplete dominance of the I allele. The genetic mechanisms underlying the phenotypic divergences in I/i+ individuals remain unclear.In this study, through integrated genomic and transcriptomic analyses of chickens with different I locus genotypes and feather color phenotypes, we identified candidate variants in MC1R (p.T143A) and TUBB3 (p.R202R) that may be associated with phenotypic variation in pigmentation. Notably, PMEL serves as the primary causal gene underlying the Dominant white phenotype, while the identified loci may act as modifying factors influencing residual melanin deposition in heterozygous individuals. Furthermore, our data suggest that biological processes such as glial cell formation and development, as well as responses to organic cyclic compounds, may participate in regulating the spatiotemporal distribution of melanin, thereby influencing the formation of black-flecked feathers. This finding provides a new perspective on the molecular mechanisms of incomplete penetrance and incomplete dominance of I and reveals the complexity of the melanin deposition regulatory network.© 2026. The Author(s).
Electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) offers a viable, energy-saving method for sustainable ammonia production. However, its practical application is severely limited by the inert N2 molecules and the competing hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Herein, oxygen-vacancy-rich FeMoO4 nanoparticles (FMO-1) were rationally synthesized through a hydrothermal method followed by controlled Ar/H2 etching. Structural and spectroscopic characterizations demonstrate that oxygen-vacancy formation predominantly reconstructs the electronic environment of Fe sites while preserving the MoO framework. This selective electronic perturbation elevates the Fe2+/Fe3+ ratio, enlarging the specific surface area, and enhancing N2 adsorption capability. As a result, the optimized FMO-1 catalyst achieves approximately two-fold performance enhancements compared with pristine FeMoO4. Further mechanism analysis reveals that oxygen vacancy significantly strengthens N2 adsorption and activation on Fe sites. Besides, the selective Fe-centered electronic reconstruction effectively regulates the competitive adsorption behavior between NRR and HER, thereby improving ammonia selectivity. This work highlights the critical role of site-selective oxygen vacancy engineering in tuning competitive adsorption thermodynamics, and demonstrates a feasible route for rationally designing bimetallic oxide catalysts for ambient ammonia electrosynthesis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To determine lactate metabolism-associated biomarkers for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Based on NAFLD datasets from the gene expression omnibus database and lactate metabolism-related genes from GeneCards database, NAFLD-lactate metabolism hub genes (NAFLD-LM HGs) were screened via differential analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis and four machine learning algorithms. Their diagnostic efficacy was evaluated; molecular subtyping was performed; single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was subsequently conducted; and validation was finally conducted in NAFLD mouse models. We finally screened out eight NAFLD-LM HGs, namely CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha (CEBPA), flavin containing dimethylaniline monooxygenase 1 (FMO1), insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 1 (IGFBP1), krüppel-like factor 4 (KLF4), low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR), myelocytomatosis oncogene (MYC), nuclear receptor subfamily 4 group A member 2 (NR4A2), and thymidylate synthase (TYMS), with a diagnostic rate of 0.798 and an area under the curve of 0.948. These genes drove the molecular heterogeneity in NAFLD patients by modulating of metabolism and immune microenvironment. The results of scRNA-seq clarified that Th17 cells were identified as the most abundant annotated cell subset. Through animal experiments, five genes (LDLR, MYC, IGFBP1, NR4A2, and KLF4) were established to have potential protective effects against NAFLD. Five genes (LDLR, MYC, IGFBP1, NR4A2, KLF4) are identified as "protective factors", and their downregulation is associated with NAFLD progression. The remaining three genes (CEBPA, FMO1, TYMS) exhibit inconsistent expression patterns, suggesting bidirectional regulation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Metabolic Dysfunction-Associated Steatotic Liver Disease (MASLD) represents the most prevalent chronic liver disease worldwide. The absence of approved pharmacotherapies is largely attributed to their profound molecular heterogeneity. The identification of novel hub genes in MASLD is therefore critical for unraveling the complex molecular mechanisms driving disease pathogenesis and progression.We employed an integrative systems-biology approach utilizing Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) followed by multi-algorithm machine learning (LASSO, Random Forest, SVM-RFE) across GEO datasets (GSE89632, GSE63067) to identify hub genes. Key hub genes were validated in vitro with FFA-treated HepG2 cells and in vivo with an HFD-fed mouse model.Bioinformatic analyses revealed two distinct pathological networks. First, a lipogenesis-associated cluster revealed FMO1 and C10orf140 as upregulated, alongside JUNB downregulation. In vitro, the expression of these genes was significantly associated with the activation of the SREBP-1c/FASN lipogenic pathway. Second, WGCNA revealed a co-expression module that exhibited high correlation with inflammation (R = 0.59, p = 4e-05), from which 11 hub genes relating to inflammation (such as MAP3K8, PFKFB3) were identified. In vivo, HFD mice developed severe steatosis and demonstrated a key pathological paradox: high-level activation of both the pro-lipogenic p-AKT and the inhibitory p-AMPK pathways.Our study identified the hub genes FMO1, C10orf140, and JUNB as novel regulators of MASLD lipogenesis through the SREBP-1c pathway. Additionally, we showed that co-activated p-AKT and p-AMPK in steatotic livers indicates "AMPK Resistance". Ultimately, we describe a mechanism of pro-lipogenic signaling that is not curtailed and is accompanied by the inability to compensate for the inhibitory path. All findings reveal potential therapeutic targets for MASLD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42197561 is a review article
Little is known about how mature Arabidopsis thaliana (Arabidopsis) plants become competent to initiate Age-Related Resistance (ARR) to normally virulent Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato (Pst). RNA-Sequencing was used to identify genes that contribute to ARR by comparing the response to Pst in young susceptible 3.5 weeks post germination (wpg) to mature 6 wpg ARR-competent plants. Comparative transcriptomics revealed that ARR shares many genes with Pathogen Associated Molecular Pattern (PAMP) Triggered Immunity, Effector Triggered Immunity and Systemic Acquired Resistance, providing additional evidence for the emerging idea that plant immune pathways are intertwined and interconnected. ARR-responding leaves expressed genes for the biosynthesis of N-hydroxypipecolic acid (NHP), a signaling molecule involved in Systemic Acquired Resistance (SAR) during the establishment of a primed state in systemic leaves. NHP biosynthesis mutants (ald1-1, fmo1-1) were ARR-defective and accumulated less intercellular salicylic acid (SA) compared to wild-type Col-0, indicating a requirement for functional NHP biosynthesis genes for intercellular SA accumulation during ARR. SA perception by NPR1/4 proteins was required for ARR as demonstrated by the ARR-defective phenotype of the SA-signaling mutant, npr1-1 npr4-4D. NHP biosynthesis genes were still expressed in npr1-1 npr4-4D, suggesting that similar to SAR, NHP functions upstream of NPR1-mediated signaling during ARR. Unlike ARR-incompetent plants (3, 4, 5 wpg untreated), ARR-competent plants (6 wpg untreated), expressed NHP biosynthesis genes, accumulated NHP and expressed immunity-associated cell-surface receptors RLP23 and RLP28, supporting the idea that NHP contributes to initiating a developmentally controlled ARR competent primed state in mature Arabidopsis that is similar to the primed state established in distant leaves during SAR.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society of Plant Biologists.
Hepatic ischemia‒reperfusion injury (HIRI) represents a frequently occurring pathological condition during liver surgery, yet the mechanisms governing HIRI remain inadequately comprehended. Here, we investigate the role of B-cell translocation gene 2 (Btg2) in HIRI. Btg2 is upregulated following HIRI. A 70% HIRI model using hepatocyte-specific Btg2 transgenic and systemic Btg2 knockout mice reveals that Btg2 deteriorates hepatic inflammation and apoptosis. In primary hepatocytes, Btg2 knockdown reduces hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R)-induced inflammation and mitochondrial stress. Metabolomics indicates that taurine metabolism is significantly affected in the livers of Btg2-/- mice. Mechanistically, Btg2 suppresses UFMylation of flavin-containing monooxygenase 1 (Fmo1), a key taurine synthesis enzyme, promoting its K48-linked ubiquitination and degradation. Virus-mediated Fmo1 overexpression inhibits ferroptosis, apoptosis, and HIRI significantly both in vivo and in vitro. Virtual screening of natural compounds indicates that Daturataturin A (DTA) inhibits Btg2, thereby attenuating ferroptosis and HIRI. These results suggest that Btg2 may constitute a promising therapeutic target for HIRI.© 2026. The Author(s).
The induced membrane technique is a clinical strategy for managing large bone defects, which relies on endochondral ossification. However, the metabolic mechanisms regulating this process remain largely uncharacterized. We utilized scRNA-seq to analyze chondro-osseous dynamics during membrane-induced osteogenesis, with a specific focus on the role of FMO1.Following the scRNA-seq profiling of human induced membranes, FMO1 function was examined using in vivo and in vitro models of triiodothyronine (T3)-induced chondrocyte hypertrophy. Mechanistic investigations incorporated FMO1 genetic knockdown and overexpression, pharmacological inhibition (methimazole), targeted mitochondrial functional assays, and senolytic clearance (ABT-263).FMO1, an enzyme typically associated with xenobiotic metabolism, was upregulated during chondrocyte hypertrophy. Both T3 stimulation and direct FMO1 overexpression increased intracellular and mitochondrial reactive oxygen species. This localized oxidative stress altered mitochondrial homeostasis by shifting organelle dynamics toward fission, characterized by Drp1 upregulation and Mfn1/2 downregulation. This structural imbalance induced cellular senescence via the p16/p21 axis, resulting in abnormal matrix mineralization and increased expression of catabolic markers (COL10A1, MMP13). Genetic knockdown or pharmacological inhibition of FMO1, as well as the clearance of senescent cells, reduced these hypertrophic and senescent phenotypes.We describe an FMO1-ROS-mitochondria axis that links metabolic oxidative stress to chondrocyte senescence. While baseline FMO1 expression occurs during physiological bone repair, its sustained activation drives pathological calcification and cartilage degeneration. Targeting this axis presents a potential biological strategy for modulating the osteogenic microenvironment and managing cartilage disorders.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Taurine, an important sulfur-containing nonpeptidic amino acid, is widely used in the food, pharmaceutical and feed industries. Microbial fermentation has emerged as a promising sustainable alternative to environmentally-unfriendly chemical synthesis for taurine production, but the development of taurine-producing cell factories remains constrained by inefficient heterologous pathways, suboptimal key enzymes activities and limited precursor supply, resulting in low taurine titers. Here, we established an efficient de novo taurine biosynthetic system in Escherichia coli by integrating pathway engineering, enzyme design and a hybrid chemical-biological system. For constructing an efficient taurine biosynthetic route, the sequence-guided enzyme mining was conducted to identify the superior catalysts of HcCDO and AeCSAD. To overcome the intrinsic catalytic bottleneck of AeCSAD, the computational-assisted protein engineering was implemented by integrating large-scale protein language model-based sequence optimization with physics-based energy calculations, yielding an AeCSAD (T410P/T498W) variant with a 3.19-fold increase in activity. To circumvent the poor solubility and low activity of FMO1-like enzymes, a mild H2O2-driven terminal oxidation process was established to rapidly and quantitatively convert hypotaurine to taurine. Concurrently, the multilayered metabolic rewiring strategies were performed to coordinately tune the carbon-metabolism and sulfur-assimilation modules, thereby increasing intracellular cysteine availability and driving higher taurine production. By coupling the optimized pathway with post-fermentation chemical oxidation in a fed-batch process, we achieved a taurine titer of 4.08 g/L, the highest reported to date. Collectively, our results established a mechanistically integrated chemical-biological platform for de novo taurine production and provided a generalizable framework for sustainable manufacturing of sulfonic acid-containing compounds.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Eucalyptus leaf blight is a globally distributed disease caused by Calonectria fungi, with C. pseudoreteaudii being the dominant pathogen in Fujian, China. The crude toxin produced by C. pseudoreteaudii is a key virulent factor. To investigate the resistance mechanism triggered by crude toxin infection, transcriptome sequencing, physiological observations, and qRT-PCR analyses were conducted. Transcriptome analysis of Arabidopsis thaliana treated with C. pseudoreteaudii crude toxin revealed that a flavin-containing monooxygenase 1 gene (AtFMO1) exhibited the highest differential expression with DMSO control. Compared with Arabidopsis ecotype Col-4 (the wild type, WT), AtFMO1 knockout mutant (Δfmo1) plants displayed dose-dependent leaf margin yellowing accompanied by reduced callose deposition and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) accumulation under crude toxin treatment. qRT-PCR analysis of key genes from two immune pathways showed that the salicylic acid-dependent (SA-dependent) pathway was likely Arabidopsis's primary response pathway for crude toxin. In E. grandis, a total of 38 EgFMOs were identified, with eight EgFMO1s, based on the protein sequence similarity, conserved domain, and motif pattern. qRT-PCR analysis of EgFMO1s revealed two major expression patterns in response to crude toxin treatment: an initial downregulation followed by upregulation, and continuous upregulation. Collectively, these results suggest FMO1 plays a positive role in resistance to C. pseudoreteaudii crude toxin in both A. thaliana and E. grandis.
The fig tree (Ficus carica L.) is a historically and economically important perennial crop in the Mediterranean region, valued for its fruit, leaves, and latex, which are employed in food, pharmaceutical, and cosmetic applications. Despite the agronomic and cultural relevance of Ficus carica, contemporary breeding programs are limited, and the genetic basis for major agro-morphological traits remains insufficiently characterised. To address this knowledge gap, we performed whole-genome resequencing on 286 genotypes from germplasm collections in Spain, Turkey, and Tunisia. Variant discovery identified 1,374,111 high-quality single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), 2,448,766 small insertions/deletions, 218 copy number variants, and 1363 structural variants, many of which affect genes involved in stress responses, metabolism, signalling, and development. Population genomics revealed three main clusters corresponding to geographic origin, with some intermixing and cryptic relatedness reflecting historical germplasm exchange. By integrating genomic and phenotypic data, we identified 481 significant SNPs and candidate genes linked to 11 fruit traits and productive type, including genes associated with fruit weight (FMO1 and MYB transcription factors), fruit size (ABC transporters and WAK kinases), firmness (CML22 and sugar transporters ERD6s), sugar content and acidity (CYP94C1 and PPR proteins), and productive type (PP2C63). This study represents the most comprehensive genomic and phenotypic resource for F. carica to date, providing a robust foundation for germplasm management, marker-assisted selection, and breeding strategies, including the application of genome editing technologies to accelerate the improvement of fruit quality, yield, and adaptability.Copyright © 2026 Castellacci, Usai, Vangelisti, Simoni, Natali, Mascagni, Cavallini, Lopez-Corrales, Domínguez, Baraket, Haffar, Kuden, Comlekcioglu, Hormaza, Feldmann, Knapp and Giordani.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560011 is a review article
To investigate the anti-inflammatory mechanisms of Hudi enteric-coated capsule (HDEC) and its major bioactive constituent, polydatin, in ulcerative colitis (UC).Mouse models of colitis were established by transplantation adoptive transfer of CD45RBhighCD4+ T cells and treated with or without HDEC/polydatin. Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated by assessing disease activity, colon length, and histopathological damage. The differentiation of Th1, Th17, and Treg cells was analyzed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and flow cytometry. In vitro cultures of mouse and human CD4+ T cells were utilized to assess the immunomodulatory activity. RNA sequencing, Western blotting, and immunofluorescence were used to explore the underlying mechanism. Molecular docking, molecular dynamics, and surface plasmon resonance (SPR) assays were employed to confirm the interaction between polydatin and KEAP1.Treatment with HDEC and polydatin significantly ameliorated murine colitis and mucosal damage. Mechanistically, polydatin directly binds to KEAP1 to promote NFE2L2 nuclear translocation. This NFE2L2 activation reduces intracellular oxidative stress, thereby inhibiting pathogenic Th1/Th17 differentiation and enhancing Treg generation. Importantly, these effects were consistently validated in human CD4+ T cells and UC mucosal tissues.HDEC and polydatin alleviate UC by targeting the KEAP1-NFE2L2 axis to reduce oxidative stress, thereby restoring the Th1/Th17/Treg balance. This highlights polydatin as a promising KEAP1-targeting agent with strong translational potential.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the West China School of Medicine & West China Hospital of Sichuan University.
Intrafollicular transfer of immature oocytes (IFIOT) is a promising embryo production strategy, but outcomes remain poor and inconsistent. We investigated the effects of the injection procedure and the number of injected cumulus-oocyte complexes (COCs) on the biochemical and molecular environment of follicles. First, dominant follicles from hormonally synchronized heifers were either not injected (NIFIOT), injected with medium only (IFIOTM), or injected with medium containing COCs (IFIOT-COCs). Follicular fluid (FF) was analyzed for cell-free DNA (cfDNA), oxidative stress markers (GPx activity and FRAP), steroid hormones, and metabolomic profiles using UPLC-HRMS. Injection procedure increased cfDNA levels and altered steroidogenesis, with higher progesterone levels, lower estradiol levels, and lower E2/P4 ratios in the injected follicles. Metabolomic analysis revealed changes in amino acid and anti-inflammatory pathways on the injected follicle compared to the non injected. In addition, follicles were injected with 25 or 50 COCs (IFIOT25 and IFIOT50) to assess the impact of oocyte number on the follicular environment. IFIOT25 follicles showed higher GPx activity and estradiol concentrations compared to IFIOT50, whereas IFIOT50 follicles exhibited the downregulation of redox- and stress-related genes (SOD1, GPX4, NFE2L2, HSP70, and CASP3) and lower embryo yield compared to IFIOT25 (42 vs 52%, respectively). Metabolomic analysis indicated alterations in lipid and energy metabolism, with key metabolites (creatine, l-acetylcarnitine, dodecanoic acid, and panthenol) reduced in the IFIOT50 group, suggesting impaired metabolic homeostasis at higher oocyte density. Overall, both the injection process and oocyte number influenced follicular physiology, potentially affecting oocyte quality, highlighting the need to refine IFIOT protocols.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Brusatol (BR) is a quassinoid from the traditional Chinese herb Brucea javanica, widely used for its anti-inflammatory and anti-tumor properties. This study aimed to investigate the molecular mechanisms through which BR enhances cisplatin (CDDP) sensitivity in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). Network pharmacology and molecular docking were used to prioritize candidate targets and pathways. Cell viability, clonogenic growth, apoptosis, ROS accumulation, and NRF2/HO-1/NQO1 signaling were evaluated using CCK-8, colony formation, Annexin V/PI flow cytometry, AO/EB staining, MitoSOX Red staining, and Western blotting. The synergistic efficacy of BR with CDDP was analyzed using the Chou-Talalay method, while NAC and tBHQ were used to assess the functional roles of ROS and NRF2, respectively. Antitumor efficacy was further examined in a CAL27/CDDP xenograft model. Network pharmacology identified NFE2L2 (encoding NRF2) as a core hub target and highlighted ROS-related signaling pathways. BR inhibited OSCC cell viability and synergistically enhanced CDDP cytotoxicity. BR/CDDP cotreatment reduced NRF2 nuclear accumulation and HO-1/NQO1 expression while increasing mitochondrial ROS accumulation. In vivo, BR/CDDP cotreatment inhibited xenograft growth and decreased Ki-67, NRF2, HO-1, and NQO1 expression. These findings indicate that BR enhances CDDP sensitivity in OSCC by disrupting NRF2/HO-1/NQO1 antioxidant pathway and promoting ROS-associated apoptosis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Heat stress severely impairs immune function and threatens dairy cow health and productivity. Although heat stress suppresses bovine neutrophil (PMN) phagocytosis, its effects governing PMN survival remain unclear. L-arginine (L-Arg) exerts immunomodulatory and cytoprotective effects, yet its role in repairing heat-damaged PMN has not been defined. In this study, an in vitro heat stress model (42 °C for 2.5 h) was established. Heat stress significantly reduced cell viability, induced abnormal nuclear morphology, and triggered apoptotic signaling, accompanied by severe oxidative stress (elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS)/Malondialdehyde (MDA), decreased SOD/glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px)). The ROS scavenger N-Acetylcysteine (NAC) mitigated both oxidative stress and apoptosis, confirming oxidative stress as a core mediator of PMN apoptosis induced by heat stress. Pretreatment with 4 mmol/L L-Arg significantly alleviated heat-induced oxidative damage and apoptosis. Mechanistically, in bovine PMN, we first demonstrated that heat stress blocks nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NFE2L2) nuclear translocation; inhibition of NFE2L2 (ML385) abolished L-Arg's protection, verifying the NFE2L2-dependent ROS scavenging pathway. In conclusion, this study reveals that heat stress induces bovine PMN oxidative injury and apoptosis by suppressing NFE2L2-mediated ROS scavenging, and L-Arg restores PMN viability and immune resilience by reactivating the NFE2L2 antioxidant pathway. These findings provide a targeted L-Arg supplement strategy to improve PMN survival and disease resistance in heat-stressed dairy cows.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is a persistent environmental pollutant linked to metabolic disorders, but its role in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) remains unclear. This study integrated network toxicology, transcriptomics, and in vitro experiments to investigate the molecular mechanisms linking TCDD exposure to NAFLD. Using multi-source databases (CTD, PubChem, STITCH, SwissTargetPrediction) and two liver transcriptome datasets (GSE126848, GSE213621), we identified 176 common targets between TCDD and NAFLD, enriched in lipid metabolism, oxidative stress, inflammation, and PPAR/AhR pathways. Protein‑protein interaction network and cytoHubba algorithms prioritized ten hub genes, including PPARA, NFE2L2, IL6, and CYP1A1. Molecular docking predicted strong binding affinities of TCDD to PPARA (- 8.5 kcal/mol) and NFE2L2 (- 8.1 kcal/mol). In vitro experiments using HepG2 cells showed that TCDD dose‑dependently downregulated PPARA, NFE2L2, and their downstream targets CPT1A and NQO1, while upregulating IL6. TCDD also increased malondialdehyde (MDA) and triglyceride (TG) levels, indicating oxidative stress and lipid accumulation. These experimental results are consistent with the computational predictions. We propose a mechanistic framework in which TCDD may impair PPARA‑mediated fatty acid oxidation and NFE2L2‑mediated antioxidant defense, while promoting inflammation, thereby contributing to NAFLD. This study provides a systematic understanding of TCDD‑induced NAFLD and suggests PPARA and NFE2L2 as potential key targets for environmental risk assessment and therapeutic intervention.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Age-related cardiomyocyte vulnerability is driven by a convergent triad of persistent oxidative stress, chronic low-grade inflammation, and senescence-like signaling, which together accelerate functional decline and maladaptive remodeling. Angiotensin II (Ang II), a clinically relevant stress effector, amplifies reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and inflammatory activation, thereby impairing cardiomyocyte survival and repair capacity. Although metformin has emerging cardiovascular benefits beyond glycemic control, its coordinated capacity to counteract Ang II-driven inflammaging-like injury through the coupled regulation of antioxidant and anti-inflammatory pathways in human cardiomyocytes remains insufficiently defined.This study aimed to determine whether metformin attenuates Ang II-induced injury and impaired repair in human AC16 cardiomyocytes and to evaluate whether this protection is associated with coordinated activation of Nuclear Factor Erythroid 2-Related Factor 2 (Nrf2) and suppression of Nuclear Factor-κB (NF-κB).Human AC16 cardiomyocytes were preconditioned with metformin (0.5 or 1.0 mM) for 2 h and then challenged with Ang II (0.1 - 2.0 μM) under continuous metformin exposure. The primary efficacy endpoints were cell survival, quantified using the MTT assay, and repair competence, assessed by scratch wound closure. Secondary mechanistic endpoints included inflammatory mediators (TNFA, IL6, and IL1B); senescence-associated markers (CDKN2A/p16 and CDKN1A/p21); antioxidant genes linked to Nrf2 signaling (NFE2L2/Nrf2, HMOX1/HO-1, and NQO1); NF-κB pathway activation; antioxidant and apoptosis-related proteins; Nrf2 compartmentalization; and intracellular ROS.Angiotensin II induced a dose-dependent injury phenotype in AC16 cardiomyocytes, reducing viability from 100.0 ± 1.1% in control cells to 64.9 ± 1.6% at 1.0 μM and 53.0 ± 1.6% at 2.0 μM, while markedly impairing wound closure (80.0 ± 2.0% in control vs 32.3 ± 2.5% with Ang II). Metformin attenuated this injury in a concentration-dependent manner, restoring viability to 81.7 ± 1.0% with 0.5 mM and 89.7 ± 1.0% with 1.0 mM and improving wound closure to 52.3 ± 2.5% and 70.0 ± 2.0%, respectively. Angiotensin II also robustly increased inflammatory cytokine expression, with TNFA, IL6, and IL1B increasing to 27.86 ± 2.79-fold, 29.86 ± 2.99-fold, and 29.86 ± 2.99-fold, respectively, accompanied by NF-κB activation, ROS accumulation (187.7 ± 2.5% of control), apoptosis-associated signaling, and upregulation of the senescence-like markers p16 and p21. Metformin markedly suppressed these responses, reducing cytokine expression toward near-baseline levels, lowering ROS to 120.0 ± 2.0%, decreasing the BAX/BCL-2 ratio from 2.98 to 1.19, and reducing cleaved caspase-3 and cleaved PARP to 120% and 112% of control, respectively. In parallel, metformin enhanced Nrf2-associated antioxidant signaling, increasing NFE2L2 to 2.14 ± 0.17-fold, HMOX1 to 4.29 ± 0.30-fold, and NQO1 to 3.81 ± 0.27-fold, consistent with enhanced antioxidant defense under Ang II stress.Metformin attenuated Ang II-driven cardiac inflammaging-like injury and impaired repair, in association with reduced inflammatory signaling and enhanced activation of antioxidant pathways. These findings support a mechanistically coherent model in which NF-κB suppression and Nrf2 activation may contribute to metformin-mediated protection; however, direct pathway dependence requires confirmation through perturbation-based studies.Copyright © 2026, Li et al.
Neddylation regulates diverse cellular processes, yet its role in osteoclast-mediated bone resorption is poorly understood. Here, we identify NAE1 (NEDD8 activating enzyme E1 subunit 1)-mediated neddylation as a critical regulator of postmenopausal osteoporosis and osteoclast differentiation through two distinct regulatory mechanisms. Pharmacological inhibition of Nae1 or myeloid-specific genetic ablation of Nae1 attenuated osteoclastogenesis in vitro and ameliorated ovariectomy (OVX)-induced osteoporosis in vivo without impairing osteoblast function. Mechanistically, Nae1 depletion disrupted intracellular iron metabolism, thereby suppressing ferritinophagy initiation in osteoclast precursors. Concurrently, integrated transcriptomics and affinity purification-mass spectrometry revealed ACSL3 as a direct neddylation substrate. Nae1-mediated neddylation modulates monounsaturated fatty acid (MUFA) biosynthesis, regulating the sensitivity of bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) to ferroptosis. This dual regulatory mechanism coordinately governs ferritinophagy initiation in iron metabolism and the sensitivity to ferroptosis mediated by ACSL3 neddylation, thereby critically influencing osteoclastogenesis. Clinically, serum MUFA levels positively correlated with bone mineral density (r = 0.329, p < 0.05). These findings support MLN4924, a clinical-stage NAE inhibitor, as a potential therapeutic strategy for osteoporosis and define an Nae1-ACSL3-MUFA-ferroptosis axis regulating osteoclast metabolism.Abbreviations: 4-HNE: 4-hydroxynonenal; ACP5/TRAP: acid phosphatase, tartrate resistant; ACSL3: acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 3; ACSL4: acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 4; BGLAP/OCN: bone gamma-carboxyglutamate protein; BMD: bone mineral density; BMDMs: bone marrow-derived macrophages; BV/TV: bone volume per total volume; CHX: cycloheximide; cKO: conditional knockout; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CTSK: cathepsin K; DFO: deferoxamine; MDS: myelodysplastic syndrome; MUFA: monounsaturated fatty acid; NAE1: NEDD8 activating enzyme E1 subunit 1; NCOA4: nuclear receptor coactivator 4; NEDD8: NEDD8 ubiquitin like modifier; NFE2L2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; NFATC1: nuclear factor of activated T cells 1; OC: osteoclast; OVX: ovariectomy; PUFA: polyunsaturated fatty acid; ROS: reactive oxygen species; RUNX2: RUNX family transcription factor 2; SLC40A1: solute carrier family 40 member 1; SLC7A11: solute carrier family 7 member 11; Tb.N: trabecular number; Tb.Sp: trabecular separation; Tb.Th: trabecular thickness; TFRC: transferrin receptor; TNFSF11/RANKL: TNF superfamily member 11; UBE2M: ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 M.
Oculocutaneous albinism (OCA) is a group of genetic disorders characterized by impaired melanin production, leading to reduced pigmentation in the skin, hair, and eyes. Xiphophorus, a genus of small freshwater fish, has been a pivotal model organism in pigmentation disorder research, providing key findings in the genetic pathways governing physiological and pathological pigment cell biology. Leveraging the well-established research framework provided by Xiphophorus, we have identified a spontaneously occurring albinism phenotype in swordtail fish Xiphophorus hellerii. Genetic mapping of albino fish showed that albinism is associated with a recessive mutation in the oca2 gene. This discovery provides a novel opportunity to explore functions of the oca2 gene in pigment cell differentiation, pigment synthesis, melanosome assembly and transportation function, and amelanotic melanoma development.© 2026 The Author(s). Pigment Cell & Melanoma Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42523702 is a review article
Background: Hypertension-induced vascular injury involves endothelial dysfunction, inflammation, and oxidative stress, leading to vascular remodeling and cardiovascular complications. Flavin-containing monooxygenase 2 (FMO2) has been implicated in redox regulation, but its role in hypertensive vascular injury remains unclear. This study investigated whether KuJiang GanLuoYin (KJGLY) protects against hypertensive vascular injury and whether FMO2-associated Fat mass and obesity-associated protein (FTO)/N6-methyladenosine (m6A) signaling is involved. Methods: Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) were treated with KJGLY for eight weeks. Blood pressure, vascular remodeling, inflammation, oxidative stress, and global m6A RNA methylation were assessed. Integrated metabolomic and proteomic analyses were performed to identify treatment-associated molecular alterations and candidate proteins. AAV9-mediated FMO2 knockdown in SHRs and gain- and loss-of-function approaches in angiotensin II (Ang II)-stimulated human umbilical vein endothelial cells were used to examine the functional involvement of FMO2. Ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-Q-TOF/MS)-based chemical profiling and High-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS) quantification were performed to characterize the major constituents of KJGLY. Results: KJGLY significantly reduced blood pressure and alleviated vascular remodeling in SHRs. Metabolomic and proteomic analyses revealed treatment-associated alterations in inflammatory and lipid metabolic pathways and identified FMO2 as a treatment-responsive candidate. KJGLY restored FMO2 expression, reduced FTO abundance and NF-κB activation, increased global m6A levels, and attenuated inflammatory and oxidative stress responses in hypertensive aortas. Conversely, AAV9-mediated FMO2 knockdown aggravated vascular injury, enhanced inflammation and oxidative stress, reduced global m6A levels, and increased NF-κB activation. Co-immunoprecipitation showed an association between FMO2 and FTO, and MeRIP-qPCR indicated that FMO2 manipulation altered m6A enrichment of VCAM-1 mRNA. In Ang II-stimulated endothelial cells, linarin, the most abundant quantified constituent of KJGLY, partially recapitulated the cellular effects of KJGLY, including restoration of FMO2/FTO-associated signaling and attenuation of inflammatory activation. Conclusions: These findings support a functional role for FMO2 in hypertensive vascular injury and suggest that FMO2-associated modulation of FTO/m6A signaling may contribute to the vascular protective effects of KJGLY. Linarin recapitulated key protective effects in vitro, although its in vivo contribution to the formula remains to be determined.
Thiamine-responsive megaloblastic anemia (TRMA) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by biallelic loss of function variants in the SLC19A2 gene. It typically presents with a triad of megaloblastic anemia, diabetes mellitus, and sensorineural deafness. In this work, we analyzed ten children with suspected TRMA: nine exhibited the full triad and one, a younger sibling of a patient with full triad, did not develop hearing loss by the age of 18 months. All patients became transfusion-independent on high-dose thiamine therapy. Whole-genome sequencing identified homozygosity for the canonical splice variant SLC19A2 c.1223+1G>A in eight patients. One patient was homozygous for a known SLC19A2 c.196G>T variant, and the other was compound heterozygous for two novel variants, c.120C>G and c.584T>C. All patients with the SLC19A2 c.1223+1G>A variant were ethnic Ingush. In the reference Ingush cohort, 9/328 unrelated adults were c.1223+1G>A carriers (heterozygous carrier frequency 2.7%; carrier frequency ≈ 1/36), and shared a 2.3 Mb ATP1B1-FMO2 haplotype on chromosome 1, demonstrating a strong founder effect. These findings identify Ingushetia as a new TRMA-endemic region and support targeted SLC19A2 screening and early thiamine therapy in patients with macrocytic anemia and diabetes of unclear origin in this population.
Recent advances in predicting and modeling conformational ensembles of intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs) have provided much needed insights into sequence-ensemble relationships. It is thought that conservation of physicochemical properties, but not the exact identity or order of the amino acids, maintains IDP ensemble properties that are crucial for function. However, detailed experimental studies are still required to fully understand the relationships between sequence and function in IDPs. The human CITED proteins, which are fully disordered transcriptional regulators, share conserved C-terminal transactivation domains (CTADs) that interact with the TAZ1 domain of the transcriptional coactivators CBP/p300. The conserved CTADs harbor amino acid substitutions in regions that are known to be important for interactions of CITED2 with TAZ1, but the effects of these substitutions on TAZ1 binding for the other CITED proteins are unknown. Here, we use solution NMR spectroscopy, circular dichroism, and surface plasmon resonance to characterize the conformational ensembles, dynamics, and interactions of the CITED CTADs. The CTADs are disordered in isolation, although the CITED2 CTAD uniquely displays residual helical structure that is sensitive to ionic strength and protein concentration. In contrast, the CITED1 and CITED4 CTADs remain largely disordered and exhibit more uniform dynamics. Quantitative binding measurements reveal differences in thermodynamics and kinetics for the CTADs' interactions with TAZ1, with CITED2 binding most tightly and CITED4 exhibiting significantly weaker affinity. Our results highlight the sensitivity of IDP conformational ensembles to minor sequence changes and the impacts that changes in IDP structures and dynamics can have on biological functions.© 2026 The Author(s). Protein Science published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Protein Society.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) has become a global health challenge for which there are currently no approved drugs. Indole-3-propionic acid (IPA), as one of the primary metabolites of gut microbiota, can influence the development of liver diseases through the gut-liver axis, but how it contributes to liver diseases remains unclear. The present study was conducted to explore the possible molecular mechanisms of IPA in the development of MASLD.Metabolomic analysis compared serum and fecal metabolite profiles between MASLD and normal mice. The effects of microbial metabolite IPA on MASLD were evaluated through the utilization of a mouse model and cell models. Transcriptome data analysis was used, and further validation was conducted through flow cytometry, western blotting, RNA interference, and immunoprecipitation.Serum and fecal IPA levels in high-fat diet-fed mice were significantly decreased compared with those of normal chow diet-fed mice. IPA supplementation reduced hepatic lipid accumulation and alleviated insulin resistance, liver damage, and steatosis development in high-fat diet-fed mice, while gut microbiota dysbiosis was restored. Mechanistic analysis suggested that IPA promoted FMO2 expression, enhancing the interaction between FMO2 and protein kinase R-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK) and inhibiting the PERK/eIF2α/ATF4/CHOP signaling cascade, then mitigating endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, such as reducing hepatocyte apoptosis and reactive oxygen species levels, ultimately improving MASLD.IPA can promote the expression of FMO2, which binds to PERK within the ER of hepatocytes. This binding process inhibits the phosphorylation of PERK, thereby affecting PERK-mediated ER stress, and subsequently leading to a reduction in hepatocyte apoptosis and oxidation. This study puts forward the IPA/FMO2/PERK axis as a potential therapeutic target in ER stress for MASLD.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on behalf of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.
Despite intensive glycemic control, diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) often progresses due to hyperglycemic memory (HGM), yet the specific cardiac cells perpetuating this injury remain unknown. To address this, we performed single-nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq) on hearts from an HGM rat model. Our analysis of 86,120 nuclei revealed HGM-specific inflammatory and epigenetic reprogramming signatures. Fibroblasts emerged as potential mediators, appearing to drive extracellular matrix remodeling via upregulated LAMININ and COLLAGEN signaling. We uncovered a distinct HGM-specific fibroblast subpopulation characterized by oxidative stress and H3K27 demethylation. Integrative analysis prioritized Fmo2 as a key pathogenic candidate, which was further supported via Mendelian randomization and clinical data as a putative causal gene. This study suggests that a pathogenic Fmo2+ fibroblast subpopulation may act as a pathological "memory carrier," providing novel mechanistic insights and proposing exploratory therapeutic avenues for HGM-induced cardiac damage beyond glycemic control.© 2026. The Author(s).
Colorectal liver metastasis (CRLM) remains the primary cause of mortality in patients with colorectal cancer (CRC), yet effective predictive tools and reliable biomarkers are still lacking. DeepMetabio-mCRC Screener, an integrated multi-omics framework combining large-scale transcriptomic profiles with serum metabolomics, was developed to address this gap. In a cohort of 1,077 CRC samples, 620 metabolism-related genes were used to train a convolutional neural network, yielding an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.92 in the validation cohort and 0.97 in the independent testing cohort, outperforming the performance of the 10 established machine learning models. Model-derived transcriptomic risk scores revealed 22 core metabolic features associated with metastatic progression and CRLM occurrence, particularly retinol and tryptophan metabolism. Cross-omics integration revealed aminocarboxymuconate-semialdehyde decarboxylase (ACMSD) as a promising biomarker associated with impaired nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide biosynthesis. Clinical validation in 100 CRC patients confirmed elevated ACMSD levels in patients with CRLM, which correlated with advanced stage, recurrence risk, an immune-inflamed tumor microenvironment, and heightened sensitivity to epidermal growth factor receptor/vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-targeted therapies. In vitro, ACMSD knockdown was associated not only with suppressed CRC cell migration caused by inhibition of the transforming growth factor-β/epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition pathway but also with decreased proinflammatory and immune-responsive pathways and reduced immune cell infiltration. These findings collectively validate the DeepMetabio-mCRC Screener as a substantial early risk prediction tool and underscore ACMSD, identified through this framework, as a multifunctional biomarker for diagnosis, prognosis, molecular characterization, and therapeutic decision-making in patients with CRLM.Copyright © 2026 Hongyu Zhang et al.
Aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) induces hepatocellular damage through its metabolite aflatoxin B1-8,9-epoxide (AFBO), which is produced in endoplasmic reticulum (ER) via cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzymes. To investigate the effect of ferulic acid (FA) on AFB1-induced broiler liver damage, one-day-old Arbor Acres broilers were exposed to AFB1 (4 mg/kg) and treated with different doses of FA (60 mg/kg, 120 mg/kg, and 240 mg/kg) continuously for 28 days. The production performance, biochemical indicators, morphological changes, CYP450 enzymes' expression in ER, interactions between small molecules and CYP450 enzymes, and CYP450 enzymes' protein secondary structure were investigated. The results showed the following: (I) FA promoted broiler growth and reduced AFBO production. (II) AFB1-induced changes in serological indicators (AST, ALT, ALP, γ-GT, TBA, TG) and biochemical parameters (GST, SOD, MDA, ROS), which were reversed by FA. (III) AFB1-induced liver morphological changes and apoptosis were obviously alleviated by FA. (IV) AFB1-induced up-regulation of CYP1A5, CYP2A6, CYP2W1, and CYP3A4 in ER were reduced by FA. (V) The binding affinity of FA to CYP1A5 is lower than that of AFB1 to CYP1A5, and the binding affinity of FA to CYP2W1 is similar to that of AFB1 to CYP2W1. (VI) The contents of α helix, β sheet, β turn, and random coil in chicken CYP1A5 were 59.6%, 7.8%, 13.6%, and 19.0% respectively, and those in chicken CYP2W1 were 32.2%, 17.1%, 16.8%, and 33.9% respectively. In conclusion, FA can promote broiler growth and alleviate AFB1-induced hepatotoxicity via inhibiting and conjugating CYP450 enzymes, thus reducing AFBO formation and oxidative damage.
Crustaceans, such as shrimp and crabs, are pivotal to global aquaculture, yet their productivity is severely impacted by low-temperature stress. This study employs comparative transcriptomic and genomic analyses to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying crustacean responses to cold stress across five economically significant species: Litopenaeus vannamei, Penaeus indicus, Eriocheir sinensis, Cherax quadricarinatus, and Macrobrachium rosenbergii. We identified 4711 conserved orthogroups and analyzed differential gene expression under low-temperature conditions. Results revealed species-specific responses, with 25 orthogroups shared across all five species and 113 orthogroups common to at least four species. Functional enrichment highlighted pathways such as oxidation-reduction, hormone metabolism, immune regulation, and spliceosomes. Key genes, including EcKL, CYP2W1, HSPA5, and SLCs, were implicated in signaling, metabolic, immunological, and developmental adaptations. Phylogenetic analysis was used to trace the evolutionary origins of stress-responsive genes, enabling the identification of both ancient conserved genes and lineage-specific genes. The results indicated that "younger" genes tend to exhibit greater transcriptional plasticity than ancient conserved genes. These findings provide critical insights into shared and species-specific low-temperature adaptation mechanisms, offering a foundation for breeding cold-tolerant crustacea strains to enhance aquaculture resilience.© 2026 The Author(s). Evolutionary Applications published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
L-tryptophan (Trp) metabolism through the L-kynurenine (Kyn) pathway contributes to immune escape in neoplasms, including bladder cancer (BC). Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase-1 (IDO1) is a key enzyme, and its catabolites-Kyn, 3-hydroxykynurenine (3HK), and 3-hydroxyanthranilate (3HAA)-depend on other enzymes and play a crucial role in immunomodulation.We investigated the association between Kyn pathway enzyme expression and BC prognostic factors.Data from 165 bc patients in the GEO DataSets were analyzed, comparing staging, tumor grade, progression, and recurrence with the expression of IDO1, arylformamidase (AFMID), kynurenine-oxoglutarate transaminase (KAT), kynureninase (KYNU), kynurenine 3-monooxygenase (KMO), 3-hydroxyanthranilate 3,4-dioxygenase (HAAO), and aminocarboxymuconate-semialdehyde decarboxylase (ACMSD). Predictive genes were further evaluated in RT4 (low-grade, non-invasive) and T24 (high-grade, invasive) BC cells treated with IFN-gamma and the IDO1 inhibitor INCB024360. Trp catabolites were quantified in the supernatant.Enzyme expression varied widely, especially for IDO1, AFMID, KAT, KMO, and KYNU. IDO1 correlated positively with KMO and negatively with KAT. High IDO1 and KMO levels were linked to advanced-stage disease, while KAT and KYNU were associated with earlier stages and lower tumor grade. RT4 and T24 cells showed distinct basal enzyme expression, with T24 cells being more responsive to IFN-gamma, increasing IDO1 and KYNU while decreasing KAT and KMO. These effects were inhibited by INCB024360. High Trp consumption increased Kyn and 3HAA but not 3HK.Kyn pathway enzyme expression varies with disease progression and may indicate immune activity by influencing tumor microenvironment catabolites. BC cell sensitivity to immune stimuli differs, potentially shaping distinct immune escape mechanisms.© 2026 The Author(s). International Journal of Urology published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Japanese Urological Association.
Epidemiological studies suggest associations of asthma with the psychosis spectrum (psychotic experiences, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia), but the mechanisms underlying these associations remain unclear.We examined the relationship between asthma and psychosis-related outcomes using observational cohort, polygenic score, and Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses, and assessed the possibility of shared genetic underpinnings between these traits using genetic colocalisation.Results from a UK population-based prospective birth cohort suggest that asthma at age 7 and polygenic risk for asthma are associated with psychotic experiences in early adulthood. Results from two-sample MR analyses do not support causal relationships of genetic liability to asthma with bipolar disorder or schizophrenia. Instead, genetic correlation and colocalization analyses point to the presence of shared genetic etiology between the conditions. We identified 8 genomic regions with potentially shared causal genes between asthma and bipolar disorder or asthma and schizophrenia. Using genetically predicted mRNA expression in condition-relevant tissues (brain and lung), we identified 16 genes shared between conditions, which include FADS1, SLC4A10, BDH2, and CISD2.Our results suggest that population-level associations of asthma with psychosis spectrum conditions could be due to shared molecular mechanisms involving fatty acid metabolism, ion channel activity, and iron homeostasis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Hypertension is highly prevalent in Asian populations and represents a major cardiovascular risk factor. However, most genome-wide association studies (GWASs) and transcriptome-wide association studies (TWASs) have focused primarily on Caucasian cohorts. This study aimed to identify genetic loci and gene expression signatures associated with hypertension in an Asian population.We analyzed 10 739 hypertensive patients and 49 668 controls from the Taiwan Biobank, testing 4 512 191 genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Integrated GWAS, TWAS, and expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) analyses were conducted to characterize genetic risk. Additionally, a polygenic risk score (PRS) was constructed using a split-sample design to evaluate genetic risk stratification.We identified 14 loci significantly associated with hypertension, including a novel locus at 5p13.1. eQTL analysis linked this locus to DAB2 expression in whole blood. TWAS detected 55 hypertension-associated genes, with 20 (36%) overlapping GWAS loci. Several novel genes outside GWAS loci, including FBXL15, KCNIP2, and CRIP3, were highly significant and implicated in vascular biology and hypertension mechanisms. PRS analysis effectively differentiated hypertension risk, with individuals in the top 10% showing a > 3.5﻿-fold increased risk compared to the bottom 10%.Our findings provide new insights into the genetic and transcriptomic landscape of hypertension in Asians. The identification of novel loci and genes advances understanding of disease biology and may guide precision medicine approaches for risk prediction and therapeutic development.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Globally, chronic arsenic exposure causes characteristic skin lesions and multi-organ damage. However, early identification of high-risk individuals remains a critical challenge, and reliable epigenetic markers are urgently needed. This study investigated the association between arsenic (+ 3 oxidation state) methyltransferase (AS3MT) promoter methylation in peripheral blood and arsenic-induced skin lesions in a drinking water-exposed population. The potential of AS3MT methylation as an epigenetic biomarker of arsenic toxicity was further evaluated. A total of 135 participants were enrolled, and AS3MT promoter methylation was measured by MALDI-TOF-MS. AS3MT promoter methylation levels were significantly elevated at six CpG sites and CpG_average in individuals with skin lesions compared to controls. Linear regression models revealed that urinary total arsenic (TAs), along with primary and secondary methylation indices (PMI and SMI), was significantly associated with methylation at specific CpG sites. Restricted cubic spline (RCS) analysis confirmed linear dose-response relationships between arsenic exposure and AS3MT methylation without significant non-linear threshold effects. Binary logistic regression demonstrated that elevated methylation at several CpG sites was significantly associated with increased skin lesion risk. A weighted methylation risk score (wMRS) integrating all sites exhibited excellent discriminatory performance, with an adjusted AUC of 0.874. Skin lesion prevalence increased in a dose-dependent manner across wMRS quartiles, from 29.4% in Q1 to 100% in Q4 (p-trend < 0.001). AS3MT methylation at multiple CpG sites significantly mediated the associations between arsenic exposure and skin lesion risk. These findings indicate that AS3MT promoter hypermethylation may serve as an epigenetic biomarker for early risk identification.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Lung Squamous Cell Carcinoma (LUSC), a common subtype of non-small cell lung cancer, primarily occurs in elderly individuals and is closely linked to senescence-related biological processes. Meanwhile, senescence reshapes the tumor microenvironment by promoting immune suppression and angiogenesis, and its underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we identified three senescence-related molecular subtypes of LUSC, each with distinct clinical outcomes, genomic alterations, and immune features. Among them, Cluster 1 was associated with poor prognosis, increased genomic instability, and an immunosuppressive TME enriched with senescence signatures. To uncover the underlying mechanisms, we integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic data and found extensive senescence reprogramming across epithelial, myeloid, and T/NK cell compartments. Notably, senescent immune subsets-such as S100A9 + macrophages and TNFRSF4 + Tregs-were markedly enriched in older patients. Furthermore, cell communication analysis revealed enhanced intercellular signaling in senescent cells. Based on these findings, we constructed a robust machine learning-based prognostic model incorporating senescent gene expression and cell-type abundance to predict survival and immunotherapy response. Finally, functional validation demonstrated that UGT1A7 acts as a pro-proliferative driver that is significantly downregulated during the induction of cellular senescence. Experimental depletion of UGT1A7 phenocopies this senescence-associated decline, thereby triggering growth arrest and inhibiting tumor progression, suggesting its potential as a therapeutic target. Our study reveals how senescence-related alterations in cellular composition and transcriptional dysregulation reshape the tumor microenvironment, providing novel biomarkers and a theoretical basis for therapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic exposure to inorganic arsenic (iAs) remains a major environmental health concern and is associated with significant gastrointestinal (GI) disorders, including gastroenteritis, diarrhea, and inflammatory bowel disease-like symptoms. Gut microbiota plays a critical role in mitigating arsenic toxicity, as germ-free or antibiotic-treated mice exhibit reduced fecal arsenic excretion and greater tissue accumulation. We previously showed that the microbial metabolite Urolithin A (UroA) protects against iAs-induced cytotoxicity, apoptosis, oxidative stress, and ROS production in vitro. In this study, using humanized AS3MT mice (mouse arsenic methyltransferase gene (As3mt)replaced with human AS3MT, hAS3MT), we evaluated the in vivo effects of iAs and UroA on gut barrier function. Long-term iAs exposure (100 ppb for 28 weeks) significantly reduced expression of tight junction proteins, indicating compromised intestinal barrier integrity. UroA treatment protected hAS3MT mice from iAs-induced gut permeability, inflammation, colon shortening, and elevated colon weight/length ratio. UroA also reduced iAs-induced inflammatory cytokines, myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity and preserved intestinal epithelial cell tight junction protein expression. Further, microbiome and metabolomic analysis suggested that UroA treatment protected from iAs-induced gut microbial dysbiosis, especially restored several beneficial bacterial strains and short chain fatty acids (e.g., acetate and butyrate) and led to gut homeostasis. Together, these findings demonstrate that UroA mitigates iAs-induced gut toxicity and restores microbiota homeostasis.
Camphor is a key quality determinant of lavender oil. Bornyl dehydrogenase (BDH) catalyzes the final camphor biosynthesis step, yet its gene family and mechanism in lavender remain uncharacterized. We phylogenetically classified 154 short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase (SDR) genes into six clades and screened 17 BDH genes. Integrated transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses revealed that camphor biosynthesis primarily occurs via the plastidic 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate (MEP) pathway, with coordinated expression of geranyl diphosphate synthase (GPPS), bornyl diphosphate synthases (BPPS), bornyl-diphosphate diphosphatase (BDD), and BDH genes. Most biosynthetic genes, especially BDH and BPPS, were significantly upregulated in L. × intermedia "Xinxun 4", correlating with its highest camphor content. Subcellular localization showed BDH1 resides in the cytoplasm, suggesting plastid-cytoplasm collaboration. In vitro assays demonstrated that BDH1 and BDH2 both oxidize (+)- and (-)-borneol to camphor. Molecular dynamics simulations revealed that BDH1's active site exhibits conformational flexibility, accommodating both enantiomers with similar binding affinities, which was confirmed by enzyme kinetics. Asn90 was identified as a key catalytic residue. These findings reveal BDH family expansion, coordinated gene expression driving camphor accumulation, and BDH1's catalytic flexibility, offering key genetic resources and mechanistic insights for optimizing lavender camphor content via metabolic engineering and molecular breeding.
Adaptation is one of the key processes of animal domestication, environmental pressures will leave footprints in the genome. Geese are widely distributed across multiple geographical conditions with distinct adaptations. However, few reports have focused on the environmental adaptability of geese. Moreover, the key environmental drivers that trigger local adaptation and its genetic mechanisms are still unknown. To this end, 35 agro-climatic variables of 257 geese from 14 Chinese breeds were obtained, the key environmental drivers and its genetic mechanism were elucidated by combining the genome data.Five key environmental drivers, elevation, water scarcity (BIO14), two variables as proxies of food availability (Grass and Landuse), and one variable as proxy of disease resistance (Forest) were identified after dissecting 35 agro-climatic variables by using ecological niche modeling (ENM). Integrating five key environmental drivers with single-nucleotide polymorphism variations, we conduct genome-wide selection signature analyses and genome-environment analysis. This analysis identified 1984 key genes likely integral to the environmental adaptation and mainly enriched in MAPK signaling pathways and metabolic pathways. Allele frequency distribution and selective sweep analysis revealed that some genes play crucial roles in environmental adaptation, including SATB1, NTRK2 and CTIF involved in adapting to the high-altitude hypoxic environments; ARMH3 and BDH2 participated in adapting to water deficiency; COL5L1, ULK4 and PI4KA associated with disease resistance, and other genes involved in metabolic adaptations including IQSEC1, TBC1D14, GRK5, FGGY and LRP1B, etc. Notably, we noticed that feather colour differentiation in geese might be driven by human agricultural practices, with LRP1B involved in this process.Overall, our study elucidated the five key environmental drivers and their genetic mechanisms. The candidate genes related to environmental adaptability offer new insights into genetic resource development and breeding strategies of Chinese indigenous geese.© 2026. The Author(s).
Background/Objectives: With the ongoing efforts in supporting the discovery of novel targeted drug delivery systems for the upper region of the female reproductive tract (FRT), it is imperative to understand the local drug disposition pathways. We aim to obtain a comprehensive profile of the drug transporters and drug-metabolizing enzymes in the human ectocervix, uterus, and fallopian tubes, as these factors may substantially influence mucosal penetration, tissue exposure, drug disposition, and the risk of drug-drug interactions. Methods: Gene expression of 12 drug transporters and 21 drug-metabolizing enzymes was quantified using RT-qPCR. Protein expression of highly expressed transporters was assessed using immunohistochemistry (IHC). Results: Among the 12 transporters analyzed, the efflux transporters P-gp, BCRP, and MRP4 exhibited the highest expression across the ectocervix, endometrium, myometrium, and fallopian tubes, with P-gp consistently showing the greatest abundance in all evaluated FRT tissues. Expression of these transporters was significantly higher (6-17×) in myometrium compared with ectocervix. IHC demonstrated strong localization of P-gp, BCRP, and MRP4 to epithelial layers facing the lumen, as well as to stromal and vascular endothelial cells. For drug-metabolizing enzymes, all 21 phase I and II enzymes were detectable across the FRT, and 15 were expressed at comparatively higher levels across all tissue types. These included CYP1A1, CYP1B1, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C19, CYP3A4, UGT1A1, UGT1A3, UGT1A4, UGT1A7, UGT1A8, UGT1A10, UGT2B4, UGT2B15, and UGT2B17. Conclusions: The gene expression and localization data obtained from this work may improve our understanding of drug disposition in the FRT, which will inform selection, design, and optimization of drugs intended for targeted delivery within the FRT.
Emerging evidence has demonstrated the additional therapeutic benefits of ticagrelor in acute coronary syndrome (ACS) patients with diabetes. However, the underlying mechanisms of this association remain elusive. Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis using genome-wide association study (GWAS) data on ticagrelor, plasma proteomics and type 2 diabetes was employed to identify causal mediator proteins. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) of ticagrelor-treated HepG2 cells revealed the molecular pathways regulating glucose metabolism. Genetically proxied ticagrelor was significantly associated with a reduced risk of diabetes (OR = 0.859, 95% CI: 0.783-0.934, P = 7.98E-05), and 24.41% of this effect was mediated by upregulation of BDH2 protein. In vitro experiments confirmed the enhanced effect of ticagrelor on glucose consumption. Transcriptome analysis revealed that mitochondrial respiratory chain transfer and oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) were significantly enriched, and genes related to ATP biosynthesis were significantly upregulated. These findings highlight the non-platelet function of ticagrelor in maintaining glucose homeostasis, providing insights into potential drug repurposing in the future.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Coastal transition zones (CTZs) are dynamic zones where seawater intrusion and freshwater discharge interact. Arsenic (As) is a common contaminant in these zones, however its co-transport with increasing abundance microplastics (MPs) remains unclear. In this study, saturated column experiments combined with Hydrus-1D modeling were used to investigate the co-transport of As with polystyrene (PS), polyethylene (PE), and polylactic acid (PLA). Increasing salinity inhibited As transport in the absence of MPs. Under the same salinity, MPs generally increased As breakthrough, following the order PS > PE > PLA. With salinity increased, PS maintained a slight promoting effect on As breakthrough, whereas PE and PLA exhibited reduced breakthrough under high-salinity conditions. Co-transport was most pronounced at an As:MP ratio of 1:2, although PLA showed a non-linear response and lower As mobility at 1:1. Simulated seawater intrusion indicated that ionic-strength fluctuations produced distinct release peaks. MPs further enhanced non-equilibrium As release during flushing. Metagenomic sequencing of samples from the 21-day experiment indicated that MPs altered the microbial communities and increased the relative abundance of several As-related genes (such as AS3MT and arsC), particularly in the PS treatment. These findings clarify the effects of MPs on As transport and support risk assessment for coastal groundwater systems.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Junken meat sheep exhibit a characteristic postnatal coat-color transition, in which the initially black fleece gradually fades and develops into a white-trunk phenotype; however, the transcriptional basis of this developmental change in follicular pigment output remains unclear. In this study, three Junken meat sheep lambs showing a natural postnatal black-to-white coat-color transition were sampled longitudinally at the newborn black-fleece stage and the 179-day white-trunk stage, generating three matched biological pairs for RNA-seq analysis. Representative candidate genes were further validated by RT-qPCR. Differential expression analysis identified 1657, 400, and 1086 differentially expressed genes in the C11 vs. C1, C22 vs. C2, and C33 vs. C3 comparisons, respectively. Functional enrichment analysis indicated that these genes were mainly associated with tyrosine metabolism, ECM-receptor interaction, focal adhesion, Phosphoinositide 3-kinase-Akt signaling pathway (PI3K-Akt), arachidonic acid metabolism, estrogen signaling, and immune-related pathways. Integrated analysis of shared downregulated genes and expression patterns highlighted candidate genes related to pigmentation, the ECM/follicular microenvironment, and regulatory or metabolic processes. Pigmentation-related genes, including SOX10, TYR, TYRP1, PMEL, OCA2 and SLC45A2, were generally downregulated in 179-day white-trunk-stage skin, while changes in ECM- and metabolism-related genes suggested altered follicular microenvironmental regulation. These findings identify candidate transcriptional features associated with developmental coat-color fading in Junken meat sheep and support a follicular microenvironment-melanogenesis expression axis as a transcriptome-based framework for further investigation.
The molecular diagnosis of albinism is hampered by a significant number of genetic variants of unknown significance (VUS) including a majority of missense and in-frame insertion deletion variants. This contributes to the high rate of unresolved genetic diagnosis for this disease. We designed a straightforward test of missense VUS in albinism genes based on functional rescue. As a proof of concept, the assay was set up for testing variants in the TYR gene associated with oculocutaneous albinism type 1. The TYR gene was knocked-out in the human melanogenic MNT1 cell line and the resulting unpigmented clones used as host cells for rescue experiments. Selected VUS and control sequences were run through the assay. Expression of tyrosinase was quantified by Western blot, melanin synthesis was evaluated by direct observation as well as absorbance monitoring. One VUS, p.Ser270Phe (S270F) can be classified as likely pathogenic as it fails to restore pigmentation, whereas rescue was achieved with D305E and A391T. The two most frequent missense VUS of TYR, S192Y and R402Q, were also tested independently or in combination confirming the pathogenic effect of their association in cis. All in all, this new assay is a proof of concept and can be considered for testing variants in other albinism genes such as TYRP1 and SLC45A2.Copyright © 2026 Mercier, Michaud, Sequeira, Arveiler and Javerzat.
Albinism is characterized by generalized hypopigmentation and ocular features resulting from impaired melanin biosynthesis. Most known pathogenic variants are rare (MAF < 0.001) and found in coding regions. The role of non-coding variants, especially those with higher allele frequencies, is generally not investigated. Our next generation sequencing panel that includes the entire sequence of five major albinism genes (TYR, OCA2, SLC45A2, GPR143 and HPS1) identified compound OCA2 heterozygosity in a patient with a rare (MAF:0,0003) coding variant, NM_000275.3:c.1025 A > G;p.(Tyr342Cys) and a more common intronic variant, NM_000275.3:c.574-19 A > G (MAF:0,0087, with 80 homozygotes in the control population GnomADv4.1.0). In silico prediction tools indicated that this intronic variant could alter splicing. RT-PCR analysis on RNA extracted from the patient's blood revealed the skipping of exons 6 and 7, which resulted in the in-frame deletion of 78 amino acids. Protein modelling suggested that this deletion disrupts the GOLD-like domain and leads to the loss of conserved N-glycosylation sites, likely impairing protein folding and intracellular trafficking. These findings provided strong evidence for a deleterious effect on OCA2 function. Therefore, the variant was classified as likely pathogenic, allowing to establish the diagnosis in the patient. The relatively high allele frequency of this variant suggests that it behaves as a hypomorphic allele leading to disease in a compound heterozygous state. This underscores that intronic variants outside the canonical splice sites must be taken in consideration and functionally tested, and that common variants should not be systematically discarded in the diagnosis of albinism, and, similarly, of other rare diseases.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The Yangtze sturgeon (Acipenser dabryanus), a critically endangered living fossil whose wild populations are now extinct, faces new challenges to survival in captive breeding. Among these, the emergence of albino and gray color morphs raise fundamental questions about the molecular basis and physiological consequences of pigmentation loss. Here, we integrated histological, transcriptomic, and quantitative PCR to investigate pigmentation variation and associated immune alterations in this species. Histology revealed a complete absence of melanin in albino individuals and marked reduction in gray morphs. Transcriptomic profiling across the three color morphs uncovered a broad downregulation of core melanogenic genes, including PMEL, TYR, TYRP1, DCT, SLC45A2, OCA2, MREG, and MLPH, indicating impaired melanosome formation, melanin synthesis, and intracellular transport. Notably, pigmentation loss coincided with systematic changes in the expression of immune-related genes: phagosome pathway genes (e.g., C3, MHC I/II, TAP2) were downregulated, while pro-inflammatory mediators (e.g., IL-8, IL-17, CXCL10) were upregulated, suggesting a transcriptional pattern correlated with reduced expression of pathogen defense-related genes and increased genes associated with inflammation mediators. These findings reveal a mechanistic correlation between melanin deficiency and immune dysfunction in a basal vertebrate lineage, offering the first molecular evidence of an association between albinism and altered immune-related gene expression in sturgeons and highlighting its implications for conservation and captive management.
Plumage color is an economically important trait in chickens, and barred chickens are characterized by a distinct feather pattern in which variation in pigmentation (yellow-barred vs. white-barred) is frequently observed. Although the genetic basis of barred patterning has been partially elucidated, the mechanisms underlying pigmentation differences within barred feathers remain unclear. In this study, genome-wide association study (GWAS) and selection signature (FST) analyses based on 47 individuals (20 yellow-barred and 27 white-barred) identified several candidate genomic regions and genes, including BRINP2, SLC22A4, SLC22A5, and ACTN1, potentially associated with pigment variation. Transcriptomic analysis of feather follicles further revealed substantial gene expression divergence between the two phenotypes, with 739 differentially expressed genes identified, among which SLC45A2, BCO2, EDAR, KRT75, and KRT14 were notable candidates. Functional enrichment analysis indicated that these genes are primarily involved in skin development, epidermal differentiation, keratinization, and intermediate filament organization. Integrated analyses suggest that coordinated regulation of melanin synthesis, carotenoid metabolism, and feather follicle structural development contributes to the observed pigmentation differences. Overall, this study provides genomic and transcriptomic insights into the molecular basis of pigmentation variation in barred chickens and offers a foundation for future functional validation and molecular breeding.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The yellow body coloration of large yellow croaker (Larimichthys crocea) constitutes a crucial economic trait, yet its underlying genetic regulatory mechanisms remain poorly understood. This study systematically elucidated the molecular basis of body color variation by integrating genome resequencing and skin transcriptome analyses, combined with the contextual analysis of key pigmentation-related genes and phenotypic histological validation. 200 phenotyped individuals (including yellow-selected lines, F1 progeny, and normal control groups, all derived from a well-characterized aquaculture stock) identified 39 significantly associated SNPs (-log₁₀(P) ≥ 6), mapping to multiple candidate genes. These genes were significantly enriched in pathways related to pigment deposition (GO:0033059), melanosome organization (GO:0032438), melanogenesis, and tyrosine metabolism. Cross-developmental stage transcriptome analysis revealed 2395 differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Multi-omics integration identified eight overlapping candidate genes, including tyrp1, slc45a2, oca2, and dgat2, among which tyrp1 was prioritized for in-depth validation based on its core regulatory role in eumelanin synthesis, significant SNP association signal, and consistent downregulation in transcriptomic data. Experimental validation demonstrated that the g.895C > T mutation in exon 2 of tyrp1b was strongly significantly associated with the yellow phenotype: the frequency of mutant genotypes (TT/CT) reached 92.86%in the yellow-selected group, whereas the control group exclusively exhibited the wild-type genotype (CC). qPCR confirmed significantly downregulated tyrp1b expression in the skin of yellow individuals, consistent with the transcriptome trend. Histological and stereomicroscopic observations of skin tissues further validated the physiological basis of the yellow phenotype, revealing a significant reduction in melanophore number and abnormal melanosome morphology in yellow-phenotype individuals, accompanied by increased xanthophore density. These results suggest that tyrp1b mutation is strongly associated with the yellow phenotype. However, the presence of a wild-type CC individual in the yellow group indicates that this mutation is not strictly required for yellow coloration, suggesting that other genetic or environmental factors may also contribute to the phenotype, Additionally, downregulation of the carotenoid metabolism gene bco2 coupled with upregulation of xdh, together with the functional changes of slc45a2 and oca2, may synergistically promote xanthophore pigment deposition, contributing to the yellow phenotype. As melanin synthesis in large yellow croaker relies on the conserved tyrosinase pathway and transporter proteins, mutations in associated genes (tyrp1b, slc45a2, oca2) represent a primary underlying cause for the loss of melanin-based coloration and transition to a yellow phenotype in L. crocea. These findings provide key molecular targets and a theoretical foundation for molecular breeding of body color in this species, and also enrich the understanding of xanthism regulatory mechanisms in teleosts.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Accurate prediction of skin pigmentation from DNA remains challenging, particularly in admixed populations due to their complex genetic architecture. In this study, we evaluated a panel of 66 SNPs associated with pigmentation in an admixed South Brazilian population from Rio Grande do Sul (n=438), phenotypically classified into six Fitzpatrick skin types. Three grouping strategies (six, three, and two classes) were adopted, and feature selection was performed using VariantSpark to identify the 20 most informative SNPs. Four machine learning algorithms (SVM, KNN, MLP, and XGBoost) were tested and optimized via recursive feature addition and hyperparameter tuning. Model performance was assessed using the weighted F1-score, accuracy, precision, and recall across 30 replicates. In the six-class grouping strategy, SVM achieved the highest F1-score (0.4846±0.0067), although PCA showed substantial overlap between classes. XGBoost under the three-class grouping scheme achieved an F1-score of 0.7839±0.0047, while binary classification with SVM reached the highest performance (F1-score =0.9530±0.0031). A subset of four SNPs-rs1426654 (SLC24A5), rs11230664 (DDB1), rs16891982 (SLC45A2), and rs1448484 (OCA2)-were consistently ranked as the most informative across all grouping strategies. Furthermore, our optimized SNP panel diverged significantly from HIrisPlex-S, incorporating a set of variants absent in the established system. This study demonstrates that tailored SNP selection and phenotypic grouping strategies are essential for accurate skin color prediction in admixed populations. The resulting models were implemented into the open-access tool BR-FDP-SKIN, providing a population-specific resource for forensic and anthropological applications.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Melanin synthesis is regulated by a complex genetic network, and its dysregulation can promote malignant transformation. Pheomelanin, a lighter and more photoreactive form of melanin, contributes to oxidative stress and may facilitate melanoma development. Its abundance varies with skin phototype, but its role in melanoma cell biology remains poorly characterized, highlighting the need to study pheomelanogenic gene expression in cells with distinct pigmentary.To address this, we analysed the expression of 44 genes related to melanocyte development and pigmentation, focusing on those directly or indirectly involved in pheomelanogenesis. Moreover, the melanin content in the examined cell lines was estimated.The study was conducted in two human melanoma cell lines that display contrasting pigmentation, amelanotic C32 and melanotic G361, using real-time RT-PCR to quantify gene expression levels. The melanin content in both cell lines was evaluated using Py-GC/MS/MS.The content of melanin markers, normalised to one million cells, was 62% lower in amelanotic C32 cells than in melanotic G361 cells. Within the total isolated melanin pool, pheomelanin accounted for 0.52% in the C32 line and 0.78% in the G361 line. Melanoma cell lines with divergent melanin content also exhibited distinct gene-expression profiles: G361 cells showed higher expression of POMC, MC1R, TYRP1, TYR, SLC45A2 and CTNS, whereas SLC7A11 and DCT were more abundantly expressed in C32 cells.These findings indicate that variation in melanin content is closely linked to molecular heterogeneity in melanoma, underscoring the contribution of pheomelanin-related pathways to divergent melanoma phenotypes.Copyright: © 2026 Termedia Sp. z o. o.
This study investigated the effects of environmentally relevant concentrations of deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA) on embryonic development and oxidative stress in zebrafish (Danio rerio), while also elucidating the underlying molecular mechanisms. Embryos were exposed to DOCA at 5, 50, and 500 ng/L, spanning both environmentally pertinent and elevated concentrations. Integrated morphological and transcriptomic analyses (RNA-seq and qRT-PCR) demonstrated dose-dependent acceleration of development, along with alterations in pigmentation, oxidative balance, and metabolic processes. At 50 ng/L, yolk extension increased by 43.3 %, whereas yolk sac area decreased by 3.28 %. At 500 ng/L, these effects intensified (yolk extension: 44.4 %; yolk sac area: -5.28 %). Body pigmentation decreased by 13.7 % compared to controls at 500 ng/L. At 5 ng/L, ROS levels and MDA content increased by 66.5 % and 53.4 %, respectively. Transcriptomic profiling at 16 h post-fertilization in embryos exposed to 500 ng/L DOCA identified significant gene expression changes concordant with phenotypic outcomes: (1) upregulation of six7, sox17, and cdx1a (associated with accelerated development); (2) downregulation of dct and slc45a2 (consistent with reduced pigmentation); (3) altered redox homeostasis, indicated by nox1 upregulation and hemoglobin gene downregulation; and (4) enhanced glycolytic/gluconeogenic activity, evidenced by upregulated pfkfb3, aldob, and pck2. These results demonstrate that the DOCA exposure perturbed embryonic zebrafish development, promoting accelerated morphogenesis concurrent with metabolic alterations and oxidative stress. This study provides the first evidence of DOCA's adverse effects on fish and advances understanding of understudied corticosteroids in ecotoxicology.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The causal relationship between plasma methyltransferase protein concentrations and the onset of digestive system cancers remains unclear. This study employed a Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis to explore potential causal relationships.A bidirectional two-sample MR analysis was conducted to systematically investigate causal associations. Data from the FinnGen Biobank and the European Bioinformatics Institute (EBI) were used for verification. This analysis focused on 14 types of methyltransferases and 5 types of digestive system cancers.The analysis identified specific methyltransferases associated with increased risks for certain digestive system malignancies. Notably, dual verification confirmed that HEMK2 is associated with an increased risk of colorectal cancer [Odds Ratio (OR) = 1.28; 95% CI: 1.06-1.55 for FinnGen; OR = 1.18; 95% CI: 1.07-1.29 for EBI] and liver cancer (OR = 2.31; 95% CI: 1.29-4.14 for FinnGen; OR = 1.38; 95% CI: 1.08-1.76 for EBI). NTMT1 was also associated with colorectal cancer (OR = 1.16; 95% CI: 1.03-1.30 for FinnGen; OR = 1.10; 95% CI: 1.04-1.17 for EBI) and liver cancer (OR = 1.59; 95% CI: 1.11-2.27 for FinnGen; OR = 1.21;95%CI: 1.04-1.40 for EBI). We also found that some methyltransferases exhibit either harmful or protective effects in digestive system cancers; however, these findings have not been validated by another independent database. Therefore, the interpretation of these results requires caution.This study reveals that certain methyltransferases are associated with an increased risk of some digestive system cancers. HEMK2 and NTMT1 emerged as candidate genetically predicted biomarkers, meriting further research to elucidate their mechanistic functions and potential clinical applicability. Furthermore, as all genetic information in this study originates from European cohorts, the conclusions are primarily relevant to this population and necessitate validation in diverse ethnic groups.© 2025. The Author(s).
HemK2 is a highly conserved methyltransferase, but the identification of its genuine substrates has been controversial, and its biological importance in higher organisms remains unclear. We elucidate the role of HemK2 in the methylation of eukaryotic Release Factor 1 (eRF1), a process that is essential for female germline development in Drosophila melanogaster. Knockdown of hemK2 in the germline cells (hemK2-GLKD) induces apoptosis, accompanied by a pronounced decrease in both eRF1 methylation and protein synthesis. Overexpression of a methylation-deficient eRF1 variant recapitulates the defects observed in hemK2-GLKD, suggesting that eRF1 is a primary methylation target of HemK2. Furthermore, hemK2-GLKD leads to a significant reduction in mRNA levels in germline cell. These defects in oogenesis and protein synthesis can be partially restored by inhibiting the No-Go Decay pathway. In addition, hemK2 knockdown is associated with increased disome formation, suggesting that disruptions in eRF1 methylation may provoke ribosomal stalling, which subsequently activates translation-coupled mRNA surveillance mechanisms that degrade actively translated mRNAs. We propose that HemK2-mediated methylation of eRF1 is crucial for ensuring efficient protein production and mRNA stability, which are vital for the generation of high-quality eggs.© 2024. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.
The HEMK2 protein methyltransferase has been described as glutamine methyltransferase catalyzing ERF1-Q185me1 and lysine methyltransferase catalyzing H4K12me1. Methylation of two distinct target residues is unique for this class of enzymes. To understand the specific catalytic adaptations of HEMK2 allowing it to master this chemically challenging task, we conducted a detailed investigation of the substrate sequence specificities of HEMK2 for Q- and K-methylation. Our data show that HEMK2 prefers methylation of Q over K at peptide and protein level. Moreover, the ERF1 sequence is strongly preferred as substrate over the H4K12 sequence. With peptide SPOT array methylation experiments, we show that Q-methylation preferentially occurs in a G-Q-X3 -R context, while K-methylation prefers S/T at the first position of the motif. Based on this, we identified novel HEMK2 K-methylation peptide substrates with sequences taken from human proteins which are methylated with high activity. Since H4K12 methylation by HEMK2 was very low, other protein lysine methyltransferases were examined for their ability to methylate the H4K12 site. We show that SETD6 has a high H4K12me1 methylation activity (about 1000-times stronger than HEMK2) and this enzyme is mainly responsible for H4K12me1 in DU145 prostate cancer cells.© 2024 The Authors. Protein Science published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Protein Society.
We identify biomarkers for disease progression in three type 2 diabetes cohorts encompassing 2,973 individuals across three molecular classes, metabolites, lipids and proteins. Homocitrulline, isoleucine and 2-aminoadipic acid, eight triacylglycerol species, and lowered sphingomyelin 42:2;2 levels are predictive of faster progression towards insulin requirement. Of ~1,300 proteins examined in two cohorts, levels of GDF15/MIC-1, IL-18Ra, CRELD1, NogoR, FAS, and ENPP7 are associated with faster progression, whilst SMAC/DIABLO, SPOCK1 and HEMK2 predict lower progression rates. In an external replication, proteins and lipids are associated with diabetes incidence and prevalence. NogoR/RTN4R injection improved glucose tolerance in high fat-fed male mice but impaired it in male db/db mice. High NogoR levels led to islet cell apoptosis, and IL-18R antagonised inflammatory IL-18 signalling towards nuclear factor kappa-B in vitro. This comprehensive, multi-disciplinary approach thus identifies biomarkers with potential prognostic utility, provides evidence for possible disease mechanisms, and identifies potential therapeutic avenues to slow diabetes progression.© 2023. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 35621100 is a review article
Despite limited reports on glutamine methylation, methylated glutamine is found to be highly conserved in a "GGQ" motif in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. In bacteria, glutamine methylation of peptide chain release factors 1/2 (RF1/2) by the enzyme PrmC is essential for translational termination and transcript recycling. Two PrmC homologs, HEMK1 and HEMK2, are found in mammals. In contrast to those of HEMK2, the biochemical properties and biological significance of HEMK1 remain largely unknown. In this study, we demonstrated that HEMK1 is an active methyltransferase for the glutamine residue of the GGQ motif of all four putative mitochondrial release factors (mtRFs)-MTRF1, MTRF1L, MRPL58, and MTRFR. In HEMK1-deficient HeLa cells, GGQ motif glutamine methylation was absent in all the mtRFs. We examined cell growth and mitochondrial properties, but disruption of the HEMK1 gene had no considerable impact on the overall cell growth, mtDNA copy number, mitochondrial membrane potential, and mitochondrial protein synthesis under regular culture condition with glucose as a carbon source. Furthermore, cell growth potential of HEMK1 KO cells was still maintained in the respiratory condition with galactose medium. Our results suggest that HEMK1 mediates the GGQ methylation of all four mtRFs in human cells; however, this specific modification seems mostly dispensable in cell growth and mitochondrial protein homeostasis at least for HeLa cells under fermentative culture condition.© 2022. The Author(s).
Understanding the selectivity of methyltransferase inhibitors is important to dissecting the functions of each methyltransferase target. From this perspective, we report a chemoproteomic study to profile the selectivity of a potent protein N-terminal methyltransferase 1 (NTMT1) bisubstrate inhibitor NAH-C3-GPKK (Ki, app = 7 ± 1 nM) in endogenous proteomes. First, we describe the rational design, synthesis, and biochemical characterization of a new chemical probe 6, a biotinylated analogue of NAH-C3-GPKK. Next, we systematically analyze protein networks that may selectively interact with the biotinylated probe 6 in concert with the competitor NAH-C3-GPKK. Besides NTMT1, the designated NTMT1 bisubstrate inhibitor NAH-C3-GPKK was found to also potently inhibit a methyltransferase complex HemK2-Trm112 (also known as KMT9-Trm112), highlighting the importance of systematic selectivity profiling. Furthermore, this is the first potent inhibitor for HemK2/KMT9 reported until now. Thus, our studies lay the foundation for future efforts to develop selective inhibitors for either methyltransferase.
Primary health care centres (PHCCs) are the foundation stone of Kuwait's public healthcare system, providing accessible and comprehensive services. Patient satisfaction is a critical indicator of healthcare quality and is associated with improved adherence to medical advice and better health outcomes. Despite international evidence supporting structured family medicine and appointment-based systems, Kuwait's PHCCs continue to operate primarily on a walk-in basis. This study aimed to describe patient satisfaction with a family medicine appointment clinic at the Nassem PHCC in Kuwait.A cross-sectional observational study was conducted between September 2024 and September 2025. The extended recruitment period was necessary to achieve an sufficient sample and capture routine service-utilisation patterns across a full annual cycle. Consecutive patients attending the family medicine appointment clinic were recruited using convenience sampling. A validated, self-administered seven-item questionnaire assessed satisfaction with the doctor-patient relationship using a five-point Likert scale (1 = Very Dissatisfied to 5 = Very Satisfied). After excluding 11 incomplete records from 264 initial responses, the final analytic sample comprised 253 participants. All analyses were conducted in Jamovi (version 2.5).Principal component analysis confirmed a unidimensional scale structure (KMO = 0.949; Bartlett's χ 2 = 2,210, df = 21, p < 0.001). Internal consistency was excellent (Cronbach's α = 0.969). Item means ranged from 4.67 to 4.76, with 74.0-81.0% of respondents selecting the highest satisfaction category across all items, indicating a pronounced ceiling effect. The composite satisfaction score was obviously negatively skewed (skewness = -3.59, kurtosis = 18.0). A statistically significant age-group difference in satisfaction was observed (Kruskal-Wallis χ 2 = 24.60, df = 4, p < 0.001, ε 2 = 0.098); no significant differences were found by nationality or gender.Patients attending the Nassem PHCC family medicine appointment clinic reported high Overall Satisfaction. A significant age-related variation was observed, with older patients reporting higher satisfaction than younger adults. Ceiling effects, cross-sectional design, convenience sampling, and potential social desirability bias limit the conclusions that can be drawn. Future research should employ longitudinal designs, comparator groups, and more sensitive instruments.Copyright © 2026 Alasousi, Al-Harran, Al-Rasheedi and Thawini.
To develop and validate the Nurse Unit Manager Competency Scale (NUM-CS) and to examine the stability of its factor structure across hospital settings in China.Nurse Unit Managers (NUMs) play a central role in clinical governance and care delivery. In China, NUM appointments are commonly based on seniority rather than formal competency assessment. Existing international frameworks provide useful reference points but do not fully reflect the demands of specialized and high-risk hospital contexts. A context-sensitive and psychometrically robust instrument is, therefore, needed to support competency-based nursing management.A multiphase methodological study was conducted between May and December 2025. Items were generated from a prior qualitative study and refined through two rounds of Delphi consultation. Psychometric testing was performed using two independent samples: a specialized hospital sample (n = 151) for exploratory factor analysis (EFA) and a cross-setting sample (n = 212) for confirmatory factor (CFA) analysis. Reliability, construct validity, and criterion-related validity were examined.The final NUM-CS consisted of 33 self-report items across six competency domains. EFA showed excellent sampling adequacy (KMO = 0.953; Bartlett's χ2 = 5248.363, p < 0.001), accounting for 74.28% of the total variance. CFA supported the six-factor model across hospital settings. Internal consistency was high across all domains. Total NUM-CS scores were positively correlated with the 12-item situational judgment test score (r = 0.312, p < 0.001).The NUM-CS is a preliminarily validated, practice-oriented tool for identifying and developing NUM reserve candidates across diverse hospital settings in China.The NUM-CS offers a structured tool to support competency-based identification, development, and formative assessment of NUM reserve candidates, particularly in specialized and high-risk clinical environments.Copyright © 2026 Jianmei Chen et al. Journal of Nursing Management published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The Exercise Benefits and Barriers Scale (EBBS) is a well-established tool for assessing perceptions of exercise, but no validated Arabic version exists. This study aimed to translate, culturally adapt, and validate the EBBS for Arabic-speaking adults.Cross-sectional electronic survey.The EBBS underwent a standardized forward-backward translation and harmonization process. Statistical analyses included reliability testing (Cronbach's α, McDonald's ω, ICC), item analyses, and exploratory factor analysis (principal components with Varimax rotation). Construct validity was evaluated via Pearson correlations with the Self-Efficacy Scale for Sport (SES) and the Physical Component Summary (PCS) of the 12-Item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-12).A total of 511 participants (mean age 36.2 ± 13.4 years; 64.6% female) completed the survey. The Arabic EBBS demonstrated strong psychometric performance, with high internal consistency for the total scale (α = .881) and good test-retest reliability (ICC = 0.726). The Benefits (α = .954; ICC = 0.798) and Barriers (α = .843; ICC = 0.813) subscales also showed robust reliability. Factorability was excellent (KMO = 0.939; p < .001), and the exploratory factor analysis supported a clear two-factor structure consistent with the original model, accounting for 42.6% of the variance. Construct validity was supported by significant correlations with external measures: both Benefits and Barriers-Reversed were positively associated with SES and the PCS.The Arabic EBBS showed strong reliability, a clear two-factor structure, and good construct validity, supporting its use for assessing perceived benefits and barriers to exercise among Saudi Arabic-speaking adults. However, findings are based on a cross-sectional, self-reported online sample predominantly comprising women from Saudi Arabia, which may limit generalizability.Copyright © 2026 The Royal Society for Public Health. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Needle fear is an under-recognised burden among haemodialysis recipients which can influence treatment choice and therapy engagement.This study aimed to develop and validate a tool to identify needle fear in pre-dialysis or dialysis cohorts.The Measuring Needle Fear (MNF) tool was developed using deductive and inductive methods, with items grouped into four domains to ensure comprehensive symptom coverage. Content validity was assessed using the Content Validity Index (CVI), and reliability using Gwet's AC1 coefficient and Cronbach's alpha. Exploratory factor analysis (EFA) was performed using Principal Axis Factoring with oblimin rotation, supported by the Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin statistic and Bartlett's test. Discriminative ability and the optimal cut-off point were evaluated using ROC analysis.A total of 120 participants completed the questionnaire. Test-retest reliability was excellent for most MNF items (30 items; AC1 = 0.81-1.00) and good for the remainder (nine items; AC1 = 0.61-0.80). EFA identified three factors - Fear, Avoidance and Embarrassment - with excellent sampling adequacy (KMO = 0.908) and a significant Bartlett's test (p < 0.001). Internal consistency was high (Cronbach's alpha = 0.895). ROC analysis demonstrated excellent discrimination (AUC = 0.959), with a score ⩾5 identifying 31% of patients as likely to experience needle fear.The Measuring Needle Fear tool is a validated, reliable method for identifying needle fear in pre-dialysis and dialysis patients, supporting early detection and enabling timely, targeted support.
Patients presenting with conditions attributed to environmental exposures face complex, multi-toxicant burdens, yet the stability of multivariate toxicant patterns under demographic adjustment remains poorly evaluated. This study assessed the sensitivity of principal component analysis (PCA) structures to demographic confounding and variable composition in 551 patients (aged <1-86 years) with environmentally related conditions. Nine urinary biomarkers were analysed using PCA with Varimax and Promax rotation on both raw data and residuals adjusted for age and sex. Among the identified patterns, the solvent/industrial cluster (xylene and styrene metabolites) was the most stable, persisting across both raw and residual analyses regardless of rotation method. However, overall component structures were sensitive to preprocessing: the clustering pattern of the herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid shifted markedly after demographic adjustment, illustrating indirect confounding whereby demographic effects on co-variables altered apparent biomarker associations. Notably, inclusion of an endogenous mitochondrial marker (tiglylglycine) alongside exogenous toxicant biomarkers produced Heywood cases (loadings > 1), violating factor analysis assumptions and indicating that mixing exposure and response variables destabilises the model. Cumulative variance explained was modest, consistent with the weak inter-biomarker correlations observed (KMO ≈ 0.52). These findings do not support the identification of robust, demographically stable clustering patterns in this cohort. Instead, they demonstrate that PCA-derived structures in heterogeneous clinical data are vulnerable to demographic confounding, variable selection and marker type, and caution against interpreting transient clustering patterns as definitive exposure signatures without rigorous validation. It should be noted that the absence of a non-clinical matched control group means that whether the identified co-exposure signatures are distinctive to symptomatic patients or reflective of general population exposure patterns cannot be determined; future studies should incorporate matched controls to address this directly.
This study aimed to develop and validate a psychometric instrument to assess intercultural mediation among public employees of security forces in Spanish border contexts (CMIEPFS). An initial pool of 42 items was created and refined through expert judgment, resulting in a final 38-item questionnaire. The instrument was administered to two independent samples (n = 426 for exploratory factor analysis; n = 512 for confirmatory factor analysis). Construct validity was examined using structural equation modeling, and reliability was assessed through Cronbach's alpha, intraclass correlation coefficient, and Pearson correlation. Results supported a three-factor structure: (1) acceptance of intercultural environments, (2) intercultural competences in the workplace, and (3) training in intercultural mediation. Exploratory factor analysis indicated adequate sampling adequacy (KMO = 0.916) and a significant Bartlett's test (p < 0.001), explaining 63.08% of the variance. Confirmatory factor analysis showed an acceptable model fit (RMSEA = 0.07). Internal consistency was high (α = 0.91), and test-retest reliability was satisfactory (ICC = 0.82; r = 0.84, p < 0.001). The instrument shows adequate validity and reliability for assessing intercultural mediation in public security personnel. It provides a useful tool for research, training evaluation, and institutional diagnosis in multicultural professional contexts.
To assess the knowledge, attitude, and practice (KAP) levels among patients with osteomyelitis, analyze their associated factors, and explore the pathways between knowledge, attitude, and practice.A cross-sectional study was conducted in a large tertiary hospital from April 1st to June 1st, 2025, enrolling 405 patients with osteomyelitis. A self-administered questionnaire collected demographic and disease-related information and assessed KAP. Cronbach's α tested questionnaire reliability, and confirmatory factor analysis examined construct validity. Univariate analysis, multivariate binary logistic regression with a two-tailed p < 0.05 as the statistical significance cut-off, and structural equation modeling (SEM) were used to explore factors associated with KAP and their interrelationship mechanisms.Mean scores for knowledge, attitude, and practice were 28.56 ± 10.28, 29.08 ± 11.36, and 28.58 ± 11.62, respectively; achievement rates were 32.1, 35.6, and 30.9%. The overall Cronbach's α was 0.962, the KMO value was 0.971, and model fit was good (CMIN/DF = 1.32, RMSEA = 0.028, CFI = 0.984). Multivariate analysis showed that age (p = 0.013), income (p < 0.001), education (p < 0.001), history of diabetes mellitus (p = 0.009), and number of hospitalizations (p = 0.020) were independently associated with knowledge. Knowledge level (p < 0.001), age (p = 0.034), income (p < 0.001), and education (p < 0.001) were associated with attitude. Attitude level (p < 0.001), knowledge level (p < 0.001), income (p < 0.001), and education (p = 0.019) were associated with practice. SEM revealed that knowledge had a direct theoretical association with attitude (β = 0.694, p < 0.001) and practice (β = 0.303, p < 0.001); attitude had a direct theoretical association with practice (β = 0.465, p < 0.001). The indirect theoretical association of knowledge with practice via attitude was significant (β = 0.357, p < 0.001), accounting for 54.1% of the total effect.Patients with osteomyelitis showed insufficient knowledge, attitude, and practice. Older age, lower education, and lower income were associated with poorer outcomes. Attitude mediated the knowledge-practice association. Future interventions should focus on attitude change in vulnerable populations, and prospective studies are warranted.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Deng, Peng, Li, Yang, Yu, Huang, Yang and Yang.
Artificial intelligence (AI) is increasingly being integrated into healthcare systems; however, healthcare professionals' knowledge, attitudes, and perceptions regarding AI remain insufficiently understood. This study aimed to evaluate healthcare professionals' perceptions of AI in clinical practice.This descriptive cross-sectional study included 260 healthcare professionals, including physicians, nurses, and healthcare technicians working at a tertiary public hospital in Türkiye. Participants completed the Healthcare Professionals and Artificial Intelligence Questionnaire, which assessed demographic characteristics, AI knowledge, workplace AI use, attitudes toward AI applications, ethical and legal concerns, perceived professional impact, and educational needs.Most participants reported limited AI knowledge; 64.6% indicated basic knowledge, whereas 23.1% reported no knowledge. Only 24.6% reported using AI-based systems in clinical practice, while 35.4% were uncertain whether such systems were used in their workplaces. Despite limited experience, attitudes toward recent AI developments were generally positive. Most participants expressed willingness to receive AI-related education (76.9%), although only 6.2% had previously received formal training. Nearly half of the participants believed that the human factor would remain essential in healthcare, whereas a similar proportion considered partial replacement by AI possible. Physicians demonstrated greater confidence in AI usefulness and stronger willingness to integrate AI into clinical decision-making than nurses and other healthcare professionals. Nurses primarily emphasized data security and privacy concerns, whereas physicians highlighted patient safety and misdiagnosis risk. Exploratory psychometric analyses demonstrated a three-factor structure with acceptable sampling adequacy (KMO = 0.765).Healthcare professionals generally perceive AI as a supportive tool rather than a replacement for human judgment. Limited AI literacy, uncertainty regarding legal responsibility, and insufficient training remain important barriers to responsible AI adoption. Profession-sensitive educational strategies and clearer governance frameworks may support safer AI integration into healthcare practice.© TÜBİTAK.
Background: Prosodic cues play a critical role in marking syntactic boundaries and guiding sentence interpretation. However, Turkish clinical language batteries lack dedicated measures targeting linguistic prosody and the syntax-prosody interface. Consequently, subtle auditory-prosodic comprehension difficulties may go undetected in stroke populations who perform within normal limits on standard aphasia assessments. This study presents the development and initial psychometric evaluation of the Prosodic Comprehension Test (PCT), a Turkish sentence-picture matching tool designed to isolate prosodic contributions to meaning under controlled syntactic conditions. Methods: A total of 440 neurologically healthy native Turkish-speaking adults participated. An initial pool of 80 sentences (40 minimal pairs), identical in segmental and syntactic structure but differing in interpretation through prosodic boundary placement, was created. Audio stimuli were recorded by a professional actor, and corresponding visual stimuli represented alternative interpretations. Following expert review, 32 sentences (16 pairs) were retained and organized into three subcomponents: In situ Prosody, Focus-Topic Marking, and Pragmatic Disambiguation. Administration included fixed-intensity auditory presentation and a structured learning phase. Results: Internal consistency was acceptable (Cronbach's α = 0.73). Principal component analysis was consistent with the theoretically proposed three-component structure (KMO = 0.74; Bartlett's test significant, p < 0.001), with the three components collectively accounting for 28.2% of the total variance. Convergent validity was supported by a significant positive correlation with MoCA-TR (r = 0.23, p < 0.001, 95% CI [0.14, 0.32]). Conclusions: The PCT appears to be a linguistically grounded and psychometrically promising tool for assessing prosodic comprehension in Turkish. The present findings are based on a healthy adult sample and should be interpreted as preliminary normative evidence. Further research should address test-retest reliability, confirmatory factor analyses, and validation in clinical populations.
Test anxiety (TA) is common among medical students and may adversely affect mental well-being and academic performance. However, existing instruments such as the Test Anxiety Inventory (TAI) predominantly quantify the severity and manifestations of anxiety (outcomes) rather than identifying modifiable, intervention-relevant antecedents (predictors). This study aimed to develop and validate the Test Anxiety Predictors Inventory (TAPI) to support concurrent identification of at-risk students and to inform domain-specific, targeted interventions in resource-constrained medical training settings.A cross-sectional census survey was conducted at Can Tho University of Medicine and Pharmacy (Dec 2024-Mar 2025; 382/389 valid responses, 98.2%). A 30-item pool was piloted in 71 students, then refined through iterative EFA (3 rounds; ML extraction, Direct Oblimin) and CFA (ML and DWLS estimators). Internal consistency, convergent and discriminant validity, correlation with TAI, and concurrent classification performance (multivariable logistic regression; ROC-AUC) were assessed. Because census sampling yielded one dataset, EFA/CFA reflect internal testing pending external validation; 'prediction' denotes concurrent classification, not temporal forecasting.TA prevalence (TAI ≥ 48) was 67.0% (95% CI 62.15-71.54). The final 14-item TAPI loaded on three factors-EAS (7), AMF (4), SRP (3)-explaining 77.99% of variance (KMO = 0.935). The correlated three-factor CFA showed good fit (CFI = 0.957; RMSEA = 0.083). The second-order DWLS model showed excellent fit but produced a Heywood warning with negative latent variance for EAS; the correlated three-factor model is therefore the more defensible representation. Reliability was high (α/ω = 0.89-0.95; CR = 0.92-0.96; AVE = 0.74-0.82; HTMT < 0.85). TAPI-TAI correlation was r = 0.576; classification model AUC = 0.804, sensitivity = 0.938, specificity = 0.452.TAPI shows promising internal structure and concurrent classification performance. High sensitivity supports first-stage screening, while modest specificity indicates it should complement, not replace, formal diagnostic procedures.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.
This study aims to elucidate the material basis and mechanism of action of the Aconitum pendulum Busch product processed with highland barley wine against rheumatoid arthritis(RA). UPLC-Q-TOF-MS/MS was employed to preliminarily identify 55 compounds from the product. Through network pharmacology, 19 potential active ingredients and 140 corresponding targets were screened out. The drug targets were intersected with 89 RA targets collected from the OMIM database to yield a set of potential intervention targets. The protein-protein interaction(PPI) network was constructed via STRING and topological analysis was conducted via Cytoscape, which identified eight core targets: PPARG, EGFR, SLC6A3, OPRM1, PRKCA, CYP2D6, HTR1A, and HMGCR. Gene Ontology(GO) functional and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses performed in the Metascape database revealed that these targets were significantly enriched in processes such as TRP channels, the phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase(PI3K)-protein kinase B(Akt) signaling pathway, and neutrophil extracellular traps(NETs) formation. An integrated &quot;drug-ingredient-disease-target-pathway&quot; network was constructed, which selected seven core ingredients(dehydrolucidusculine, linoleic acid, pyraconitine, 16-epipyroaconitine, delphinine, 1-monopalmitin, and songorine) for molecular docking with the eight core targets. The results demonstrated favorable binding activity between each ingredient and the targets. Animal experiments showed that the A. pendulum product processed with highland barley wine alleviated joint swelling and inflammatory pathological changes of synovial tissue in the rat model of adjuvant-induced arthritis(AA) in a dose-dependent manner. In terms of the serum inflammatory cytokine levels, it downregulated the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin-1β(IL-1β), interleukin-17A(IL-17A), and interleukin-6(IL-6). Furthermore, the product significantly reduced the phosphorylation levels of PI3K and its downstream signaling molecule Akt of knee synovial tissue in the rat model of AA. In conclusion, this study preliminarily reveals that the A. pendulum product processed with highland barley wine may exert anti-RA effects through multi-ingredient, multi-target, and multi-pathway mechanisms, particularly by regulating the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and inflammatory responses.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) involves dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, neuroinflammation, serotonergic dysfunction, and impaired neurotrophic signaling. Whether combining corticosterone (CORT) with chronic restraint stress (CRS) produces a more comprehensive depression-like phenotype than either model alone remains unexplored. Male C57BL/6N mice were assigned to four groups-Sham (n = 7), CORT (20 mg/kg s.c.; n = 7), CRS (3 h/day; n = 7), and CORT + CRS (C+C; n = 8)-and evaluated by behavioral tests, hippocampal qRT-PCR, Western blot, LC-MS/MS metabolomics, and immunohistochemistry. All experimental groups showed elevated immobility in tail suspension and forced swim tests without inter-group differences. Two-way ANOVA revealed a behavioral-molecular dissociation: FST immobility showed CORT and CRS main effects without a significant interaction, whereas hippocampal LC-MS/MS analytes exhibited strong CORT × CRS interactions. The C+C group showed the strongest 5-HT1A receptor (HTR1A) upregulation, the greatest reductions in Trk-b and DCX, and unique decreases in serum dopamine, glutamine, and adenosine. Representative Western blot densitometry indicated the largest p-ERK/ERK reduction in C+C (54%), while p-CREB/CREB was most suppressed in CRS (52%). BDNF and NeuN proteins were lowest in C+C (68% and 61% reductions). Combined CORT + CRS produces the most comprehensive depression-related molecular profile, integrating multiple pathological domains.
Maternal separation (MS) is a widely used model of early-life stress, yet the biological pathways transmitting maternal stress signals to offspring remain incompletely understood. Breast milk represents a primary biological interface between mother and infant, and stress-induced changes in milk composition may influence offspring development through the gut microbiota-brain axis. Here, we investigated whether MS alters the breast milk metabolome and whether such changes are associated with offspring gut microbiota composition, serum metabolite profiles, and serotonin-related gene expression in the prefrontal cortex. Using an integrated multi-omics approach in mice, we found that MS dams had elevated myristic acid and ethanolamine levels in breast milk. MS offspring exhibited reduced A. muciniphila abundance in the cecal microbiota, elevated myristic acid and decreased inosine in cecal contents, decreased inosine in serum, and reduced Tph2 and Htr1b expression in the prefrontal cortex. Oral myristic acid supplementation in neonatal pups reduced A. muciniphila abundance, and inosine supplementation selectively increased Htr1a expression. Spearman correlation analyses using paired individual data revealed a negative association between cecal myristic acid and cecal inosine levels, and a positive correlation between cecal inosine and prefrontal Tph2 expression, supporting quantitative links among these components. Collectively, these findings identify coordinated associations among maternal stress-induced milk fatty acid changes, offspring gut microbiota, microbial metabolites, and serotonin-related gene expression, providing an exploratory framework for understanding milk-mediated effects on the developing gut-brain axis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Early-life environment may influence long-term neurodevelopment through epigenetic regulation. Serotonergic and glutamatergic pathways are central to brain development and have been implicated in DNA methylation changes following prenatal adversity. In this study, we examined whether preterm birth (PTB) in birthweight-discordant twins is associated with differential DNA methylation in the serotonin receptor signaling pathway and the glutamatergic synapse pathway in adult twins.Genome-wide DNA methylation data were obtained from whole blood samples of 288 individuals (144 monozygotic birthweight-discordant twin pairs), including a younger cohort (140 individuals; mean age 33 years) and an older cohort (148 individuals; mean age 63 years). DNA methylation was measured using the Illumina HumanMethylation450 BeadChip. Linear models were fitted for association testing, adjusting for leukocyte composition and twin pair correlation. Pathway-level differential methylation was assessed using Rotation Gene Set Testing.In the glutamatergic synapse pathway, no consistent directional enrichment of hypo- or hypermethylation was observed. However, gene-level analyses identified consistent hypomethylation of GRIA2 and GRIA4 across cohorts. In the serotonin receptor signaling pathway, the young cohort exhibited a mixed methylation pattern, whereas the old cohort showed significant enrichment of hypermethylation. At the gene level, HTR1A was hypomethylated in the young cohort but hypermethylated in the old cohort, indicating a cohort-dependent effect in the methylation patterns.These findings suggest that PTB is associated with long-term epigenetic variation in neurodevelopmentally relevant pathways, as reflected in blood cells. The results further indicate distinct methylation architectures across pathways, with more consistent pathway-level signals in the serotonergic system and more localized gene-level effects in the glutamatergic pathway.
Long-term pharmacotherapy is the primary approach for alleviating the symptoms of mental disorders. Numerous pharmacogenomic studies have confirmed that genetic polymorphisms are key factors underlying inter-ethnic and inter-individual differences in drug response. Pharmacogenomic testing is an essential pathway to achieve precision medicine.In this study, seven common single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) closely associated with the efficacy of antidepressants, and antipsychotics were screened and identified through comprehensive literature retrieval and mining of authoritative databases. These SNPs are located in the ANKK1, DRD2, FKBP5, GRIK4, HTR1A, HTR2A, and MC4R genes. Utilizing multiplex fluorescence melting curve analysis (mFMCA), a four-channel multiplex fluorescent PCR system was successfully established, enabling the simultaneous genotyping of 14 distinct alleles across 7 SNP loci in a single tube. Analytical performance including sensitivity and specificity as well as reproducibility was rigorously evaluated. Specifically, a two phase validation was conducted. An initial calibration phase using 98 clinical samples within a training cohort was used to establish integrative genotyping criteria. These criteria combined statistical melting temperature (T m) intervals, defined as the Mean T m±3 standard deviations (SDs), with peak morphology. The established criteria were then evaluated in a blinded validation phase using an independent cohort of 124 clinical samples.The mFMCA system can accurately detect genomic DNA at concentrations as low as 100 copies/μL, and exhibits high specificity and no cross-reactivity. In the validation cohort (n=124), the mFMCA-derived genotypes achieved 100% concordance with Sanger sequencing. Furthermore, the high stability of the system was further evidenced by its consistent performance across varying DNA concentrations, different clinical samples, and multiple instruments.This study successfully established a dedicated and cost-effective mFMCA assay for psychotropic pharmacogenomic testing. The method provides an efficient, accurate, rapid, economical tool for personalized medicine in psychiatric care.© 2026 Zheng et al.
Fibromyalgia is a syndrome characterised by widespread chronic pain, which is believed to be mediated by a state of central sensitisation (CS). Based on the hypothesis that CS itself could have genetic determinants, our aim was to further explore this pathway.This study included 201 women with fibromyalgia and 40 healthy women matched on age and menopausal status. The nociceptive flexion reflex (NFR) threshold was used as a surrogate marker of CS. Genotyping of 60 candidate-genes likely to influence the pathogenesis of fibromyalgia or chronic pain was explored in all subjects.The NFR threshold was lower in patients (n = 141, median and [interquartile range]: 34 mA [24-46]) than in controls (n = 35, 58 mA [44-77], p = 0.0003), but none of the tested polymorphism genotype was significant. An association was found between fibromyalgia and three polymorphisms related to TNF, TACR1, and IL10 genes, either by testing the simple allelic frequency or an additive model. When the analysis was adjusted on NFR threshold, only the association with TACR1 was still significant, along with other associations with polymorphisms related to FAAH, HTR1A, and MYT1L. Associations were however non significant when a Bonferroni's correction was applied.This study confirmed that CS is a major feature of fibromyalgia. Although several polymorphisms stand out in the analysis, no significant relationship between CS and 60 selected candidate-genes genotype could be highlighted. This information may help however to guide further research to explore this important pathway in larger well phenotyped cohorts.Sixty selected fibromyalgia and pain candidate-genes have no significant association with the nociceptive flexion reflex, a surrogate marker of central sensitization in 201 fibromyalgia women. But the study may help however to guide further research to explore this important pathway in larger well phenotyped cohorts.ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT04624581.© 2026 The Author(s). European Journal of Pain published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Pain Federation ‐ EFIC ®.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease; the precise pathogenesis of sporadic ALS (sALS) has not yet been elucidated up to now. Previous studies revealed that the abnormal alterations of some non-motor neurons (non-MN) were a potential pathogenesis of sALS. Therefore, this study aims to search the potential evidences of non-MN in the pathogenesis of ALS via exploring potential relationships between 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) neurons and the development of ALS.We employed fluorescent immunohistochemistry to investigate the altered distribution patterns of 5-HT and tryptophan hydroxylase 2 in the spinal cord and brainstem of Tg(SOD1*G93A)1Gur (TG) and wild-type (WT) mice. Additionally, we used western blot to analyze the expression levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 1A (5-HTR1A) and 5-HTR2A.Our findings revealed that 5-HT synapses were primarily distributed in the funiculus lateralis, anterior horn, posterior horn, central lateral column, and the area around the central canal of cervical, thoracic, and lumbar segments, and raphe nucleus as well as lateral paragigantocellular nucleus, and gradually reduced following age increase in WT mice. However, 5-HT synapses in the spinal cord and 5-HT neurons in the brainstem gradually increased following the progression of disease and presented a significantly negative correlation between the increased distribution of 5-HT synapses and neurons and the reduction of neural cell number (positively correlated with the increase in neural cell death) at the onset and/or progression stage of TG mice. 5-HTR1A significantly increased, while 5-HTR2A significantly decreased at the onset stage of TG mice.Our study speculated that the distribution changes of 5-HT synapses in the spinal cord and 5-HT neurons in the brainstem play a potential protective role in the pathogenesis of sALS through a compensatory 5-HT increase.© 2026 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The serotonin system is the main therapeutic target for selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) in treating depression, yet the mechanism of action of SSRIs remains incompletely understood. To investigate the molecular and transcriptional effects of SSRI administration on serotonin neurons, we performed spatial transcriptomics, a spatially resolved RNA-sequencing method in intact brain tissue. Mouse brain sections containing the dorsal raphe nucleus and adjacent midbrain structures were analyzed, revealing six distinct serotonergic subpopulations with unique molecular signatures and spatial distributions. Both acute and chronic fluoxetine treatment induced a large number of changes in gene expression in the dorsal raphe nucleus. Notably, Htr1a expression increased following acute treatment but decreased after chronic administration, supporting previous findings on serotonin transporter blockade effects on 5-HT1A autoreceptors. Gene enrichment and network analysis identified key pathways modulated by SSRI administration, including Ras, MAPK and cAMP signaling pathways as well as pathways involved in axonal guidance. Additionally, we observed treatment-dependent opposing transcriptional changes in neuropeptides, particularly Thyrotropin-releasing hormone (Trh) and Prodynorphin (Pdyn), with distinct spatial localization within the dorsal raphe nucleus. Collectively, our transcriptomic and in situ hybridization analyses reveal spatial and cell-type-specific heterogeneity in SSRI action within the dorsal raphe nucleus, providing new insights into the molecular basis of SSRI treatment effects.© 2026. The Author(s).
Major depressive disorder is a debilitating condition linked to dysregulated serotonin (5-HT) signaling, neuroinflammation, and oxidative stress. Boldine (BDN), a natural aporphine alkaloid with antioxidant and neuroprotective properties, might have antidepressant potential, which is still unexplored. This study investigates the effects of BDN on chronic unpredictable stress (CUS)-induced depression-like behavior in male Wistar rats. It focuses on neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, monoamine levels, and 5-HT3A receptor modulation. Rats were subjected to CUS for 42 days and treated with BDN (20, 40, or 80 mg/kg, po) or vortioxetine (VORT, 20 mg/kg, p.o) from the 22nd to 42nd day. Behavioral assessments (sucrose preference test, forced swim test, hole board test) revealed that BDN significantly alleviated anhedonia, despair, and anxiety-like behaviors. CUS increased serum and hippocampal cortisol, oxidative stress (elevated malondialdehyde, reduced glutathione, superoxide dismutase, catalase), and pro-inflammatory markers (NLRP3, IL-1β), which BDN effectively normalized. High-performance liquid chromatographic analysis of the brain region showed that BDN restored hippocampal dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin levels. RT-PCR analysis demonstrated that BDN downregulated hippocampal Htr3a, CAMKII and upregulated Htr1a gene expression, suggesting serotonergic modulation. Histopathological evaluation confirmed BDN neuroprotective effects preventing CUS-induced neuronal damage in the CA1 and CA3 hippocampal regions. These findings indicate that BDN exerts antidepressant effects by mitigating oxidative stress, suppressing NLRP3-mediated neuroinflammation, normalizing HPA axis hyperactivity, and modulating 5-HT receptor signaling. Thus, BDN represents a promising multitarget therapeutic candidate for stress-related depression.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Microbiome-derived deoxycholic acid (DCA) elevates serum 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), a mediator of portal hypertension (PH). Rifaximin, a non-absorbable antibiotic, is known to reduce DCA levels. We aimed to elucidate the role of DCA in cirrhotic PH and evaluate the therapeutic potential of rifaximin.PH was induced in mice by thioacetamide (TAA) injection or bile duct ligation (BDL). Mice were treated with antibiotics (ABX) or rifaximin, with or without exogenous DCA supplementation. A cohort of 51 patients with cirrhosis and 19 healthy controls was analyzed to validate correlations among DCA, 5-HT, and hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG). Mice with tissue-specific knockout of gut epithelial Tph1 (Tph1VKO), vascular smooth muscle cell Htr1a (Htr1aΔVSMC), or Kcnj9 (Kcnj9ΔVSMC) were used for mechanistic studies.Fecal DCA positively correlated with portal pressure (PP) in TAA-induced PH mice (r = 0.631, p <0.001) and with HVPG in patients (r = 0.5874, p <0.001). ABX treatment reduced fecal DCA, serum 5-HT, and PP in TAA- or BDL-induced PH mice. Exogenous DCA reversed the ABX-induced reductions in serum 5-HT and PP, an effect abolished in Tph1VKO mice. GIRK3 (encoded by Kcnj9) was upregulated in portal veins from PH mice and patients. VSMC-specific Kcnj9 deletion attenuated PH and prevented 5-HT-induced PP elevation. Mechanistically, 5-HT triggered portal vein smooth muscle cell contraction via the HTR1A-GIRK3-Ca2+-MLC2 pathway. Rifaximin alleviated PH by reducing DCA in wild-type mice but showed no additional PP reduction in Tph1VKO, Htr1aΔVSMC, or Kcnj9ΔVSMC mice.Microbiome-derived DCA exacerbates PH by enhancing TPH1-dependent 5-HT biosynthesis, which activates portal vein smooth muscle cell contraction via HTR1A-GIRK3 signaling. Rifaximin alleviates cirrhotic PH by reducing DCA levels, highlighting a potential therapeutic strategy for clinical PH management.Portal hypertension is a key driver of cirrhosis-related complications, yet current therapies exhibit suboptimal efficacy. Herein, we elucidate the role of the gut microbial metabolite deoxycholic acid in the pathophysiology of cirrhotic portal hypertension through the TPH1-5-HT/HTR1A-GIRK3 axis and provide preclinical evidence that rifaximin ameliorates cirrhotic portal hypertension by reducing deoxycholic acid. These insights may open a new avenue for the clinical management of cirrhotic portal hypertension.Copyright © 2026 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Sulfotransferases (STs) are a class of enzymes that catalyze the transfer of the sulfuryl group (-SO3-), most commonly from the universal cofactor 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate (PAPS), to nucleophilic acceptors bearing hydroxyl or amino groups. Although this process is widespread in biology, it involves the energy-intensive synthesis of PAPS and the generation of a natural inhibitor of sulfotransferases - the bis-phosphorylated nucleotide 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphate (PAP). This study aims to provide a deeper insight into the structure-activity relationship of the PAPS-ST interaction and lay the groundwork for PAPS-derived molecular tool design. To this end, we report a library of chemically modified PAPS and PAP analogs and evaluate their binding and inhibitory properties toward the plant sulfotransferase AtSOT18 and mammalian SULT1A3. Using microscale thermophoresis, it was found that STs do not differentiate between the 5'-phosphosulfate and 5'-diphosphate analogs, making the latter non-functional mimics potentially useful for structural studies and revealing an important role of the 3'-phosphate in ligand recognition and binding specificity. The modifications at the 2'-, 5'-sites, or at the N6 and C8 positions of the adenine rarely made significant contributions to the stabilization of the complex. A strong preference for the adenine base over alternative nitrogenous bases in the cofactor structure was, however, observed. The use of 19F NMR spectroscopy as a molecular tool for screening potential inhibitors of AtSOT18 and SULT1A3 highlighted C8-(1-amino-2-azidoethyl)-substituted analogs as promising compounds for targeting STs. Overall, the study revealed several novel aspects of molecular recognition of PAPS by STs and laid the groundwork for future molecular tool design.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) represents a highly prevalent and aggressive malignancy endemic to Southeast Asia. Early and accurate diagnosis is critical to improving survival outcomes; however, the absence of robust, stage-specific biomarkers remains a key obstacle to clinical implementation of early screening strategies.We performed untargeted serum proteomic profiling using mass spectrometry in 15 treatment-naïve early-stage NPC patients and 15 VCA-IgA-positive healthy controls. Bioinformatics analyses were conducted to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Machine learning (random forest combined with recursive feature elimination) was employed to prioritize candidate biomarkers, which were subsequently verified using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in independent sample cohorts.In total, 1,428 serum proteins were identified, among which 1,410 were reliably quantified. We observed 31 upregulated and 189 downregulated proteins in NPC patients relative to controls. Spearman correlation analysis revealed significant associations: LTA4H (leukotriene A4 hydrolase) levels correlated with serum cell infiltration (r = 0.383, p = 0.032) and CD8 + T-cell abundance (r = 0.408, p = 0.021); both SULT1A3 (sulfotransferase family 1 A member 3) and FGL1 (fibrinogen-like protein 1) levels were positively associated with M1 macrophage infiltration (r = 0.510, p = 0.003 and r = 0.430, p = 0.015, respectively). In a preliminary validation cohort (n = 80), ELISA yielded AUC values of 0.631 (95% CI: 0.515-0.736, p = 0.04) for LTA4H, 0.787 (95% CI: 0.681-0.871, p < 0.001) for SULT1A3, and 0.688 (95% CI: 0.575-0.787, p = 0.002) for FGL1. In large-scale independent validation, SULT1A3 achieved an AUC of 0.826 (95% CI: 0.766-0.876; sensitivity = 78.89%, specificity = 75.47%) in cohort 1 (n = 196) and 0.796 (95% CI: 0.723-0.857; sensitivity = 76.67%, specificity = 76.67%) in cohort 2 (n = 150).Through an integrated workflow combining proteomic screening, machine learning prioritization, and multi-stage ELISA validation, we identified SULT1A3 as a candidate serum-based biomarker for early detection of NPC. Preliminary findings suggest that SULT1A3 may have potential utility in clinical screening, though further validation in independent, multi‑center cohorts is required.© 2026. The Author(s).
Diabetes mellitus is characterized by persistent hyperglycemia that triggers micro-vascular complications in organs such as the eyes and kidneys; a pivotal enzymatic driver is aldose reductase (AR), which reduces glucose to sorbitol. Because existing AR inhibitors often cause off-target toxicity, we implemented an integrative in-silico workflow to discover selective, safer compounds. A library of 4 975 small molecules was docked against AR and, in parallel, against five clinically relevant antitarget proteins or proteins whose unintended inhibition is associated with adverse pharmacological or toxicological effects (CYP2A6, CYP2C9, CYP3A4, SULT1A3 and the pregnane X receptor), retaining 236 ligands whose binding energies to every antitarget were weaker than those of the reference drug tolrestat. These survivors were redocked to five high-resolution human AR crystal structures, and the ten best-scoring ligands underwent 100 ns molecular-dynamics simulations followed by MM-PBSA free-energy calculations to refine affinity estimates and probe complex stability. Ligand 4934, a benzo[a]anthracene-pyrene polyphenol, displayed the strongest predicted affinity for while showing poor affinity for the antitarget panel, outperforming tolrestat by more than 2 kcal mol⁻¹ and adopting a stable plug-like pose that occludes the catalytic pocket through extensive π-π and hydrophobic contacts with Trp111, Phe123 and Lys22. These findings highlight ligand 4934 as a promising scaffold for selective AR inhibition and demonstrate the effectiveness of the stepwise computational strategy in prioritizing lead compounds with reduced off-target liabilities.© 2025. The Author(s).
Sulfotransferase (SULT) enzymes contribute significantly to drug metabolism in pediatric patients. The purpose of this study was to develop a PBPK model for acetaminophen (APAP) in pediatric populations that accounts for the ontogeny of SULT isozymes that play a critical role in APAP metabolism. PBPK modeling and simulation were performed using the Simcyp® Simulator. The model incorporated the developmental ontogeny of three key hepatic SULT enzymes: SULT1A1, SULT1A3, and SULT2A1 using "best-fit" ontogeny equations for each isozyme as determined by nonlinear regression analysis of enzyme abundance versus age. PBPK model-simulated pharmacokinetic profiles for APAP captured observed clinical data for systemic exposure (Cmax, AUC) in neonates, infants, and children. SULTS accounted for ~60% APAP metabolism in neonates, with decreased contributions to infants and children. Model sensitivity analysis highlighted the potential for APAP metabolic DDIs, primarily through SULT1A1. The study demonstrates that the impact of SULT enzymes on drug metabolism is significant in neonates, which is an important clinical consideration for APAP. A PBPK model that incorporates SULT ontogeny has the potential to help inform dosing decisions in this special patient population.
Chlorophenols (CPs) are common organic pollutants widely used in many industries. The current study seeks to examine the inhibition of sulfotransferases (SULTs) by CPs. Four SULT isoforms were significantly inhibited by multiply CPs. Furthermore, half inhibition concentration (IC50) was calculated to be 0.31 μM, 0.11 μM and 1.86 μM for the inhibition of PCP (pentachlorophenol) towards SULT1A1, SULT1B1 and SULT1E1. PCP showed competitive inhibition towards SULT1B1 and SULT1E1.The inhibition kinetics (inhibition type and parameters (Ki)) values were calculated to be 0.34 μM and 0.56 μM for the inhibition of PCP towards SULT1B1 and SULT1E1, respectively. In silico docking was used to explain the inhibition difference among CPs. The binding free energy between 4-CP and SULT1A3 was -4.92 kcal/mol, and the binding free energy between 2.4-DCP and SULT1A3 was -5.63 kcal/mol. Therefore, 2.4-DCP exerted stronger inhibition activity towards SULT1A3 compared with 4-CP, which can well explain the experimental result. These results are crucial for exploring the risks associated with CPs exposure from a novel perspective.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Hydroxyapatite-based nanoparticles have found diverse applications in drug delivery, gene carriers, diagnostics, bioimaging and tissue engineering, owing to their ability to easily enter the bloodstream and target specific sites. However, there is limited understanding of the potential adverse effects and molecular mechanisms of these nanoparticles with varying geometries upon their entry into the bloodstream. Here, we used two commercially available hydroxyapatite nanoparticles (HANPs) with different geometries (less than 100 nm in size each) to investigate this issue.First, the particle size, Zeta potential, and surface morphology of nano-hydroxyapatite were characterized. Subsequently, the effects of 2~2000 μM nano-hydroxyapatite on the proliferation, migration, cell cycle distribution, and apoptosis levels of umbilical vein endothelial cells were evaluated. Additionally, the impact of nanoparticles of various shapes on the differential expression of genes was investigated using transcriptome sequencing. Additionally, we investigated the in vivo biocompatibility of HANPs through gavage administration of nanohydroxyapatite in mice.Our results demonstrate that while rod-shaped HANPs promote proliferation in Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cell (HUVEC) monolayers at 200 μM, sphere-shaped HANPs exhibit significant toxicity to these monolayers at the same concentration, inducing apoptosis/necrosis and S-phase cell cycle arrest through inflammation. Additionally, sphere-shaped HANPs enhance SULT1A3 levels relative to rod-shaped HANPs, facilitating chemical carcinogenesis-DNA adduct signaling pathways in HUVEC monolayers. In vivo experiments have shown that while HANPs can influence the number of blood cells and comprehensive metabolic indicators in blood, they do not exhibit significant toxicity.In conclusion, this study has demonstrated that the geometry and surface area of HANPs significantly affect VEC survival status and proliferation. These findings hold significant implications for the optimization of biomaterials in cell engineering applications.© 2024 Sun et al.
In recent years, a convenient phosphatase-coupled sulfotransferase assay method has been proven to be applicable to most sulfotransferases. The central principle of the method is that phosphatase specifically degrades 3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphate (PAP) and leaves 3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulfate (PAPS). Our group previously acquired a yeast 3',5'-bisphosphate nucleotidase (YND), which showed a higher catalytic activity for PAP than PAPS and could be a potential phosphatase for the sulfotransferase assay. Here, we obtained a beneficial mutant of YND with markedly improved substrate specificity towards PAP via rational design. Of 9 chosen mutation sites in the active site pocket, the mutation G236D showed the best specificity for PAP. After optimization of the reaction conditions, the mutant YNDG236D displayed a 4.8-fold increase in the catalytic ratio PAP/PAPS compared to the wild-type. We subsequently applied YNDG236D to the assay of human SULT1A1 and SULT1A3 with their known substrate 1-naphthol, indicating that the mutant could be used to evaluate sulfotransferase activity by colorimetry. Analysis of the MD simulation results revealed that the improved substrate specificity of the mutant towards PAP may stem from a more stable protein conformation and the changed flexibility of key residues in the entrance of the substrate tunnel. This research will provide a valuable reference for the development of efficient sulfotransferase activity assays.
Sulfotransferases (SULTs) are phase II metabolizing enzymes catalyzing the sulfoconjugation from the co-factor 3'-Phosphoadenosine 5'-Phosphosulfate (PAPS) to a wide variety of endogenous compounds, drugs and natural products. Although SULT1A1 and SULT1A3 share 93% identity, SULT1A1, the most abundant SULT isoform in humans, exhibits a broad substrate range with specificity for small phenolic compounds, while SULT1A3 displays a high affinity toward monoamine neurotransmitters like dopamine. To elucidate the factors determining the substrate specificity of the SULT1 isoenzymes, we studied the dynamic behavior and structural specificities of SULT1A1 and SULT1A3 by using molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and ensemble docking of common and specific substrates of the two isoforms. Our results demonstrated that while SULT1A1 exhibits a relatively rigid structure by showing lower conformational flexibility except for the lip (loop L1), the loop L2 and the cap (L3) of SULT1A3 are extremely flexible. We identified protein residues strongly involved in the recognition of different substrates for the two isoforms. Our analyses indicated that being more specific and highly flexible, the structure of SULT1A3 has particularities in the binding site, which are crucial for its substrate selectivity.
Di-isononyl phthalates are chemicals that are widely used as plasticizers. Humans are extensively exposed to these compounds by dietary intake, through inhalation and skin absorption. Sulfotransferases (SULTs) are enzymes responsible for the detoxification and elimination of numerous endogenous and exogenous molecules from the body. Consequently, SULTs are involved in regulating the biological activity of various hormones and neurotransmitters. The present study considers a computational approach to predict the toxicological potential of the metabolites of di-isononyl phthalate. Furthermore, molecular docking was considered to evaluate the inhibitory potential of these metabolites against the members of family 1 of SULTs. The metabolites of di-isononyl phthalate reveal a potency to cause liver damage and to inhibit receptors activated by peroxisome proliferators. These metabolites are also usually able to inhibit the activity of the members of family 1 of SULTs, except for SULT1A3 and SULT1B1. The outcomes of this study are important for an enhanced understanding of the risk of human exposure to di-isononyl phthalates.
Human sulfotransferases 1A3 (SULT1A3) has received particular interest, due to their functions of catalyzing the sulfonation of numerous phenolic substrates, including bioactive endogenous molecules and therapeutic agents. However, the regulation of SULT1A3 expression and the underlying mechanism remain unclear. Here, we aimed to investigate the regulation effects of bile acid-activated farnesoid X receptor (FXR) on SULT1A3 expression, and to shed light on the mechanism thereof. Our results demonstrated that FXR agonists (CDCA and GW4064) significantly inhibit the expression of SULT1A3 at mRNA and protein levels. In addition, overexpression of FXR led to decrease in SULT1A3 expression and knockdown of FXR significantly induced the expression of SULT1A3 in protein and mRNA levels, confirming that FXR expression manifestly showed negative regulatory effect on basal SULT1A3 expression. Furthermore, a combination of luciferase reporter gene and CHIP assays showed that FXR repressed SULT1A3 transcription through direct binding to the region at base pair positions -664 to -654. In conclusion, this study for the first time confirmed FXR was a negative transcriptional regulator of human SULT1A3 enzyme.© 2023 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Considering the shared physiological mechanisms between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), it is plausible that certain compounds may exert therapeutic effects on both neurological disorders. This study aimed to employ in silico techniques to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of huperzine A (HA) as an alternative treatment for PD and AD.Molecular targets of HA and genes associated with AD and PD were identified from public databases. Gene Ontology analysis, metabolic pathway analysis, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction were performed to identify shared molecular targets. Molecular docking was performed to assess HA affinity for hub proteins and to compare it with that of drugs used to treat AD and PD.The results suggested that HA interacts with 77 molecular targets common to both diseases. Enrichment analysis revealed that proteins from these targets were involved in biological functions, such as serotonin and amine binding. Hub proteins (SRC, TP53, AKT1, and CASP3) were identified from the PPI network. Furthermore, molecular docking simulations showed favorable binding of HA to the hub proteins and adequate binding to the targets of standard drugs (MAOB and ACHE). On the other hand, molecular dynamics analyses were performed to compare the binding characteristics of HA with those of the control targets.HA may modulate SRC, CASP3, and AKT1, suggesting a pleiotropic mechanism underlying the association between AD and PD. These computational findings provide a rational basis for experimental validation by modulating signaling pathways implicated in inflammatory processes and inhibiting enzymes involved in neurotransmitter degradation.This study contributes to the understanding of the neuroprotective activity of HA in AD and PD. However, further in vitro and in vivo investigations are required to confirm the dual therapeutic potential of HA in the treatment of AD and PD.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564395 is a review article
Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is an autoimmune disease characterized by the loss of insulin-producing beta cells and has no cure. The role of cell-cell interactions in T1D disease progression remains poorly understood. Beta cells develop adjacent to ductal cells and both cell types undergo changes during T1D progression, suggesting a potential intercellular communication. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are established mediators of intercellular communication, but whether human ductal cells secrete EVs that influence beta cells remains unknown. We hypothesize that exposure of human ductal cells to T1D-associated cytokines alters their EV cargo and that EVs produced by cytokine-exposed human ductal cells modulate gene and protein expression in beta cells.Human exocrine tissues from non-diabetic cadaveric donors were cultured in a 3D suspension to support ductal cell survival. Cells were treated with TNF-α, IL-1β, and IFN-γ or vehicle control for 48 hours and analyzed for proinflammatory-related gene expression and viability by qRT-PCR and Trypan blue exclusion, respectively. EVs from cytokine- and vehicle-treated ductal cells were isolated using size exclusion chromatography and characterized by dot blot, transmission electron microscopy, and nanoparticle tracking analysis. The effects of EVs on EndoC-βH1 human beta cells were assessed with qRT-PCR, RNA-sequencing, and flow cytometry; the effects of EVs on primary human beta cells were assessed with immunofluorescence microscopy. EV cargo was analyzed by proteomics and transcriptomics.EVs from cytokine-treated ductal cells were internalized by EndoC-βH1 beta cells, and compared to control ductal EVs, increased HLA Class I gene and protein expression in EndoC-βH1 cells. In primary human beta cells, EVs from cytokine-treated ductal cells, compared to control ductal EVs, also increased expression of HLA Class I. EV cargo from cytokine-treated versus control ductal cells was enriched for transcripts associated with inflammatory and antigen-presentation-related pathways, including CXCL9, CXCL10, CXCL11, IDO1, and GBP4.Exposure of T1D-associated cytokines to primary human ductal cells altered cargo of secreted EVs. EVs from cytokine-treated ductal cells upregulated HLA Class I expression in EndoC-βH1 and primary human beta cells. Our results suggest a previously unknown ductal cell communication pathway with a potential implication for modulating beta cells during T1D progression.Copyright © 2026 Erdem, Zook, Quijano, Hansen, Palade, Oh, Mares, Donohue, Ortiz, Jou, Talley, Guthalu Kondegowda, Arribas-Layton, Vasavada, Montero, Reijonen, Thurmond, Pirrotte, Jovanovic-Talisman and Ku.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564178 is a review article
Herein, a dual-channel electrochemical method is proposed to simultaneously detect monoamine oxidase B and acetylcholinesterase without cross-talk.
Macrophages are the primary host cells for Leishmania, and their polarization into either M1 (pro-inflammatory) or M2 (anti-inflammatory) phenotypes determines the course of the infection. This study aimed to investigate the effects of Leishmania tropica, the main agent of cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) in Türkiye, on the polarization of primary human macrophages. Primary monocytes were isolated from human peripheral blood and differentiated into macrophages using GM-CSF. The cells were infected with L. tropica promastigotes, analyzed after 48 hours. Polarization was evaluated through morphological changes, flow cytometry for surface markers (CD80, CD163, CD206, CD209), and qPCR for gene expression of M1 (NOS2, IDO1, IRF4) and M2 (ARG1, CCL22, CCL1) markers. An infection rate of 56.5% was achieved, with infected macrophages shifting from a spindle-like morphology to a rounded and granular appearance. Flow cytometry revealed a significant decrease in the expression of M1 marker CD80 and M2 markers CD206 and CD209 (p<0.01), while CD163 expression showed a non-significant increase. qPCR analyses demonstrated a significant down regulation of M1-related genes and a significant upregulation of the M2-related gene ARG1 (p<0.05). The findings suggest that L. tropica infection induces a shift in macrophage polarization from an M1-like phenotype toward an M2-like phenotype, with partial resemblance to an M2c-like profile, though the concurrent decrease in CD206 and CD209 underscores the complexity of the phenotype and indicates that the activated state does not conform neatly to any single M2 subtype. This shift likely serves as an immune escape strategy, promoting parasite persistence and influencing the chronicity of CL. Further studies incorporating additional M2c subtype markers, multiple time points, and functional assays are needed.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Osteoporosis is a prevalent metabolic bone disease characterized by heterogeneous molecular mechanisms. Emerging evidence implicates that natural killer cells and immunomodulator-related genes (NIRGs) were involved in its pathogenesis; however, systematic exploration of NIRGs remains limited.To explore the role of natural killer (NK) cells and immunomodulator-related differentially expressed genes (NIRDEGs) in osteoporosis.Two osteoporosis datasets (GSE56815 and GSE7429) were integrated after batch effect correction and normalization. Natural killer cell-related genes (NRGs) and immunomodulator-related genes (IRGs) were curated from GeneCards. And NIRDEGs were identified by intersecting co-differentially expressed genes (Co-DEGs) across datasets. Functional enrichment (GO, KEGG, GSEA, GSVA) and immune infiltration analyses were performed. Then, diagnostic models were developed using random forest, support vector machine (SVM), and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression, validated by receiver operating characteristic curves (ROC), and nomograms. Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI) networks and regulatory networks were generated using bioinformatic tools.Twelve NIRDEGs were identified, and they were enriched in regulation of inflammatory response, myeloid cell homeostasis, negative regulation of DNA-binding transcription factor activity, homeostasis of number of cells, and I-κB kinase/NF-κB signaling. A diagnostic model comprising seven genes (IDO1, PTMA, RAB11FIP1, MYH14, HAMP, HMOX1, and ESR1) exhibited moderate accuracy (0.7 < AUC < 0.9). The protein-level expression of the six candidate genes was further validated in osteoporosis medol rats. Specifically, the IDO1 and PTMA was obviously elevated in the osteoporosis rat model, while the RAB11FIP1, MYH14, HAMP, and HMOX1 was markedly decreased. Immune infiltration analysis revealed distinct patterns of 20 immune cell types between high and low BMD groups, especially monocytes, macrophages, and eosinophils. The PPI network indicated that five key genes were interconnected (IDO1, PTMA, HAMP, HMOX1, and ESR1) and that there were 20 functionally related proteins. Regulatory networks highlighted interactions with 26 transcription factors (TFs), 28 miRNAs, 26 RBPs and 32 therapeutic compounds.This study establishes NIRDEGs as critical players in osteoporosis pathogenesis and provides a clinically translatable seven-gene diagnostic model for early osteoporosis detection. The integration of multi-omic analyses uncovered key pathways, immune dynamics, and regulatory networks. These findings provide novel insights into immune-mediated mechanisms and therapeutic targets for osteoporosis management.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Daturaolone is an amyrin-type triterpenoid isolated from Datura metel L. which was evaluated in the current study as a multitarget inhibitor of enzymes implicated in neurodegeneration, namely acetylcholinesterase (AChE), butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE), and monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B). While no significant inhibition was detected towards BuChE, daturaolone inhibited AChE (IC50 = 45.06 ± 1.80 µM), even if with lower potency if compared to the positive control donepezil (IC50 = 0.047 ± 0.001 µM). Concerning MAO-B, daturaolone displayed an IC50 value of 28.04 ± 1.68 µM, higher of that of positive control safinamide (IC50 = 0.027 ± 0.001 µM). Molecular docking was used to study the binding to the catalytic sites of the macromolecular targets, while ligand-based studies predicted low-affinity interactions with protein phosphatases, androgen receptor, and β-secretase 1, along with limited drug-likeness.
Lifestyle habits, cognitive reserve, and affective reserve (secure attachment, extraversion, psychological resilience) predict resilience in the oldest-old, though the underlying biological mechanisms remain unclear. This study explored relationships between these protective factors, 120 + NULISA CNS blood biomarkers, and multidimensional health outcomes (global cognition, mental health, walking speed) in 401 dementia-free participants (age 83-87) from the InveCe.Ab study. Using sparse partial least squares (sPLS) regression, eight biomarkers were stably associated with the protective factors: HBA1, DDC, IFNG, IL15, GOT1, ACHE, SNAP25, and SNCB. Structural equation modeling (SEM) showed that the three protective factors exerted an independent and domain-specific effect on health outcomes. Moreover, lifestyle habits were associated with ACHE (β = 0.26), IL15 (β = 0.22), and GOT1 (β = 0.28); affective reserve showed inverse associations with IFNG (β = -0.13) and IL15 (β = -0.31), and GOT1 (β = -0.18). Regarding health domains, SNAP25 was inversely related to global cognition (β = -0.10), while SNCB was associated with global cognition (β = 0.16) and walking speed (β = 0.13). Notably, no significant mediated effects were found, suggesting that the clinical benefits observed were not directly driven by the aforementioned biological pathways. The present study paves the way for further investigations on the biological mechanisms underlying resilient aging, while further demonstrating the key protective role of individual habits and psychosocial characteristics during the life course.© 2026. The Author(s).
Advances in single-cell technologies have provided detailed insight into cellular heterogeneity within tumor microenvironments. However, the regulatory mechanisms driving macrophage-mediated immune suppression in thyroid cancer remain incompletely understood.We applied integrated single-cell multi-omics approaches to tumor samples from patients and murine thyroid cancer models, including single-cell RNA sequencing, single-cell ATAC sequencing, mass cytometry, spatial/histological validation, and in vitro and in vivo functional assays.We identified a prominent enrichment of TREM2+ tumor-associated macrophages within the thyroid cancer immune microenvironment. These macrophages displayed an immunosuppressive transcriptional and metabolic profile and promoted immune evasion through activation of the AHR-IDO1-kynurenine signaling axis, leading to impaired CD8+ T-cell function. Pharmacological inhibition of AHR and IDO1 reversed immune suppression and reduced tumor burden in experimental models.These findings reveal a TREM2+ macrophage-driven immunometabolic mechanism in thyroid cancer and suggest that targeting the AHR-IDO1-kynurenine pathway may provide a potential strategy for improving antitumor immunity.Copyright © 2026 Le, Huang, Jiang, Lv and Chen.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557933 is a review article
Melatonin is not only produced by the pineal gland but is also synthesized in extrapineal organs. It plays a key role in antioxidant defense and immune regulation during pregnancy. Two key rate-limiting enzymes are involved in the melatonin synthesis, aralkylamine N-acetyltransferase (AANAT), and acetylserotonin O-methyltransferase (ASMT). Nevertheless, it remained unclear whether pregnancy affects the expression of AANAT and ASMT in extrapineal organs. In this study, ovine maternal thymus, spleen, liver, lymph nodes, thyroid, duodenum, and endometrium were collected on day 16 of the estrous cycle (N16), and on days 13, 16, 25, and 70 (G70) of gestation (n = 6 per group). The expression of AANAT and ASMT in these extrapineal organs was analyzed using RT-qPCR, Western blot, and immunohistochemistry. The results revealed that pregnancy upregulated the expression of AANAT in the liver and ASMT in the thymus and duodenum, but downregulated AANAT expression in the lymph nodes and duodenum. Moreover, AANAT expression was elevated in the thymus and spleen but reduced in the thyroid and endometrium at G70 compared with N16. ASMT expression was increased in the lymph nodes yet decreased in the spleen, liver, and thyroid at G70 compared with N16. Notably, endometrial ASMT expression showed a pregnancy-stage-specific manner with no significant difference between N16 and G70. In summary, this paper reports, for the first time in sheep, that pregnancy modulates the expression of AANAT and ASMT in these extrapineal organs in a pregnancy-stage- and tissue-specific manner.
N-acetylserotonin methyltransferase (ASMT) is among the key enzymes involved in the final steps of melatonin biosynthesis. Here, we have shown that inactivation of ASMT in A. thaliana results in reduced endogenous melatonin levels, modulating other plant hormone pathways and affecting stress-related responses. Transcriptomic analysis of the asmt-null mutant revealed that the differentially expressed genes were predominantly enriched in terms associated with auxin responses and signalling, as well as with abscisic acid (ABA)-mediated stress responses. In addition, the expression of genes involved in the ethylene, salicylic acid, jasmonic acid and brassinosteroid pathways was altered in the mutant. Assays of a β-glucuronidase (GUS) construct in which a fragment containing 1000 bp upstream of the ASMT start codon was fused to the GUS reporter gene confirmed that ASMT is involved in the responses to ABA, gibberellic and indole acetic acids, trans-zeatin, ethylene and epibrassinolide, which is consistent with the results of the in silico analysis of the ASMT promoter. Furthermore, the expression of a number of genes, such as SLG1, HIS1-3, AtAIRP1 and several LEA genes, whose transcriptional regulation is associated with water management and contributes to impaired tolerance to dehydration stress, was altered in the mutant. The pleiotropic effects of ASMT gene disruption facilitate the identification of new potential melatonin targets and provide insights into the specific mechanisms of melatonin action.
Pulmonary artery (PA) enlargement is a non-invasive imaging biomarker associated with pulmonary hypertension and mortality in COPD; however, its genetic determinants remain incompletely understood.To characterize the genetic architecture of PA size across COPD-enriched and population-based cohorts.We performed genome-wide association analyses of PA diameter using whole-genome sequencing in COPDGene (n=9,418) and ECLIPSE (n=1,859), and imputed-genotype data from the UK Biobank (n=37,073). We replicated lead variants in the Framingham Heart Study (FHS; n=3,289), incorporated all four studies into a joint meta-analysis, and identified independent signals through conditional analyses. Candidate effector genes were prioritized using coding variant annotation, colocalization, and integrative regulatory evidence.We identified 44 independent genome-wide significant PA diameter signals within 39 loci, including 8 variants replicated in FHS, novel associations near FRMD4B , SLC20A2 , BORCS7-ASMT , and KCNRG , and 5 signals in conditional analysis including multiple signals at ANO1 . Genetic effects were concordant across imaging modalities and cohorts of differing COPD burden. Effector-gene prioritization nominated ABCC8 , PDGFD , HMCN1 , CCNE1 , and TBX20 , implicating pathways in vascular remodeling, developmental regulation, smooth muscle and endothelial function, ion-channel signaling, and extracellular matrix organization. Colocalization with pulse pressure GWAS demonstrated substantial shared causal variation between pulmonary and systemic vascular biology.In this largest genetic study of pulmonary vascular imaging to date, PA diameter exhibits a polygenic architecture consistent across imaging modalities and cohorts of differing COPD burden. The prioritized effector genes bridge rare-variant pulmonary hypertension biology with common-variant systemic vascular biology.
The reproductive performance of geese is regulated by the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian (HPO) axis, which controls ovarian follicular development and hormone secretion, and ultimately determines egg production. In this study, Wanxi White geese at three reproductive stages (pre-laying, laying, and broody periods) were used to investigate the regulatory roles of circadian clock genes in follicular development. Results showed that follicular growth, serum levels of estradiol (E2), melatonin (MLT), and progesterone (P4) markedly increased during the laying period, whereas a higher number of atretic follicles was observed during the broody period. Correspondingly, expression of steroidogenesis-related genes (CYP11A1, CYP19A1, DHCR24, 3β-HSD and StAR) and melatonin synthesis-related gene (ASMT-1) was upregulated in the laying periods compared with pre-laying and broody periods. Moreover, expression of clock genes (CLOCK, PER2, CRY1, CRY2, ARNTL2A, EYA3 and NPAS2) was significantly higher in the hypothalamus during the laying period than that in the broody period. Notably, CLOCK, PER2, CRY1, CRY2 and DIO2 exhibited similar expression patterns in the hypothalamus and ovary across the three reproductive stages, suggesting that circadian clock genes may contribute to the coordination of hypothalamic and ovarian functions. In addition, genes involved in lipid metabolism and yolk precursor synthesis were markedly upregulated in both the liver and ovary during the laying period. Overall, the elevated expression of clock genes could play an important role in follicular development, hormone secretion, and the coordinating of hepatic lipid transport and yolk precursor formation, providing a theoretical basis for improving egg production and breeding strategies in Wanxi White geese.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Melatonin signalling, mediated by membrane receptors and tightly regulated biosynthetic enzymes, is a key component of circadian and neuroendocrine control in the brain. However, whether the tryptophan-melatonin axis remains hierarchically intact during glioma progression and how its disruption affects downstream signalling remain unclear. In this study, transcriptomic data from TCGA, CGGA, and GTEx were integrated to characterize the expression patterns of melatonin receptors (MTNR1A and MTNR1B) and biosynthetic enzymes (AANAT and ASMT) across normal brain tissue, lower-grade glioma and glioblastoma. Protein expression was validated by immunohistochemistry, and functional consequences were investigated through gain- and loss-of-function experiments in glioma cells, followed by proliferation, migration, invasion, apoptosis and signalling analyses. Multi-layered analyses revealed a coordinated disruption of the tryptophan-melatonin axis during glioma progression. Expression of AANAT, ASMT, MTNR1A and MTNR1B progressively declined with increasing tumour grade and was associated with poor prognosis. Immunohistochemistry confirmed reduced MTNR1A and ASMT protein expression in glioma tissues. Restoration of these factors suppressed glioma cell proliferation, migration and invasion while promoting apoptosis. Mechanistically, these effects were accompanied by inhibition of AKT, ERK and STAT3 signalling. These findings demonstrate that hierarchical disruption of receptor- and synthesis-dependent melatonin signalling is a defining molecular feature of glioma and may contribute to malignant progression through activation of AKT/ERK/STAT3 pathways, providing new insights into the biological and therapeutic relevance of the tryptophan-melatonin axis in glioma.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Daily and seasonal variations in the periodicity of sunlight are one of the most important cues about the external environment, and nonvisual photoreception is essential for registration and correct timing of many biological processes. Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) is a species where life history transitions are controlled by seasonal changes in light periodicity. In teleost, the pineal organ is photosensitive and produces melatonin, however, the diversity of photoreceptors, their organization and which opsin is responsible for the photic regulation of melatonin synthesis have got little attention in salmon. Based on RNA sequencing and histological profiling of the Atlantic salmon pineal, this study provides an extensive topographic mapping of several nonvisual opsins of the alevin and parr pineal organ in combination with melatonin synthesizing enzymes arylakylamine N-acetyltransferase (aanat2) and N-acetylserotonin O-methyltransferase (asmt). The results show that exorhodopsin (exorh) expressing cells constitute the vast majority of photoreceptors in the pineal organ. These cell types also contain expression of melatonin synthesizing enzymes and are therefore a main regulator of melatonin synthesis in Atlantic salmon, while parapinopsin b (ppb) most likely has an accessory role in the photic regulation of melatonin synthesis. The majority of the nonvisual photoreceptors are located towards the pineal lumen with their outer segment protruding into this, while ppb is located more centrally in the epithelium. Retinal G-protein coupled receptor (rgr) is expressed in a vast majority of the photoreceptors and is localized together with other opsins like exorh, suggesting a photoisomerase function for this opsin. In addition, for the first time, peropsin is characterized in the ciliated choroid plexus cells, suggesting the presence of photoreceptive activity in this cerebrospinal fluid producing organ. Overall, expression analysis clearly indicates that the pineal organ is multi-photoreceptive and that melatonin synthesis is linked to photoreceptors expressing exorh.Copyright © 2026 Horne, Helvik, Karlsen, Denker and Eilertsen.
Poor dietary habits disproportionately affect children in under-resourced schools, where time, staffing, and curricular constraints often limit access to structured nutrition education. School-university partnerships that integrate nutrition education into existing programs may offer a feasible and equitable approach to addressing nutrition literacy.This article describes the implementation and participants' experiences of a brief nutrition education component added to the All Stars Moving Together (ASMT) school-university service-learning physical activity program. Twelve brief (10-min) nutrition education and healthy snack sampling sessions were delivered by undergraduate students, following ASMT physical activity sessions over 8 weeks. Practice-based evidence was supported by a pre-post questionnaire, focus group discussions with elementary students, and narrative reflections from college students to inform perceptions of program impact.Participants' narratives highlighted exposure and preference to healthy snacks, nutrition knowledge, learning experiences, and awareness of food choice. Integrating brief, experiential nutrition education into existing school-based physical activity programs appears feasible, acceptable, and culturally responsive, while offering a low-cost nutrition approach in under-resourced communities.Integrating short nutrition education sessions into experiential service-learning school-based programs offers a practical strategy for promoting nutrition literacy and health equity for youth in under-resourced communities.© 2026 American School Health Association.
Since its discovery in higher plants, melatonin has attracted considerable attention for its antioxidant properties and its diverse roles in plant physiology and stress responses. However, its biosynthetic pathway remains only partially elucidated, particularly in horticultural crops of economic and nutritional importance, such as pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) fruits. In our previous work, we identified five genes encoding tryptophan decarboxylase (TDC), the first enzyme in the melatonin biosynthetic pathway in pepper. The present study expands on this by identifying and characterizing additional genes encoding enzymes involved in subsequent steps of the pathway, including four tryptamine 5-hydroxylase (T5H) genes, two serotonin N-acetyltransferase (SNAT) genes, three N-acetylserotonin O-methyltransferase (ASMT) genes, two caffeic acid O-methyltransferase (COMT) genes, and one N-acetylserotonin deacetylase (ASDAC) gene, representing a total of twelve newly identified genes. We further examined their expression in sweet pepper fruits and found that only nine of the identified genes are expressed in the fruit, with generally higher transcript levels during the unripe stages. Melatonin quantification in the California-type 'Masami' cultivar using UPLC with fluorescence detection (FD) revealed concentrations of 623 ng melatonin·g-1 dry weight (DW) in green fruits and 431 ng melatonin·g-1 DW in red fruits, consistent with the higher expression of melatonin biosynthetic genes in unripe fruit. Expression analysis of these genes by means of RNA-seq revealed differential modulation in response to exogenous melatonin treatments (20, 50, and 100 µM). To our knowledge, this is the first report demonstrating that exogenous melatonin regulates the expression of genes involved in its own biosynthetic pathway in sweet pepper fruits. Notably, treatment with 100 µM melatonin delayed ripening in these non-climacteric fruits, highlighting its potential biotechnological application for controlling fruit ripening and improving postharvest management.
Tuberculosis (TB) remains a global health threat, and latent TB infection (LTBI) serves as a significant reservoir for new cases. Current diagnostic methods have limitations in accuracy and specificity. This study aimed to identify novel plasma biomarkers for LTBI by integrating metabolomics and transcriptomics. Plasma samples from healthy controls (HC) and LTBI patients were analyzed using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS)/MS. We identified distinct metabolic signatures characterizing LTBI, and a diagnostic model based on five key metabolites-margaroylglycine, N-palmitoyl tryptophan, oleamide, myristic acid, and pentadecanoic acid-was established, demonstrating discriminatory potential. Multi-omics integration revealed that these metabolites are significantly associated with perturbations in glycerophospholipid and tryptophan metabolism pathways. Validation via qPCR confirmed significant dysregulation of associated genes (PLA2G4C, PLA1A, CDS2, IL4I1, EHHADH, IDO2, and ASMT) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). External validation in independent cohorts confirmed the consistency of these metabolic alterations. These findings suggest a robust panel of biomarkers for LTBI screening and offer exploratory insights into the metabolic dysregulation underlying latent infection.Latent tuberculosis (TB) infection (LTBI) acts as a silent reservoir for the global tuberculosis epidemic, yet current diagnostic tools often lack the specificity to fully capture the host's biological response. This study addresses this critical gap by using a multi-omics approach to decode the hidden metabolic changes in the blood. We discovered a unique "chemical fingerprint" consisting of five specific metabolites that can accurately distinguish latent infection from healthy states. Beyond providing a highly accurate diagnostic model, our findings reveal how the infection subtly reprograms host lipid and immune pathways. This work is significant because it offers a promising new tool for clinical screening and deepens our understanding of the metabolic interplay between the host and the pathogen, paving the way for better disease control strategies.
Metabolic associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) has high morbidity and tragically lacks effective therapeutic remedies. Tormentic acid (TA) has been shown to have therapeutic effect on liver fibrosis, but its role in MAFLD remains unknown. Therefore, we employed multi-omics analyses to investigate the effects of TA on MAFLD. In this study, male C57BL/6J mice were fed a methionine- and choline- deficiency (MCD) diet to induce MAFLD and subsequently treated with TA for 4 weeks. The therapeutic efficacy of TA was then evaluated through histopathological examination and biochemical analysis. In addition, multi-omics analyses including transcriptomics, proteomics and metabolomics were conducted to identify potential pathways associated with TA treatment. Finally, key genes and proteins in the identified pathways were validated by qPCR and Western blot. Our results showed that TA significantly alleviated liver damage and excessive lipid accumulation. Importantly, our integrative multi-omics analyses identified tryptophan metabolism and glycolysis as pivotal pathways associated with TA treatment in our fatty liver mouse model. Subsequent validation demonstrated the TA-induced upregulation of IDO2 and HAAO, suggesting engagement of tryptophan metabolism. Concurrently, TA treatment downregulated HK2, PFKP, and PKM2, indicative of altered rate-limiting glycolytic enzyme expression. These findings suggest that TA alleviates MCD diet-induced MAFLD, potentially involving modulation of enzyme expression in tryptophan metabolism and glycolysis.© 2026 The Author(s). Pharmacology Research & Perspectives published by British Pharmacological Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Emerging evidence highlights that metabolic reprogramming profoundly shapes the tumor microenvironment and immune evasion in prostate cancer. However, the functional role and mechanisms of tryptophan metabolism in prostate cancer progression remain unclear. Through single-cell transcriptomic analysis, we identified one tumor cell subtype characterized by high expression of 3-hydroxyanthranilate 3,4-dioxygenase (HAAO) and enhanced kynurenine pathway activity. This subpopulation leads to the accumulation of quinolinic acid (QA), a metabolic intermediate that could activate the mevalonate (MVA) pathway. Mechanistically, QA directly binds to and stabilizes farnesyl diphosphate synthase (FDPS), a key MVA pathway enzyme, thereby enhancing cholesterol biosynthesis and fueling androgen receptor (AR)-driven transcriptional programs. This HAAO/QA-FDPS axis establishes a metabolic crosstalk that links tryptophan catabolism to lipid metabolism, sustaining prostate tumor progression. Furthermore, an integrated prognostic model incorporating this pathway signatures outperforms other clinical variables alone, and HAAO-high tumors exhibit heightened sensitivity to combined inhibition of the kynurenine and AR pathways. Our study unveils a novel metabolic vulnerability in prostate cancer and provides a mechanistic rationale for targeting the HAAO/QA-FDPS axis for therapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Growing evidence has revealed that gut dysbiosis is associated with the development of anxio-depressive disorders through mechanisms that involve neuroimmune signaling, neurotransmitter changes, and neuroplasticity in the brain. This study investigated the effects of gingerol-enriched ginger (GEG) on specifically anxiety-related neuroinflammation-, neuroimmunity-, neuroplasticity-, neurotransmission-, and neurotoxicity-associated genes in different brain regions, as well as on alterations linked to colonic microflora-driven dysbiosis, in the spinal nerve ligation (SNL) rat model of neuropathic pain (NP). Twenty-seven male rats were assigned to 3 groups: sham, SNL, and SNL-treated with GEG at 200 mg/kg body weight (SNL+200GEG) via oral gavage for 5 weeks. Anxiety-like behavior was assessed on the elevated plus maze (EPM). mRNA expression was assessed by qRT-PCR using respective primers. Correlation between behavioral parameters and colonic microbiome composition was analyzed using the Spearman rank correlation. The SNL+200GEG group demonstrated decreased anxiety-like behavior in the SNL model. Compared to the SNL group, the SNL+200GEG group had increased mRNA expression of NRF2 (amygdala: left), LXRα (amygdala: both sides), and CX3CR1 (amygdala: both sides, hippocampus: right). GEG modulated neuroplasticity as shown by increased gene expression of PGK1 (amygdala: right, hippocampus: both sides), MEK1 (frontal cortex: both sides), LDHA (frontal cortex: both sides), GPM6A (frontal cortex: both sides, amygdala: right, hippocampus: right, and hypothalamus), and GLUT1 (amygdala: right) as well by decreased gene expression of HIF1α (in all brain regions except for the hypothalamus). GEG modulated neurotransmission via clearance of excessive glutamate release as suggested by increased gene expression of SLC1A3 (frontal cortex: both sides, hippocampus: right) and via augmenting mGluR5 signaling as shown by increased gene expression of GRM5 (hippocampus: both sides, hypothalamus) as well as downregulation of KMO, HAAO, GRIN2B, and GRIN2C influencing downstream serotonergic neurotransmission and NMDA receptor-mediated glutamatergic pathways in different brain regions. GEG further alleviated neurotoxicity through downregulated gene expression of SIRT1, KMO, IDO1, and HAAO in different brain regions. Moreover, the increased relative abundance of Bilophila spp., accompanied by decreased time spent in the EPM open arms, suggests that increased Bilophila abundance increases anxiety-like behavior. GEG supplementation mitigated anxiety-like behavior in male rats with NP, at least in part, by reducing SNL-induced inflammatory sequelae-related mRNA gene expression in different brain regions. In addition, there is a positive correlation between the abundance of Bilophila wadsworthia and the degree of anxiety-like behavior.
Migraine is a prevalent neurological disorder, yet its pathophysiology remains incompletely understood. While the role of neuroinflammation and metabolic dysregulation in migraine pathogenesis is increasingly recognized, the kynurenine pathway has gained attention due to its involvement in tryptophan metabolism. Our study aims to evaluate the relationship between kynurenine metabolism, the clinical characteristics of migraine, and the process of migraine chronification.This study was designed as a prospective, observational study and was conducted with a total of 81 participants including 27 with episodic migraines, 27 with chronic migraines, and 27 healthy controls, aged 18-50years. Data collected included age, sex, pain type and location of migraine, attack frequency, severity, disease duration, and body mass index. Blood samples taken during the interictal phase were analyzed for Tryptophan (TRP), L-kynurenine (KYN), 3-hydroxykynurenine (3-HK), and 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid dioxygenase (3-HAAO) levels using ELISA kits.In the comparison between healthy controls and migraine groups, age, sex, and body mass index were similar. However, the patient group exhibited significantly lower levels of Trp, KYN, 3-HK, and 3-HAAO compared to the control group (P<0.001 for each). Laboratory analysis revealed higher levels of HAAO, 3-HK, KYN, and Trp in the episodic migraine group than in the chronic migraine group (Pp=0.027, P<0.001, P<0.001, P=0.002, respectively). ROC analysis revealed that 3-HK was identified as an independent risk factor for CM (OR=0.403, P<0.001). Painful headache days, monthly attack frequency, MIDAS, and HIT-6 scores were negatively correlated with HAAO, 3-HK, KYN, and Trp levels (P<0.005 for each).The study suggests that all four molecules are potentially involved in migraine clinical features and its chronification. Their levels decrease as migraine attacks worsen due to their neuroprotective effects. Future studies should explore targeted therapies to modulate kynurenine metabolism to prevent chronic migraine.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
Trastuzumab resistance strongly affects the prognosis of HER2-positive breast cancer patients, and tryptophan metabolism plays a key role in cancer progression and cancer prognosis. However, the relationship between trastuzumab resistance and tryptophan metabolism in HER2-positive breast cancer remains unclear.Four HER2-positive breast cancer cell lines (TS: BT-474, SK-BR-3; TR: HCC1954, JIMT-1) were cultured in specific media. Metabolites from cells, tissues, and serum were extracted via pretreatment, centrifugation, drying, and redissolution. UPLC-MS/MS was used for metabolite detection, while tryptophan metabolism-related gene expression was measured using qRT-PCR. T-test was used to calculate statistical differences. Data visualization, machine learning models construction (RF, LASSO logistic regression), and nomogram were achieved through R language.PLS-DA showed distinct separation between TS and TR breast cancer cell lines in tryptophan metabolism-related gene expression (four differentially expressed genes: HAAO, KYNU, KMO, AFMID) and metabolite abundance (five differentially abundant metabolites). Integration analysis identified 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid, cinnabarinic acid, kynurenine, and kynurenic acid as potential metabolic biomarkers. These four metabolites differed significantly in serum of HCs, TS and TR patients. Four predictors were selected by LASSO, and a nomogram was constructed based on logistic regression. Finally, biomarkers and related genes were validated in tissues.Our explored the changes induced by trastuzumab resistance in terms of metabolite abundance and gene transcription levels associated with tryptophan metabolism. Furthermore, this work provided new insights into novel diagnostic biomarkers and prediction models of trastuzumab resistance in HER2-positive breast cancer patients.© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Clinical Laboratory Analysis published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Despite significantPlease check if article title presented correctly. advances made by genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in the genetic exploration of tumors such as prostate cancer (PCa), the precise pathogenic genes and underlying biological mechanisms of PCa remain unclear.To address this complex issue, we used a cross-tissue transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) strategy within the Unified Test for Molecular Signatures (UTMOST) framework. This approach integrated GWAS summary statistics from 122,188 PCa patients and 604,640 controls with extensive gene expression data from the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) project. We validated key gene discoveries using three complementary methods: FUSION, FOCUS, and Multi-marker Analysis of GenoMic Annotation (MAGMA). Additionally, MAGMA was used to examine the tissue and functional level enrichment of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with PCa. Conditional and joint analysis, as well as fine mapping techniques, were employed to deepen our understanding of PCa's genetic architecture. To establish causal relationships, we conducted Mendelian randomization analysis, while colocalization analysis was used to identify potential shared SNPs between key genes and PCa risk.Through the comprehensive application of four TWAS methods, we identified 13 potential susceptibility genes closely associated with PCa risk. Mendelian randomization analysis confirmed direct causal links between the WDPCP, RIF1, POLI, HAAO, GGCX and CASP10 genes and PCa. Colocalization analysis further revealed that CASP10 (rs6735656), GGCX (rs2028900) may share genetic signals between GWAS and expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL), indicating common pathways in PCa pathogenesis.This study identified 13 new susceptibility genes significantly associated with PCa risk and provided new insights into the genetic basis of PCa, contributing to a more comprehensive understanding of its complex genetic structure.© 2025. The Author(s).
The black rockfish (Sebastes schlegelii), an important species in aquaculture, has experienced significant population declines due to habitat degradation and overfishing. Despite its rapid growth making it attractive for aquaculture, larval rearing remains challenging, as high-density culture conditions frequently lead to skeletal deformities and slowed growth. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms supporting this fast growth and developmental transitions, we profiled transcriptomic changes across three developmental stages (n = 3 per stage): larval (5 days post-hatching, dph), post-larval (21 dph), and juvenile (45 dph). RNA-Seq generated 56.77 Gb of clean data, resulting in 21,837 annotated unigenes. Differential expression analysis (|log2FC|≥ 1.2, FDR < 0.05) identified dynamic transcriptomic changes, with 3532 upregulated and 3383 downregulated genes in the 21 vs. 5 dph comparison, and 3789 upregulated and 4582 downregulated genes in the 45 vs. 21 dph comparison. GO enrichment revealed stage-specific pathways, including antigen processing in larvae and autophagy in post-larvae. KEGG pathway analysis underscored notable changes in metabolic processes, including long-term potentiation (21 vs. 5 dph) and proteasome-mediated protein degradation (45 vs. 21 dph). Hub genes, including haao, sec61a1, and vcp, were implicated in energy metabolism, protein synthesis, and cell cycle regulation, supporting rapid growth and tissue differentiation. This study provides fundamental transcriptomic data for exploring early development in S. schlegelii. The identified genes and pathways may facilitate further investigations into growth mechanisms and offer a molecular basis for improving larval survival and aquaculture performance.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Obesity-related alterations in the gut microbiota have been linked to cognitive decline, yet their relationship with attention remains poorly understood.To evaluate the possible relationships among gut metagenomics, plasma metabolomics and attention.We conducted faecal shotgun metagenomics and targeted plasma tryptophan metabolomics across three independent cohorts (n=156, n=124, n=804) with functional validations in preclinical models, including three faecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) experiments in mice and Drosophila melanogaster.Obesity was consistently associated with reduced attention. Metagenomics analyses identified Proteobacteria species and microbial functions related to tryptophan biosynthesis from anthranilic acid (AA) as negatively associated with attention in obesity. Plasma tryptophan metabolic profiling and machine learning revealed that 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid (3-HAA) was positively associated with attention, particularly in obesity, while AA showed a negative association. Bariatric surgery improved attention and enriched microbial species linked to attention. In mice, diet-induced obesity (DIO) and microbiota depletion reduced 3-HAA and 5-hydroxy-indole acetic acid (5-HIAA) concentrations in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), which were restored by FMT. Global metabolic profiling (>600 metabolites) of PFC from the FMT group identified 3-HAA and the tryptophan and tyrosine pathways among the most significant in mice receiving microbiota from high-attention donors. A second FMT experiment also revealed a consistent enrichment of the tryptophan and tyrosine metabolism at the transcriptional level in the PFC, with Haao (3-hydroxyantrhanilic acid dioxygenase) and Aox4 (aldehyde oxidase 4), key in 3-HAA and 5-HIAA degradation, among the significantly regulated genes. In a third FMT study, attentional traits were transmitted from humans to mice alongside modulation of serotonergic and dopaminergic pathways. In Drosophila, mono-colonisation with Enterobacter cloacae and DIO induced attention deficit-like behaviours, which were mitigated by 3-HAA supplementation.We have identified the microbiota and 3-HAA as potential therapeutic targets to improve attention, especially in obesity.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Disruption in bile duct barrier function contributes to hepatocyte toxicity in ischemia-reperfusion injury, often leading to surgical complications in liver resection, transplantation, and hemorrhagic shock. However, the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood.Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses were conducted to examine tryptophan (Trp) metabolism in a Pringle maneuver-induced bile duct injury rat model; Hypoxia/Reoxygenation (H/R) was used to establish an in vitro cholangiocyte injury model. Cholangiocyte injury was assessed via hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining, Ki67/myeloperoxidase (MPO) immunohistochemistry, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and TUNEL/CK19 co-staining. Tight junction integrity was evaluated by measuring transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER), inulin permeability, and confocal immunofluorescence (IF) for ZO-1/CK19 co-staining. Gene expression was quantified using RT-qPCR and Western blotting, while metabolites were analyzed via liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS).Significant alterations in Trp metabolism-related genes (Kynu, Haao, Kat1/Kat2) and metabolites were observed. Continuous Pringle maneuver resulted in elevated levels of 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid (3-HAA) and quinolinic acid (QA), a decreased xanthurenic acid (XA) level. In vitro, Kynu inhibition, using shRNA or the inhibitor benserazide (BSZ), ameliorated tight junction impairment and attenuated inflammatory damage in hypoxic biliary epithelial cells. In vivo, post-ischemia Kynu blockade reduced bile duct damage, inflammation, and biliary barrier permeability. Proteome analysis revealed that Kynu inhibition decreased 3-HAA, AA and QA levels while increased XA level. Notably, XA (but not AA or QA) treatment restored cell junction integrity under hypoxic conditions and modulated cytokine expression, potentially via ZO1 regulation through the GluR2/CX50 pathway. By day 7, BSZ or XA administration reduced serum bilirubin levels and mitigated of bile duct hyperplasia.Our findings demonstrated that Kynu inhibition alleviates bile duct ischemic injury by reprogramming dysregulated tryptophan metabolism, particularly through XA upregulation. This modulation may restore tight junction function via the GluR2/3/CX50-ZO1 axis, thereby preserving blood-biliary barrier integrity. Targeting Kynu represents a promising therapeutic strategy for ischemia-induced bile duct injury.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42551547 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42534654 is a review article
Osteoarthritis (OA) pathogenesis involves inflammatory-metabolic crosstalk driving cartilage destruction, yet the mechanisms of potential therapeutics like curcumin remain poorly defined.We integrated untargeted metabolomics, transcriptomic analysis of four GEO datasets (GSE12021, GSE55235, GSE55457, GSE82107), and three machine learning algorithms (LASSO, Random Forest, XGBoost) to characterize curcumin's effects on IL-1β-induced human chondrocytes.Metabolomic profiling demonstrated that IL-1β caused significant depletion of TCA cycle intermediates compared to blank controls, including pyruvate (log2FC = -1.34, p < 0.001) and malate (log2FC = -0.54, p < 0.001). High-dose curcumin (10 μM) significantly restored these metabolites towards normal levels (pyruvate log2FC = -0.01 vs. model; malate log2FC = -0.20 vs. model). Three machine learning algorithms converged on a six-gene inflammatory-metabolic signature (NFKBIA, MMP9, LCK, TDO2, HADHA, VEGFA), all showing excellent discriminative performance for OA (individual AUCs > 0.75). qRT-PCR validation confirmed that high-dose curcumin significantly downregulated pro-inflammatory genes compared to IL-1β treatment alone: JUN (log2FC = -0.68, p < 0.001), IL6 (log2FC = -1.13, p < 0.001), PTGS2 (log2FC = -0.94, p < 0.001), CCL20 (log2FC = -1.51, p < 0.001), and MMP9 (log2FC = -0.42, p < 0.001). Conversely, curcumin significantly upregulated the NF-κB inhibitor NFKBIA (log2FC = 0.40, p < 0.001), whose expression was initially suppressed by IL-1β (-log2FC = 0.76 vs. blank, p < 0.001).This systems-level analysis suggests curcumin modulates metabolic-inflammatory networks in OA chondrocytes, with NFKBIA as a candidate mediator, offering a mechanistic framework for drug-like molecule development despite curcumin's own translational limitations.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42488641 is a review article
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) represents a multifaceted reproductive endocrine disorder with growing evidence linking its pathogenesis to metabolic alterations. In particular, dysregulation of the tryptophan-kynurenine metabolism has emerged as a key contributor, though the precise mechanisms involved remain poorly defined. Kuntai Capsule (KT) has shown potential in managing obese PCOS, yet its role in modulating tryptophan metabolism warrants further investigation.To define the contribution of tryptophan metabolic shift to PCOS and to evaluate the therapeutic potential of KT.An obese PCOS rat model was developed with testosterone propionate and high-fat diet. The efficacy of KT was assessed by tracking changes in weight, glycolipid metabolism, estrous cycle, ovarian morphology, and serum sex hormone levels. Additionally, multi-omics analyses and WB were integrated to investigate alterations in the tryptophan-kynurenine metabolism in serum and multiple target organs. The distribution of the kynurenine ligand, the AHR in the cytoplasm and nucleus, as well as changes in its downstream molecules, were investigated to elucidate the role of tryptophan metabolism-kynurenine pathway-AHR signaling axis in the mechanism underlying the metabolic and reproductive comorbidities of PCOS and the effect of KT. An in vitro model was established by treating KGN cells with L-kynurenine. The expression levels of AHR, CYP1B1, and CX43 in KGN cells were analyzed. Finally, confirmatory studies were performed using AHR agonist and antagonist.KT effectively attenuated the disturbed glycolipid metabolism, disrupted estrous cycle, altered sex hormone levels, and aberrant ovarian morphology in PCOS rats. Mechanistically, the model rats exhibited overactivated IDO1 and TDO2 and disrupted gut microbiota homeostasis, inducing a marked shift in tryptophan metabolism toward the kynurenine pathway. It resulted in the accumulation of kynurenine in the circulation and tissues. This kynurenine accumulation further drove aberrant nuclear AHR accumulation, which was associated with upregulation of CYP1B1 and CD36 expression in the liver, and upregulation of CYP1B1 accompanied by downregulation of the CX43 along with enhanced phosphorylation of CX43 in the ovaries. These key molecular alterations were effectively reversed by KT intervention. In vitro experiment further confirmed that KT directly antagonized kynurenine-induced excessive nuclear accumulation of AHR and elevated expression of CYP1B1.Overactivated IDO1 and TDO2, together with disrupted gut microbiota homeostasis, induced tryptophan metabolism shift, which overactivated nuclear AHR accumulation. It was linked to hepatic steatosis and insulin resistance via CYP1B1 and CD36 upregulation, and was also associated with disrupted ovarian function through altered CYP1B1 and CX43 expression. KT restored tryptophan metabolism and curtailed the exorbitant expression of nuclear AHR, ameliorating both metabolic and reproductive disorders in PCOS.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42381240 is a review article
Glycolysis and protein lactylation both drive hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progression, yet their mechanistic interplay remains unclear. Through integrated single-cell and spatial transcriptomic analyses stratified by glycolytic activity, we identified alanyl-tRNA synthetase 1 (AARS1), a recently characterized protein lactyltransferase, as a key metabolic-immune regulator in HCC. Clinically, AARS1 is upregulated in tumors, correlates with elevated glycolytic flux measured by 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT), poor prognosis, and immunotherapy resistance. In murine models, hepatocyte-specific knockout of AARS1 suppressed tumor growth and reduced the abundance of regulatory T cells (Tregs). Mechanistically, AARS1 catalyzes the lactylation of activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6) at lysine 424, preventing its degradation and leading to transcriptional activation of TDO2. This process promotes L-kynurenine production and supports Treg differentiation and function. Furthermore, L-kynurenine-AHR signaling drives eNAMPT secretion from Tregs, which augments tumor cell glycolysis and lactate production, thereby reinforcing a feedback loop that sustains AARS1-catalyzed ATF6 lactylation. Pharmacological inhibition of AARS1 with β-alanine sensitized tumors to PD-1/PD-L1 blockade.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Kynurenine pathway (KP), the principal route of tryptophan (TRY) metabolism, is implicated in schizophrenia (SCZ), but findings remain inconsistent, particularly regarding peripheral-central associations and links to immune dysregulation. We measured KP metabolites, cytokines, and metabolic risk factors in serum from drug-naïve (DN) and risperidone-treated (RT) SCZ patients versus healthy controls (HC) as well as in post-mortem brain tissue from an independent cohort by assessing KP metabolites, enzyme expression (mRNA, protein) and cytokine profiles. We recruited a total of 227 participants from the clinical services of a large neuropsychiatric hospital, which included DN SCZ (n = 66), RT SCZ (n = 87), and HC (n = 74). Additionally, brain KP metabolite levels and the mRNA and protein expression of key enzymes and cytokines were evaluated in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) samples from the post-mortem cohort of 10 SCZ patients and 17 controls. KP metabolites were measured using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Both DN and RT groups exhibited significantly reduced TRY (p < 0.05), elevated kynurenine (KYN), kynurenic acid (KYNA), KYN/TRY ratio and serotonin (SER) in serum (p < 0.001), alongside higher TNF-α, and IFN-γ and lower IL-10 (p < 0.001 for both). These alterations were correlated with metabolic risk factors, symptom severity of SCZ, and immune markers, and these remained associated with disease status after adjusting for confounders. Post-mortem analyses confirmed increased brain KYN (p < 0.05) and KYNA (p < 0.001) in the DLPFC of SCZ, accompanied by upregulation of Tryptophan 2,3-dioxygenase (TDO2) (p < 0.001) and Kynurenine aminotransferase II (KAT II) (p < 0.05) expression and elevated pro-inflammatory cytokines. Our findings provide convergent evidence for KP dysregulation in SCZ, linking immune activation with enhanced change toward KYNA synthesis both systemically and centrally. The observed alterations across independent serum and post-mortem brain cohorts support the potential relevance of these molecular signatures to SCZ pathophysiology and their possible therapeutic implications.© 2026 International Society for Neurochemistry.
Transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) is a standard treatment for intermediate-stage hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but response is highly variable. The systemic metabolic impact of TACE and its connection to tumor-intrinsic factors governing efficacy remain poorly understood. We hypothesized that by comparing host fecal metabolomics with tumor transcriptomics, we could identify convergent pathways suggestive of a gut-liver axis signature of TACE response.We performed untargeted fecal metabolomics in a prospective paired cohort of 30 HCC patients sampled before TACE and again on post-TACE day 4, an early time point selected to capture acute ischemic, inflammatory, and metabolic perturbations after embolization. To characterize tumor-intrinsic programs associated with efficacy, we analyzed the independent public transcriptomic dataset GSE104580 containing pre-treatment tumors from TACE responders and non-responders. Cross-cohort integration was conducted at the pathway level to identify convergent biological themes. For metabolomics, paired univariate testing with Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate (FDR) correction and Variable Importance in Projection (VIP) > 1 from PLS-DA were used; for transcriptomics, differential expression used adjusted p < 0.05 and |log2FC|> 1, followed by GSEA.TACE induced a shift in the fecal metabolome, with significant enrichment of glycerophospholipid metabolism, together with changes in bile acid-related metabolites and tryptophan/vitamin B6-related metabolites. Lysophosphatidylcholines (LysoPCs), including LysoPC (22:4), and bile acid-related metabolites were increased after TACE, consistent with acute treatment-associated tissue metabolic perturbation. Independent transcriptomic analysis revealed that responder tumors were enriched for primary bile acid biosynthesis, fatty acid degradation, and tryptophan metabolism, with higher expression of CYP7A1, ACOX1, IDO1, and TDO2, whereas non-responders were enriched for Cell cycle, DNA replication, and ribosome-related programs. Because the metabolomics and transcriptomics datasets were derived from separate cohorts, these convergent findings support a pathway-level cross-cohort model rather than direct patient-level tumor-fecal linkage.Our comparative analysis suggests a potential gut-liver axis signature associated with TACE efficacy. We therefore present fecal LysoPC as a candidate non-invasive pharmacodynamic readout of acute post-TACE tissue injury and host-microenvironmental perturbation rather than a tumor-necrosis-specific biomarker. Likewise, the convergence on bile acid and tryptophan metabolism suggests that a responder-associated tumor metabolic phenotype may be relevant to TACE sensitivity. These findings offer potential non-invasive biomarkers and highlight new therapeutic targets to enhance TACE efficacy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mitochondrial metabolic dysregulation is associated with periodontitis (PD); however, related biomarkers remain unclear. In this study, we identified key mitochondrial metabolism-related biomarkers in PD through integrated bioinformatics technology.Transcriptomic and single-cell RNA sequencing data from the Gene Expression Omnibus database were analysed using machine learning to identify biomarkers. A diagnostic nomogram was constructed. Immune infiltration, drug prediction, and T-cell dynamic expression were assessed. Putative biomarkers were validated in clinical samples and a rat PD model by reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction, immunohistochemistry, and Western blot analysis.Six biomarkers were identified, which included ENTPD1, CYP24A1, ADA, TDO2 (upregulated), OSBPL6, and NUDT15 (downregulated). The nomogram exhibited excellent diagnostic efficacy (area under the curve [AUC] = 0.954). The biomarkers correlated with plasma cells and resting dendritic cells. Single-cell analysis revealed dynamic expression during T-cell differentiation. CTA018 exhibited strong binding to CYP24A1. Five biomarkers were validated in clinical samples, and the upregulation of ENTPD1, CYP24A1, and TDO2 protein and messenger RNA was confirmed in a rat model and correlated with PD progression.ENTPD1, CYP24A1, and TDO2 are mitochondrial metabolism-related biomarkers with high diagnostic potential in PD and targets for therapy.The identified biomarkers, particularly ENTPD1, CYP24A1, and TDO2, have strong diagnostic value. The nomogram contributed to PD risk stratification. Associations with immune infiltration and drug sensitivity may guide immunotherapy and targeted therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42537405
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a highly effective anthracycline chemotherapeutic agent whose clinical utility is limited by dose-dependent cardiotoxicity. Although oxidative stress and mitochondrial injury are established mechanisms, the contribution of regulated metal-dependent cell death (MCD) pathways remains incompletely defined. This study investigated the ferroptosis and cuproptosis role in doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity (DIC) and evaluated the protective effects of luteolin (LUT) and nanoliposomal LUT using an integrated network pharmacology and experimental validation approach in rats. Network pharmacology identified multitarget interactions linking LUT with oxidative stress, metal homeostasis, and cell death signaling pathways. In vivo, DOX administration induced marked cardiac dysfunction, elevated serum cardiac injury biomarkers, myocardial histopathological damage, and ultrastructural abnormalities. These changes were accompanied by significant cardiac iron and copper accumulation, increased malondialdehyde (MDA), depleted superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione (GSH), reduced glutathione peroxidase-4 (GPX4) activity, and increased tumor protein p53 (TP53) expression. At the molecular level, DOX downregulated the ferroptosis-protective genes, SLC7A11 and SLC3A2, while upregulating the iron transport genes, transferrin receptor 1 (TFR1) and SLC39A14, together with the cuproptosis-related genes ferredoxin-1 (FDX1) and SLC31A1, while suppressing ATP7A. These changes were further supported by altered protein expression of SLC7A11, ATP7A, and TP53. LUT significantly ameliorated these functional, biochemical, molecular, and structural alterations, indicating suppression of both ferroptotic and cuproptotic signaling. Nanoliposomal LUT showed superior efficacy to free LUT across most assessed parameters. Collectively, these findings support the involvement of ferroptosis and cuproptosis related signaling in DIC and highlight LUT, particularly in nanoliposomal form, as a promising cardioprotective strategy against anthracycline toxicity.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42526788 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42507301
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a lethal malignancy with limited treatment options, underscoring the urgent need for novel therapeutic targets. The copper transporter ATP7A has been implicated in cancer, but its precise role and regulatory mechanisms in HCC pathogenesis remain poorly understood. ATP7A expression was analyzed using public databases and validated in clinical HCC tissues and cell lines via qPCR and western blot. Functional assays were performed following ATP7A knockdown. Sensitivity to cuproptosis was assessed by measuring intracellular copper/ROS levels and IC50 of elesclomol-Cu. The upstream regulatory axis was identified through bioinformatic prediction and verified by dual-luciferase reporter and rescue experiments. The role of the LINC02038/miR-506-3p/ATP7A axis was further confirmed both in vitro and in a xenograft mouse model. ATP7A was significantly upregulated in HCC tissues and cell lines. ATP7A knockdown markedly inhibited HCC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, while simultaneously sensitizing cells to cuproptosis. Mechanistically, LINC02038, which was highly expressed in HCC, functioned as a competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) to sponge tumor-suppressive miR-506-3p, thereby upregulating ATP7A expression. This LINC02038/miR-506-3p/ATP7A axis was demonstrated to coordinately regulate malignant phenotypes and the expression of key cuproptosis-related proteins (DLAT, FDX1, LIPT1). In vivo, silencing LINC02038 effectively suppressed tumor growth and recapitulated the molecular alterations of this axis and cuproptosis regulators. Our findings reveal that the LINC02038/miR-506-3p/ATP7A axis played a crucial oncogenic role in HCC by driving tumor progression and modulating cuproptosis. This axis represents a promising prognostic biomarker and a potential therapeutic target for HCC intervention.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Biochemical and Molecular Toxicology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Immunotherapy efficacy is limited by poor tumor immunogenicity and insufficient immune infiltration, highlighting the critical role of inducing immunogenic cell death for improved outcomes. Targeting cuproptosis holds promising therapeutic potential, but its immunogenic and capacity to stimulate anti-tumor immunity to potentiate immunotherapy remains unknown. Through screening of 240 Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved anti-tumor drugs, we identify nilotinib as a potent cuproptosis inducer in cancer cells, especially at physiologically relevant copper concentrations. Mechanistically, nilotinib-copper elicits cuproptosis in vitro and in vivo by repressing the copper exporter ATP7A via ETV1 to drive mitochondrial copper accumulation and activating mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway through ERK2 phosphorylation. Preclinically, nilotinib-copper induces immunogenic cuproptosis and enhances anti-PD-1 efficacy across multiple melanoma models, including B16F10 tumor-bearing mice, Braf/Pten-driven spontaneous melanoma mice, and PBMC-humanized mice. Clinically, the ATP7ALow/MAPKHigh signature correlates with improved immunotherapy response and prolonged overall survival. This work establishes nilotinib as a clinically tractable, non-ionophore immunogenic cuproptosis inducer capable of activating anti-tumor immunity to potentiate immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cisplatin resistance is a major obstacle to effective chemotherapy in patients with cervical cancer and is associated with an immunosuppressive tumour microenvironment. Copper ions are essential trace elements that regulate redox and immune balance. However, the connections among copper ions, cisplatin resistance and immune regulation remain unclear. Here, higher serum copper levels correlated with increased pan-cancer mortality. Integrative transcriptomic and single-cell RNA sequencing analyses revealed lower copper-related transcriptional activity in CD8⁺ T cells from cervical cancer tissues. Multiomics analysis revealed that ATPase copper transporting alpha (ATP7A) expression was upregulated in cisplatin-resistant patients compared with sensitive patients and correlated with poor survival. ATP7A knockdown increased sensitivity to cisplatin and promoted cuproptosis, whereas ATP7A overexpression increased cisplatin resistance and impaired CD8⁺ T cells through copper ion efflux. Furthermore, excess copper ions directly bind to the lymphocyte-specific protein tyrosine kinase (LCK) activation loop (Tyr394), impairing T-cell receptor (TCR) signalling in CD8⁺ T cells. Sex-determining region Y-box 21 (SOX21) directly binds two conserved motifs within the ATP7A promoter (-372 bp and -245 bp) and enhances its transcriptional activity. These results revealed a SOX21/ATP7A/copper ion axis connecting copper ion efflux with immune suppression and cisplatin resistance. Targeting ATP7A or copper ion efflux may restore CD8⁺T-cell activity and enhance the efficacy of cisplatin for the treatment of cervical cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Targeting cuproptosis for cancer therapy is hindered by an incomplete understanding of the intrinsic defense networks through which tumor cells mobilize to evade this fate, particularly under therapeutic stress such as radiotherapy. Here, we identify VPS34-mediated copper homeostasis as a critical anticuproptotic process through a genome-wide CRISPR activation screen. PRMT5 directly methylated VPS34 at Arg174 and inhibited K48-linked polyubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of VPS34 by recruiting the deubiquitinase USP10. This stabilization increased the cuproptotic defense of tumor cells by promoting autophagic degradation of the copper importer SLC31A1 and plasma membrane translocation of the exporter ATP7A, thereby reducing the intracellular copper load. Functional analysis and clinical correlation revealed that the PRMT5-VPS34 axis is robustly activated by radiation stress and is necessary for adaptive radioresistance. The inhibition of PRMT5 or VPS34 expression suppressed tumor growth and enhanced the sensitivity of tumors to radiotherapy by unleashing latent copper cytotoxicity both in vitro and in vivo. Together, our findings identify the PRMT5-VPS34 axis as a therapeutic target for sensitizing refractory cancers to radiotherapy.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
ATP7A is a P-type ATPase copper transporter and a central component of the intracellular network to maintain copper (Cu) homeostasis, trafficking between the trans-Golgi network (TGN) and the cell periphery in response to intracellular Cu levels. Pathogenic ATP7A variants cause Menkes disease (MNK), occipital horn syndrome (OHS) and X-linked distal hereditary motor neuropathy (HMNX), with the clinical severity inversely related to residual ATP7A function. In MNK and OHS, variants result in loss of ATP7A function due to absent (MNK) or markedly reduced (OHS) protein levels, leading to abolished ATP7A trafficking and/or impaired Cu transport capacity. HMNX-associated variants are thought to retain partial Cu transport activity, although functional data remain limited. To date, three missense variants (p.T994I, p.P1386S, p.A991D) are established causes of HMNX, but the number of ATP7A variants reported in patients with a distal motor neuropathy phenotype is increasing, creating a need for functional assessment of variants of uncertain significance (VUS). We have developed a functional framework for evaluating HMNX-associated ATP7A variants. Using three patient fibroblast lines carrying the confirmed variants, we demonstrate reduced ATP7A TGN localization under low-Cu conditions and impaired capacity of these cell lines to maintain intracellular Cu levels. By applying these assays to five VUS (p.R703H, p.Y760C, p.A768G, p.Q990P, p.M1311V) identified in individuals from unsolved peripheral neuropathy families, we identify p.Q990P as a novel ATP7A variant in a patient with progressive peripheral motor neuropathy. This approach enables comparison of Cu trafficking and handling across ATP7A alleles, providing a functional framework to support diagnostic variant classification.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Cuproptosis is a copper-dependent form of regulated cell death with emerging relevance to cancer therapy. However, the upstream determinants of copper-associated cytotoxicity and cuproptosis-related sensitivity in gastric cancer remain incompletely defined.Using AGS gastric cancer cells with genetic gain- and loss-of-function of COX17 and p53, we assessed viability using CCK-8 assays, cell death using TUNEL staining, intracellular copper levels, migration and invasion using wound healing and Transwell assays, and the expression of copper handling and cuproptosis-associated proteins by Western blotting. The potential transcriptional regulation of COX17 by p53 was evaluated using ChIP-qPCR. Paracrine effects on angiogenesis-related phenotypes were evaluated in HUVECs exposed to tumor-cell-conditioned media, followed by tube formation, ROS, GSH, SOD, and MDA measurements. In vivo relevance was examined in a subcutaneous AGS xenograft model treated with elesclomol.COX17 alone had only a modest effect on basal cell viability but markedly increased the sensitivity of AGS cells to elesclomol-induced copper-associated cytotoxicity, accompanied by increased intracellular copper accumulation and TUNEL positivity, whereas COX17 knockdown attenuated these effects. Elesclomol treatment with COX17 modulation was associated with increased SLC31A1 expression and decreased ATP7A expression. p53 overexpression suppressed malignant phenotypes and increased COX17 expression. ChIP-qPCR showed the enrichment of p53 at the COX17 promoter region, suggesting that p53 may participate in the transcriptional regulation of COX17. Functional rescue experiments further indicated that COX17 is an important downstream mediator of p53-associated sensitivity to elesclomol. Conditioned media from elesclomol-treated, COX17-overexpressing tumor cells inhibited HUVEC tube formation and proliferation and increased oxidative stress. In xenografts, elesclomol reduced tumor growth, which was further suppressed by COX17 overexpression and partially attenuated by COX17 silencing, accompanied by increased tumor copper accumulation, upregulation of p53/COX17/SLC31A1, and downregulation of ATP7A.These findings suggest that the p53-COX17 axis links copper metabolism to elesclomol-associated antitumor activity in gastric cancer. COX17 may enhance copper accumulation, oxidative stress, tumor-cell-death-associated changes, and angiogenesis-related phenotypic inhibition. Further studies using canonical cuproptosis markers, copper chelator rescue experiments, additional gastric cancer cell lines with different p53 backgrounds, and clinical validation are required to confirm the translational significance of this pathway.Copyright © 2026 Li, Dong, Zhao, Shen, Yang and Xi.
Breast cancer heterogeneity presents a significant challenge for effective diagnosis and treatment. A deeper understanding of the tumor microenvironment (TME) and its metabolic dynamics is essential for addressing this complexity. This study explored the interplay between TME components and metabolic profiles in breast cancer using RNA sequencing data from both bulk and single-cell analyses.Transcriptomic data and corresponding clinical information for breast cancer patients were obtained from TCGA and GEO databases. qPCR and immunohistochemistry (IHC) were performed for experimental validation. Data analyses were conducted using R software.A high-risk phenotype was identified based on 36 interconnected genes primarily associated with the TME and metabolic processes. This phenotype demonstrated enrichment of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) metabolism and was associated with reduced T- and NK-cell activity within the TME, contributing to poor prognosis in HER2 and Luminal B breast cancer subtypes. Using Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression, a 23-gene risk model (TMPI) was established, which further refined prognostic stratification and highlighted elevated risk in HER2 and Luminal B contexts. Immune and stromal analyses, along with single-cell validation, revealed that key NAD metabolism genes (NMNAT2 and QPRT) and the adenosine pathway enzyme NT5E were predominantly expressed in stromal and malignant cell populations, including endothelial cells and fibroblasts. qPCR validation confirmed subtype-specific expression patterns, with NMNAT2 and QPRT upregulated in ER-positive cells and NT5E enriched in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) cells. IHC analysis further validated their increased expression in tumor tissues compared to adjacent normal tissues. Importantly, TMPI was consistently associated with immune-desert and immune-excluded tumor microenvironment states across immunotherapy cohorts and demonstrated therapy-dependent associations with anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 treatment response patterns, suggesting that NAD metabolism-associated immune states may influence immunotherapy sensitivity in a context-dependent manner.These findings provide insights into the interplay between metabolism and the tumor microenvironment in breast cancer. TMPI captures the prognostically relevant dimension of TME-metabolism crosstalk and may serve as a useful framework for patient stratification, characterization of tumor immune phenotypes, and therapeutic targeting, particularly in HER2+ and Luminal B breast cancers.Copyright © 2026 Huang, Lin, Liang, Khan, Chen, Li, Liu, Wu and Ye.
ELOC-mutated renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is a rare tumor with only ∼40 cases reported to date; it shares a molecular background with clear cell RCC (ccRCC) in terms of hypoxia-inducible factor-alpha (HIF-α) protein accumulation. ELOC-mutated RCC is characterized by prominent leiomyomatous stromal growth and a more indolent clinical course compared with ccRCC. In our previous study, whole-genome sequencing of 102 ccRCC cases identified 5 cases of ELOC-mutated RCC. In the present study, we conducted proteomic and immunohistochemical analyses on up to 13 Japanese ELOC-mutated RCCs, including 8 previously reported cases, to elucidate its distinct molecular mechanisms and identify biomarkers that may be useful in distinguishing ELOC-mutated RCC from ccRCC. Proteomic profiling revealed that molecules, including cytokeratin 7, scinderin (SCIN), and sortilin 1 (SORT1), were significantly overexpressed in ELOC-mutated RCC compared with ccRCC. Notably, SCIN and SORT1 emerged as novel potential diagnostic biomarkers for distinguishing ELOC-mutated RCC from ccRCC. The analysis further suggested that ELOC-mutated RCC relies more on oxidative phosphorylation and less on glycolysis than ccRCC. This metabolic shift may be linked to the relative depletion of NAD+ due to the low expression of NAPRT and QPRT. In addition, we observed geographic variation in the disease frequency among different cohorts, with a higher frequency in Japan. Our findings provide novel insights into the pathogenesis of ELOC-mutated RCC and highlight SCIN and SORT1 as potential supportive biomarkers.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is characterized by molecular heterogeneity, with BRAF-mutated tumors being particularly aggressive and refractory to standard therapies. This study aimed to identify distinctive proteomic signatures associated with the BRAF V600E mutation through comparative tumor tissue profiling. Thirty-three tumor tissues were analyzed: 9 BRAF-mutated, 14 RAS-mutated, and 10 wild-type (WT). Proteomic profiling was performed on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues using bottom-up LC-MS/MS in a data-independent acquisition mode. Protein identification and relative expression were achieved by using DIA-NN label-free analysis. Group differences were evaluated through multiparametric analyses, and Cox proportional hazard models were applied to identify proteins associated with overall survival. BRAF-mutated tumors showed distinct proteomic alterations, including overexpression of dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP4) and lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 1 (LPCAT1) alongside the downregulation of quinolinic phosphoribosyltransferase (QPRT) involved in NAD+ biosynthesis. Pathway analysis revealed the enrichment of protein folding associated with endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Prognostic accuracy improved when tumor genotype was combined with the expression of activator of HSP90 ATPase activity 1 (AHSA1) and thioredoxin domain-containing 5 (TXNDC5), involved in ER-associated protein folding. These findings define a distinctive proteomic signature in BRAF-mutated CRC, characterized by dysregulated protein folding associated with ER stress and supporting the development of targeted therapies and more precise prognostic models.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is associated with energy deficiency and perturbed metabolism of the essential amino acid tryptophan (Trp).We aimed to determine whether excessive Trp degradation fuels or compensates for inflammation through de novo nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) synthesis.A prospective systems medicine approach (metabolomics, transcriptomics) was employed longitudinally in patients with advanced IBD therapy. Findings were validated with targeted Trp metabolomics in experimental colitis and in vitro in fibroblasts, intestinal epithelial cells (IECs), and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs).Active IBD is marked by enhanced Trp degradation driven by inflammatory cytokines through the JAK/STAT pathway. Trp catabolism results in accumulation of quinolinic acid (QA) and NAD + depletion due to reduced expression of QPRT, the enzyme converting QA to NAD+. QPRT knockdown enhances inflammation, while NAD + precursor supplementation (e.g. nicotinamide riboside [NR]) restores cellular energy and reduces inflammation in vitro and in dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced colitis.A metabolic bottleneck at QPRT prevents efficient NAD+ synthesis from Trp in IBD, sustaining inflammation. Restoring NAD + is a promising therapeutic strategy.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Crohn’s and Colitis Organisation.
Tertiary lymphoid structures (TLSs) are associated with superior prognosis in breast cancer (BC). TLSs serve as key niches of anti-tumor adaptive immune responses across various malignancies. However, the tumor-intrinsic factors that are associated with TLSs have been largely overlooked in BC.We integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic data to develop a TLS-related prognostic signature (TRPS) based on tumor-intrinsic TLS-related genes using machine learning algorithms. The predictive accuracy of the TRPS was validated through survival analysis, ROC curve evaluation, and the construction of a nomogram. The relationship between TRPS and the tumor microenvironment was assessed using TCGA-BC and in-house single-cell RNA-seq data. Furthermore, the relationship between TRPS and genomic alterations, drug sensitivity, and functional enrichment were explored. In vitro and in vivo functional assays were performed to investigate the role of QPRT, a key model gene, in the progression of BC. RNA sequencing, Western blotting, immunoprecipitation, immunofluorescence, immunohistochemistry, and flow cytometry were performed to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying the functions of QPRT.The TRPS model exhibited robust prognostic performance, as validated across four independent cohorts. High-TRPS scores were associated with diminished infiltration of B cells and T cells. Moreover, the high-TRPS group displayed an elevated level of tumor mutation burden and enrichment of tumor-promoting pathways. QPRT facilitated BC growth and metastasis. Mechanistically, QPRT-mediated NAD+ accumulation promoted the deacetylation of β-catenin in a SIRT1-dependent manner, thereby activating Wnt/β-catenin signaling and upregulating PD-L1 expression. Notably, knockdown of QPRT sensitized BC to anti-PD-1 immunotherapy.This study establishes a novel TLS-related prognostic model, and highlights the potential of QPRT as a promising therapeutic target in BC.Copyright © 2026 Li, Yang, Wei, Wang, Wang, Chen, Zhao and Wen.
Atherosclerosis (AS) remains a major cause of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Lactylation-a recently described post-translational modification linking cellular metabolism to gene regulation-has been implicated in vascular inflammation, yet its roles in AS are not fully defined.We modelled AS by exposing HUVECs to oxidised LDL and performed data-independent proteomics. Public AS transcriptomes were integrated and batch-corrected; lactylation-related genes (LRGs) were profiled; consensus clustering and WGCNA defined subtypes/modules. Candidate biomarkers were prioritised by intersecting proteomic, differential and network features, then evaluated using an ensemble of 12 machine-learning algorithms with cross-validation and external validation. Immune infiltration (CIBERSORT) and single-cell data characterised immune contexts. Connectivity Map, molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) explored therapeutics. Core genes were validated by RT-qPCR, Western blotting and immunofluorescence in Apoe-/- mice.Proteomics identified 472 differentially expressed proteins; GEO analyses yielded 2,544 DEGs and WGCNA 2,059 module genes, converging on 25 candidates. The top ensemble (LASSO + GBM) achieved a mean AUC 0.979 across training and external sets, nominating UAP1, NRP1, QPRT and NDST1 as hub genes. These genes associated with immune-cell infiltration and showed prominent single-cell expression in macrophages and smooth muscle cells. RT-qPCR in vivo showed NRP1/NDST1/QPRT upregulated and UAP1 downregulated versus controls (all P < 0.05); WB/IF confirmed higher NRP1 and lower UAP1 protein abundance. CMap analysis suggested several candidate compounds. Among them, rivaroxaban was prioritised for further in silico evaluation because NRP1 emerged as a validated hub gene, and docking and molecular dynamics simulations supported a stable predicted interaction between rivaroxaban and NRP1.UAP1, NRP1, QPRT and NDST1 represent lactylation-linked biomarkers of AS with diagnostic potential and plausible mechanistic relevance within immune-vascular pathways. Computational screening further prioritised a putative NRP1-rivaroxaban interaction as a hypothesis-generating lead for future experimental validation.Copyright © 2026 Ma, Li, Wang, Wan, Lai, Wu and Wu.
Skin aging is an inevitable biological process caused by cellular senescence and overexposure to harmful environmental factors such as ultraviolet (UV) radiation. Senescent fibroblasts with proliferation arrest, mitochondrial dysfunction and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) depletion have been proposed as a major mechanism driving skin photoaging, but the specific therapies are currently lacking. Inspired by the self-powering potential of plant-derived photosynthetic system, we herein fabricated a novel nanophotosynthetic platform that integrated Chlorella-derived nanothylakoid units (NTUs) with hyaluronic acid (HA)-based microneedles (MNs) to specifically target senescent fibroblasts for treating skin photoaging. By equipped with photosynthesis (PS)-I/II and quinolinate phosphoribosyltransferase (QPRT), the NTU-MN photosystem remarkably increased mitochondrial biogenesis and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) generation, resumed NAD(P)H pool and increased cellular anabolism, addressing the heighted bioenergetic and biosynthetic requirement for highly turnover of fibroblasts during photoaging. Furthermore, with skin penetrating ability of MNs and camouflaging of fibroblast membranes, topical application of the nanophotosystem facilitated the intradermal release of NTUs, leading to regeneration of damaged tissues, increased collagen synthesis, decreased senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP), and hence alleviated photoaging of skin. Thus, we developed a "green nanoplatform" with significantly anti-aging efficacy, biocompatibility, and biosafety, opening new avenues for light-driven therapies for degenerative diseases.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42051488
Postpartum depression (PPD) is a common and serious mental disorder after childbirth, imposing a heavy burden on mothers, infants, and families. Abnormalities in the tryptophan-kynurenine (TRP-KYN) metabolic pathway are considered to be involved in its pathogenesis, but the role of quinolinic acid phosphoribosyltransferase (QPRT), a key downstream enzyme in this pathway, remains unclear. This study aims to explore the association between PPD in women undergoing cesarean section and QPRT gene polymorphisms, as well as other risk factors for PPD.A candidate gene association study design was adopted. From January 2024 to June 2025, full-term singleton pregnant women scheduled to undergo elective cesarean section under spinal anesthesia were recruited at the Third Xiangya Hospital of Central South University and Hunan Provincial Maternal and Child Health Hospital. At 42 days postpartum, postpartum depression was assessed using the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS). Peripheral blood samples were collected and genomic DNA was extracted. Four QPRT single nucleotide polymorphism loci (rs1134700, rs2303255, rs9922666, and rs9933310) were selected for genotyping to analyze the association between these loci and PPD. Bioinformatics analysis and dual-luciferase reporter gene assays were performed to investigate the possible mechanism by which significant loci influence disease occurrence.A total of 362 women were ultimately included in the analysis, among whom 29 were diagnosed with PPD, with an incidence of 8.01%. Analysis of general data showed that comorbid hypertension or thyroid disease, inconsistency between neonatal sex and expectation, prenatal depression, prenatal self-harm ideation, domestic violence, poor marital and mother-in-law/daughter-in-law relationships, stressful life events, dissatisfaction with current life status, poor mood during pregnancy, and high stress during pregnancy were all risk factors for PPD in women undergoing cesarean section (all P<0.05). Genetic association analysis revealed that the QPRT rs9933310 A>G polymorphism was associated with PPD. Women carrying the rs9933310 GG or AG genotype had a 2.92-fold higher risk of PPD compared with women with the AA genotype (OR=2.92, 95% CI 1.18 to 6.99). Expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) analysis suggested that the G allele at this locus was associated with downregulation of QPRT expression (AA>AG>GG). Multi-database queries indicated that the rs9933310 locus may have promoter and/or enhancer activity. In addition, JASPAR database prediction and experimental validation showed that the mutant (G) allele at the QPRT rs9933310 locus was more likely than the wild-type (A) allele to weaken promoter-enhancer activity at this locus, and resulted in loss of transcription factors Gata1, GATA2, GATA3, Gata4, Sox17, Sox2, Sox3, Sox6, and SRY, thereby regulating QPRT expression.Comorbid hypertension or thyroid disease, inconsistency between neonatal sex and expectation, prenatal depression, prenatal self-harm ideation, domestic violence, poor marital and mother-in-law/daughter-in-law relationships, stressful life events, dissatisfaction with current life status, poor mood during pregnancy, high stress during pregnancy, and mutation at the QPRT rs9933310 locus are all risk factors for PPD. The QPRT rs9933310 G allele is an independent risk factor for PPD in women undergoing cesarean section, and its pathogenic mechanism may involve downregulation of QPRT expression and disruption of TRP-KYN pathway homeostasis. QPRT has a potential role in the pathogenesis of PPD and may become a novel antidepressant target acting on the TRP-KYN pathway.
Biological sex has been shown to influence aging outcomes, contributing to distinct trajectories in disease susceptibility and lifespan. DNA methylation patterns provide a quantitative measure of biological aging. This study investigated whether aged male and female mice display distinct liver DNA methylation patterns and differences in epigenetic aging. Liver samples were collected from 17 aged c57BL/6 mice (6 males, 11 females). Genomic DNA was extracted and bisulfite-converted before targeted enrichment of 2,045 murine age-associated CpG loci. Biological age (DNAge) was estimated using a previously developed DNA methylation-based predictor generated through elastic net regression. The difference (ΔDNAge) between DNAge and chronological age was computed. Sex-specific differences were assessed by comparing site-specific methylation ratios, ΔDNAge values, and through principal component analysis (PCA) and multiple linear regression. Twelve CpG sites across six genes (Fam84b, Zswim6, Hsf4, Mn1, Qprt, and Rapgefl1) showed significant sex-associated differences in methylation. Fam84b demonstrated the largest and most consistent sex-associated effect, with all three associated CpG sites showing higher methylation in males (regression coefficients: -0.204, -0.281, and -0.294). Zswim6 exhibited consistent lower methylation ratios in females, whereas the other genes showed higher methylation in females. There were no sex differences in biological age or ΔDNAge (P = 0.596). Although the epigenetic clock did not reveal differences between sexes in aging, aged mice did exhibit sex-specific liver methylation patterns different from those reported in younger mice, suggesting that sex-dependent epigenetic changes may emerge later in life and may reflect sexual dimorphism in liver function with age.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Males and females are known to age differently and develop certain diseases at different rates. Here, we examined the livers of aged male and female mice to see if they show different DNA methylation patterns. We found that aged male and female mice had distinct DNA methylation patterns at specific genes. Interestingly, most of these methylation differences were not present in younger mice, suggesting that sex differences in the genome may change with age.Copyright © 2026 The Authors.
Sheep seasonal reproduction is regulated by photoperiod via melatonin. Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 2 (IDO2), an enzyme involved in tryptophan metabolism through the kynurenine pathway and belonging to the IDO family, may contribute to melatonin homeostasis, but its role in reproductive seasonality remains unclear. In this study, genome-wide selection analyses combining Z(FST) and XP-EHH between seasonal and non-seasonal sheep identified a selection signature encompassing the IDO2 region and revealed g.-809T>C as a functional candidate variant within this region. Experiments employing electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) and luciferase assays revealed that this site lies within the CLOCK transcription factor binding domain. The -809C variant reduced promoter activity compared to -809T (p < 0.05). Sheep with the CC genotype had higher plasma melatonin levels than TC/TT counterparts (p < 0.05). These findings suggest that the g.-809C allele decreases IDO2 transcription by reducing CLOCK binding affinity, thereby potentially affecting IDO2-associated tryptophan/melatonin metabolism and increasing melatonin levels, which may contribute to photoperiodic responses in sheep. This IDO2 variation provides new insights into the genetic regulation of melatonin-mediated reproductive seasonality and represents a potential marker for genetic improvement of reproductive seasonal traits in sheep.© 2026 Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.
The intensification of livestock production has heightened public concern about animal welfare, with aggressive behavior recognized as a key determinant of both welfare and productivity. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), which are critical post-transcriptional regulators, have emerged as important modulators of animal behavior. This study investigated the molecular basis of aggression in pigs ( Sus scrofa), focusing on miRNA-mediated regulation. Hypothalamic miRNA-sequencing of the most aggressive ( n=4) and least aggressive ( n=4) piglets identified nine differentially expressed miRNAs. Among these, miR-27a was significantly upregulated in aggressive individuals. Functional assays demonstrated that both porcine miR-27a and its human ( Homo sapiens) ortholog has-miR-27a-3p, suppressed autophagy, apoptosis, and neuronal plasticity in primary porcine neurons and human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. To clarify the underlying mechanisms, mRNA-sequencing was performed on porcine neurons transfected with miR-27a mimics or negative controls, identifying 436 differentially expressed genes (84 upregulated and 352 downregulated). Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and protein-protein interaction (PPI) analyses highlighted eight genes- CBL, PRKCA, SLC38A1, ZBTB16, AANAT, CYP1A1, SLC7A11, and NTRK2-associated with tryptophan metabolism, oxidative stress, and long-term synaptic depression. Bioinformatic analysis and dual-luciferase reporter assays confirmed that miR-27a directly targets the 3'-UTR of PRKCA, thereby suppressing of autophagy, apoptosis, and neuronal plasticity. In vivo, intrahypothalamic injection of mmu-miR-27a-3p in mice ( Mus musculus) reduced motor function and social dominance, and placed the mice at a competitive disadvantage, while supressing neuronal autophagy, apoptosis and plasticity.
Vitamin D deficiency is a global health concern, yet circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) concentrations vary substantially across geographical regions and ancestral groups. Genetic predisposition may contribute to these differences. This systematic review aimed to synthesize evidence from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) on genetic variation associated with circulating 25OHD across populations from different ancestral backgrounds and to evaluate linkage disequilibrium (LD) between reported variants.A systematic review was conducted according to PRISMA 2020 guidelines. PubMed and the GWAS Catalog were searched to identify genome-wide association studies (GWAS) on circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) concentrations. Studies were screened against predefined eligibility criteria, and data were extracted using a standardized framework. Methodological quality was assessed using a standardized tool, and study power adequacy was assessed formally. Genome-wide significant SNPs were extracted, and unique variants between studies were grouped by ancestry. Among these, dbSNP-indexed variants were grouped into genomic cluster windows and evaluated for LD structure.Fifteen GWAS were included. Across these studies, 349 genome-wide significant SNP associations were identified, corresponding to 294 unique variants, of which 283 were indexed in dbSNP and retained for genomic and LD analyses. Variant discovery was dominated by large-scale European-ancestry studies, although African, Middle Eastern, East Asian, Hispanic/Latino, South Asian, and trans-ethnic studies also contributed signals. Some evidence of ancestry-specific variation was apparent, yet not conclusive due to lower study power in non-European cohorts. Variant aggregation was strongest at biologically relevant vitamin D loci, including GC, CYP2R1, DHCR7/NADSYN1, and FLG. Fifteen variants were replicated in at least two independent cohorts. LD-based clustering identified several high LD groups comprising variants identified across studies, with the strongest LD appearing between variants within established vitamin D-related loci, particularly GC, CYP2R1, DHCR7/NADSYN1, and FLG.Circulating 25OHD appears to be influenced by shared core loci involved in vitamin D metabolism, across ancestries. Although some evidence of ancestry-specific variation was identified, findings should be interpreted with caution, in light of the predominance of European-ancestry GWAS and scarcity of sufficiently powered GWAS for other ancestral populations. Larger GWAS in non-European populations are essential for improving ancestry-specific variant discovery and interpretation.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) progression is driven by metastatic potential, metabolic reprogramming, and immune evasion. In this study, we investigated the effects of a di-rhamnolipid, Rha2-C10-C10 (1), on CRC cell motility, energy metabolism, and immune-related signaling. Compound 1 exhibited minimal cytotoxicity in AGS, A549, and MDA-MB-231 cells, while modestly reducing viability in Caco2 cells at higher concentrations. Notably, it significantly suppressed invasion and migration, with the most pronounced effects observed in Caco2 cells. These effects were associated with downregulation of mesenchymal markers, including N-cadherin and transcription factors Snail and Slug, as well as matrix metalloproteinases (MMP2, MMP3, and MMP9), accompanied by increased TIMP2 expression. In addition, compound 1 attenuated metabolic activity by reducing the expression of key glycolytic regulators, including GLUT1, LDHA, and HK2. It also suppressed immune evasion-related factors such as PD-L1, IDO1, IDO2, and Galectin. Mechanistic investigations using BaP and the AKT inhibitor MK2206 suggest that the effects of compound 1 involve modulation of AKT-associated signaling while also engaging additional regulatory pathways. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that compound 1 suppresses colorectal cancer cell motility, metabolic activity, and immune evasion, highlighting its potential as a natural compound targeting multiple tumor-promoting processes.© 2026 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
Gastric cancer (GC) progression is driven by an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME). Kynureninase (KYNU) is upregulated in GC and linked to poor prognosis, while platelet factor 4 (PF4)-induced nonclassical macrophages promote immune evasion. This study investigates whether KYNU regulates macrophage polarization via PF4 in GC. KYNU expression was modulated in GC cells to assess PF4 regulation and nonclassical macrophage polarization. Functional consequences were evaluated by proliferation, migration, invasion, and phagocytosis assays. Mechanistic studies included transcriptomics, PI3K/Akt manipulation, and rescue experiments. In vivo validation used a syngeneic mouse model, and clinical relevance was confirmed by multimarker tissue analysis. High KYNU expression in GC cells specifically promoted macrophage polarization toward a nonclassical phenotype characterized by S100A8 and MMP7 expression. These non-classical polarized macrophages subsequently enhanced GC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion while suppressing phagocytic activity. Mechanistically, KYNU upregulated PF4 expression with the involvement of the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway, which in turn drove nonclassical macrophage polarization. In vivo studies demonstrated that KYNU promoted tumor growth through this pathway, whereas PI3K/Akt inhibition suppressed both tumor progression and nonclassical macrophage infiltration. Clinical analysis further confirmed the coordinated upregulation of KYNU, p-Akt, PF4, and S100A8 in human GC tissues. KYNU acts as a signaling transducer in GC, involving PI3K/Akt to upregulate PF4, driving nonclassical macrophage polarization and tumor progression. This mechanism represents a novel pathogenic driver and a promising therapeutic target for reprogramming the immunosuppressive TME.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection is a major risk factor for gastric cancer (GC), yet the key genes mediating this carcinogenesis remain unclear. This study aimed to identify H. pylori-related genes in GC and elucidate their molecular functions. Transcriptomic data from TCGA and GEO databases were analyzed using weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), LASSO regression, and multivariate Cox analysis to construct a prognostic model. The immune landscape was also assessed. Validation involved RT-qPCR and immunohistochemistry (IHC). An in vitro H. pylori co-culture system was used to assess time-dependent changes in gene and protein expression via RT-qPCR, IHC, and Western blotting. A four-gene risk model (PDCD1, KYNU, CYTL1, and FZD2) was identified, demonstrating strong predictive capacity for overall survival as an independent prognostic factor. High-risk patients exhibited reduced immune cell infiltration. CellMiner analysis identified potential therapeutic agents targeting these genes. Among them, KYNU showed significant upregulation in GC tissues. Notably, in the co-culture system, KYNU expression markedly increased at both mRNA and protein levels following H. pylori infection in a time-dependent manner. The H. pylori-associated risk model represents a novel independent prognostic indicator for GC. Particularly, KYNU emerged as a pivotal gene in H. pylori-mediated GC, offering insights into disease progression and serving as a promising therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
The persistent HIV reservoir constitutes the main obstacle to curing HIV/AIDS disease. Our understanding of how non-productive HIV infections are established in primary human CD4+ T cells during the first round of infection is still incomplete. In this study, we leverage the HIV reporter virus pMorpheus-V5 to delineate cellular expression patterns upregulated in non-productively infected stem cell memory (TSCM) CD4+ T cells. We find that CD4+ TSCM harboring non-productive proviruses display a distinct transcriptomic signature comprising 118 upregulated genes, distinct from that of productively infected cells as well as from negative-exposed and mock-infected cells. Among the cellular genes most upregulated in CD4+ TSCM cells harboring non-productive proviruses are CCR4-binding migratory chemokines (CCL22, CCL17), tryptophan catabolic enzymes (IDO1, KYNU), and genes encoding cytoskeletal rearrangement proteins (BASP1, TNFAIP2). Flow cytometry-based analyses confirm that non-productively infected CD4+ TSCM cells are enriched for CCL22 and IDO1 co-expression compared to other CD4+ T memory subsets, underscoring a CD4+ T cell subset specificity for the upregulation of these two immune gene sets associated with non-productive infections. These findings suggest that primary human CD4+ TSCM harboring non-productive proviruses display a distinct immunoregulatory phenotype which may facilitate immune evasion and contribute to the persistence of the HIV reservoir.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hyperuricemia (HUA) is increasingly recognized as a systemic inflammatory-metabolic disorder that contributes to immune-associated renal injury. Kynurenic acid (KYNA), a tryptophan-derived metabolite with reported immunomodulatory properties, has emerged as a potential mediator linking gut metabolism and distal organ inflammation. In this study, we investigated the protective effects of astilbin (ASB) against HUA and hyperuricemia-associated renal injury using an adenine-induced goose model, which is translationally relevant because geese naturally lack functional uricase, together with monosodium urate (MSU)-challenged primary renal tubular epithelial cells. By integrating multi-omics analyses, molecular docking, and molecular biology approaches, we found that ASB reduced serum uric acid, improved renal function, and attenuated inflammatory and fibrotic changes in vivo. ASB also suppressed circulating pro-inflammatory cytokines, restored intestinal barrier-related markers, and partially corrected gut microbial dysbiosis. Untargeted metabolomics revealed that KYNA was markedly reduced under HUA conditions and was restored by ASB treatment in both intestinal contents and serum. In parallel, ASB increased IDO2 expression in intestinal and hepatic tissues. In vitro, both ASB and KYNA attenuated MSU-induced inflammatory responses, restored urate transporter expression, and suppressed TGF-β/Smad-associated profibrotic signaling in primary renal cells. Collectively, these findings support a working model in which ASB ameliorates hyperuricemia-associated sterile inflammation and renal injury partly in association with gut-linked KYNA immunometabolic remodeling, accompanied by increased IDO2 expression. Because IDO1, kynurenine, KAT activity, and receptor/pathway inhibition were not assessed, the proposed mechanism should be regarded as hypothesis-supporting rather than definitively proven.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Chronic exposure to mid-band radiofrequency (RF) electromagnetic fields at 3.5 GHz is increasingly relevant to modern wireless environments; however, its effects on hippocampal circuit stability under non-thermal conditions remain unclear. We investigated whether prolonged 3.5-GHz RF exposure is associated with anxiety-like behavior and hippocampal transcript-level changes consistent with excitatory-inhibitory (E/I) imbalance, and whether thymoquinone (TQ) or taurine (TAU) are associated with modulation of these responses.Adult male Wistar rats (n = 28) were assigned to Sham, RF, RF + TQ (20 mg/kg), or RF + TAU (20 mg/kg) groups (n = 7/group). Animals were exposed to a GSM-like 3.5-GHz RF signal (2 W; 2 h/day; 5 days/week; 10 weeks). Anxiety-like behavior and spatial learning were assessed using the Elevated Plus Maze (EPM) and Morris Water Maze (MWM). Hippocampal gene expression (bdnf, creb1, camk2a, th, tph2, gad1, slc17a7) was quantified by RT-qPCR, and histopathology by H&E staining.Dosimetry indicated whole-body SAR of 0.0383 W/kg and brain gray matter SAR of 0.3411 W/kg. RF exposure was associated with reduced open-arm time in the EPM. Expression of slc17a7 increased in the RF group, suggesting a shift toward excitation. Under RF co-exposure conditions, TQ and TAU were associated with changes in slc17a7 expression and with increases in bdnf, creb1, and camk2a, along with inhibitory and monoaminergic markers. RF-exposed hippocampi showed neuronal degeneration, less pronounced in antioxidant-treated groups.Chronic non-thermal 3.5-GHz RF exposure is associated with anxiety-like behavior and a hippocampal molecular-structural profile consistent with E/I imbalance and tissue stress. TQ and TAU were associated with context-dependent changes under RF co-exposure conditions; however, due to the absence of antioxidant-only control groups, independent effects cannot be determined. These findings suggest that synaptic homeostasis may represent a potential target of prolonged mid-band RF exposure.
Perioperative neurocognitive disorders (PND) are common postoperative complications, particularly in elderly patients, marked by learning and memory deficits with limited treatment options. Human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hUC-MSCs) hold promise due to their neuroprotective and immunomodulatory effects, but their underlying mechanisms remain unclear.This study established a PND model in aged mice using tibial fracture intramedullary fixation surgery, followed by intravenous hUC-MSCs administration. Subsequently, behavioral tests, pathological examination, proteomic analysis, and other experiments were performed to verify the therapeutic effect and underlying mechanism of hUC-MSCs on PND in mice.hUC-MSCs significantly improved cognitive function in PND mice, reduced hippocampal neuronal apoptosis and neuroinflammation, and restored dendritic spine density. Mechanistically, hUC-MSCs secreted β-NGF to activate the TrkA signaling pathway, upregulate STMN2 and NMNAT2 expression, and inhibit the SARM1/NF-κB pathway, thereby alleviating neuroinflammation and dendritic degeneration. Overexpression of SARM1 in the hippocampal CA1 region and β-NGF knockdown in hUC-MSCs both reversed the therapeutic effects of hUC-MSCs, confirming their critical roles.hUC-MSCs ameliorate PND pathology through the β-NGF-mediated STMN2/NMNAT2-SARM1-NF-κB pathway, offering a novel cell-based therapeutic strategy for PND. Future research may focus on optimizing the secretory function of hUC-MSCs or developing small-molecule drugs targeting β-NGF to enhance therapeutic efficacy.© 2026 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Valproic acid (VPA) response in pediatric epilepsy shows high variability. This study investigated the association of tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (TPH2) polymorphisms with VPA efficacy and adverse drug reactions (ADRs) in children.In a retrospective cohort of 199 children with epilepsy receiving VPA treatment, TPH2 rs4570625 and rs1386494 were genotyped using Sequenom MassArray. Efficacy was categorized as uncontrolled seizure vs. seizure-free. ADRs were systemically recorded, and steady-state VPA concentrations were measured. Network pharmacology integrated protein-protein interactions, and functional enrichment to elucidate TPH2's role in VPA-related neurotoxicity.The rs4570625 polymorphism was significantly associated with VPA treatment outcomes. GG homozygotes exhibited higher seizure-free rates (p = 0.031) and lower incidence of neurological ADRs (p = 0.036). GG carriers also displayed significantly higher VPA serum concentrations. Network pharmacology analyses identified the serotonergic synapse as the dominant enriched pathway linking TPH2 to VPA neurotoxicity, with MAOA and SLC6A4 as key regulatory hubs. No significant associations were observed between rs1386494 polymorphism and VPA treatment outcomes.TPH2 rs4570625 may serve as a potential exploratory biomarker for predicting VPA efficacy and neurological toxicity in pediatric epilepsy, mediated through serotonergic pathway dysregulation. Genotype-guided personalization could optimize VPA therapy.Copyright © 2026 Zhu, Wang, Shen, Xia, He, Liu, Zhang, Fan and Li.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) remains difficult to prevent after trauma, highlighting the need for early interventions that reduce the risk of chronic symptom development. This controlled study investigated the preventive potential of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) in a validated rat model of PTSD induced by predator scent stress (PSS). Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats (N = 175) were exposed to PSS or sham-PSS and treated intraperitoneally with MDMA (2.5, 5, or 10 mg/kg) or saline. MDMA was administered either 30 min after PSS or 24 h later, with or without trauma-cue pairing. Behavioral outcomes included the elevated plus-maze and acoustic startle response assessments on day 7 for phenotypic classification, followed by contextual freezing on day 8. Urinary corticosterone and norepinephrine, hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and norepinephrine transporter (NET), and c-Fos, tryptophan hydroxylase 2 (TPH2), GR, oxytocin, and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactivity were measured 1 h post-injection in stress-related brain regions. The 10 mg/kg MDMA dose significantly reduced anxiety-like behavior, startle amplitude, contextual freezing, and the prevalence of extreme behavioral responses when administered 30 min after PSS or 24 h later with trauma-cue pairing. Lower doses and unpaired delayed administration were largely ineffective. The effective dose increased urinary corticosterone and hippocampal GR levels, and enhanced c-Fos, TPH2, oxytocin, GR, and TH expression in stress-regulatory circuits. Trauma-cue pairing further strengthened MDMA-induced increases in GR, oxytocin, and TPH2. These findings suggest that MDMA was associated with dose-, timing-, and context-dependent reductions in PTSD-like outcomes, accompanied by neurochemical signatures consistent with enhanced stress regulation, neuroplasticity, and adaptive memory processing.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is associated with poor prognosis and limited responses to immunotherapy, partly due to the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME). Tumor-associated macrophages, especially M2-like macrophages, play important roles in HCC progression. Interleukin-4-induced gene 1 (IL4I1), a tryptophan-metabolizing enzyme, has been implicated in tumor immune regulation. However, the role and prognostic significance of IL4I1-expressing M2-like macrophages in HCC remain unclear. This study investigated the expression pattern, spatial distribution, functional association, and prognostic relevance of IL4I1-expressing M2-like macrophages in HCC and their association with patient outcomes.We analyzed public databases (TIMER, UALCAN, TISCH2) for gene expression and prognostic significance. An in vitro co-culture system was established using a Huh7 HCC cell line and THP-1-derived M2-like macrophages with and without IL4I1 knockout via CRISPR/Cas9. We assessed cell proliferation, migration, apoptosis, and cytokine profiles. Multiplex immunofluorescence (mIF) was performed on tissue microarrays from 92 HCC patients to analyze the spatial distribution of IL4I1+ M2-like macrophages.IL4I1 was highly expressed in HCC, predominantly within macrophages, and correlated with poor prognosis. In a THP-1-derived macrophage/Huh7 co-culture model, IL4I1 expression in M2-like macrophages was associated with increased Huh7 cell proliferation and migration and reduced apoptosis. This was associated with increased secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines (e.g., CCL15, TNF-α) and decreased levels of IL-10 and TGF-β1. mIF analysis further showed that a high density of IL4I1+ M2-like macrophages in the epithelial/parenchymal tumor region was significantly associated with poorer overall survival (p = 0.033).IL4I1+ M2-like macrophages are associated with a pro-tumorigenic microenvironment and adverse patient outcomes in HCC. Our findings support IL4I1+ M2-like macrophages as a prognostically relevant macrophage subset, while further mechanistic validation, particularly of IL4I1-derived metabolites and AHR pathway activation, is required before IL4I1 can be considered a validated therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Yang, Lu, Li, Bao, Lu and Xiong.
Tianwang Buxin Dan is a classical Traditional Chinese Medicine formula with documented clinical use in treating neuropsychiatric disorders, yet its molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood.We developed an integrated analytical framework combining transcriptomic and metabolomic profiling with deep learning to investigate the neurotransmitter metabolism regulatory mechanisms of Tianwang Buxin Dan. Data were collected from a para-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA)- induced insomnia rat model following formula intervention. A multi-omics feature fusion strategy incorporating autoencoder-based dimensionality reduction and cross-modal attention mechanisms was implemented to address data heterogeneity.A total of 1,847 differentially expressed genes and 286 differential metabolites were identified. The constructed deep neural network achieved 91.2% classification accuracy with an AUC of 0.956 in five-fold cross-validation, and permutation testing confirmed that performance was significantly above chance (p < 0.001). Ablation experiments demonstrated that integrated multiomics outperformed single-omics models. Tryptophan hydroxylase 2 (TPH2) upregulation and monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A) suppression were identified as key features and partially validated by qPCR and Western blot.Tianwang Buxin Dan may modulate neurotransmitter metabolism through coordinated regulation of biosynthetic and catabolic pathways. A component-target-pathway regulatory network identified 47 key molecular targets interconnected through 156 functional associations. This work provides a computational framework applicable to mechanism studies of other compound TCM formulations.Copyright © 2026 Wan, Cai, Zhang and Li.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) generated by NADPH oxidase 2 (NOX2) are essential for antimicrobial defense but also for the resolution of inflammation. NOX2 deficiency, as observed in chronic granulomatous disease (CGD), predisposes to persistent sterile inflammation. Current therapeutic strategies largely rely on nonspecific immunosuppression or require residual NOX2 activity, while systemic ROS-inducing therapies are limited by toxicity. Here, we present a NOX2-independent approach to restore inflammation-resolving ROS signaling using N-alkylaminoferrocene-based prodrugs (pro-NAAFs), which amplify pre-existing ROS rather than generating ROS indiscriminately. Among several candidates, prodrug 1 emerged as the most potent and well-tolerated ROS amplifier. In human neutrophils, prodrug 1 induced strong ROS production and neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation. These responses occurred independently of NOX2 and were maintained in CGD-derived neutrophils. Similar NOX2-independent ROS induction and NET formation were observed in immune cells from wild-type and NOX2-dysfunctional Ncf1∗∗ mice. Prodrug 1-induced NETs aggregated into high-density structures (aggNETs) capable of degrading pro-inflammatory mediators in vitro. Prodrug 1 also inhibited neutrophil inflammasome activation. In vivo, subcutaneous administration of prodrug 1 reduced inflammatory mediator levels in air pouches, promoted resolution of chronic arthritis in Ncf1∗∗ mice, and protected from bone destruction. Transcriptomic analyses indicated early suppression of inflammatory pathways and restoration of neutrophil maturation trajectories towards a wild-type-like state. While prodrug 1 increased protein oxidation markers, it shifted systemic oxysterol profiles towards an inflammation-resolving phenotype. These findings identify pro-NAAFs as NOX2-independent ROS amplifiers capable of restoring inflammatory resolution and highlight their therapeutic potential for chronic inflammatory conditions linked to NOX2-dysfunction.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) primarily arise from infiltrating monocytes, yet the mechanisms guiding their differentiation remain unclear. Here, we show that human macrophages rely on autocrine macrophage migration inhibitory factor signaling to suppress p53 during M2-like transition. Disruption of this pathway led to activation of p53 and, unexpectedly, the nuclear receptor NR4A1, inducing a senescence-like state resembling interleukin (IL)-1β⁺ and IL-4 Induced 1 (IL4I1)⁺ TAM subsets observed across multiple cancers. These TAM-like macrophages exhibited a transcriptional program driven by NR4A1, similar to that induced in IL-1β⁺ TAMs by the combined action of tumor necrosis factor α (TNF) and the cyclooxygenase-2-dependent arachidonic acid (AA) metabolite prostaglandin E2. They also upregulated the AA-selective acyl-CoA synthase ACSL4, which promoted cell survival and restrained IL-1β release despite elevated IL1B expression. This effect was mediated through induction of the IL4I1⁺ TAM marker CD38, which drove the production of IL-10. Mechanistically, ACSL4 preserved the homeostatic function of stimulator of interferon genes (STING). Loss of ACSL4 resulted in extensive macrophage death and converted STING from a homeostatic regulator into a driver of IL-1 cytokine release. Finally, we show that the CDK4/6 inhibitor abemaciclib repolarized TAM-like macrophages toward a more inflammatory phenotype through off-target inhibition of ACSL4. Abemaciclib enhanced inflammatory signaling by modulating ectodomain shedding, increasing TNF while reducing the release of its natural antagonist, TNF receptor II. Together, these findings clarify mechanisms underlying scRNA-seq-defined TAM phenotypes, identify ACSL4 as a potential therapeutic target, and reveal how abemaciclib can promote inflammatory responses in cancer patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study investigated the effects and mechanisms of Suanzao Ren Decoction on anxiety symptoms of chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) model rats.A rat model of anxiety was established using chronic unpredictable stress. The open field test and elevated cross maze were used to evaluate the anxiety state of rats. The Morris water maze was used to evaluate the cognitive function of rats. HE staining was used to analyze the histopathological changes of the hippocampus. The protein expression of 5-HT2CR, Parkin, and PINK1 in the hippocampus was detected by western blotting. Mitochondrial autophagy in the hippocampus was observed by transmission electron microscopy.The treatment with Suanzao Ren Decoction significantly prolonged the total distance of spontaneous movement in rats, increased the percentage of open arm entry times, the percentage of open arm retention time, the retention time at the platform position, and the number of platform crossings, and shortened the escape latency period of rats. In addition, the treatment with Suan Zao Ren Decoction significantly improved the pathological damage in the CA1 area of the hippocampus, significantly increased the levels of SOD, CAT, GSH, 5-HT, and TPH-2, reduced the level of MDA, and significantly decreased the protein expressions of 5-HT2CR, Parkin, and PINK1, as well as reduced the number of autophagic lysosomes.Suanzao Ren Decoction relieved anxiety behavior in CUS rats, and its mechanism may be related to improving cognitive dysfunction and inhibiting oxidative stress and autophagy.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Migraine is one of the most disabling neurological diseases globally; however, a significant proportion of patients do not respond to current treatments, or treatment efficacy diminishes over time, highlighting the need to identify additional molecular candidates for further investigation. Recent studies have increasingly focused on the role of neuro-immune interactions in migraine. This study aimed to identify peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with NAD+ metabolism-related transcriptional features in migraine through integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses. Using the PRJEB40032 dataset, samples were stratified according to ssGSEA-derived NAD+ metabolism scores, followed by differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis and protein-protein interaction network construction. LASSO regression, SVM-RFE, and XGBoost were subsequently applied to prioritize candidate genes. CXCL8, CXCR4, CXCL1, and TNFAIP3 showed cross-algorithm consistency and were subsequently incorporated into an exploratory nomogram, which exhibited apparent discriminatory performance within the PRJEB40032 discovery cohort. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that these genes were associated with immune and inflammatory pathways, including IL-17, NF-κB, TNF, and Toll-like receptor signaling. Immune cell-composition analysis indicated significantly increased estimated abundances or activity scores for NK cells, mast cells, eosinophils, and neutrophils in migraine samples, with positive associations between the prioritized candidate genes and pro-inflammatory immune features. Single-cell RNA sequencing further showed that CXCL1 and CXCL8 were predominantly expressed in monocytes, while TNFAIP3 and CXCR4 were widely expressed across various immune cell types. qPCR assessment in a migraine mouse model showed group-dependent expression alterations in the functionally related murine CXCL1/CXCR2 axis. Overall, this study prioritized peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with migraine and NAD⁺ metabolism-related transcriptional features, providing exploratory evidence for a potential link among systemic immune alterations, NAD⁺ metabolism-related processes, and migraine.© 2026. The Author(s).
Intervertebral disc (IVD) degeneration is associated with severe clinical symptoms including chronic back pain. Galectins are a family of carbohydrate-binding proteins, some of which can induce functional disease markers in IVD cells and other musculoskeletal tissues. Galectin-4 and -8 were shown to trigger disease-promoting activity in chondrocytes, but their effects on IVD cells have not been investigated yet.IVD specimens from 36 patients with spondylosis, spondylolisthesis, and scoliosis were assessed immunohistochemically for the presence of galectin-4 and -8. The degrees of radiological (Pfirrmann grade) and histopathological (Rutges score) degeneration of all specimens were correlated with histological galectin scores. To assess galectin functions, separate cell cultures of annulus fibrosus (AF) and nucleus pulposus (NP) (n = 21) were established. Cell cultures were treated with recombinant galectin-4, -8 (24 μg/mL), or Interleukin-1β (IL-1β) (10 ng/mL) and analyzed using RT-qPCR and In-Cell Western (ICW). Potential binding sites for galectins including sialylated N-glycans and LacdiNAc structures were determined in AF and NP cells using liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS).The immunohistochemical presence of galectin-4 in IVD specimens correlated with histopathological and clinical degeneration scores of patients, whereas galectin-8 did not show significant correlations. Both galectins were detected across IVD compartments except for the endplate. In vitro, both galectins activated the nuclear factor-kB pathway and induced functional disease markers (Interleukin-8 (CXCL8) and matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP3) mRNA). NP cells were more responsive to galectins and IL-1β than AF cells, indicating region-specific differences in galectin sensitivity.This study identifies galectin-4 as a novel molecular player in the pathogenesis of IVD degeneration.© 2026 The Author(s). JOR Spine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Orthopaedic Research Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563454 is a review article
Helicobacter pylori (H.pylori) infection is a primary driver of chronic gastric inflammation and carcinogenesis, yet the molecular networks bridging bacterial infection and malignant transformation are not fully characterized. This study aimed to identify H.pylori-associated hub genes through integrated systems biology and to functionally validate their roles in gastric cancer progression.Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was applied to GEO datasets (GSE60427 and GSE60662) to identify phenotype-associated modules. Genomic alterations, promoter methylation, and immune infiltration patterns were analyzed using TCGA-STAD, cBioPortal, and UALCAN. Experimental validation was performed in AGS and MKN45 cells. Two independent 2 × 2 factorial designs were used to evaluate hub-gene knockdown and overexpression separately in the presence or absence of H. pylori infection. Mechanistic insights were gained through virulence factor mutants (Δ-cagA and Δ-vacA), pathway inhibitors, and dual-luciferase reporter assays for miRNA-targeting validation.WGCNA identified CXCL8, CXCL1, CCL20, and MMP1 as central hub genes, all of which exhibited significantly elevated mRNA expression in gastric cancer tissues and cell lines. These genes exhibited frequent copy number amplifications and significant promoter hypomethylation. Functional assays showed that hub-gene silencing attenuated H. pylori-associated proliferation, migration, and invasion, whereas hub-gene overexpression promoted these malignant phenotypes and further enhanced the effects associated with infection. Mechanistically, H.pylori infection upregulates these genes via a CagA-dependent activation of the NF-κB and MAPK signaling pathways. Furthermore, specific miRNAs (e.g., miR-302c-3p, miR-203a-3p) were identified as direct post-transcriptional regulators of this axis.CXCL8, CXCL1, CCL20, and MMP1 constitute a unified transcriptional axis driven by H.pylori infection that promotes malignant progression. This CagA-responsive gene set serves as a robust biomarker panel for gastric cancer prognosis and represents a promising therapeutic target for disrupting the infection-inflammation-cancer sequence.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Paraquat (PQ), a highly toxic herbicide that causes fatal pulmonary injury, has no specific clinical antidotes, mainly due to incomplete understanding of its pathogenic mechanisms. Inhalational exposure to PQ is the primary route of toxicity among agricultural workers. However, conventional experimental models fail to accurately replicate the physiological characteristics of the alveolar-capillary barrier and the air-liquid interface (ALI). In this study, we developed an Alveolar Microphysiological System (AMS) that co-cultures alveolar epithelial cells (EPCs) and pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (EDCs) with ALI, effectively mimicking PQ-induced lung injury. This injury is characterized by increased permeability of the alveolar-capillary barrier, compromised intercellular junction integrity, and ultrastructural alterations. Bulk RNA sequencing, public single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), and functional validation assays revealed that PQ triggers divergent, cell-type-specific responses: activating the RAGE/NF-κB signaling pathway and pro-inflammatory programs in EPCs, while suppressing these pathways in EDCs. Furthermore, PQ treatment results in the aberrant expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (e.g., IL-1α/β, TNF-α), chemokines (e.g., CCL3/5, CXCL8/10), and growth factors (e.g., PDGF, TGF-α) in EPCs, a pattern that significantly differs from the expression profile observed in EDCs. Additionally, FPS-ZM1, a specific inhibitor of RAGE, mitigated PQ-induced barrier dysfunction by restoring normalized AMS permeability, enhancing E-cadherin expression in EPCs, and improving adherens junction integrity in EDCs. Collectively, these findings suggest that the AMS serves as a valuable translational platform for developing therapeutic strategies. Moreover, the RAGE/NF-κB signaling pathway exhibits a cell-type-specific function in pulmonary injury induced by PQ exposure under air-liquid interface conditions, indicating that modulation of the RAGE/NF-κB axis may offer a promising therapeutic avenue for managing paraquat poisoning.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is one of the most common cancers in males, and its treatment remains challenging due to the tumor microenvironment (TME) with immunosuppressive properties and limited response to anti-PD-1 therapy. Gut microbiota-derived metabolites have recently emerged as modulators of cancer immunometabolism, however, their role in PCa progression and immunotherapy is poorly understood. Here we found that indole-3-lactic acid (ILA), a metabolite produced by Lactobacillus plantarum, exerted dual anti-tumor effects on PCa cells and the TME. Mechanistically, ILA activates the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR), and the resulting AHR/ARNT heterodimer translocates into the nucleus and binds to the promoter of ASF1B. This heterodimer then recruits the HDAC1/2-NuRD complex to reduce H3K27ac levels and suppress ASF1B expression. ASF1B binds to specific residues of ENO1 via its N-terminal core domain and enhances ENO1 enzymatic activity. ILA-induced downregulation of ASF1B impairs this interaction, reduces ENO1 activity, and suppresses the PI3K/Akt pathway, thereby inhibiting the malignant phenotypes of PCa cells. Concurrently, ILA decreased CXCL8 secretion by inhibiting the PI3K/Akt/NF-κB pathway, enhancing CD8+ T cell infiltration and M1 macrophage polarization, thereby remodeling the TME. Additionally, ILA synergized with anti-PD-1 therapy to more effectively suppress tumor growth. These findings reveal a novel mechanism by which gut microbiota-derived metabolites regulate PCa progression and immunometabolism, positioning ILA as a potential therapeutic agent to improve PCa treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Fatty infiltration and fibrosis drive poor outcomes after chronic muscle injury. Here, we characterized fibroadipogenic progenitor cell (FAP) subpopulations from healthy and injured human rotator cuff muscle by single-cell RNA sequencing, full-spectrum flow cytometry, and functional assays and found distinct subpopulations, including a preadipogenic population that expresses delta-like noncanonical notch ligand 1 (DLK1+) and a prefibrogenic population that expresses decay-accelerating factor (CD55+). We used in vitro and flow cytometry experiments to show that human FAP lineages displayed unique surface marker expression across adipogenic and fibrogenic differentiation. In chronic human rotator cuff injury, expression of DLK1 RNA and DLK1 protein was decreased compared with that in healthy muscle. Overexpression of DLK1 in primary human FAPs suppressed differentiation into adipocytes in vitro, whereas DLK1 knockdown increased adipogenesis. In an immunodeficient murine model of glycerol-induced acute muscle injury, xenotransplantation of DLK1-overexpressing human FAPs into the injured murine muscle resulted in reduced fatty infiltration after 14 days by histological assessment, supporting a functional role for DLK1 in restraining adipogenesis. Together, we defined molecularly distinct, clinically relevant human FAP subpopulations, established DLK1 as a regulator of adipogenic potential in vivo, and provided a framework to identify pathogenic FAP states that may be used in the pursuit to prevent maladaptive muscle remodeling.
Atherosclerosis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory vascular disease characterized by lipid accumulation, immune activation, and plaque formation. This study investigated the anti-atherosclerotic effects of Lentinan (LNT) and explored its potential macrophage-associated mechanisms. In high-fat diet-fed ApoE⁻/⁻ mice, LNT markedly attenuated aortic plaque formation, lipid deposition, serum pro-inflammatory cytokine levels, and dyslipidemia, indicating a protective effect against AS progression. Integrated target screening and transcriptomic analyses identified HCK and GUSB as key candidate targets associated with the response to LNT. Both genes were upregulated in atherosclerotic tissues and were further assessed in an independent human dataset. Experimental validation in ApoE⁻/⁻ mouse aortic tissues showed that LNT reduced HCK and GUSB expression, while single-cell transcriptomic analysis indicated that both genes were predominantly enriched in macrophage populations within atherosclerotic lesions. In ox-LDL-induced RAW264.7 foam cells, LNT decreased intracellular lipid accumulation and downregulated HCK and GUSB expression, further supporting a macrophage-related protective mechanism. In addition, targeted metabolomic analysis suggested that LNT reshaped amino acid metabolism, which may contribute to improvement of the inflammatory and immunometabolic microenvironment in AS. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations further indicated potential interactions between LNT and HCK/GUSB. Overall, these findings suggest that LNT attenuates experimental atherosclerosis by regulating macrophage-associated HCK/GUSB expression, suppressing foam cell formation, and modulating amino acid metabolic remodeling.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) signaling through the E-type prostanoid 4 (EP4) receptor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of colorectal cancer (CRC). We herein identified decay-accelerating factor, also known as CD55, as a novel CRC-associated downstream factor of the EP4 receptor. The integration of transcriptomic profiling of PGE2-stimulated HCA-7 human colon cancer cells with analyses of cancer genomic databases predicted CD55 as a potential EP4 receptor-regulated target. Inhibitor-based experiments showed the induction of CD55 after a PGE2 stimulation required the EP4 receptor and Gi protein in HCA-7 cells, whereas protein kinase A signaling was dispensable. In combination with a toxicogenomic database analysis, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) was identified as the predominant effector connecting the EP4 receptor to CD55 upregulation. A single-cell RNA-seq re-analysis of human CRC tissues revealed CD55 upregulation and p38 MAPK-related gene set enrichment in epithelial cells expressing the EP4 receptor, suggesting that this induction mechanism may operate in a subset of epithelial cells in clinical specimens. Collectively, these results delineate a PGE2/EP4 receptor/Gi protein/p38 MAPK signaling axis that induces CD55 expression in HCA-7 cells and epithelial tumor cells, provide new mechanistic clues for understanding the regulation of complement regulatory molecule CD55 expression by prostaglandin signaling.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Advanced age and diabetes mellitus (DM) are major risk factors for severe COVID-19, associated with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), cytokine storm, and increased mortality. SARS-CoV-2 spike protein (SP) binding to angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) potentially disrupts the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), promoting angiotensin II (Ang II) accumulation and vascular dysfunction. In individuals with preexisting endothelial dysfunction (ED), such as older adults with type 2 DM (T2DM), COVID-19 may exacerbate inflammation, vascular permeability, and tissue damage. This study aimed to elucidate the mechanisms by which SP exacerbates diabetes-associated ED using an in vitro aortic endothelial-bronchial epithelial co-culture model. Serum from healthy adults and T2DM patients was used to stimulate human aortic endothelial cells (HAoECs), with or without SP. ED was assessed via reactive oxygen species (ROS), intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), and endothelial permeability. ACE2 expression and Ang II levels were measured in ACE2-transfected human bronchial epithelial cells (BEAS-2BACE2-eGFP). Combined effects on lung injury and cytokines (CXCL8, IL-1β, and IL-6) were evaluated using a co-culture system. T2DM serum significantly increased ROS (609.33 ± 108.23%; p = 0.0016), ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 expression (68.55 ± 5.47 copies/μL; p = 0.0011 and 84.77 ± 3.81 copies/μL; p < 0.0001, respectively), and permeability (3.86 × 107 ± 4.8 × 106 FU; p = 0.0119) in HAoECs. In BEAS-2BACE2-eGFP, T2DM serum significantly increased ACE2 expression (5.45 ± 1.99 copies/μL; p = 0.0089), whereas co-exposure to T2DM + SP markedly reduced ACE2 (0.97 ± 0.29 copies/μL; p = 0.0086) and elevated Ang II (111.60 ± 15.81 pg./mL; p = 0.1343). Co-treatment with T2DM + SP further exacerbated ED, driving heightened inflammation, lung epithelial injury, and cytokine release. Diabetes-associated ED synergizes with SP to aggravate vascular inflammation and lung injury, identifying adhesion molecules and pro-inflammatory cytokines as potential biomarkers, and RAS dysregulation and endothelial activation as therapeutic targets for severe COVID-19 in T2DM.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558596 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548795 is a review article
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) poses a significant global health burden due to its high mortality. The modest efficacy of single-agent treatments is spurring the quest for combinatorial approaches. Sonodynamic therapy and gene therapy offer promising therapeutic approaches, yet they are limited by restricted tumor specificity and inefficient delivery. In this work, we developed a multifunctional mesoporous silica-based nanoplatform co-delivering indocyanine green (ICG) and CD24 small interfering RNA (siRNA) (siCD24), and the surface was engineered with lactobionic acid (LA) to enable active targeting and 2,3-dimethylmaleic anhydride (DMMA) to confer tumor microenvironment-responsive charge reversal, thereby enhancing specific accumulation and release. Under ultrasound irradiation, the nanoplatform concurrently activates dual mechanisms: ICG-mediated sonodynamic action generates reactive oxygen species, while synchronized CD24 silencing modulates downstream effectors, such as p14 alternative reading frame and MDM2. This leads to coordinated regulation of the p53, resulting in the upregulation of the Cleaved caspase-3 and p21, alongside the downregulation of Cyclin D1. Evaluations in vitro and in vivo demonstrated that combinatorial therapy exerts superior antitumor efficacy compared to monotherapy. Notably, the nanoparticles significantly enhanced ultrasound imaging. Our work validates the concept of a unified theranostic platform for sono-gene therapy and ultrasound imaging, representing a promising advance in HCC treatment.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The Mizoram state of Northeast India has one of the highest HIV prevalence rates in Asia, yet the host genetic factors influencing HIV susceptibility in this Tibeto-Burman population remain uncharacterised.We performed whole-exome sequencing using Illumina NovaSeq 6000, mean coverage 100X on 76 HIV-negative Mizo individuals. Variants were called using GATK HaplotypeCaller v4.3 against GRCh38p14, annotated with ANNOVAR, and filtered using hard-quality thresholds (QD ≥ 2, SOR ≤ 3, MQ ≥ 40, DP ≥ 10, GQ ≥ 20). The allele frequencies were compared against gnomAD v2.1.1 population databases. Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium was assessed using the Wigginton exact test with Bonferroni correction.Post-quality filtering resulted in 12,011 sample-variants across 2,821 unique positions from 36 HIV-associated loci (33 protein-coding genes, 2 chemokine ligands, and 3 lncRNA targets). Of these, 784 observations (51 unique positions) were high-impact nonsynonymous or loss-of-function variants. ADAR rs2229857 (p.K384R, NM_015840) was the most frequently observed variant (Mizo carrier frequency = 0.895; 95% CI: 0.806-0.946). CXCR1 rs16858808 (p.R335C) showed the greatest population enrichment (Mizo carrier frequency = 0.197; 95% CI: 0.123-0.300; 7.65-fold carrier-frequency enrichment versus gnomAD South Asian; CADD = 15.60). Sixteen of 20 tested variants deviated from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium after Bonferroni correction (p < 0.0025), predominantly showing excess homozygosity consistent with the endogamous Mizo population. The protective variant CCR5-Δ32 was absent in all the 76 individuals tested.This first whole-exome characterization of HIV host genes in the Mizo population identifies CXCR1 rs16858808 as the most population-enriched functional variant and reveals a pervasive endogamy signature. These findings provide a population-specific genetic framework for future HIV susceptibility studies and ART pharmacogenomics research.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Voltage-gated proton channel (Hv1) and the NADPH oxidase (NOX2) functionally cooperate to support ROS generation in immune cells through electrochemical coupling. However, whether NOX2 components directly regulate Hv1 channel behavior remains unclear. In the present study, we investigated the molecular and functional relationship between Hv1 and the NOX2 catalytic subunit gp91phox in BV2 microglial cells and the HEK293T expression system. Proximity ligation assay and co-immunoprecipitation studies revealed a physical interaction between Hv1 and gp91phox. Electrophysiological experiments showed that endogenous Hv1 currents in BV2 cells exhibited slow activation and deactivation kinetics, which were markedly accelerated following gp91phox knockdown. Conversely, co-expression of gp91phox with Hv1 in HEK293T cells restored a slow-gating phenotype resembling native BV2 currents without significantly altering the voltage dependence of activation, indicating selective modulation of channel gating kinetics by gp91phox. Notably, deletion of gp91phox resulted in a dramatic (>80%) reduction in Hv1 current density and membrane protein expression. Trafficking assays further demonstrated that gp91phox deficiency selectively destabilized membrane-associated Hv1 without acutely affecting total cellular protein levels, indicating impaired channel trafficking. Collectively, these findings identify gp91phox as a direct regulator of Hv1 channel function and membrane expression. Beyond classical electrochemical coupling, our study reveals a previously unrecognized role for NOX2 components in controlling Hv1 channel gating and membrane trafficking, thereby establishing a novel mechanism coordinating redox signaling and proton channel regulation in microglial cells.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cholesterol is a key membrane component that regulates G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) function, yet its molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we combine chemical extraction of membrane sterols with functional signaling assays and single-molecule fluorescence resonance energy transfer (smFRET) to define how cholesterol controls activation of chemokine receptors. Reduction of membrane cholesterol in mammalian cells selectively decreased constitutive and agonist-induced signaling across CXCR1, CXCR2, CXCR4, while it activated ACKR3, and did not affect CXCR3, revealing receptor-specific dependence on membrane sterols. Mechanistically, cholesterol regulation partly required the conserved class A GPCR residue Trp 4.50 and shifted agonist-bound CXCR4 toward active conformational states, providing a molecular explanation for its functional effects. In contrast, replenishment with oxidized cholesterol species failed to restore receptor activity, distinguishing cholesterol from oxysterols as modulators of receptor activation. Our findings identify cholesterol as an allosteric regulator of chemokine receptors and suggest that oxysterols may reshape inflammatory signaling by selectively modulating GPCR activity.
The complexity of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) progression, coupled with the lack of effective immunotherapy, underscores the imperative to deepen our understanding of its mechanisms and identify suitable immune-targeted interventions. The G protein alpha subunit 15 (GNA15) is significantly upregulated in PDAC and correlates with poor prognosis in patients with PDAC. Mechanistically, our study demonstrates that TET3 upregulates GNA15 expression through demethylation in PCs, and the highly expressed GNA15 activates the phosphorylation of STAT3 via the GP130-JAK signaling pathway, thereby promoting the expression and release of CXCL8. Subsequently, CXCL8 released by PCs binds to CXCR1 or CXCR2 in macrophages to promote M2 polarization. Additionally, high GNA15 expression was associated with Gemcitabine resistance, and the combination of Reparixin and Gemcitabine has shown favorable antitumor efficacy in PDAC. Collectively, we elucidated that GNA15 drives PDAC progression and M2 macrophage polarization via the STAT3-CXCL8 axis and established targeting GNA15-STAT3-CXCL8 as a novel strategy to improve PDAC therapies.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is a rare inherited primary immunodeficiency characterized by recurrent infections and aberrant inflammation due to defects in the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase complex.We report a case of recurrent pneumonia and significantly elevated IgE levels in an adolescent. Metagenomic next-generation (mNGS) sequencing contributed to the identification of Burkholderia multivorans in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and the initiation of appropriate treatment. Whole exome sequencing (WES) revealed two point mutations in the CYBA gene. The patient was cured by hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.Application of mNGS contributed to the early identification of B. multivorans and the initiation of appropriate treatment. Timely screening by WES contributed to the diagnosis of the patient.© 2026 Zhou, Zhao, Sun, Mou, Liu, Shi, Li, Cheng, Tian, Fan and Wang.
Macrolide-resistant mycoplasma pneumoniae (MRMP) infections are more common and severe in children, indicating that age-related immune dysregulation affects disease outcomes, yet the underlying mechanisms remain unclear and suitable pediatric models are lacking. This study compared juvenile and adult mice with MRMP infection to identify age-dependent immune features linked to lung injury and establish a relevant animal model for pediatric research.Three-week-old (juvenile) and 8-week-old (adult) BALB/c mice were infected with MRMP. Pathological phenotypes included lung index, bacterial load, and lung histopathology scores. Serum inflammatory storm profiles were characterized using the Olink 48-plex assay. High-dimensional immune mapping of the spleen was performed by cytometry by time-of-flight mass spectrometry (CyTOF). Integrated analyses including sparse partial least squares-discriminant analysis (sPLS-DA), correlation heatmaps, and KEGG pathway enrichment were created to explore associations among differential immune subsets, inflammatory mediators, and M. pneumoniae pneumonia (MPP) phenotypes.No statistically significant differences in bacterial load were observed among the MRMP-infected juvenile (Juv+MRMP) and MRMP-infected adult (Ad+MRMP) groups (p > 0.05). However, the Juv+MRMP group exhibited significantly higher lung indices and more severe pulmonary histopathological damage, indicating a dissociation between bacterial burden and tissue injury. Olink analysis revealed significantly higher levels of serum chemokines (CCL2, CCL12, CCL22) and proinflammatory cytokines (IL-17A, IL-1β, IL-27) in the Juv+MRMP group than in the Ad+MRMP group. CyTOF analysis revealed a starkly different immune landscape: Juvenile mice exhibited excessive innate immune activation, with significant increases in neutrophil and monocyte infiltration, as well as elevated proportions of M2 macrophages and NK cells (p < 0.05); while adaptive immune responses were impaired, characterized by reduced proportions of CD4+ T cells and Treg cells, and maintained a high reserve of naïve Th cells compared with those in adult mice, along with elevated proportions of activated Tc cells (CD69+ Tc) (p < 0.05). Correlation analysis revealed that age and infection status are key factors driving host immune variability. M2 macrophages and NK cells were potentially associated with lung tissue pathology scores. Pathogen load correlates with both initial immune cells (CD24+ naïve Th, CD24+ naïve Tc) and effector immune cells (neutrophils, monocytes, CD69+ Tc), which may contribute to a Th1-type inflammatory response involving CCL2 and CCL4. Feedback-upregulated Treg cells may also aid pathogen clearance by promoting IL-10 expression. Leukocyte migration and granulocyte chemotaxis were potentially associated with age-dependent differences in inflammatory immune responses between juvenile and adult mice post-MRMP infection.The severity of pediatric MRMP infection may be correlated with age-associated immune dysregulation-characterized by heightened innate activation with insufficient adaptive regulation-rather than by bacterial load alone. The three-week-old juvenile mouse model appears to recapitulate key features of MRMP infection in children and could potentially serve as a useful platform for mechanistic and intervention studies.© 2026 The Author(s). Animal Models and Experimental Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Chinese Association for Laboratory Animal Sciences.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560626 is a review article
Alemtuzumab, a monoclonal antibody targeting CD52, is associated with a high incidence of secondary autoimmune disease, most commonly thyroid dysfunction. Alemtuzumab-induced Graves' disease (AIGD) typically follows a relapsing course and may exhibit atypical or severe phenotypes during immune reconstitution (IR).We report a case of severe thyrotoxicosis following alemtuzumab therapy for multiple sclerosis, complicated by the development of thyroid eye disease (TED) and pretibial myxoedema (PTM). Despite escalation of antithyroid therapy, biochemical and clinical control remained suboptimal. Radioiodine therapy was not pursued due to the presence of established orbitopathy. Given persistent severe disease and extrathyroidal manifestations, definitive management with total thyroidectomy was undertaken.Thyroidectomy resulted in rapid biochemical control of thyrotoxicosis. thyroid-stimulating hormone-receptor antibody (TRAb) remained markedly elevated after thyroidectomy, indicating persistent autoimmune activity despite removal of the thyroid gland.This case highlights an aggressive and uncommon presentation of AIGD characterised by severe thyrotoxicosis, orbitopathy and PTM. Clinicians should recognise the potential for atypical and refractory disease following alemtuzumab therapy. In selected cases, early consideration of definitive therapy is warranted, particularly when radioiodine is considered unsuitable.Copyright © 2026 Aongus O’Brolchain and Elham Reda. Case Reports in Endocrinology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Effective anti-tumor immunity is critically dependent on the functional capacity and robust infiltration of type-1 helper T (Th1) cells into the tumor microenvironment (TME). However, persistent antigenic stimulation leads to T cell exhaustion, determining the efficacy of immunotherapy approaches such as immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). A key barrier to successful immunotherapy therapy remains the impaired motility and infiltration of exhausted T cells. To address this, we investigated the dual impact of anti-PD-1 and anti-CTLA-4 blockade on the migratory efficacy of ex vivo generated exhausted Th1 (Th1-Ex) cells. Recognizing the limitations of 2D culture, we utilized a 3D microfluidic (lab-on-a-chip) platform to simulate the TME's complex physical and chemical constraints, alongside in vivo patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models. While ICI treatment did not alter static adhesion, it distinctly modulated focal adhesion dynamics. Critically, in the highly relevant 3D microfluidic environment, ICI-treated Th1-Ex cells exhibited significantly enhanced motility and directional persistence compared to untreated cells. Mechanistically, anti-PD-1/CTLA-4 treatment activated signalling pathways associated with both amoeboid and mesenchymal-like migration, but functional inhibition identified RAC1-dependent mesenchymal-like migration as the predominant contributor to the enhanced migratory response. These results were strongly corroborated in vivo, where the anti-PD-1/CTLA-4 combination conferred remarkable and selective tumor and lymph node infiltration capacity to the adoptively transferred Th1-Ex cells. Collectively, our findings highlight a dual role for ICIs on restoring Th1 cell functionality and actively promoting tumor-directed migration by altering adhesion-migration pathways, offering novel mechanistic insights for optimizing immunotherapies in solid tumors.
Clostridioides difficile infection is primarily attributed to toxin A (TcdA) and toxin B (TcdB), the major mediators of epithelial damage and intestinal inflammation. However, strain-dependent differences in pathogenicity have been reported, suggesting that additional bacterial factors may contribute to host inflammatory responses.To compare the inflammatory activity of culture supernatants from the single clinical isolate LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 and reference C. difficile strains under toxin-containing and glucose-repressed conditions.C. difficile strains, including the clinical isolates LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 and LIBA-5758/NAP1/RT027/ST01 and the reference strains VPI10463/RT003/ST046 and 630/RT012/ST54, were grown anaerobically in tryptose-yeast extract-thioglycolate broth with or without 1% glucose. Glucose-associated reduction of toxin activity was assessed by electrophoretic protein profiling, cytotoxicity assays, and Rac1 glucosylation analysis. Biological activity was evaluated in a mouse ligated ileal loop model by macroscopic examination, histopathology, cytokine quantification, and myeloperoxidase activity.Glucose supplementation did not substantially alter bacterial growth but markedly reduced detectable toxin-associated bands, cytopathic activity, and Rac1 glucosylation. Toxin-containing supernatants from LIBA-5758/NAP1/RT027/ST01 and VPI10463/RT003/ST046 produced the most pronounced epithelial injury. Under the same conditions, LIBA-5758/NAP1/RT027/ST01, VPI10463/RT003/ST046, and LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 induced robust inflammatory responses. Under glucose-repressed conditions, epithelial damage was no longer evident, and inflammatory activity was markedly reduced in LIBA-5758/NAP1/RT027/ST01, VPI10463/RT003/ST046, and 630/RT012/ST54. In contrast, supernatants from LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 retained substantial inflammatory activity, including increased TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and myeloperoxidase activity, despite the absence of overt epithelial damage.The clinical isolate LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 retained substantial inflammatory activity under glucose-repressed conditions despite markedly reduced detectable toxin-associated activity. This phenotype was not observed to the same extent in the other strains examined, including the RT012/ST54 reference strain 630. These findings identify a strain-specific inflammatory phenotype observed in LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 and support further investigation into the extracellular factors that may contribute to inflammatory responses in C. difficile.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Neutrophils have been implicated in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis in multiple studies. This study aimed to determine the effects of flavonoids (quercetin and luteolin) and vitamin C on neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation and regulation of NET markers, including circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) and myeloperoxidase (MPO). Additionally, we assessed the expression of NADPH oxidase complex subunits and superoxide anion generation in neutrophils.Whole blood samples were collected from patients with atherosclerosis. Neutrophils were stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and the effects of flavonoids and vitamin C on NET release, NADPH oxidase subunit expression (p47phox, p67phox, Rac1), and superoxide production were evaluated.Atherosclerotic patients showed increased NETosis, with elevated NET release, MPO, and cfDNA levels. Expression of NADPH oxidase subunits p47phox and p67phox and superoxide anion generation were significantly higher compared to controls. LPS further enhanced these effects. Treatment with quercetin, luteolin, and vitamin C reduced NET formation, NADPH oxidase expression, and superoxide production in stimulated neutrophils.Flavonoids and vitamin C modulate NET formation, likely by affecting NADPH oxidase activity and reactive oxygen species production, suggesting potential anti-inflammatory effects relevant to atherosclerosis. Further studies are warranted to evaluate the potential application of these compounds as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of atherosclerosis.Copyright © 2025 Termedia & Banach.
Gastric cancer remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, with limited sensitivity to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) representing a major obstacle to effective chemotherapy. Licochalcones, bioactive chalcones derived from licorice, have demonstrated broad-spectrum anticancer activities, yet the role of Licochalcone C in enhancing 5-FU sensitivity in gastric cancer remains unexplored.This study aimed to investigate the antitumor effects of Licochalcone C on gastric cancer and evaluate its potential to enhance 5-FU chemosensitivity, along with elucidating the underlying molecular mechanisms.The antitumor and chemosensitizing effects of Licochalcone C were systematically evaluated using human gastric cancer cell lines, patient-derived organoids, clinical specimens, and a mouse xenograft model.Cell proliferation, colony formation, migration, invasion, and cell cycle distribution were assessed by standard assays. Biotin-labeled Licochalcone C pull-down with mass spectrometry, molecular docking, cellular thermal shift assay, and co-immunoprecipitation were employed for target identification. Western blot and transcriptomic analyses defined the signaling mechanisms.Licochalcone C inhibited gastric cancer cell proliferation, migration, and invasion while inducing G1 arrest, and markedly enhanced 5-FU sensitivity in cell lines, organoids, and xenograft models. Mechanistically, Licochalcone C directly bound RAC3, suppressing the RAC3-mediated PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway and downregulating P-glycoprotein. Clinically, RAC3 overexpression correlated with advanced stage, poor survival, and unfavorable chemotherapy response.Licochalcone C functions as a RAC3-targeting chemosensitizer that enhances 5-FU efficacy by inhibiting PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling and P-glycoprotein expression, supporting its development as a therapeutic adjuvant for gastric cancer.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are usually treated as unrelated, yet depressive symptoms occur in a substantial minority of people with ALS and may appear early. These symptoms are heterogeneous and may reflect syndromal MDD, psychological and functional burden, fatigue, apathy, pseudobulbar affect, frontotemporal involvement, sleep or respiratory disturbance, medication effects, or shared affective vulnerability. A proposed pruning-continuum model suggests both disorders may share vulnerability in microglia-mediated synaptic pruning, with ALS amplified by autophagy and protein-quality-control failure and MDD by RNA-processing, stress, and immune dysregulation. We performed an exploratory secondary transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS)/pathway-integration analysis to test whether predefined nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN)-nominated pathways map onto this vulnerability.We integrated precomputed S-PrediXcan outputs for MDD and ALS across available brain-relevant tissues. Ten Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways were predefined from a prior re-analysis of NMN-associated transcriptional programs in aged mouse metabolic tissues. Mouse-derived candidates were represented by human ortholog symbols before the human TWAS screen. The analysis tested nominated pathways rather than the 35-gene NMN-robust list as a standalone set. Cross-tissue screening used Stouffer Z aggregation, tissue-level Wilcoxon testing, competitive permutation testing, percentile bootstrap intervals, pairwise disease statistics, Levene variance tests, concordance measures, and leave-one-out sensitivity analysis. No analysis was treated as confirmatory or evidence of causal mediation.MDD showed the strongest Stouffer-based exploratory signal in the synaptic vesicle cycle pathway, with a meta-across-tissue Stouffer Z of 3.41 and a wide bootstrap 95% confidence interval of -0.46 to 7.40. This signal did not survive competitive permutation testing (p = 0.1222) or Wilcoxon testing (p = 0.1926). The strongest tissue-level result occurred in the amygdala (Z = 4.057; nominal Wilcoxon p = 0.0093), although tissue-level permutation testing was not performed in the multi-gene-set run. ALS showed no significant meta-across-tissue enrichment among the 10 nominated pathways but displayed candidate gene-level signals in autophagy, endosomal, and vesicle-related genes, including TBK1 and C9orf72. Exploratory Levene tests indicated variance heterogeneity in the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton, endocytosis, and neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction; the actin cytoskeleton and endocytosis remained significant in pooled global false discovery rate (FDR) analysis. Fourteen genes were influential in at least two focus pathways, including EGF, KNG1, FGF8, RAC1, PAK1, PAK2, RAF1, MAPK1, and FGFR1.These findings are hypothesis-generating. MDD and ALS may stress overlapping cellular logistics processes while engaging largely different genes. MDD showed the strongest exploratory pathway-level signal in synaptic vesicle biology, whereas ALS showed candidate gene-level coherence in autophagy and endosomal processes without significant meta-pathway enrichment. NMN/NAD+ repletion is not established as a treatment for MDD, ALS, or their comorbidity. These findings generate hypotheses about NAD+-linked cellular stress pathways for future preclinical and clinical studies.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Phytogenic feed additives encompass a broad category of plant-derived compounds that are used to improve animal health and production performance. Essential oils, as a volatile subclass of phytogenics extracted from plant materials, are recognized for their antimicrobial, antioxidant, and immunomodulatory properties and have been increasingly investigated as alternatives to antibiotic growth promoters in broiler nutrition. The study objective was to evaluate the effect of garlic and black seed oils on live broiler growth performance, immunity, and related gene expression. A total of 560 day-old Indian River broiler chicks were assigned randomly in a completely randomized design to one of four dietary groups, with each treatment consisting of 7 replicates (20 birds per replicate): control (CON; n = 140), garlic oil supplemented diet (200 mg/kg feed garlic oil, GO; n = 140), black seed oil supplemented diet (150 mg/kg feed black seed oil, BSO; n = 140), and the mixed oils group (200 mg/kg, 150 mg/kg for garlic and black seed oils, respectively, GO+BSO; n = 140). Supplementation with GO or BSO individually enhanced final body weight (p = 0.0356) and feed conversion ratio (p = 0.0407). White blood cell counts were lower in the treatment groups (p = 0.035). Serum triglycerides, VLDL, and AST levels were significantly reduced in the treatment groups (P < 0.05). Clostridium perfringens counts were lower in the treatment groups (p = 0.0006). Gene expression analysis revealed significant downregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-α) and AvBD9, alongside upregulation of LEAP-2 and SLC11A1 in liver and spleen tissues. Dietary supplementation with garlic oil or black seed oil significantly enhanced broiler growth performance, lipid metabolism, immune function, and gut microbiota balance. The combined treatment (GO+BSO) did not produce additive or synergistic effects, suggesting overlapping mechanisms of action. These findings support GO and BSO as effective multifunctional alternatives to antibiotic growth promoters in sustainable poultry production.Copyright © 2026 Obeidat, Khafajah and Riley.
Acetaminophen (APAP)-induced acute liver injury (AILI) is characterized by extensive cell death and sterile inflammation, with substantial accumulation of myeloid cells in necrotic areas. Macrophages are critical elements in acute hepatic inflammation and resolution. Piezo1 is a mechanically activated ion channel that modulates innate immune responses and senses microenvironmental cues.The functions of myeloid Piezo1 in AILI remain elusive. This study aimed to determine whether myeloid Piezo1 regulates inflammation resolution and macrophage-mediated clearance during AILI.To generate the AILI mouse model, APAP was administered intraperitoneally to Piezo1fl/fl and Piezo1ΔLysM mice, and samples were collected at 6, 24, and 48 h after treatment. Bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) were stimulated with APAP-treated normal mouse liver cell line (AML12) supernatant to mimic sterile inflammatory response. Liver histology, immunostaining, gene expression analysis, flow cytometry, intracellular Ca2+ measurements, and phagocytosis/efferocytosis assays were performed.Piezo1 exerted protective effects against hepatotoxin-induced liver necrosis and promoted liver recovery after APAP overdose. In vitro assays revealed that Piezo1 alleviated the inflammatory response in bone marrow-derived macrophages. Mechanistically, myeloid Piezo1 manifested a more reparative phenotype and enhanced phagocytic activity by upregulating MerTK expression. Specifically, Piezo1 acted through Ca2+ influx to regulate the expression of MerTK at the target binding stage. Inhibition of MerTK induced more pro-inflammatory mediators and reduced phagocytic ability, phenocopying the Piezo1 deficiency. Separately, Piezo1 modulated cytoskeletal rearrangement via the FAK/Rac1 axis during target internalization. Pharmacological activation of Piezo1 promoted pro-resolution marker expression and enhanced efferocytosis/phagocytic clearance in vitro.This study identified myeloid Piezo1 as an important regulator of macrophage-mediated inflammation resolution and dying-cell clearance during AILI, providing a basis for future exploration of Piezo1-related pathways in macrophage-mediated liver recovery.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study aimed to use quantitative phosphoproteomics to explore phosphorylation characteristics in Klebsiella pneumoniae (Kpn)-induced liver abscess (KPLA) formation and liver injury. The Kpn strain LA-Kpn006 was phenotypically and genotypically characterized. A murine model of KPLA was established via intragastric inoculation. Phosphoproteomics and bioinformatic analyses were conducted to identify and quantify phosphosites and phosphoproteins. LA-Kpn006 displayed a hypermucoviscous phenotype, serotype K1, ST23 genotype, and harbored six major virulence genes. Inoculation induced liver colonization and typical histopathological abscess lesions. We quantified 3017 phosphoproteins covering 12,798 phosphosites (dominated by serine phosphorylation); 1723 proteins were upregulated and 425 downregulated. Bioinformatic analyses revealed remodeling in metabolism, stress response, signal transduction, and cytoskeleton organization. Upregulated proteins converged on fatty acid elongation, inositol phosphate metabolism, and the tricarboxylic acid cycle; downregulated proteins were enriched in PI3K-Akt, IL-17 signaling, and T-cell differentiation. Protein-protein interaction network analysis identified 10 key proteins (Src, Rac1, Actb, Hsp90aa1, Hsp90ab1, Egfr, Rps6, Pik3CA, Itgb1, and Fyn) that mediate inflammatory signaling, cytoskeleton remodeling, and immune infiltration. Dysregulated phosphorylation networks drive pathological metabolic adaptation, suppressed immune homeostasis, and cytoskeletal disorganization, collectively facilitating KPLA progression. The identified hub proteins and pathways represent high-value mechanistic targets and candidate therapeutic vulnerabilities for KPLA.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565567 is a review article
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.34133/research.1018.].Copyright © 2026 Zijian Chen et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560134 is a review article
The TREM2 receptor is a well-known rheostat for inflammation and immunity, but its role in host defense against parasitic infection is only just emerging. We investigated the function of TREM2 during acute Toxoplasma gondii infection by comparing TREM2-deficient and C57BL/6 wild-type (WT) mice during intraperitoneal infection with type II (Prugniaud strain) T. gondii. Infected TREM2 knockout (KO) mice had significantly increased mortality and elevated parasite burden during acute infection, as well as increased liver pathology and higher levels of inflammatory cytokines IL-1α, IL-6, and IL-17A by 7 days post-infection (dpi). Notably, we observed an early expansion and dissemination of T. gondii in infected macrophages in the omentum in TREM2 KO compared to WT mice, and this phenotype was specific to TREM2 deficiency on radiation-sensitive cells, based on bone marrow chimera experiments. In vitro, TREM2 KO macrophages were more permissive to T. gondii infection and exhibited reduced LAMP1 upregulation and impaired phagocytotic clearance of T. gondii compared to WT macrophages. TREM2 deficiency has been previously associated with elevated ERK signaling and defective lysosomal activity, and we found that treatment of TREM2 KO macrophages with the ERK inhibitor SCH772984 rescued LAMP1 expression and improved macrophage control of the parasites. Finally, RNA sequencing of myeloid cells isolated from the peritoneal cavity of infected mice at 3 dpi revealed increased transcripts associated with inflammation and decreased transcripts associated with cellular migration in the TREM2 KO compared to WT mice. These findings demonstrate a critical role for TREM2 in the early antimicrobial immune response to T. gondii infection by limiting parasite expansion, dissemination, and pathological inflammation in the infected host.Copyright: © 2026 Debray et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Endometriosis (EMS) is characterised by a disrupted peritoneal immune microenvironment where M2 macrophage polarization and impaired phagocytosis promote lesion survival. Single-cell RNA-seq (ScRNAseq) of the peritoneal macrophages from EMS patient revealed elevated Triggering Receptor Expressed on Myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) and signal regulatory protein α (SIRPα). The expression of TREM2 and SIRPa is positively correlated, and each are positively correlated with estrogen response. Mouse EMS model was established by intraperitoneal injection of estrogen primed mouse endometrial fragments into recipient female mice. In vitro estrogen treatment of RAW 264.7 cells indicated an increasing TREM2/SIRPα expression and enhancing phagocytosis of lesion cells derived from WT EMS ectopic lesions. Peritoneal macrophage from mice with EMS were analyzed using flow cytometry for the expression of TREM2 and SIRPα. The assessment of F4/80, CD206, and SIRPα expressing cells within the lesions were performed through the implementation of multi-color immunohistochemistry (mIHC). Small peritoneal macrophages (SpMs, F4/80low CD11blow) were markedly increased in the EMS model. Trem2 knockout mice, as the recipient, showed smaller ectopic lesion size and less lesion formation. TREM2 deficiency inhibited SpM polarization into M2 and downregulated their SIRPα expression, while enhancing phagocytic activity. Mechanistically, estrogen pretreatment upregulated TREM2, which correlated with SIRPα upregulation and impaired phagocytosis. Under estrogen exposure, TREM2 knockdown RAW 264.7 cells potentiated phagocytosis. Thus, TREM2 is an important contributing pathogenic factor in promoting EMS by enhancing M2 polarization and suppressing phagocytosis via SIRPα upregulation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Dysregulation of brain cholesterol homeostasis is increasingly recognized as a critical driver of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. G protein-coupled receptor 146 (GPR146) has emerged as a pivotal regulator of systemic cholesterol metabolism; however, its role in the central nervous system and AD remains elusive. Here, we report that GPR146 deficiency in mice modulates ERK/PKA signaling without affecting baseline physiology or general behavior. Following intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of amyloid-β (Aβ)42 oligomers, GPR146 was associated with altered Aβ42-evoked ERK/PKA/Akt signaling both in vivo and in vitro. Mechanistically, Gpr146 ablation potentiated microglial Aβ phagocytosis, which correlated with the transcriptional upregulation of phagocytic receptors, including TREM2, GPR34, P2Y6, and CR3, alongside increased expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6). Moreover, GPR146 deficiency was linked to elevated levels of blood-brain barrier (BBB)-associated markers Cldn-5 and Glut-1 protein levels, while attenuating Aβ‑induced inflammatory responses in brain endothelial cells. At the metabolic level, GPR146 knockout modulated the expression of key enzymes governing glucose (GLUT1, GLUT3, G6PD, PFK, HK) and lipid (HMGCS1, ACACA, FASN, SCD1) metabolism and markedly reduced Aβ‑elicited lipid droplet accumulation in the cortex and hippocampus. Collectively, our findings establish GPR146 as a novel neurometabolic regulator whose deficiency correlates with enhanced Aβ phagocytosis, maintenance of BBB-associated proteins, and altered cerebral metabolism, thereby presenting a potential therapeutic axis for early AD intervention.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553440 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552179
A novel thin-layer chromatography (TLC)-based bioassay coupled with digital image analysis (DIA) was developed for rapid and non-targeted screening of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in complex natural matrices. Conventional ACE inhibitory assays lack spatial resolution and rely on indirect measurements, limiting their applicability for effect-directed analysis (EDA). In this study, an on-surface enzymatic assay was implemented using hippuryl-histidyl-leucine (HHL) as substrate, followed by in situ derivatization of the generated hippuric acid with p-dimethylaminobenzaldehyde (DMAB) in an acetone:acetic anhydride system, producing an orange chromophore directly on the TLC plate. To overcome the inherent subjectivity of visual evaluation, a MATLAB-based DIA workflow was introduced to quantify the colorimetric response as pseudo-absorbance, enabling objective optimization of assay parameters. The blue channel provided the highest analytical sensitivity (R2 = 0.9984), and no significant matrix effects were observed (p = 0.09), confirming the robustness of the approach. Optimal conditions were established at 180 mU mL-1 ACE, 3 mM HHL, 30 min incubation, and 10% (w/v) DMAB. The method was applied to P. boldus alkaloidal extracts, enabling clear detection and localization of inhibitory zones poorly resolved by visual inspection. Subsequent isolation by micro-preparative TLC followed by UHPLC-DAD-MS/MS analysis enabled tentative identification of three aporphine alkaloids: norboldine (m/z 314.20 [M+H]+), boldine (m/z 328.10 [M+H]+), and laurotetanine (m/z 328.10 ([M+H]+). This integrated TLC-ACE-DIA platform, complemented by GNPS-assisted MS/MS annotation, provides a rapid, cost-effective, high-throughput strategy for discovery and prioritization of ACE inhibitors in natural products, significantly enhancing analytical capabilities of effect-directed analysis workflows.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease-related plasma biomarker interrelationships and factors underlying these associations remain poorly understood. To address this, we studied the heritability of plasma biomarkers and their associations with cognition. This study included 696 twins, aged 65-85, without a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease or related dementias. Plasma amyloid beta 42 and 40, phosphorylated tau (p-tau) 181 and 217, neurofilament light chain (NfL) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) were quantified with Simoa HD-X, and cognition was assessed with cCOG. Heritability of plasma biomarkers was assessed with multivariate twin models and associations with cognition with linear mixed effect models. Phenotypic associations varied from 0.22 between p-tau181 and GFAP to 0.73 between p-tau181 and p-tau217, and the heritability estimates ranged from 0.39 (p-tau181) to 0.66 (GFAP). Genetic and environmental correlations were 0.32-0.67 and 0.06-0.78, with the strongest correlations observed between p-tau181 and p-tau217. P-tau181 and p-tau217 were associated with cognition (β = -0.12; 95% CI: -0.19--0.04 and β = -0.19; 95% CI: -0.26--0.12, respectively). The observed phenotypic and genetic associations highlight shared underlying mechanisms among plasma biomarkers. Despite p-tau181 and p-tau217 having the strongest genetic and environmental correlations, neither approached unity, implying unique genetic and environmental factors. Our results offer insight into the genetic architecture of diagnostic and progression markers of Alzheimer's disease and inform their use in future gene-finding studies.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566840 is a review article
Hypertension remains one of the leading causes of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality; however, patient adherence to treatment remains inadequate. In the context of a digital society, search queries can serve as an additional source of information regarding the population's information needs and patterns of interaction with medications.To conduct a comprehensive longitudinal infodemiological study of the Russian population's interest in angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors based on an analysis of search queries for the period 2018-2025.A retrospective study was conducted using aggregated data from the Yandex search engine (Wordstat) covering 84 months. Search queries were analyzed for six major ACE inhibitors (captopril, enalapril, lisinopril, perindopril, ramipril, fosinopril), as well as for their brand names (21 drugs in total). We analyzed time series (Mann-Kendall test), seasonality (Kruskal-Wallis test), and variability, as well as performed multidimensional semantic analysis (Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA), Term Frequency-Inverse Document Frequency (TF-IDF) + k-means, k-medoids, n-grams).The total volume of analyzed queries exceeded 102 million. The greatest informational interest was identified for the captopril (30.1% of all queries), perindopril (27.9%), and enalapril (21.3%) groups. Perindopril demonstrated the strongest positive trend (τ = 0.762; p < 0.001). Statistically significant seasonality (p < 0.05) was observed for all six main International Nonproprietary Names (INN), with a peak during the winter months and a decline in activity during the summer. Semantic analysis revealed distinct differentiation in information patterns: captopril was associated with emergency use and sublingual administration, enalapril with manufacturer selection, lisinopril with searches for instructions and reviews, and perindopril with fixed-dose combinations. The proportion of queries related to emergency use was highest for captopril (0.53%) and lowest for the other drugs.Users' search activity reflects consistent differences in the perception of ACE inhibitors and demonstrates pronounced seasonal dynamics. The identified digital patterns may indirectly reflect medication-related information needs and potential gaps in the population's health literacy. The infodemiological approach represents a promising tool for monitoring patients' information needs and optimizing clinical communication and preventive programs.Copyright © 2026 Kotlyarov and Kotlyarova.
Although adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) increase risk for mental illness at the population level, existing ACEs screens are less helpful in forecasting individual outcomes, suggesting they may not capture significant elements of childhood adversity. We have previously identified unpredictable parental and household experiences as an ACE that portends poorer cognitive and mental health. However, the contribution of unpredictability to established ACEs in real-world settings is unknown. Here, leveraging existing ACEs screening in California, we added the five-item Questionnaire on Unpredictability in Childhood (QUIC-5) in 19 pediatric clinics spanning broad sociodemographic constituencies and compared in ~30,000 children the link of each screen with mental health diagnoses. Scores on either the ACEs or QUIC-5 associated with probabilities of depression, externalizing symptoms, sleep disorders, anxiety and somatic symptoms. Each screen provided unique contributions and combining them often doubled the strength of associations. For depression and sleep disorders, the QUIC-5 identified vulnerable individuals missed by ACEs screen, improving risk detection and facilitating future interventions.© The Author(s) 2026.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is associated with a variety of mental health conditions, including dissociation. In addition to high rates of trauma exposure, vulnerability for dissociation in autism may be heightened by social differences, cognitive inflexibility, and sensory sensitivities. This study examined dissociative symptoms across levels of autistic traits using existing clinical data from 716 individuals receiving mental health care ("clients") in Australia. Clients completed the Multidimensional Inventory of Dissociation-60 (MID-60), the Ritvo Autism Asperger Diagnostic Scale-Revised (RAADS-R), and the Adverse Childhood Experiences Questionnaire (ACE-Q) or Life Events Checklist for DSM-5 (LEC-5). Clients were grouped according to their RAADS-R scores, measuring autistic traits. Analyses first compared those with high autistic traits (HA; ≥120; n = 338) to below-threshold autistic traits (BA; <120; n = 378). The latter group was then subdivided into those with moderate autistic traits (MA; 65-119; n = 214) and low autistic traits (LA; <65; n = 164) for more comprehensive analysis. HA clients had the highest scores on all trauma and dissociation measures and subscales, and clinically elevated dissociation was significantly more prevalent among HA clients (68%) than BA clients (33%; OR = 4.42) and LA clients (15%; OR = 12.59). MA clients also scored higher than LA clients in almost all domains. Autistic traits and dissociation severity were significantly correlated overall and for all subscales, with the strongest correlations found for the RAADS-R Sensory-Motor domain. All relationships remained significant after controlling for ACEs. This highlights the need for routine screening and tailored interventions addressing both autistic traits and dissociation.
This study investigated, for the first time, the application of ohmic heating (OH) during curd cooking and its effects on the technological, functional, microbiological, and sensory attributes of probiotic cottage cheese. Cheeses were produced using a standard protocol, except that the curd was cooked at 35 °C for 30 min under different electric field intensities (4, 8 and 12 V cm-1), and the results were compared with those of conventional heating (CONV). All formulations were supplemented with Lactobacillus acidophilus La-5 (7 log CFU/g). OH processing markedly intensified proteolysis, with this effect increasing proportionally to electric field strength. This resulted in higher peptide release and enhanced in vitro bioactivity potential, including antioxidant, ACE-inhibitory, α-amylase-inhibitory, α-glucosidase-inhibitory, and pancreatic lipase-inhibitory activities. OH-treated cheeses also exhibited higher probiotic viability and improved tolerance to simulated gastrointestinal conditions throughout storage, with counts remaining above recommended levels for probiotic foods (>6 log CFU/g). Sensory analysis showed greater consumer acceptance of OH-processed cheeses, particularly at higher electric field intensities. Overall, the results suggest that OH may represent a promising alternative processing technology for probiotic cottage cheese, contributing to improved in vitro bioactivity potential, probiotic stability, and sensory characteristics.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Soluble ligand-neutralizing antibodies are constrained by antigen excess and immune complex-associated toxicity. Here, we describe αLR-Ab, a humanized antibody that protects the low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) from proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) by targeting its EGF-A domain. Rather than transiently intercepting extracellular ligands, αLR-Ab sterically shields LDLR and redirects receptor trafficking through its native recycling pathway, thereby preventing PCSK9-mediated lysosomal degradation. This recycling-enabled receptor shielding supports durable LDL-C lowering, substantial dose sparing, and an eightfold increase in tolerance to PCSK9 excess in vitro. In humanized hypercholesterolemic mice, a single dose of αLR-Ab sustained LDL-C suppression for up to 24 days without inducing circulating immune complexes, perturbing free PCSK9 homeostasis, or promoting immune complex deposition in the renal cortex. Receptor shielding coupled with endogenous recycling, distinct from ligand neutralization or receptor degradation, defines a previously unexplored therapeutic modality for preserving homeostasis in chronic disease.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Hyaluronic acid (HA) hydrogels generally exhibit poor resistance to moist heat sterilization. Modification with a single metal element (ME) fails to synergistically optimize multiple functional properties. The destructive impact of terminal sterilization on hydrogel network integrity has often been overlooked in the biomedical hydrogel field, which may hinder clinical translation. To address these challenges, this study developed a ternary ME co-crosslinked HA hydrogel incorporating Mg2 +/Zn2+/Fe3+. The formulation was optimized using Box-Behnken response surface methodology. Moist heat sterilization at 121℃ for 12 min, corresponding to a sterility assurance level (SAL) ≤ 10-6, was incorporated into the formulation optimization and performance evaluation process. Rheological measurements confirmed that the ME-crosslinked hydrogels retained suitable mechanical properties for wound dressing application after sterilization. In vivo experiments demonstrated that the M-ME@Gel achieved rapid hemostasis, with a hemostatic time of 28.0 ± 5.86 s and blood loss of 57.93 ± 11.71 mg. It also accelerated wound closure, resulting in near-complete healing in mice by day 11 and a wound-closure rate of 97.72 ± 1.93% in rabbits by day 14. This study provides a strategy for enhancing the moist heat sterilization resistance of biomedical hydrogels, and offers a reference for the translational development of wound dressing.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) are associated with multiple deleterious life-course outcomes, with salient repercussions during adolescence. Evidence on vulnerable peripheral adolescents remains scarce, especially in Brazil. This study examined the association between self-reported ACEs (family/community violence, abuse, and neglect) and body satisfaction among adolescents aged 10 to 14 years living in an impoverished peripheral community of São Paulo, Brazil.This quantitative cross-sectional investigation used 2021 baseline data from the Global Early Adolescent Study (GEAS). The sample comprised 974 cisgender adolescents aged 10 to 14 years recruited through Primary Health Care Units. Body satisfaction was measured using a four-item index derived from the Health Behaviour in School-aged Children (HBSC) instrument. ACEs were assessed through a standardized instrument covering 11 adversity categories. Descriptive, bivariate, and multiple linear regression analyses were conducted, adjusting for sociodemographic and contextual variables.ACE exposure was frequent: 81.2% of adolescents reported at least one adversity and 33.8% reported four or more exposures, particularly girls. Fear of emotional aggression (61.7%), emotional neglect (58.8%), and physical neglect (49.0%) were most frequent. Girls showed lower body satisfaction than boys. Emotional neglect, bullying, fear of emotional aggression, physical neglect, and caregivers' emotional distress remained significantly associated with lower body satisfaction means.Frequent reports of ACEs, particularly emotional aggression and neglect, suggest that body satisfaction during early adolescence is closely related to relational experiences and gender differences. These findings highlight the need for health and educational strategies addressing violence and neglect in vulnerable peripheral contexts.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains the leading cause of dementia worldwide, and beta-secretase 1 (BACE1) remains a high-priority target for reducing amyloid-beta production. Nobiletin, a polymethoxylated flavonoid from citrus peel, has reported neuroprotective and amyloid-lowering effects in AD models, and previous enzymatic work suggested weak BACE1 inhibition; however, its replica-level binding stability and residue-level energetic determinants remain unresolved. Here, we analyzed the nobiletin-BACE1 complex using ChEMBL-based chemical-space contextualization, qualitative QSAR uncertainty assessment, molecular docking, triplicate 200-ns all-atom molecular dynamics simulations, molecular mechanics generalized Born surface area (MM-GBSA) end-point scoring, residue-level decomposition, ProLIF interaction fingerprints, electrostatic surface analysis, and a same-protocol OM99-2 structural control. The ligand remained locally accommodated within the BACE1 cleft across the sampled trajectories, with a mean internal MM-GBSA score (DeltaG_bind) of - 15.71 +/- 0.76 kcal/mol (n = 3: - 14.20, - 16.35, and - 16.57 kcal/mol). Residue-level decomposition identified ARG128 as the dominant computed hotspot (total mean = - 11.13 +/- 0.38 kcal/mol), with favorable van der Waals (VDW mean = - 6.88 +/- 0.21 kcal/mol) and Coulombic (Coulomb mean = - 4.25 +/- 0.53 kcal/mol) components. Additional hydrophobic/aromatic packing involved VAL69, TYR71, PRO70, PHE38, and PRO129, while ASP32/ASP228 were positioned outside the dominant nobiletin contact pattern. Together, these results support a putative ARG128-associated, non-dyad-dominant catalytic-cleft recognition model that should be interpreted as a hypothesis-generating computational framework for future biochemical testing and scaffold optimization.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Chronic fatty acid (FA) elevation drives metabolic dysfunction-associated liver disease (MASLD). Hepatocytes buffer transient lipid overload via coordinated adaptive mechanisms, but the temporal limits of this capacity remain undefined.We characterized early, intermediate, and prolonged hepatocellular responses to sustained lipid excess.HuH7 hepatocytes were exposed to an equimolar palmitic/oleic acid (PA/OA) mixture for 1, 14, or 28 days. Viability, lipid accumulation, stress-response pathways, insulin signaling, metabolic regulators, mitochondrial markers, [14C]-PA uptake, and exo-metabolomic profiles were assessed (n≥3/group). Data (mean ± SEM) were analyzed by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni post hoc testing; cumulative cell death by linear regression. P<0.05 was significant.FA treatment increased lipid droplet accumulation 1.4- to 1.7-fold vs. time-matched BSA controls at all time points (p<0.001) and increased the rate of cumulative cell death ∼4.3-fold (1.556±0.083 vs. 0.365±0.054%/day, p<0.001). Exo-metabolomic PCA explained 88.5% of variance (Q2=0.758), with peak lactate release at Day 14 and progressively rising acetate through Day 28. [14C]-PA accumulation at Day 28 was ∼30% lower than Day 1 (∼800 vs. ∼500 cpm/mg protein), with a declining rather than plateauing profile between 20-60 s. By Day 28, FA-treated cells showed lower FASN (p<0.001), CD36 (p<0.05), FABP1 (p<0.001), SIRT1 (p<0.005), and CLOCK (p<0.01) protein levels, and higher CPT1A (p<0.001), pAMPK/AMPK (p<0.01), p53 (p<0.001), Bax/Bcl2 (p<0.005), and respiratory complex I-V abundance (p<0.05-p<0.001) vs. controls.Sustained PA/OA exposure induces a staged hepatocellular response, early lipid-buffering adaptation, intermediate metabolic compensation, and late decompensation, indicating that chronic lipotoxicity reflects progressive loss of regulatory coordination despite persistent metabolic adaptation.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Short-chain chlorinated paraffins (SCCPs), ubiquitous persistent organic pollutants, have been increasingly implicated in metabolic disorders; however, their developmental effects on hepatic lipid metabolism in offspring remain poorly understood. This study aimed to investigate whether gestational SCCPs exposure induces hepatic lipid accumulation in adult offspring and elucidate the underlying mechanisms. Pregnant C57BL/6J mice were orally administered SCCPs (0, 1, 10, or 100 mg/kg) from gestational day 0 (GD0) to GD18. At 12 weeks of age, male offspring exposed to the medium dose of SCCPs developed pronounced hepatic steatosis, as evidenced by increased hepatic and serum triglyceride levels and excessive lipid droplet accumulation, whereas female offspring exhibited no significant alterations, indicating a sex-specific and non-monotonic dose-response pattern. Mechanistically, gestational SCCPs exposure markedly upregulated key regulators involved in fatty acid uptake and triglyceride synthesis, including CD36, GPAT4, and DGAT2. In vitro, serum from medium-dose SCCPs-exposed adult male offspring induced lipid accumulation in AML12 hepatocytes, which was significantly attenuated by pharmacological inhibition of CD36. Furthermore, gestational SCCPs exposure was associated with increased PPAR-γ/CD36 pathway in vivo and in vitro, whereas pharmacological inhibition of PPAR-γ suppressed CD36 expression and alleviated lipid accumulation in hepatocytes. Collectively, these findings suggest that gestational SCCPs exposure promotes male-specific hepatic steatosis in adult offspring potentially through PPAR-γ-mediated enhancement of fatty acid uptake and triglyceride synthesis, providing new evidence that early-life SCCPs exposure can developmentally program long-term hepatic metabolic dysfunction.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
We examined the role of HBsAg isoforms to predict HBsAg seroclearance or finite treatment among patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB) infection who stopped long-term nucleoside analogue (NUC).This prospective study recruited patients with HBeAg-negative non-cirrhotic CHB on ≥3 years of first-line NUC with NUC cessation. NUC was resumed upon clinical relapse (CR) or major virological rebound (mVR). HBV biomarkers were measured at baseline, CR or mVR (if any), and end-of-follow-up. The primary outcome was HBsAg seroclearance (defined as <0.05 IU/mL). Patients were followed up for ≥1 year after NUC cessation (without CR/mVR) or ≥1 year after ALT normalization (with CR/mVR), whichever was later. Finite treatment was defined as a state of no virological relapse (VR), i.e., persistent HBV DNA <2000 IU/mL or HBsAg seroclearance.Among 51 patients who completed study (median age 50.1, 62.7% male, baseline qHBsAg 298 IU/mL with 25.5% <100 IU/mL, median NUC duration 7.38 years; median follow-up 91 weeks), 6 patients developed HBsAg seroclearance at weeks 20, 24, 48, 81, 91 and 96, with an event rate of 11.7%. Baseline small HBsAg [SHBs] was predictive of HBsAg seroclearance (HR 0.205, 95% CI 0.082-0.514) and identified 62.5% patients who achieved HBsAg seroclearance when combined with criteria of quantitative HBsAg (qHBsAg) <100 IU/mL. Fifteen patients fulfilled finite treatment criteria, which was associated with low baseline SHBs (HR 3.471, 95% CI 1.132-10.647) and the presence of hepatic steatosis (HR 4.077, 95% CI 1.374-12.098). No patients developed hepatic decompensation.Baseline small HBs (SHBs) levels, in addition to quantitative HBsAg levels, were predictive of HBsAg seroclearance. SHBs levels and hepatic steatosis were associated with finite treatment following nucleoside analogue cessation.Stopping long-term nucleoside analogue (NUC) is one of the strategies to enhance host control to hepatitis B virus and target for functional cure. In addition to quantitative HBsAg (qHBsAg) levels, we explored the role of HBsAg isoforms in predicting off-therapy outcomes in this prospective cohort study involving Asian patients with chronic hepatitis B infection. Low small HBs, a surrogate marker of integrated DNA-derived HBsAg, was predictive of off-NUC HBsAg seroclearance and identified 62.5% patients who would develop HBsAg seroclearance when combined with qHBsAg <100 IU/mL. Finite treatment, defined as either HBsAg seroclearance or viral load maintained below 2,000 IU/mL after NUC cessation, was associated with low baseline SHBs and presence of hepatic steatosis. Combining qHBsAg <100 IU/mL with low baseline SHBs identified 87.5% patients who could achieve finite treatment. These findings are most compelling to hepatologists and other clinicians managing patients with chronic hepatitis B infection on NUC or researchers conducting clinical trials. The findings are of academic relevance to researchers to investigate the correlation between SHBs expression with intrahepatic viral reservoir as well as the immunological basis behind virological control after NUC cessation. However, the study was limited by a relatively small sample size and the inclusion of purely Asian patients, requiring confirmation in larger cohorts for validation of findings before incorporation into clinical guidelines.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42561665 is a review article
Alzheimer's disease (AD) features Aβ-driven neuroinflammation and synaptic dysfunction that converge on cognitive decline, underscoring the potential value of multi-target interventions. Aurantio-obtusin (AO), a bioactive anthraquinone from Cassia obtusifolia L., exhibits reported anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities; however, whether AO counteracts Aβ-associated behavioral impairment through coordinated modulation of inflammatory and synaptic alterations remains unclear. Here, we investigated whether AO alleviates Aβ₁₋₄₂-induced cognitive deficits and examined synapse- and inflammation-related molecular correlates. Male C57BL/6 mice received intracerebroventricular Aβ₁₋₄₂ to establish an acute AD-like model and were treated with AO (10 mg/kg/day, oral gavage) for consecutive weeks. The results showed that AO improved spatial learning and memory in the Morris water maze, recognition memory in the novel object recognition test, and working memory in the Y-maze, without affecting spontaneous locomotor activity. Furthermore, AO alleviated synaptic dysfunction by restoring synaptophysin expression and upregulating GAD65, and mitigated neuroinflammation by elevating anti-inflammatory factors (IL-4, IL-10, ARG1) and reducing TNF-α. In vitro experiments confirmed that AO was non-cytotoxic to N2AAPP cells across 0-80 μM, mildly downregulated BACE1 expression, and suppressed the Aβ-induced upregulation of pro-inflammatory mediators (IL-6, iNOS) in BV2 microglial cells. Overall, AO attenuated Aβ1-42-driven behavioral impairment in parallel with improvements in synapse-associated markers and inflammatory readouts. These findings support further evaluation of AO as a natural compound associated with modulation of Aβ-related neuroinflammatory and synapse-associated alterations.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a major cause of heart failure and sudden cardiac death and has traditionally been regarded as a predominantly monogenic disorder. However, advances in next-generation sequencing have revealed a more complex genetic architecture with increasing recognition of oligogenic and polygenic contributions; particularly in patients presenting with extracardiac manifestations. In such cases, careful phenotypic characterization and integrative interpretation of genetic findings are essential for accurate diagnosis and management.We report the case of a 46-year-old man who presented with progressive exertional dyspnoea (the New York Heart Association class II-III). His medical history was notable for childhood-onset epilepsy, visual impairment, musculoskeletal abnormalities, and infertility. Transthoracic echocardiography demonstrated severe left ventricular dilatation with reduced ejection fraction (20%). Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging confirmed severe biventricular systolic dysfunction and revealed mid-to-basal myocardial fibrosis on late gadolinium enhancement imaging. Given the prominent multisystem involvement and exclusion of secondary causes, a syndromic cardiomyopathy was suspected. Comprehensive genetic testing identified likely pathogenic frameshift variants in the CD36 and TNXB genes, while additional variants of uncertain significance were detected in MT-TK and STXBP1. These findings suggested a potential oligogenic contribution involving pathways related to myocardial energy metabolism and extracellular matrix integrity. Guideline-directed medical therapy for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction was initiated, and the patient was enrolled in multidisciplinary follow-up with genetic counselling for first-degree relatives.This case highlights the limitations of a strictly monogenic framework in DCM and underscores the importance of considering oligogenic mechanisms in patients with syndromic features. Integrative evaluation combining detailed phenotyping, advanced cardiac imaging, and genetic analysis may provide valuable insights into complex cardiomyopathy phenotypes and support personalized clinical management.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559155 is a review article
The impact of baseline liver fibrosis severity on the effectiveness of pegylated interferon (Peg-IFN) combined with nucleos(t)ide analogs (NAs) in the treatment of hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-positive chronic hepatitis B (CHB) has not been fully clarified. This study aimed to investigate whether the effectiveness of this combination therapy differed according to the severity of baseline liver fibrosis.A total of 172 HBeAg-positive CHB patients receiving Peg-IFN plus NAs were stratified according to non-invasive fibrosis markers (aspartate aminotransferase-to-platelet ratio index [APRI] and fibrosis-4 index [FIB-4]) into three groups: no significant fibrosis (n = 75), significant fibrosis (n = 70), and advanced fibrosis/cirrhosis (n = 27). The primary outcome was the HBeAg clearance rate at 24 months of treatment. Secondary outcomes included the hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) clearance rate, the rate of HBsAg level decline > 1.0 log10, virological response, and improvement in non-invasive fibrosis indices.At 24 months, HBsAg clearance and complete virological response rates were comparable across the three groups. Cumulative HBeAg clearance rates differed significantly (log-rank P = 0.027): 16.00%, 30.00%, and 40.74% in the three groups, respectively, with Group 3 higher than Groups 1 and 2. Multivariate analysis identified a significantly higher likelihood of HBeAg clearance in Group 3 versus Group 1 (adjusted odds ratio = 6.373, 95% confidence interval: 1.288-31.531, P = 0.023). Additionally, analysis of liver fibrosis outcomes showed that patients with more severe baseline fibrosis had a higher proportion of improvement in non-invasive fibrosis indices, with 95.00% in Group 3, while 42.98% of the overall cohort achieved fibrosis improvement.Baseline fibrosis severity is associated with higher HBeAg clearance and greater improvement in non-invasive fibrosis indices during Peg-IFN plus NAs therapy in HBeAg-positive CHB.© 2026 Authors.
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) exhibits heterogeneous responses to immune checkpoint blockade, highlighting the need to define tumor-intrinsic mechanisms driving resistance to PD-L1 inhibition. Here, we identified GTP-binding protein overexpressed in skeletal muscle (GEM) as a tumor cell-intrinsic regulator associated with poor response to anti-PD-L1 therapy in ESCC. GEM expression in tumor cells drove tumor-associated macrophage (TAM)-mediated immunosuppression, leading to reduced CD8⁺ T cell infiltration and impaired cytotoxic function. Mechanistically, GEM induced SERPINE1 expression that was secreted and acted on macrophage LRP1 to drive alternative activation and suppress antitumor immunity. GEM enhanced SERPINE1 expression through a MKK3-RACK1-p38-MEF2A cascade. GEM signaling was reinforced by a metabolically coupled feedback mechanism. Macrophages exposed to GEM-high tumor cells promoted tumor cell glycolysis and lactate production, which drove AARS1-dependent lactylation of GEM and strengthened its interaction with RACK1 to amplify downstream signaling. Disruption of the SERPINE1-LRP1 axis restored CD8⁺ T cell activity and enhanced response to PD-L1 blockade in vivo. Pharmacological perturbation of GEM-dependent signaling remodeled the tumor immune microenvironment and improved responses to PD-L1 blockade. Together, these findings define a GEM-SERPINE1-LRP1 signaling axis that drives macrophage-mediated immune suppression and suggest that targeting this pathway may enhance the efficacy of PD-L1 blockade in ESCC.
Recent genetic findings have broadened the perspectives of cluster headache pathophysiology. Genes identified by genome wide association studies are likely to be involved in the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the disease. In this study, we performed validation and characterization of eight loci corresponding to nine genes identified in previous genome wide association studies.Genetic loci were validated by means of a case-control study using TaqMan genotyping in 671 individuals, and a meta-analysis using previously genotyped data. Pyrosequencing methylation analysis and reverse transcription quantitative PCR gene expression studies was performed in a subset of individuals with cluster headache and healthy controls.Genetic associations were found with functional variants in two genes; FHL5 and MERTK. The minor allele of the FHL5 variant rs2273621 was associated with an increased risk of cluster headache in the genotyped samples (odds ratio = 1.42, P = 0.03) and in a meta-analysis (odds ratio = 1.29, confidence interval: 1.09-1.52), and the minor allele of the rs2230515 variant in MERTK was associated with lower risk in the meta-analysis (odds ratio = 0.69, confidence interval: 0.52-0.92). Methylation analysis further revealed altered methylation status of MERTK. Moreover, changes in relative gene expression were found for several candidate genes: a decrease in the mRNA expression of DUSP10 (P < 0.001), CAPN2 (P < 0.001), UFL1 (P < 0.001) and LRP1 (P = 0.007) in blood, and a decrease of CAPN2 (P < 0.001) as well as an increase in the mRNA expression of FTCDNL1/FONG (P = 0.004) in fibroblasts in CH vs. controls. Only two genes; PLCE1 and WNT2, could not be validated in the biological tissue studied; WNT2, possibly due to limited power, while PLCE1 was not expressed in the available tissue.These results confirm the validity of seven candidate genes for cluster headache identified through GWAS. Furthermore, five of the candidate genes are abundantly expressed in both immune and blood cells, converge functionally on inflammatory signalling pathways and suggest a potential role for inflammasomes in cluster headache.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552594 is a review article
This study aimed to explore shared genetic architectures underlying Alzheimer's disease (AD) and its known risk factors.Significant common variants between AD and its risk factors were identified using GWAS data. The 1000 Genomes Project genotyping data enabled the detection of linkage disequilibrium (LD) blocks and haplotype structures. Functional impact assessments, protein-protein interaction analyses, pathway mapping and enrichment studies were performed.Sixteen significant variants across nine genes were associated with AD and at least one risk factor (p ≤ 5 × 10-8). Genes APOE, ABCA1 and TOMM40 showed strong associations with AD (adjusted p = 9.75 × 10-9). High-confidence interactions were identified among these genes, as well as APP and LRP1, within the AD pathway. Variant rs429358 (p ≤ 3 × 10-15) on the APOE gene was linked to AD, metabolic syndrome (MetS), diabetes, waist-to-hip ratio (WHR) and ageing. Variant rs2075650 (p ≤ 6 × 10-9) on TOMM40 correlated AD risk with MetS, WHR and body mass index (BMI). Variants rs483082 (p ≤ 2 × 10-32) and rs71352238 (p ≤ 1 × 10-11) on APOC1 and TOMM40 were associated with AD and MetS. Variants rs4420638 (p ≤ 2 × 10-34) and rs1800978 (p ≤ 2 × 10-9) on APOC1 and ABCA genes were associated with AD and WHR. The rs13237518 (p ≤ 5 × 10-11) was associated with AD risk in diabetic patients. Furthermore, the rs4277405 (p ≤ 9 × 10-20) associated AD with cardiovascular disease (CVD). Haplotypic structures were also identified for all these variants (D' and r2 ≥ 0.8).This study identifies genetic variants and LD blocks on APOE, ABCA1, TOMM40 and APOC1 genes shared between AD and its risk factors, revealing common genetic links and potential shared susceptibility pathways.© 2026 Japanese Psychogeriatric Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42535333 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42525165 is a review article
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) features a fibrotic stroma dominated by cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), yet the functional heterogeneity of CAFs and their crosstalk with malignant cells in metastasis and immune evasion remain unclear.We performed an integrated analysis of single‑cell RNA‑seq data and spatial transcriptomics of PDAC. Pseudotime trajectory reconstruction, regulon activity inference, and ligand-receptor interaction mapping were applied to dissect fibroblast heterogeneity and stromal-epithelial crosstalk. Bulk transcriptomic data from multiple independent cohorts were used to evaluate prognostic and immunotherapeutic implications.We identified nine CAF subsets, including a THBS2⁺ ECM‑remodeling population enriched in liver metastases. Spatial transcriptomics localized these THBS2⁺ CAFs to dense stromal regions surrounding malignant ducts, where they established an immune‑excluded microenvironment correlated with T‑cell exclusion and immunotherapy resistance. Pseudotime analysis revealed PRRX2 as a master regulator driving this CAF subset. Epithelial sub-clustering uncovered KRT17⁺ malignant cells (a transcriptionally distinct epithelial subpopulation associated with EMT and metastasis) that co-enriched with THBS2⁺ CAFs in metastatic sites. Ligand-receptor analysis showed that THBS2⁺ CAFs are computationally predicted to signal to KRT17⁺ cells via the THBS2-SDC4 axis, while malignant cells reciprocally activate CAFs through MDK-LRP1 and SPP1-integrin pathways. Co‑infiltration of both populations strongly predicted poor prognosis and resistance to anti‑PD‑L1 therapy across multiple cohorts.The THBS2⁺ CAF-KRT17⁺ malignant cell axis drives metastatic progression and immune exclusion in PDAC via THBS2-SDC4 signaling, representing a promising prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Cornerstone therapies for metastatic prostate cancer include androgen deprivation and androgen receptor pathway inhibition, but cognitive impairment is a recognized, life-altering potential adverse effect of this treatment. Abiraterone acetate (AA), an androgen receptor pathway and CYP17A1 inhibitor, suppresses androgen synthesis and may contribute to cognitive changes. This cell culture-based study uses the BE(2)M17 human male neuroblastoma model to investigate AA-induced alterations in gene and protein expression that may underlie cognitive decline, laying the foundation for a mechanistic investigation aimed at identifying molecular targets to mitigate cognitive impairment in men with prostate cancer receiving androgen-directed therapies.BE(2)M17 cells were pretreated for 12 h with dihydrotestosterone (DHT; 5 nM) or vehicle control, then exposed to AA (0, 5, 10 µM, 24 h). RNA and protein were analyzed by qRT-PCR and Western blot for markers of amyloid processing, neuronal health, and mitochondrial function.AA significantly altered multiple neurobiological markers. BACE1 mRNA increased in DHT + 10 µM AA compared to control and DHT alone (p = 0.0416 and p = 0.0118). However, BACE1 protein decreased in 10 µM AA + DHT versus DHT alone (p = 0.0132). Immunoblot revealed reduced amyloid precursor protein (APP) in 10 µM AA versus control (p = 0.0057) and 10 µM versus 5 µM (p = 0.0263). APP was reduced in 10 µM AA + DHT versus control (p = 0.0015) and versus DHT alone (p = 0.0467). LRP1 and BDNF were significantly reduced with 10 µM AA versus 5 µM AA (p = 0.0092 and p = 0.0081), while synaptophysin decreased in 10 µM AA + DHT versus DHT alone (p = 0.0049). BDNF also declined in 10 µM AA + DHT compared to 5 µM AA + DHT (p = 0.0301). PGC1α mRNA increased in AA + DHT versus DHT alone (p = 0.0332). MitoTracker analysis showed reduced fluorescence with 5 µM AA alone but increased fluorescence with 5 µM AA + DHT relative to control and DHT (p = 0.0019; p < 0.0001), while 10 µM AA + DHT reduced fluorescence compared to 5 µM AA + DHT (p = 0.0003).AA, alone or combined with DHT, disrupts key pathways involved in neuronal health, amyloid processing, and mitochondrial function. These findings suggest a potential mechanistic link between AA treatment and cognitive impairment.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510681 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42506393 is a review article
DNA methylation is an epigenetic modification that regulates gene expression in response to environmental exposures. We measured differential DNA methylation levels in blood before after general anesthesia and surgery in participants with and without postoperative delirium (POD) and postoperative neurocognitive disorder (PNCD).Blood sampling, delirium assessment and cognitive testing were prospectively performed at baseline before non-cardiac, non-neurologic surgery, and at 24 hours (24h) and 6 weeks (6wk) thereafter in 94 participants comprising 13 with POD and 81 without POD, and 40 with PNCD and 54 without PNCD 6wk after surgery who were matched for age and sex in the INTUIT and MADCO cohorts. DNA methylation was assessed using the Illumina Infinium MethylationEPIC Beadchip.132 differentially methylated positions (DMPs) annotated to 198 differentially methylated genes (DMGs) were identified in 94 participants 24h after surgery compared to baseline with a local false discovery rate (LFDR) <0.05 including CHRNB1 , LGALS1 , SMAD4 , RYR2 , CHST11 , CDC25B , OBSCN , ABHD16A . No DMPs were identified between samples collected at baseline compared to 6wk after surgery. In baseline samples, 8 DMPs annotated to 12 DMGs were identified between participants who did and did not develop POD including MBTD1, BID, PPAN, ANGPTL6, PHF21B, and RBM5 . In 24h samples, 87 DMPs annotated to 91 DMGs were identified between participants with and without POD including CLEC19A, FILIP1, ERICH1, PSENEN, SLC6A3, and TMEM196. In 6wk samples, 1 DMP annotated to FILIP1 and LOC124901509 in participants with and without POD. No DMPs in baseline, 24h or 6wk blood samples were identified between patients with and without PNCD at 6k after surgery.Differential DNA methylation levels are present throughout the genome 24h after anesthesia and surgery. Differential DNA methylation levels before surgery and at 24h after surgery distinguishes patients with and without POD. Differential DNA methylation levels were not identified between baseline and 6wk after surgery in the entire cohort, or between patients with and without PNCD at 6 weeks.
Mutations in KRT5, POFUT1, POGLUT1, and PSENEN define four genetic subtypes of Dowling-Degos disease (DDD), with varied clinical and histologic expression including those previously reported as Galli-Galli disease. We report a case of DDD3 associated with a novel early nonsense variant in POGLUT1 (c.12G>A; p.Trp4*), representing, to the best of our knowledge, the first documented case in Spain. A 55-year-old man presented with recurrent pruritic erythematous scaly papules on the trunk and hyperkeratotic brown papules on the cervical and thoracic regions. Direct microscopic examination of scales from erythematous lesions revealed yeast cells and short hyphae compatible with Malassezia sp. Initial histopathologic evaluation of a pigmented papule was interpreted as simple lentigo. Subsequent biopsy demonstrated elongated rete ridges and focal suprabasal acantholysis without dyskeratosis, raising suspicion for DDD. Whole-exome sequencing identified a heterozygous nonsense variant in POGLUT1, confirming the diagnosis of DDD3. Previous studies have shown that diffuse cytokeratin 5 (CK5) expression throughout all epidermal layers may support the diagnosis of DDD3. This case highlights diagnostic pitfalls related to subtle and focal acantholysis, emphasizes the importance of clinicopathologic correlation and serial sectioning.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
Background: Pathological aggregation of islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP) contributes to β-cell dysfunction in type 2 diabetes. Our previous studies demonstrated that caveolin-1 (Cav-1) deficiency protects β-cells from palmitate-induced apoptosis. Microarray profiling further indicated that Cav-1 silencing alters IAPP expression. This study aimed to investigate the effects of Cav-1 depletion on IAPP secretion and expression and to explore the potential involvement of thioredoxin-interacting protein (TXNIP). Methods: We performed lentiviral-mediated Cav-1 knockdown in NIT-1 cells and isolated murine islets, and simultaneously generated an inducible β-cell-specific Cav-1 knockout (iβ-Cav1 KO) mouse model. IAPP secretion and expression were assessed by ELISA, Western blot, qPCR and immunofluorescence. The expression of IAPP-processing enzymes (PAM, PC1, and PC2) and degradation factors (IDE and BACE2) was examined. Co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) and immunofluorescence were performed to investigate the interaction between Cav-1 and TXNIP. Results: Cav-1 depletion significantly reduced both IAPP secretion and expression in vitro and in vivo. High-fat-diet-fed iβ-Cav1 KO mice exhibited the lowest serum IAPP levels. Mechanistically, Cav-1 depletion was associated with downregulation of PAM, PC1, and PC2 and upregulation of IDE and BACE2. Additionally, Cav-1 depletion decreased TXNIP expression. Immunofluorescence revealed co-localization of Cav-1 and TXNIP, and co-immunoprecipitation further demonstrated their direct physical interaction. Conclusions: Cav-1 is essential for IAPP secretion and expression in β-cells. The direct physical interaction between Cav-1 and TXNIP suggests that TXNIP may mediate the regulatory effects of Cav-1 on IAPP processing or secretion. These findings identify the Cav-1-TXNIP axis as a potential target for mitigating IAPP-related β-cell dysfunction.
To investigate the potential molecular mechanisms underlying aspartame (APM)-induced malignant phenotypic changes in colorectal cancer (CRC). Candidate targets of APM were identified by integrating the ChEMBL, SwissTargetPrediction, and SEA databases. Differential expression analysis was performed using transcriptomic data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) CRC cohort, followed by weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) to identify key modules associated with CRC. The intersection of differentially expressed genes (DEGs), key module genes, and candidate APM targets was used to identify shared APM-CRC candidate genes. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses, machine learning, SHAP-based interpretability analysis, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations were then conducted to identify key feature genes and evaluate their potential interactions with APM. Finally, EdU, CCK-8, ROS fluorescence staining, and Western blot assays were performed in HCT116 and SW480 cells to validate the effects of APM on CRC cell proliferation, oxidative stress, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-related molecular alterations. A total of 4790 DEGs were identified between CRC and normal tissues, and WGCNA further identified key modules significantly associated with the tumor phenotype. Intersection analysis yielded 1003 CRC-related candidate genes and 26 shared APM-CRC candidate genes. Enrichment analysis indicated that these genes were mainly involved in extracellular matrix remodeling, regulation of cell adhesion, glutathione metabolism, and xenobiotic metabolism. Machine learning combined with SHAP analysis ultimately identified SLC7A5, MMP3, ITGA2, CAPN2, and BACE2 as key feature genes. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations suggested that APM could potentially interact with all five key proteins, with MMP3 and ITGA2 showing relatively stronger binding affinity. In vitro experiments showed that APM increased the proliferation of HCT116 and SW480 cells, elevated intracellular ROS levels, and was associated with decreased E-cadherin expression and increased N-cadherin and Vimentin expression. These findings suggest that APM exposure may be associated with increased CRC cell proliferation and EMT-related molecular alterations, accompanied by changes in oxidative stress-related processes, extracellular matrix remodeling, and abnormal cell adhesion. SLC7A5, MMP3, ITGA2, CAPN2, and BACE2 may represent APM-responsive candidate molecules involved in these cellular responses.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
This study aimed to determine the dietary pyridoxine requirement of Pacific white shrimp (Penaeus vannamei) fed a soybean meal-based diet. Seven experimental diets were prepared with graded pyridoxine supplementation at 0, 25, 50, 75, 100, 125, and 150 mg/kg diet (Con, P25, P50, P75, P100, P125, and P150, respectively). An additional negative control diet (Con-) was formulated by adding 0.4% tetracycline hydrochloride to verify microbial synthesis of pyridoxine. Juvenile shrimp (initial weight: 0.38 g) were randomly assigned to eight diets with quadruplicate tanks and fed the diets for 45 days. Growth performance and feed utilization were increased with dietary pyridoxine supplementation up to P75, whereas higher supplementation levels resulted in reduced responses (P < 0.001). Hepatopancreas pyridoxine concentration was gradually increased with increment in dietary pyridoxine levels (P < 0.001), reaching a plateau from P75 to P150, and remained lower in Con- group than in Con group. Non-specific immune response, including lysozyme, anti-protease and nitroblue tetrazolium activities and antioxidant capacities including superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase were significantly increased by dietary pyridoxine supplementation (P < 0.05). Digestive enzyme activities, intestinal morphological indices, and hepatopancreatic F- and B-cell prevalence were also positively influenced by dietary pyridoxine supplementation (P < 0.05). Gene expression analysis showed increased transcription of cystathionine-γ-lyase, cystathionine-β-synthase, pyridoxal kinase, crustin, and penaeidine in response to pyridoxine supplementation. Based on a broken-line regression analysis of weight gain, the dietary pyridoxine requirement was estimated to be 69.0 mg/kg diet.Copyright: © 2026 Kim et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Lynch Syndrome (LS) is an autosomal dominant disease characterized by germline heterozygous mutations in DNA mismatch repair (MMR) genes. High-risk LS patients may proceed to colorectal cancer (CRC). However, the drivers or biomarkers of LS benign colon tissue approaching malignant CRC are not completely understood. This study aimed to understand the molecular and cellular changes during malignant transition in LS.Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was used to analyze paired fresh biopsy samples from 3 LS patients (carcinoma vs. para-carcinoma, labeled as LS-CA vs. LS-paraCA). Single-nuclear RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq) was used to analyze a frozen biopsy sample of a LS patient. Datasets of Healthy controls and patients diagnosed with sporadic CRC (without LS-related germline or somatic mutations; labeled as nonLS-CRC) were downloaded from the open source. Integrative computational analysis was performed to conclude potential drivers of the malignant transition. Immuno-histo-fluorescence staining (IHF) were also performed for validating the proposed three key markers.In the single-cell atlas, we observed an increase of primitive cancer stem-cells with high expression of biomarkers CEACAM5, BACE2, GPRC5A and OLFM4 in the epithelium of the LS. Both infiltration of immune cells and pathways related to DNA repair biological activity in LS are dramatically increased in carcinoma compared to para-carcinoma. The mutation burden in LS is fundamentally elevated compared to that in healthy controls. Furthermore, T cell and macrophage-related tumor immunity in LS is readily mobilized in carcinomas compared to para-carcinoma.This study provides single-cell transcriptomic resource using affected tissues from patients with Lynch Syndrome and describes an integrative profile covering the alterations of cancer stem cell markers, mutation burden, and tumor immunity during the malignant transition from latency state to Lynch Syndrome and to colorectal cancer at the single-cell level.Copyright © 2026 Xu, Zhang, Li, Wang, Li, Liu, Sheng, Dong, Yang and Cai.
Although β-site amyloid precursor protein-cleaving enzyme 2 (BACE2) is implicated in β-cell physiology, its clinical relevance in metabolic dysfunction remains unclear. Here, we investigated the clinical significance of circulating BACE2 in type 2 diabetes (T2D). Serum BACE2 was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in 161 patients with T2D and 134 individuals with normal glucose tolerance. Circulating BACE2 was significantly elevated in T2D and independently associated with the presence of disease, with individuals in the highest quartile showing a 7.22-fold higher adjusted likelihood of T2D. BACE2 levels correlated positively with insulin resistance and dyslipidemia, with HbA1c emerging as the strongest determinant. Notably, BACE2 levels decreased following oral glucose loading in T2D, suggesting dynamic regulation in response to metabolic stimuli. Combining BACE2 with HOMA-IR markedly improved diagnostic performance (AUC 0.912 versus 0.712 for BACE2 alone). These findings identify circulating BACE2 as a biomarker reflecting chronic glycemic burden and metabolic stress in T2D.© 2026 The Author(s).
The precise regulation of neural stem cell (NSC) fate is fundamental to neocortical development. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are critical post-transcriptional regulators in this process, yet the functions of many remain unknown. Here, we found miR-151-5p is expressed in NSCs of the developing mouse cerebral cortex. Conditional knockout of miR-151-5p increased SOX2 expression in NSCs and enhanced their proliferative capacity. Mechanistically, we identified APH1A, a core subunit of the γ-secretase complex, as a direct target of miR-151-5p. Notably, overexpression of APH1A phenocopied the effects of miR-151-5p knockout, promoting NSC proliferation by elevating NICD levels. These findings demonstrate that miR-151-5p biases NSC fate specification by targeting APH1A to modulate the Notch signaling pathway, thereby fine-tuning the balance between NSC maintenance and differentiation. In summary, our study unveils a novel miR-151-5p/APH1A/Notch signaling axis that governs NSC fate, adding a critical layer of post-transcriptional regulation to our understanding of mammalian neocortical development.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
IFNG (interferon gamma)-activated macrophages contribute to accelerated clearance of platelets and excessive secretion of inflammatory cytokines in immune thrombocytopenia (ITP). In this study, we identified two distinct subpopulations of activated macrophages: phagocytic macrophages (M[IFNG]p), which predominantly exhibit phagocytic activity, and inflammatory macrophages (M[IFNG]i), characterized by their pro-inflammatory capacity. The M(IFNG)p and M(IFNG)i subsets were functionally disturbed in patients with ITP. Chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) deficiency in macrophages was discovered in ITP and has been reported to induce sustained inflammation. Furthermore, CMA interference enhanced pro-inflammatory function rather than phagocytic activity of macrophages in vitro. In parallel, macrophage-specific conditional lamp2a (lysosome associated membrane protein 2A) knockout mice exhibited expansion and excessive cytokine release of M(IFNG)i. Restoring CMA restrains M(IFNG)i subset and reprograms M(IFNG)p subset via ALDH2 (aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 family member) in ITP. Here, anti-ITGB3/CD61 immune-sensitized splenocytes were transferred into severe combined immunodeficient mice to establish an active murine model of ITP. CMA activation diminished the pro-inflammatory and phagocytic activity of activated macrophages and ameliorated thrombocytopenia in ITP mice. MeRIP-sequencing identified PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog) as a crucial activator for LAMP2A, exhibiting decreased m6A methylation and subsequent downregulation, which indicated a potential mechanism underlying CMA deficiency in activated macrophages. In conclusion, restoring CMA restrains the M(IFNG)i subset and reprograms the M(IFNG)p subset via ALDH2 to raise platelet counts in ITP. Targeting CMA in activated primary human macrophages presents a promising therapeutic strategy to rapidly and sustainably increase platelet counts and restore immune balance in ITP.Abbreviation ALDH2: aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 family member; ALKBH5: alkB homolog 5, RNA demethylase; CCL: C-C motif chemokine ligand; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; CSF1/M-CSF: colony stimulating factor 1; CUT&Tag: Cleavage Under Targets and Tagmentation; CXCL: C-X-C motif chemokine ligand; FBS: fetal bovine serum; FCGR/FcγR: Fc gamma receptor; HLA-DR: major histocompatibility complex, class II, DR; IFNG/IFN-γ: interferon gamma; IGF2R: insulin like growth factor 2 receptor; IL: interleukin; ITP: immune thrombocytopenia; LAMP2A: lysosome associated membrane protein 2A; m6A: N6-methyladenosine; MeRIP-seq: methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing; METTL3: methyltransferase 3, N6-adenosine-methyltransferase complex catalytic subunit; MFI: mean fluorescence intensity; mRNA: messenger RNA; NFE2L2/NRF2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; NOS2/iNOS: nitric oxide synthase 2; PBMCs: peripheral blood mononuclear cells; PTEN: phosphatase and tensin homolog; PYCARD: PYD and CARD domain containing; STAT: signal transducer and activator of transcription; Th1: T-helper 1; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; WTAP: WT1 associated protein.
Ovarian cancer is the deadliest gynecological malignancy, with platinum-based chemotherapy being the standard treatment. However, most patients develop resistance to platinum treatment, making it essential to evaluate chemotherapy sensitivity.Patient-derived ovarian cancer organoids (OCOs) from primary or metastatic tumor tissues and malignant effusions were validated by histopathological and molecular profiling. The correlation between organoid drug sensitivity test results and clinical outcomes was evaluated based on longitudinal follow-up data. An AI model integrating multimodal omics data and treatment trajectories was developed to predict platinum-sensitive versus resistant recurrence following therapy. Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 1 Family Member A1 (ALDH1A1) -related analysis identified genes associated with chemotherapy prognosis, and these findings informed AI-assisted high-throughput screening of candidate inhibitors, which were subsequently validated in cell lines and OCOs.A total of 191 patient-derived organoid models were generated from 123 ovarian cancer patients, including those from primary tumors, metastatic lesions, and malignant effusion. In vitro sensitivity testing with platinum-based chemotherapy agents was conducted with follow-ups. Organoids derived from primary tumors showed the highest predictive accuracy, followed by metastatic lesions, while ascites-derived organoids demonstrated lower predictive ability. Additionally, long-term organoid culture and chemotherapy resistance were strongly associated with tumor stem cell ALDH1A1 expression, then inhibitors against ALDH1A1 were screened and validated in ovarian cancer cells and organoids.Ovarian cancer organoid drug sensitivity testing represents a potential precision medicine tool for predicting platinum response in patients, which could serve as a preclinical model for drug screening and validation. ALDH1A1, a key molecular marker of cancer stem cells, presents a viable therapeutic target; its inhibitors demonstrate potential efficacy against platinum-resistant ovarian tumors.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42002068 is a review article
Drug resistance often occurs during ovarian cancer (OC) treatment, and factors related to drug resistance often contribute to poor prognosis. Laminin subunit alpha 2 (LAMA2) can affect cancer progression, but its association with OC has rarely been studied. This study aimed to preliminarily investigate the expression of LAMA2 in OC and its ability to predict chemoresistance and patient prognosis using open-access big data and bioinformatics analysis.Data retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), the Genotype-Tissue Expression Project (GTEx), and the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) were used to analyze messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) and protein expression. Protein expression in OC tissues was detected using hematoxylin-eosin (HE) and immunohistochemistry (IHC). Up to 10,000 samples from 33 different cancer types and bivariate correlations were used to investigate the coexpression of the two genes. Gene expression with respect to tumor immune infiltration was determined using the R software package and TCGA data.Likely modified by deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation, LAMA2 expression was significantly downregulated at the mRNA and protein levels in OC tissues and was consistently downregulated in 19 different tumors. Furthermore, LAMA2 expression was decreased in 90 platinum-resistant and cisplatin-resistant A2780 cells. A low level of LAMA2 predicted short overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS) in 149 OC patients and was related to low immune infiltration and high tumor grade. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis of the genes coexpressed with LAMA2 revealed that Rat sarcoma (Ras) protein signaling and other oncogene-related pathways were involved. LAMA2 was positively coexpressed with leucine-rich repeat-containing G-protein-coupled receptor 5 (LGR5), aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member A1 (ALDH1A1), and von Willebrand factor (VWF) in 558 OC and 90 drug-resistant tissues and was coexpressed with these three genes in 19, 17, and 25 different tumors, respectively. Moreover, low LGR5 expression predicted short OS, and a combination of genes with LAMA2 could better predict short OS.Low LAMA2 expression is significantly associated with chemoresistance and poor prognosis in OC. This association may involve crosstalk with LGR5 and Ras signaling pathways. Thus, LAMA2 may represent a candidate biomarker for predicting treatment response and survival outcomes, warranting further preclinical and clinical investigation.© AME Publishing Company.
CDK4/6 inhibitors (CDK4/6i) have shown striking clinical potential in hormone receptor-positive breast cancers (BC) and endometrial cancers (EC), whereas resistance hinders their clinical utilization. The role of epigenetic alterations in CDK4/6i resistance remains poorly elucidated. Herein, through a comprehensive analysis of transcriptomic and chromatin profiles in 16 EC tissues and cell-based resistance models, we delineate the super-enhancer (SE) landscape and identify aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member A1 (ALDH1A1) as a SE-driven gene closely associated with CDK4/6i resistance. ALDH1A1 inhibition increases susceptibility to CDK4/6i in multiple EC and BC models. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that ALDH1A1 promotes vitamin A (vitA) metabolism and induces the accumulation of its downstream metabolite, retinoic acid (RA), in resistant cells. In return, the elevated RA potentiates the interaction between retinoic acid receptor alpha (RARα) and estrogen receptor alpha (ERα) in the nucleus and facilitates RARα/ERα-occupied SE-driven transcriptional activation of ALDH1A1, establishing a positive feedback loop that promotes CDK4/6i resistance. These findings highlight the crucial role of vitA metabolism in the epigenetic transcriptional program associated with CDK4/6i resistance, suggesting that avoiding high vitA intake or inhibiting the ALDH1A1-RA axis may be effective strategies to overcome this challenge.© 2026. The Author(s).
The aim of the present study is to compare cold adaptation mechanisms between cold-tolerant Hezuo and cold-sensitive Bama pigs.A total of 40 healthy pigs (75 days old), including 20 Hezuo pigs and 20 Bama pigs, were used in this study. A 2×2 factorial design was employed, with factors including breed (Hezuo vs. Bama) and ambient temperature (23±2°C vs. -15±2°C). After 7 days of acclimation, pigs in the cold groups were exposed to low temperature and slaughtered on days 0, 1, 5, and 10 (n = 5 per group per time point). All pigs had ad libitum access to feed and water. Lung histology, wet/dry ratio, oxidative and inflammatory biomarkers, apoptosis, and transcriptomics were analyzed.The results showed that Hezuo pigs displayed less severe alveolar septal thickening, inflammatory infiltration, and fine bronchial fold extension during cold exposure than Bama pigs. The W/D ratio dramatically decreased in Hezuo pigs while rising in Bama pigs. Hezuo pigs exhibited significantly higher aquaporin-1 (AQP-1) and aquaporin-5 (AQP-5) expressions than Bama pigs during the middle and late phases. Bama pigs displayed increased reactive oxygen species, malondialdehyde, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β) and decreased glutathione (GSH) levels. Hezuo pigs maintained stable GSH levels and no significant changes in late-phase inflammatory markers. Bama pigs had a greater apoptosis density and more TUNEL-positive cells than Hezuo pigs, which was related to the down-regulation of B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) and the up-regulation of Bcl2-associated X protein (Bax) and Caspase-3. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that in Bama pigs, distinctive genes such as mucin 5B (MUC5B), matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP9), alveolar macrophage chemotactic factor-II (AMCF-II), interleukin 22 receptor subunit alpha 1 (IL22RA1), C-C motif chemokine ligand 16 (CCL16), SRY-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9), keratin 5 (KRT5) contribute to mucus hypersecretion, extracellular matrix degradation, and sustained inflammatory chemotaxis, worsening tissue damage. In contrast, Hezuo pigs possess unique genes such as aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member A2 (ALDH1A2), acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 6 (ACSL6), ACSM5, aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C1 (AKR1C1), nuclear receptor subfamily 4 group A member 3/2 (NR4A3/2), G protein subunit gamma 4 (GNG4), glycogen synthase 2 (GYS2), which enhance lipid metabolism, facilitate aldehyde detoxification, and mitigate oxidative stress, thereby orchestrating a cellular protection.Hezuo pigs exhibit protective molecular mechanisms, suggesting potential targets for cold-resistance breeding.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease is the leading risk factor for esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC), a malignancy that exhibits marked resistance to chemotherapy and results in poor clinical outcomes. This study aims to define and overcome the mechanisms underlying chemoresistance in EAC to enable the development of novel therapeutic strategies.The study included analysis of RNA sequencing and public datasets. Experimental models consisted of 3-dimensional organotypic cultures, tumorospheres, patient-derived organoids, and de-identified tissue microarrays. In vivo experiments utilized the pL2-IL1β, Krt7CreER;R26rtTA;otet-CDX2, and patient-derived xenograft mouse models.RNA sequencing revealed a significant enrichment of the SRY-Box Transcription Factor 9 (SOX9) molecular signature in patients with EAC. We identified an apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease (APE1)-dependent mechanism that activates SOX9 signaling on exposure to acidic bile salts, mimicking reflux conditions. Genetic knockdown or pharmacological inhibition of APE1's redox activity suppressed SOX9 activation under both reflux-mimicking conditions and oxaliplatin treatment. The redox function of APE1 was required to stabilize the SOX9 protein. Immunostaining demonstrated co-overexpression of APE1 and SOX9 in mouse and human EAC lesions, accompanied by Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 1 Family Member A1 expression, a SOX9 transcriptional target implicated in chemotherapeutic resistance. Clinically, patients with high SOX9 signature expression had significantly worse relapse-free survival. Moreover, in vivo treatment with the APE1-redox-specific inhibitor APX2009 enhanced the response of patient-derived xenograft tumors to oxaliplatin by downregulating SOX9.Activation of SOX9 through the APE1-redox function is a key driver of EAC chemoresistance. Targeting APE1's redox activity offers a promising therapeutic strategy to overcome resistance by inhibiting the otherwise "undruggable" SOX9 transcription network.Copyright © 2026 American Gastroenterological Association Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Our aim is to explore the combined effects and the potential mechanism between Huang-qin decoction (HQD) and epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells in vitro and in vivo.Ultra-high performance liquid chromatography (UPLC) was done to detect the consistency of ingredients in different batches of HQD. Cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay, 5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assay, colony formation assay and Annexin V-FITC/PI assay were performed to detect the anti-cancer effects of HQD and EGFR-TKIs (1st generation EGFR-TKI gefitinib or 3rd generation EGFR-TKI Osimertinib) in different NSCLC cell lines. ATP assay was applied to detect the effect of HQD and EGFR-TKIs in NSCLC cell lines and organoids in three-dimensional (3D) culture. The mRNA expression levels of lung cancer stem cell markers makers and redox related genes, such as sex determining region Y-box 2 (SOX2), aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family, member A1 (ALDH1A1), glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), dual oxidase 1 (DUOX1) and dual oxidase 2 (DUOX2), were detected by using quantitative real-time PCR assay. Western blot methods were done to detect the effects of EGFR-TKIs and HQD on the protein expression levels of SOX2, ALDH1A1, GPX4, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (stat3) and p-stat3. Besides, the alteration of intracellular total reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels of NSCLC cells in 2D culture and 3D culture after the treatments were detected using DCFH-DA staining assay and fluorimetric intracellular total ROS activity assay, respectively. Femtosecond laser labeling free imaging (FLI) method was used to detect the redox ratio of NSCLC cells in 3D culture. In vivo experiments included subcutaneous mice xenografts of PC-9-PIK3CA-M cells to validate the anti-cancer effect, mechanism and safety of gefitinib and HQD in vivo.The consistency of ingredients in different batches of HQD was confirmed. HQD enhanced the anti-proliferation and pro-apoptosis effect of gefitinib or Osimertinib in NSCLC cell lines and organoids both in 2D culture and 3D culture in vitro. The combination of HQD and EGFR-TKIs could regulate stat3/GPX4 signal pathway to induce redox ratio, thus increasing ROS levels to inhibit CSC markers in vitro. Moreover, the drug safety, anti-cancer effect and potential mechanism of the therapy of HQD and EGFR-TKIs were confirmed in vivo.HQD enhances the anti-cancer effect of EGFR-TKIs in NSCLC through ROS-mediated CSC makers inhibition by suppressing stat3/GPX4 axis to induce redox ratio, providing a novel strategy for the treatment of NSCLC patients.© 2025 Center for Food and Biomolecules, National Taiwan University. Production and hosting by Elsevier Taiwan LLC.
The present study aimed to identify novel clinical biomarkers for breast cancer (BRCA) through bioinformatics analyses and cellular experiments, due to the ongoing need for improved diagnosis and prognosis in BRCA. The GSE21422 and The Cancer Genome Atlas-BRCA (TCGA-BRCA) datasets were utilized to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in BRCA. Common DEGs were subjected to comprehensive analyses, including risk score modeling, expression profiling, receiver operating characteristic curve evaluation, survival analysis and the development of a prognostic nomogram, to pinpoint clinically significant genes. Cellular assays were subsequently performed to investigate the functional roles of these key genes in BRCA. Through bioinformatics analyses, 5 genes with diagnostic value were identified: Aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member A1 (ALDH1A1), Rac/Cdc42 guanine nucleotide exchange factor 6 (ARHGEF6), enhancer of zeste 2 polycomb repressive complex 2 subunit, integrin α1 (ITGA1) and PIK3R1, as well as 3 genes with prognostic value: ALDH1A1, ARHGEF6 and ITGA1. Among them, ARHGEF6 was recognized as the key gene in BRCA. Overexpression of ARHGEF6 was shown to suppress cell proliferation, invasion and migration, while promoting apoptosis in BRCA. In conclusion, by bioinformatics analysis, new diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers for patients with BRCA have been identified and the key gene, ARHGEF6, is a suppressor gene in BRCA progression. These findings provide new directions for BRCA clinical application.Copyright: © 2025 Zhang et al.
Aldo-keto reductase family 1 member A1 (AKR1A1) is a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-dependent enzyme that catalyzes the reduction of aldehydes to alcohols. In this study, we investigated whether AKR1A1 acts as a context-dependent stress-associated factor whose role may differ depending on the degree, duration, and cellular context of injury in kidney allografts and explored its underlying molecular mechanisms. In human kidney transplant specimens, AKR1A1 expression was upregulated in renal tubular epithelial cells (RTECs) exhibiting tubular injury and oxidative stress, particularly during rejection accompanied by acute tubular injury. Although AKR1A1 expression showed an inverse correlation with pyruvate kinase muscle isoenzyme 2 (PKM2), this association was statistically non-significant. Notably, higher AKR1A1 expression was associated with increased oxidative stress yet correlated with a reduced risk of serum creatinine doubling in this cohort. In vitro, hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) reduced cell viability and induced AKR1A1 expression alongside the pro-apoptotic marker C/EBP homology protein (CHOP). Pharmacological inhibition of S-nitrosoglutathione reductase using N6022 functionally attenuated AKR1A1 activity without a direct effect on CHOP expression. Genetic modulation further confirmed the role of AKR1A1 in apoptosis, as AKR1A1 knockdown increased CHOP expression, whereas AKR1A1 overexpression attenuated it. Reciprocal activation between AKR1A1 and the silent information regulator 1 (SIRT1)/peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptor γ coactivator-1α (PGC-1α) pathway was observed both in vitro and in vivo. In addition, N6022 altered LC3B-associated autophagy markers, suggesting the activation of compensatory cytoprotective mechanisms under conditions of AKR1A1 deficiency. Together, these findings indicate that AKR1A1 serves as a marker of tubular stress and contributes to kidney allograft survival by modulating CHOP-mediated apoptosis and the SIRT1/PGC-1α axis. Inhibitory S-nitrosylation and activation of SIRT1/PGC-1α provide compensatory protection against oxidative stress and apoptosis. Targeting these pathways may represent a promising therapeutic strategy to improve kidney allograft outcomes.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Fibrous dysplasia (FD) is a bone mesenchymal stromal cells (BMSCs)-derived disorder caused by GNAS gene mutation, characterized by excessive fibrous tissue proliferation in bone and the formation of immature trabecular bone. Although impaired osteogenesis of BMSCs is central to FD pathogenesis, the underlying mechanism remains largely elusive. Here we demonstrate that hyperactivation of the cAMP-PRKA/PKA signaling axis disrupts mitochondrial homeostasis through impaired mitophagy, ultimately leading to diminished amorphous calcium phosphate (ACP) secretion and consequent mineralization failure in FD. Mechanistically, in FD BMSCs, PRKA activation inhibits DNM1L/DRP1 recruitment to mitochondria through phosphorylation at S637, thereby suppressing mitochondrial fission. Consequently, excessive mitochondrial fusion leads to an elevated mitochondrial membrane potential, impaired mitophagy, and diminished ACP release. Collectively, our findings reveal a novel signaling nexus linking cAMP-PRKA signaling, mitochondrial dynamics, and biomineralization processes in FD pathogenesis, providing critical insights into the molecular basis of this disorder.Abbreviation: ACP: amorphous calcium phosphate; ALPL: alkaline phosphatase, biomineralization associated; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; BGLAP/osteocalcin: bone gamma-carboxylglutamate protein; BMD: bone mineral density; BMSCs: bone marrow stromal cells; BV/TV: bone volume/tissue volume; cAMP: cyclic adenosine monophosphate; COL1: collagen type I; COX4/COXIV: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4; CsA: cyclosporin A; CT: computerized tomography; Cyto: cytoplasm; DAPI: diamino phenylindole; DEPs: differentially expressed proteins; DNM1L/DRP1: dynamin 1 like; ECL: electrochemiluminescence; ECM: extracellular matrix; FBS: fetal bovine serum; FCCP: carbonyl cyanide 4-(trifluoromethoxy) phenylhydrazone; FD: fibrous dysplasia; GNAS/guanine nucleotide-binding protein alpha-stimulating activity peptide: GNAS complex locus; GTPase: guanosine triphosphatase; HSPD1/HSP60: heat shock protein family D (Hsp60) member 1; Lyso: lysosome; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; Mdivi: mitochondrial division inhibitor 1; MEMα: minimum essential medium α; MFN1: mitofusin 1; MFN2: mitofusin 2; Mito: mitochondria; MMP: mitochondrial membrane potential; MOI: multiplicity of infection; MV: matrix vesicle; PRKN/parkin: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; PHEX: phosphate regulating endopeptidase X-Linked; PHOSPHO1: phosphoethanolamine/phosphocholine phosphatase 1; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKA/protein kinase A: protein kinase cAMP-activated; PVDF: polyvinylidene fluoride; SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; SEM: scanning electron microscopy; SOST: sclerostin; SP7/Osterix: Sp7 transcription factor; TA9: tyrphostin A9; Tb.N: trabecular. number; Tb.Sp: trabecular. separation; Tb.Th: trabecular. thickness; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TMRM: tetramethylrhodamine; UA: urolithin A.
Advanced glycation end products (AGEs) are a heterogeneous group of glycation-derived compounds that accumulate under metabolic stress and contribute to age-related and chronic diseases. Pentosidine (PEN), a well-characterized fluorescent AGE, increases during aging under certain pathological conditions. In particular, increased PEN levels have been observed in a subset of patients with schizophrenia and are associated with more severe clinical outcomes. Glucuronic acid (GlcA) has previously been identified as a metabolic precursor of PEN, and impaired GlcA metabolism due to reduced aldo-keto reductase family 1 member A1 (AKR1A1) activity may underlie PEN accumulation. In the present study, to investigate the neurobiological impact of endogenous PEN accumulation, we examined neurobehavioral consequences using Akr1a knockout (KO) mice, which exhibit impaired GlcA metabolism. These mice exhibited significantly elevated PEN levels in both the plasma and prefrontal cortex (Pfc), a brain region critically involved in higher-order cognitive and behavioral regulation, accompanied by increased aggression and hyperactivity-behavioral domains relevant to patients with schizophrenia. Notably, aggression measures were positively correlated with PEN concentrations, whereas PEN levels were associated with novelty-driven exploratory locomotion but not with sustained baseline locomotor activity. Transcriptomic analysis of Pfc revealed altered expression of genes involved in guanylate cyclase signaling, cytoskeletal organization, and the immune response. Cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) levels were significantly reduced, suggesting impaired downstream signaling. Together, these findings demonstrate that GlcA-driven PEN accumulation induces molecular and behavioral alterations in the brain and provides a dimensional mouse model linking glycation-related metabolic stress to aggression and hyperactivity relevant to schizophrenia.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Growth plate (GP), a critical cartilaginous structure in amniotes, underpins longitudinal bone growth, yet the intricate mechanisms behind its polarized mineralization during evolution remain unclear. Herein, employing high-resolution analytical techniques, we reveal that the GP-epiphysis interface displays a sharp transition in tissue modulus, acting as a protective shell for the underlying GP, whereas the GP-metaphysis interface exhibits a gradual modulus increase, enabling efficient load redistribution to the metaphysis. This mechanical microenvironment contributes to unique microstructural and compositional transformations from GP to epiphysis and metaphysis. Notably, the GP-epiphysis interface acts as a mineralization inhibition zone while the GP-metaphysis serves as a mineralization promotion zone, orchestrated by a complex network of proteins. Proteins such as secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1) and alpha-2-HS-glycoprotein (AHSG) at the GP-epiphysis interface inhibit mineralization, forming a defense line; while ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase 1 (ENPP1) and alkaline phosphatase, biomineralization associated (ALPL), coexisting with SPP1 and AHSG, promote a sequential nucleation and assembly of calcium phosphate minerals at the GP-metaphysis. Such polarized mineralization patterns maintain the homeostasis of GPs and drive polarized bone elongation. Replicating this process in vitro, we synthesize stable amorphous calcium phosphate which shows highly controlled transformation into hydroxyapatite. This work provides a more comprehensive view of the structural integrity of human bone in development and offers strategies for controlled biomineralization.© 2025. The Author(s).
Bone-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) are multipotent stem cells capable of differentiating into adipocytes and osteoblasts. Dysfunctional differentiation, characterized by a shift from osteoblastogenesis to adipogenesis, is closely associated with metabolic and senile osteoporosis. The Aldo-keto reductase family 1 member A1 (Akr1A1) enzyme, which utilizes NADPH to reduce aldehyde groups to alcohols, has emerged as a potential regulator. This study investigates the role of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in modulating Akr1A1 expression during the lineage differentiation of human mesenchymal stem cells into osteoblasts and adipocytes.Our findings demonstrate that increased ROS levels enhance the expression of C/EBP homology protein (CHOP) and Akr1A1 during adipogenic differentiation. Conversely, reduced ROS levels suppress CHOP and Akr1A1 expression in osteogenically committed cells. Functional studies involving Akr1A1 silencing and overexpression revealed that Akr1A1 expression levels dictate MSC lineage commitment without altering ROS production or CHOP expression. Knockdown of Akr1A1 suppressed adipogenesis while promoting osteoblastogenesis, accompanied by upregulation of SIRT1, PGC-1α, TAZ, and other osteogenic transcription factors. In contrast, overexpression of Akr1A1 reduced SIRT1, PGC-1α, and TAZ levels, thereby enhancing adipogenesis and inhibiting osteogenesis. These findings position Akr1A1 as a downstream target of the ROS/CHOP signaling pathway. Using an oxidative stress cell model induced by D-galactose in BMSCs, we confirmed that elevated ROS levels upregulate CHOP and Akr1A1 expression, preferentially driving differentiation into adipocytes over osteoblasts.Our results reveal that intracellular ROS modulate CHOP and Akr1A1 expression, which regulate commitment to adipogenic and osteogenic lineages. This regulation appears to occur through inhibiting SIRT1-dependent pathways, shedding light on potential therapeutic targets for metabolic and age-related osteoporosis.© 2025. The Author(s).
Besides skeletal symptoms, dental abnormalities are a typical feature of the rare inherited disorder hypophosphatasia (HPP), which is caused by loss of function mutations in the ALPL gene (alkaline phosphatase, biomineralization associated) coding for tissue-nonspecific alkaline phosphatase (TNAP). Dental symptoms include premature loss of deciduous teeth, disturbance in dentin and cementum mineralization, and an increased risk for periodontitis. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms are not fully understood and experimental cell lines for in vitro analyses of these processes are missing.We aimed to develop a physiologically relevant cellular model of dental origin with genetic ALPL variants to investigate the molecular consequences of TNAP deficiencies in vitro. For this purpose, we used immortalized periodontal ligament stem cells (PDL-hTERT cells) to establish five independent clonal cell lines via CRISPR/Cas9, harboring different ALPL genetic variants.Detailed investigation of their genetic properties revealed that four different genotypes were successfully established at two different positions within the ALPL gene locus. The detected variants either result in mis-splicing of ALPL mRNAs or in frameshift mutations. All determined variants implied severe consequences on TNAP function, as indicated by in silico modeling and comparison to reported human pathogenic variants. Subsequent detailed cell culture experiments demonstrated TNAP residual gene expression and altered TNAP activity in the newly established ALPLtg PDL-hTERT lines. Further assessment of cell line features showed significantly reduced cell growth, partly lower levels of intracellular ATP as well as mitochondrial function proteins. TNAP activity was furthermore investigated during in vitro osteogenic differentiation and strong suppression during this process in nearly all newly established lines was observed.We report the generation of a new set of immortalized ALPLtg PDL-hTERT cells for investigation of TNAP cellular function in PDL cells, which can be used in subsequent studies for deciphering molecular processes in dental cells affected by reduction of TNAP function.Copyright © 2025 Schiffmaier, Rehling, Marnet, Borst, Trivanović, Docheva, Jakob, Graser, Herrmann and Liedtke.
To investigate the effects of concentrated platelet-rich fibrin (C-PRF), injectable platelet-rich fibrin (i-PRF), and platelet-rich plasma (PRP) on cellular activity of human primary osteoblasts.C-PRF, i-PRF, and PRP were prepared from five donors and pre-cultured in 5 mL of culture medium for three days. Human primary osteoblasts were seeded and cultured with 20% conditioned medium derived from the three platelet concentrates. Then, osteoblast viability was assessed at 24 h; proliferation at one, three, and five days; differentiation at seven days; mineralization at 14 days; and gene expression RUNX family transcription factor 2 (RUNX2), alkaline phosphatase, biomineralization associated (ALPL), collagen type I alpha 1 chain (COL1A1), and osteocalcin (OCN) at three and 14 days were investigated.Osteoblasts cultured with C-PRF, i-PRF, and PRP demonstrated excellent biocompatibility. Proliferation was significantly higher in all platelet concentrates compared to the controls at one, three, and five days, with no significant differences among them, except on day one. Alkaline phosphatase and Alizarin Red S staining were significantly higher in the C-PRF and i-PRF groups compared to the PRP and control groups. However, RUNX2, ALPL, COL1A1, and OCN mRNA levels did not differ significantly among the three platelet concentrates throughout the study period.Our study indicates that the three liquid platelet concentrates enhance human osteoblast activity. C-PRF and i-PRF promoted greater differentiation and mineralization than PRP. These findings show that all liquid platelet concentrates positively influence human osteoblast proliferation and differentiation, making them suitable for clinical applications requiring bone regeneration.
This case-control study aimed to explore the expression of different osteogenic-related genes in inflamed dental pulp and to correlate these expressions amongst each other and with the extent of pain.Dental pulp tissues were collected from patients who were diagnosed with irreversible pulpitis. All samples were processed for RNA extraction and analysis of bone morphogenic protein 2 (BMP2), RUNX family transcription factor 2 (RUNX2), dentine sialophosphoprotein (DSPP), dentine matrix acidic phosphoprotein 1 (DMP1), bone gamma-carboxyglutamate protein (BGLAP), and alkaline phosphatase, biomineralization associated (ALPL) gene expression using real-time PCR. Pearson's correlation analysis was used to assess the linear relationships between different genes and the extent of pain, where p<0.05 was considered significant.The demographic and clinical characteristics of the patients varied according to age, sex, tooth type, clinical diagnosis, pain level, percussion pain response, and palpation pain sensitivity. The expression levels of the RUNX2 and BGLAP genes in the inflamed dental pulp were significantly greater than those in the control samples. Pearson's correlation analysis demonstrated significant positive correlations between the expression of the BMP2 and BGLAP genes and between the RUNX2 and DMP1 genes within inflamed pulp tissues.Irreversible pulpitis was associated with positive coordination among odontoblastic activities, metabolism, and dentine formation as a compensatory mechanism. Our findings provide information on the molecular pathogenesis of pulpitis, suggesting future treatment approaches. (EEJ-2024-11-182).
Abnormal glycolysis and lipid metabolism play important roles in the occurrence and development of gastric cancer (GC). Moreover, dysregulation of circadian genes is associated with metabolic reprogramming in the tumor microenvironment. This study aimed to determine the role of retinoic acid-related orphan receptor alpha (RORα) in glucose and lipid reprogramming in GC.The effects on cell proliferation and chemoresistance in vitro and in vivo were studied using gain- and loss-of-function experiments. Glycolytic activity and lipid synthesis were assessed using a Seahorse assay and reagent kits. Moreover, the regulatory mechanisms were explored using half-life, coimmunoprecipitation (Co-IP), chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), luciferase reporter and immunofluorescence colocalization assays in GC cells. In addition, the relationships of RORα with E47 and AKR1A1 were analyzed using public databases and retrospective clinicopathological analyses.RORα deletion promoted cell proliferation and fluorouracil (5-FU) chemoresistance by increasing glycolytic activity and lipid synthesis. In contrast, SR1078, an RORα activator, reversed these changes and had a synergistic inhibitory effect on cell proliferation in combination with 2-deoxygulose glucose (2-DG) or atorvastatin. Mechanistically, aldo-keto reductase family 1 member A1 (AKR1A1), is the key driver of RORα-mediated glucose and lipid reprogramming. Specifically, E47 is an AKR1A1 transcription factor, and its stability is affected by β-catenin. RORα deletion indirectly promoted E47 protein stability through the up-regulation of β-catenin, leading to increased AKR1A1 transcriptional activity. Moreover, RORα, E47 and AKR1A1 expression was dysregulated, and associated with clinicopathological parameters and prognosis in patients with GC. These expression patterns including RORα-low, E47-high and AKR1A1-high expression patterns alone or in combination were correlated with reduced responsiveness, poor prognosis, increased standard uptake value (SUV) levels and lipid droplet formation.These findings reveal a novel mechanism by which RORα regulates glucose and lipid reprogramming and may be a promising target for GC treatment.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Adult hypophosphatasia is an uncommon inherited disorder of mineral homeostasis affecting bone. It arises from mutations within the Alkaline Phosphatase, Biomineralization Associated (ALPL) gene, which encodes tissue-nonspecific alkaline phosphatase. Because of its low prevalence and non-specific clinical manifestations, underdiagnosis and misdiagnosis are frequent, particularly in Asian populations.We present a case of a 38-year-old Japanese male diagnosed with adult hypophosphatasia following consecutive tooth loss during orthodontic treatment. Genetic analysis revealed a compound heterozygous mutation within the ALPL gene. The patient remained asymptomatic until orthodontic treatment, suggesting that increased mechanical stress overwhelmed residual enzyme activity, triggering the hypophosphatasia symptoms. Asfotase Alfa enzyme replacement therapy improved healing following tooth extraction.This case highlights the significance of including adult hypophosphatasia in the differential diagnosis for obscure dental complications arising during orthodontic procedures, particularly in Asian patients where certain ALPL variants may be more prevalent. Effective diagnosis and management of adult hypophosphatasia necessitate collaboration between orthodontic practitioners and medical specialists. Improved awareness and a multidisciplinary approach are crucial for timely diagnosis and successful intervention.© 2024. The Author(s).
Transketolase (TKL; EC 2.2.1.1) has been validated as a potential new herbicide target. To develop a new and highly effective herbicides-targeted TKL, a series of indole-containing fusarium acid (FA) derivatives 9a-9s were designed and synthesized. Among them, compound 9o exhibited more excellent herbicidal activity against Digitaria sanguinalis and Amaranthus retroflexus (inhibition > 90%) compared to the positive controls at 375 g ai/ha. Furthermore, compound 9o was safe for maize and wheat (phytotoxicity 5%) at 375 g ai/ha. Also, compound 9o exhibited a slightly better inhibition effect against Setaria viridis (Sv)TKL than that of the positive control (IC50: 0.229, 0.420 mg/L). Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations (MDS) indicated that the binding between SvTKL and 9o is stronger. Moreover, SvTKL-9o has more favorable binding residues including SER101, ARG169, PHE512, HIS539, and ARG598. These results have guiding significance for the molecular design of higher herbicidal activity compounds targeting TKL.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Leptomeningeal Metastasis (LM) is a catastrophic complication of systemic malignancies with poor prognosis and significant diagnostic challenges. Extracellular vesicle (EV)-based liquid biopsy is an emerging technology that may improve the detection, prognosis, and therapeutic monitoring for LM. This systematic review aims to critically appraise and synthesize existing evidence on the use of EV-derived biomarkers from cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) or serum for the diagnosis, prognosis, and therapeutic monitoring of LM. A systematic search of PubMed, ScienceDirect, Semantic Scholar, and Google Scholar was conducted up to January 2025. Eligible studies evaluated EV-associated molecular biomarkers (microRNAs or proteins) in LM patients using CSF or serum samples. Data extraction included study design, sample source, EV isolation method, biomarker type, validation method, and diagnostic/prognostic relevance. Risk of bias was assessed using QUADAS-2. Ten studies met inclusion criteria, encompassing EV miRNA and proteomic profiling in LM, primarily from non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and medulloblastoma. miR-21 consistently correlated with poor prognosis and therapy resistance. Novel candidates such as miR-183-5p demonstrated high diagnostic accuracy (AUC 1.0 in a discovery cohort), targeting PTEN pathways. EV-derived proteins including fibronectin-1 (FN1), transketolase (TKT), and complement C2 also showed strong discriminative potential. Heterogeneity in EV isolation techniques and small sample sizes limited meta-analysis feasibility. EV-based liquid biopsy holds cautious promise as a minimally invasive tool for LM diagnosis, prognosis, and therapeutic monitoring. Larger, multicenter studies with standardized protocols are required to validate these findings and facilitate clinical translation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lactic acid metabolism and neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are critical immune regulators, yet their specific crosstalk in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and lupus nephritis (LN) pathogenesis remains poorly understood. Here, by integrating bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) analyses, we identified TKT and ITGAM as pivotal upregulated genes in SLE, demonstrating robust diagnostic value (AUC >0.7) supported by reliable nomogram models. Additional analysis of a human LN renal biopsy dataset (GSE32591) showed increased ITGAM and TKT in LN glomerular samples, supporting their renal relevance. Regulatory network analyses suggested potential molecular interactions involving these genes with specific microRNAs (e.g., hsa-miR-142-5p-ITGAM and hsa-miR-1-3p-TKT), while scRNA-seq analysis suggested cell-type-associated expression patterns, with donor-level analysis showing higher TKT expression in monocytes from SLE patients. To translate these computational insights into biological relevance, we conducted rigorous in vivo validations. In an apoptotic cell-induced LN mouse model, we confirmed renal injury, increased ITGAM and TKT protein expression, and enrichment of TKT in CD14+ monocyte-lineage cells. Crucially, targeted pharmacological inhibition of TKT using oxythiamine significantly mitigated disease progression in LN mice. Oxythiamine treatment not only restored renal function and attenuated tissue fibrosis but also reprogrammed aberrant lipid metabolism and cellular proliferation. Oxythiamine treatment was further associated with reduced ITGAM expression and lower renal Cit-H3 levels, consistent with an attenuation of NET-associated inflammatory activity. Together, our integrated multi-omics and in vivo data indicate that TKT is closely linked to immunometabolic remodeling in experimental lupus nephritis, accompanied by alterations in lactate accumulation, ITGAM expression, and NET-associated inflammatory activity. These findings support TKT-associated metabolic remodeling as a potential therapeutic avenue that warrants further mechanistic investigation in LN.Copyright © 2026 Zhu, Lin, Cheong, Chui, Chan and Yap.
The thiamine diphosphate (ThDP)-dependent enzyme 1-deoxy-d-xylulose 5-phosphate synthase (DXPS) converts pyruvate and d-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate (d-GAP) to the essential branchpoint metabolite, DXP. DXPS exhibits a ligand-gated mechanism where the predecarboxylation intermediate derived from pyruvate persists until d-GAP triggers decarboxylation. Together with its substrate/catalytic promiscuity and other features of multifunctionality, ligand gating on DXPS may poise this enzyme to catalyze alternate activities that aid in bacterial adaptation. We previously discovered alternative donors for Escherichia coli DXPS, with donor processing and acceptor specificity influenced by the donor. Here, we demonstrate species differences in DXPS substrate usage and processing which could signify that DXPS homologues support bacterial adaptation in distinct ways. We showed that hydroxypyruvate (HPA) is a donor for Pseudomonas aeruginosa DXPS (PaDXPS), similar to EcDXPS, yet HPA processing and donor-acceptor specificity differs on these homologues; HPA reacts with ThDP on PaDXPS to form a longer-lived intermediate in the absence of added trigger, relative to EcDXPS. Notably, PaDXPS preferentially catalyzes xylulose 5-phosphate formation from HPA and d-GAP, in contrast to EcDXPS, suggesting a potential connection between DXPS activity and pentose phosphate pathway metabolism in P. aeruginosa. Finally, both EcDXPS and PaDXPS were found to generate a 5-carbon β-ketoacid via a one-substrate reaction of HPA, distinguishing DXPS from transketolase (TK) which produces erythrulose under similar conditions. This study illustrates species differences in DXPS donor usage and processing, and donor-acceptor specificity that supports distinct multifunctionality across bacterial pathogens and the plausibility of species-specific targeting.
The flea-borne transmission of Yersinia pestis relies on biofilm formation and metabolic adaptation within the insect gut. The pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) is central to these processes, yet the contribution of its non-oxidative branch remains poorly defined. Here, we investigated the roles of transketolase (TktA) and transaldolase (TalB) in plague bacillus physiology, metabolism, and flea colonization. TktA was essential for growth, preventing assessment of its role in biofilm formation and in vivo colonization. In contrast, TalB was dispensable for growth but required for optimal biofilm formation. In fleas, the ΔtalB mutant colonized the proventriculus but displayed a lower bacterial load than the wild-type strain at later time points, indicating a defect in sustained colonization. Metabolomic analyses revealed that disruption of tktA severely impairs PPP-associated metabolism, whereas loss of talB is associated with disruption of nucleotide homeostasis, carbon redistribution toward glycolysis, and a redox imbalance. These findings demonstrate a functional partitioning of the non-oxidative PPP and identify it as a key metabolic control node linking metabolism to colonization dynamics in Y. pestis.
Primary hyperoxaluria type 1 (PH1) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder that leads to kidney and liver failure. PH1 is caused by a mutation in the alanine glyoxylate aminotransferase (AGXT) gene, which encodes a key metabolic enzyme that converts glyoxylate to glycine in the liver. Inability to metabolize glyoxylate leads to oxalate overproduction, yielding insoluble calcium oxalate crystals; accumulation of these crystals leads to progressive organ failure. Here, we used a novel, minimally disruptive genome-editing approach to disrupt the mechanism of action of hydroxyacid oxidase 1 (HAO1), an upstream enzyme in the glyoxylate metabolic pathway. Successful gene editing and disruption of the HAO1 gene is expected to increase levels of glycolate, a harmless intermediate of the glycine metabolic pathway, thereby preventing the formation of calcium oxalate crystals. We intravenously administered an adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector expressing the M1HAO1 meganuclease to both wild-type and Agxt-/- mice, a mouse model of PH1. We observed >30% editing of HAO1 in Agxt-/- mice, correlating with a dose-dependent increase in serum glycolate levels. At the highest dose tested, urine glycolate levels increased by 79%, with a concomitant 75% decrease in urine oxalate levels. We also evaluated in vivo targeting in rhesus macaques injected with AAV expressing two different versions of the HAO1 meganuclease. Dose-dependent editing of hepatic DNA and RNA was achieved, and serum glycolate levels changed in a manner consistent with successful liver editing; additionally, the treatment was well tolerated. Our results indicate that AAV-delivered meganucleases can effectively target HAO1 in mice and nonhuman primates to achieve high levels of HAO1 gene editing. Moreover, increased glycolate levels in serum indicate that this intervention significantly impacts the HAO1-mediated glycolate-to-glyoxylate pathway. These data suggest that this approach may represent an effective treatment for PH1.
The aim of this study was to elucidate the difference in the protein distribution between anatomical regions of the femur and tibia in osteoarthritic knees in macroscopically uninvolved areas.Proteomic analysis was performed on cartilage tissues isolated from femoral and tibial macroscopically uninvolved areas of the knees during total knee arthroplasty. Six samples were collected in each group. The proteomic analyses comprised extraction of soluble proteins from cartilage, separation of the protein mixtures followed by in-solution digestion, extracts were subjected to precipitation and subsequent tandem mass spectrometry analysis in conjunction with a database search for protein identification and semi-quantitation. Differential analysis was carried out using metaboanalyst software.A total of 967 and 869 proteins were identified in femoral and tibial condyles, respectively. Based on stringent parameters (≥ 5 PSM, one unique peptide, 100% sample positivity), 183 common proteins were identified, of which four proteins showed significant differential expression (p < 0.05, fold change ≥ 1.5). Three proteins were downregulated in the femoral condyle: transthyretin (fold change: 3.04, log2FC: - 0.627 [95% CI - 1.12 to - 0.13], p = 0.0004), apolipoprotein A1 (fold change: 1.66, log2FC: - 0.58 [95% CI - 1.03 to - 0.13], p = 0.007), and alpha-2-macroglobulin (fold change: 1.7, log2FC: - 1.118 [95% CI - 2.35 to 0.11], p = 0.045). One protein, transketolase, was upregulated (fold change: 1.6, log2FC: 0.776 [95% CI 0.12-1.43], p = 0.01). Unique proteins of the femoral condyle were enriched in pathways crucial for chondrocyte metabolism and cartilage homeostasis. Tibial condyle proteins were enriched in complement and coagulation cascades (p < 0.01).Proteomic analysis identified subtle yet meaningful differences in protein expression between the femoral and tibial condyles of osteoarthritic knees. The differences in biological process enrichment highlight the unique functional roles and regulatory mechanisms of the femoral and tibial condyles in controlling OA progression.© Indian Orthopaedics Association 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
We previously performed a strain intercross between atherosclerosis resistant AKR Apoe -/- mice and atherosclerosis sensitive DBA/2 Apoe -/- mice and identified the Ath28 quantitative trait locus (QTL) on the distal end of chromosome 2. Congenic strain fine mapping identified the Ath28 . 1 QTL atherosclerosis modifying subregion, encompassing 217 Kb, containing for only three protein-coding genes, Zbp1, Pck1 , and Pmepa1 , encoding respectively, Z-DNA binding protein 1, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1, and prostate transmembrane protein androgen induced 1.The effect of macrophage-specific knockout of Pck1 (KO) was tested using the AAV2 transduced proprotein convertase subtilisin kexin type 9 (PCSK9) overexpression mouse model of hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis.Unexpectedly, macrophage Pck1 deficiency lowered body weight, liver weight, and HDL-cholesterol levels in both sexes, while total and non-HDL cholesterol levels were only decreased in male mice. Aortic root lesion area and necrotic lesion area were unchanged in KO mice of both sexes.Pck1 was not confirmed as an atherosclerosis modifier gene.
Aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C3 (AKR1C3) is a pivotal metabolic enzyme involved in arachidonic acid (AA) metabolism and cancer metabolic reprogramming, which plays a critical role in the initiation and progression of glioblastoma (GBM). We integrated single-cell and transcriptome data to characterize AA metabolism features in GBM and identify the key gene AKR1C3. Using CCK8 assays, wound-healing assays, transwell assays, and mouse tumor formation experiments, we elucidated the effects of AKR1C3. Dual-luciferase reporter assays and ChIP-PCR experiments were performed to investigate the regulation of transcription factor JUN on AKR1C3 expression. RNA-seq analysis, combined with rescue experiments, demonstrated that AKR1C3 significantly regulates the RhoA/ROCK pathway. Arachidonic acid metabolism is closely associated with clinical outcomes in glioma, with AKR1C3 identified as a key gene within this pathway. AKR1C3 knockdown enhanced tumor cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, whereas AKR1C3 overexpression suppressed these malignant behaviors. In vivo experiments further confirmed the inhibitory effect of AKR1C3 on glioma progression. Dual-luciferase reporter and ChIP-PCR assays demonstrated that JUN acts as an upstream regulator of AKR1C3. ELISA results indicated that AKR1C3 overexpression reduced cellular PGD2 levels. RNA-seq analysis suggested that the RhoA/ROCK pathway was a downstream effector of AKR1C3, and exogenous PGD2 supplementation could reverse AKR1C3-mediated regulation of this pathway. We identified curcumin, a natural product with anti-cancer metabolic regulatory activity, as an upstream modulator that suppresses JUN expression, thereby activating the JUN/AKR1C3 axis and inhibiting malignant phenotypes in GBM cells. JUN/AKR1C3 axis influences glioma progression via modulating PGD2-mediated RhoA/ROCK Signaling.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The transition from acute kidney injury (AKI) to chronic kidney disease (CKD) is characterized by progressive renal fibrosis, yet the key tubular regulatory factors driving this maladaptive repair remain inadequately defined. In this study, we investigated the role of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1 (PCK1), the rate-limiting enzyme of gluconeogenesis, in the AKI-to-CKD transition. Analysis of human single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) datasets revealed a profound downregulation of PCK1 in injured proximal tubule cells, which correlated with the upregulation of pro-fibrotic markers. In rodent models, we demonstrated that the loss of PCK1 precedes significant collagen deposition and acts as a primary driver of fibrogenesis. Mechanistically, PCK1 deficiency enhanced TGF-β1-induced Smad3 phosphorylation and nuclear translocation, whereas PCK1 overexpression suppressed Smad3 activation as well as the expression of fibrosis-related genes and proteins. Our functional assays supported that PCK1 serves as an endogenous negative regulator and antagonist of Smad3, its depletion releases the restraint on Smad3 phosphorylation and nuclear translocation, leading to the loss of tubular epithelial identity. Significantly, the pharmacological or genetic restoration of PCK1 effectively blunted Smad3 activation and attenuated renal fibrosis in vitro. These findings identify PCK1 as a critical metabolic regulator that maintains tubular homeostasis and suggest that PCK1-targeted modulation of Smad3 signaling may be a promising therapeutic strategy for arresting the progression of chronic kidney disease following acute injury.© 2026. The Author(s).
Castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) is a lethal stage of prostate cancer (PC). This research sought to examine the functions and underlying mechanisms of N6-methyladenosine (m6A) methyltransferases in CRPC. Transcriptomic datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus and The Cancer Genome Atlas were analyzed to identify dysregulated m6A methyltransferases. Cell Counting Kit-8, 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine incorporation, wound healing, Transwell, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction, western blot, m6A RNA immunoprecipitation quantitative PCR, co-immunoprecipitation, and m6A quantification assays were performed to evaluate the phenotypic and molecular effects of methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3). A xenograft tumor model was constructed by subcutaneous injection of lentivirus-transduced LNCaP cells into BALB/c nude mice. Hematoxylin and eosin staining was utilized to detect histopathological alterations, and immunohistochemistry was applied to measure Ki67 expression. METTL3 and methyltransferase-like 5 were upregulated, whereas methyltransferase-like 4 was downregulated. METTL3 knockdown suppressed the proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition in LNCaP and C4-2 cells and suppressed xenograft tumor growth. METTL3 knockdown reduced dihydrotestosterone production and suppressed the protein expression of androgen receptor, kallikrein-related peptidase 3, and FK506 binding protein 5. METTL3 enhanced the m6A methylation and transcript stability of aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C3 (AKR1C3). AKR1C3 overexpression notably reversed the anti-tumor effects induced by METTL3 knockdown. METTL3 acts as an epigenetic driver of CRPC by promoting AKR1C3 expression in an m6A-dependent manner, highlighting the METTL3/AKR1C3 axis as a promising treatment target.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Dietary zeaxanthin exhibits low intestinal absorption efficiency, and circulating levels are reduced in individuals with type 2 diabetes, suggesting potential metabolic relevance. However, its role during early-stage diabetes remains incompletely understood. This study examined whether dietary zeaxanthin modulates early metabolic and inflammatory responses and influences host-microbiome interactions during early T2DM progression. Four-week-old male db/db mice and wild-type C57BL/6J mice were fed an AIN-93M diet with or without 0.02% (w/w) zeaxanthin for 4 weeks. Zeaxanthin attenuated body weight gain, adiposity, hyperinsulinemia, and circulating keratinocyte-derived chemokine levels in diabetic mice. These effects were accompanied by reduced ileal membrane localization of Niemann-Pick C1-like protein 1 and decreased hepatic expression of CD36, nuclear factor kappa B p65, and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1, without significant improvement in fasting blood glucose or hepatic triglyceride accumulation. Cecal microbiota analysis showed reduced microbial richness in diabetic mice that was not restored by zeaxanthin; however, zeaxanthin induced selective compositional shifts, including enrichment of fermentation-associated taxa (e.g., Ruminococcaceae) and normalization of Clostridium XIVb. Predicted microbial pathways related to fermentation, amino acid biosynthesis, and cofactor metabolism were also altered. Collectively, dietary zeaxanthin modulated early metabolic and inflammatory adaptation and was associated with alterations in intestinal lipid handling, inflammatory signaling, and gut microbiome composition during early T2DM progression.
High-protein diets (HPDs) have the potential to reduce body weight, yet excessive protein intake can induce hepatic metabolic dysregulation and insulin resistance. L-theanine (LTA), a unique amino acid abundantly present in tea leaves, regulates protein metabolism under HPD conditions. However, its influence on glucose and lipid metabolism remains unclear. In this study, Sprague-Dawley rats were fed either a standard maintenance diet (20% of energy from protein) or HPDs containing 30%, 40%, or 50% of energy from protein, and were administered LTA at different doses (0, 100, 200, or 400 mg kg-1·body weight-1) for 40 days. A combination of physiological and biochemical assessments, metabolomics, proteomics, and Western blot techniques was used to investigate the regulatory effects and mechanisms of LTA on glucose and lipid metabolism under HPD conditions. The 30% HPD did not cause notable metabolic changes, whereas the 40% and 50% HPDs led to hyperinsulinemia and hepatic lipid accumulation by enhancing gluconeogenesis and fatty acid synthesis while inhibiting fatty acid β-oxidation. LTA alleviated insulin elevation, hepatic steatosis, and lipid droplet accumulation caused by the 40% and 50% HPDs. Mechanistically, LTA enhanced peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα) expression and increased acyl-CoA dehydrogenase medium chain (ACADM) expression to promote mitochondrial fatty acid β-oxidation, while decreasing acetyl-CoA carboxylase alpha (ACACA) and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1 (PCK1) expression, thereby suppressing lipid synthesis and gluconeogenesis. These findings highlight the potential of LTA to mitigate HPD-associated metabolic alterations, supporting its application as a functional food ingredient for metabolic health management.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The prolonged cold season on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau poses substantial challenges for most animals, including limited access to natural pasture, reduced appetite, and subsequent weight loss. The polysaccharides that are contained in yeast cell wall (YCW) act as prebiotics, promoting the action and development of beneficial gut microbiota while inhibiting the proliferation of pathogens, thereby maintaining normal gastrointestinal function in animals.This research aimed to examine how incorporating yeast cell wall (YCW) into the diet influences rumen fermentation, the composition of microbiota, and liver metabolism in Tibetan sheep. A total of 30 one-year-old Tibetan sheep, with an mean weight of 30.51 ± 7.07 kg, was randomly assigned to groups: a control group and a supplementation of 0.3% YCW group. Each group consisted of 15 sheep. The experimental period lasted for 98 days.The research showed that the addition of YCW increased Dry matter digestibility and average daily gain (ADG) of Tibetan sheep significantly (P < 0.05); the concentrations of propionic acid, acetic acid, total volatile fatty acids, and ammonia nitrogen in the rumen were significantly increased (P < 0.05); In the liver, the mRNA expression of genes associated with gluconeogenesis, including Glucose-6-phosphatase, catalytic subunit (G6PC), Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1(PEPCK1), and Fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (FBP), were significantly increased following YCW supplementation (P < 0.05); the mRNA expression level of Sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1c (SREBP1c), which is involved in lipid metabolism, was significantly decreased (P < 0.05); The inclusion of YCW in the diet reduced the relative abundance of Desulfobacterota and Firmicutes significantly, and increased Prevotella's abundance significantly in the rumen (P < 0.05). Liver metabolites were substantially enriched in the glycerolipid metabolism, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, and the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) signaling pathway (P < 0.05).YCW supplementation in feed may advance the growth and gain of Tibetan sheep and improve gluconeogenesis. This effect may be ascribed to modifications in the rumen microbiota facilitating propionic acid fermentation, subsequently regulating liver lipid metabolism.© 2026. The Author(s).
Renal lipid metabolic dysregulation drives tubular injury and fibrosis in chronic kidney disease (CKD), yet endogenous targets governing tubular lipid homeostasis remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to elucidate how calycosin (CAL), an O-methylated isoflavone from Astragali Radix, corrects renal lipid metabolic dysregulation and attenuates fibrosis in CKD.An adenine-induced CKD mouse model and TGF-β1-stimulated HK-2 cells were treated with CAL. Lipidomics and network pharmacology screened candidate targets. Surface plasmon resonance (SPR) and molecular dynamics simulations validated target binding. Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated renal phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1 (PCK1) overexpression in vivo and lentiviral overexpression in vitro established the regulatory relationship. The PCK1 inhibitor 3-mercaptopicolinic acid served as reverse validation.CAL improved renal function, alleviated fibrosis, and reduced lipid deposition both in vivo and in vitro. Lipidomics revealed that CAL bidirectionally modulated renal lipid metabolism by suppressing glycerophospholipid, sphingolipid, and glycerolipid accumulation while restoring omega-3 PUFA-enriched lipids and decreasing lipid saturation. SPR confirmed direct binding of CAL to PCK1. Gain-of-function experiments demonstrated that PCK1 negatively regulates Twist family BHLH transcription factor 1 (TWIST1) in the kidney. Accordingly, CAL activated the PCK1/TWIST1/carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 A (CPT1α) axis, restoring fatty acid oxidation and suppressing lipid uptake, thereby attenuating lipotoxicity-driven oxidative stress and tubular apoptosis.This study identifies PCK1 as an endogenous binding target of CAL in the kidney and delineates the PCK1/TWIST1/CPT1α axis as the downstream signaling circuitry through which CAL corrects tubular lipid metabolic disorders and attenuates renal fibrosis, providing mechanistic rationale for targeted CKD therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly lethal malignancy characterized by transcriptional heterogeneity and chemoresistance. We previously identified an aggressive PDAC subtype defined by high expression of aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member A3 (ALDH1A3), which sustained a basal-like transcriptional program through AP-1-dependent enhancer remodeling. However, effective therapeutic strategies for ALDH1A3High PDAC remain undefined. This study aimed to identify subtype-specific therapeutic vulnerabilities, and define their chromatin-based mechanisms.Public datasets, patient-derived cell cultures, and in vivo xenograft models were utilized to evaluate targeted drug effects, while associated chromatin regulatory mechanisms were interrogated using an integrative multi-omics framework combining RNA-seq, ATAC-seq, and functional assays.Based on drug screening system, paclitaxel and triptolide effectively suppressed the ALDH1A3-associated transcriptional network, producing robust antitumor activity and significantly prolonging survival in ALDH1A3High models. Further integrated RNA-seq and ATAC-seq analyses revealed that paclitaxel and triptolide converge on AP-1-dependent enhancer regulation, inducing widespread chromatin closure at distal regulatory elements and leading to the coordinated downregulation of MYC and its dimerization partner MAX. Functionally, MYC inhibition mimicked the effects of paclitaxel and triptolide, reproducing the suppression of E2F3 and subsequent cell-cycle arrest.The paclitaxel-triptolide combination represented a rational therapeutic strategy that disrupted lineage-specific chromatin states and might offer a clinically relevant approach for improving outcomes in ALDH1A3High PDAC patients.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy (PDE) caused by aldehyde dehydrogenase 7 family member A1 (ALDH7A1) deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive epileptic encephalopathy. It typically presents in the neonatal period with intractable seizures responsive to high-dose vitamin B6. Atypical later-onset presentations expand the clinical spectrum. Early recognition is crucial to prevent irreversible neurodevelopmental impairment.We report a 2-year-old Palestinian girl, born to consanguineous parents, who developed neonatal metabolic acidosis and encephalopathy, recurrent seizures from early infancy, and global developmental delay. EEG revealed epileptiform discharges, and brain MRI demonstrated partial agenesis of the corpus callosum and mild dilation of the lateral ventricle. Conventional antiepileptic therapy provided no improvement.Whole-exome sequencing at 1 year and 8 months identified a homozygous 9.9 kb deletion in ALDH7A1, confirming PDE. High-dose pyridoxine (150 mg/day) achieved seizure control, allowing tapering of other antiepileptics. Supportive management included electrolyte monitoring and treatment of dehydration.This case highlights the clinical heterogeneity of PDE-ALDH7A1, underscores the importance of early genetic testing, and demonstrates the efficacy of timely pyridoxine therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
The objective of this study was to explore hepatic metabolic adaptations in mid-lactation Holstein cows managed under feeding strategies with different levels of pasture inclusion. Sixteen multiparous North American Holstein cows were assigned from calving to 180 days in milk (DIM) to either a fixed pasture strategy (FixP; n = 8), in which grazed pasture represented approximately one-third of dry matter intake and the remainder was provided as total mixed ration (TMR), or a maximum pasture strategy (MaxP; n = 8), in which pasture intake was maximized and cows were supplemented with concentrate and conserved forage according to pasture availability. At 180 ± 20 DIM, plasma samples and liver biopsies were collected for biochemical analyses, quantitative PCR, and targeted liver metabolomics by gas chromatography time-of-flight mass spectrometry. Milk yield, milk components, and body condition score did not differ between feeding strategies. Plasma urea nitrogen was greater in MaxP than FixP cows (6.64 vs. 4.96 mmol/L; P = 0.01). In liver, FixP cows showed greater abundance of metabolites related to carbohydrate metabolism, including phosphoenolpyruvate, fructose-6-phosphate, glucose-6-phosphate, and sucrose, together with greater expression of genes related to the pentose phosphate pathway and fatty acid synthesis, including glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, ribose-5-phosphate isomerase A, acetyl-CoA carboxylase alpha and fatty acid synthase (p ≤ 0.10). In contrast, MaxP cows showed greater abundance of metabolites associated with nitrogen metabolism, including citrulline, ornithine, glutamine, and creatinine. These results indicate that, during mid-lactation, greater pasture inclusion is associated with enhanced hepatic nitrogen metabolism, whereas partial replacement of pasture with TMR is associated with greater hepatic carbohydrate-related metabolism and fatty acid synthesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Age-related osteoporosis is increasingly recognized as a disease of stem cell dysfunction, hallmarked by the skewed lineage commitment of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) away from osteogenesis towards adipogenesis. This functional decline is closely linked to mitochondrial dysregulation. However, the upstream metabolic regulators that orchestrate this detrimental cell-fate switch, particularly the key nodes at the interface of mitochondrial function and cellular senescence, remain largely unknown, hindering the development of targeted therapies. To address this challenge, we implemented a bioinformatic pipeline analyzing transcriptomes of rat MSCs from GEO. Methodology included transcriptomic profiling and MitoCarta3.0 intersection to identify mitochondria-associated aging genes. A multi-algorithm strategy screened hub genes. Sixteen mitochondria-associated genes were dysregulated in MSC aging. Machine learning consistently identified ribose-5-phosphate isomerase A (RPIA), a key enzyme of the pentose phosphate pathway, as the critical hub. RPIA was up-regulated in aged MSCs, predicting senescence (area under the curve [AUROC] = 0.909). Validation in an independent dataset confirmed RPIA's up-regulation with comparable accuracy (AUROC = 0.917). To further validate the reliability of the results, we selected discarded bone tissue samples from patients aged 20 to 80 years who had undergone osteotomy, which we then examined histologically. The importance and effectiveness of RPIA have been confirmed through analysis of clinical tissue samples. At the same time, under high RPIA levels, the osteogenic potential of bone marrow mesenchymal stromal cells was significantly suppressed (P < 0.01). This study is the first to implicate RPIA in the pathobiology of skeletal aging. We propose RPIA as a metabolic switch driving mitochondrial dysfunction in senescent MSCs. Consequently, RPIA emerges as a novel, high-priority potential therapeutic target for osteoporosis, providing a compelling data-driven foundation for subsequent experimental investigation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Ochratoxin A (OTA) is a core environmental toxin that induces kidney injury by interfering with glomerular filtration, antioxidant defense, and tubular transport functions. Alginate oligosaccharides (AOS), as active substances from marine, carry natural antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and other biological activities. The purpose of this study is to explore the molecular network of AOS against nephrotoxicity caused by OTA.A total of 36 5-week male mice were randomly divided into three groups: the CON group, the OTA group (250 μg/kg B.W. OTA) and the AOS + OTA group (400 mg/kg B.W. AOS +250 μg/kg B.W. OTA). The treatment was continued for 21 d.OTA induced renal injury in mice, manifested by glomerular capsule blurring, lymphocytic infiltration, and mitochondrial damage in tubular epithelial cells. Treatment with AOS significantly alleviated these pathological changes. Multi‑omics analysis revealed that AOS activated the PPAR signaling pathway, upregulating key genes (Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 1 Family Member A3 (Aldh1a3), Carbamoyl-phosphate synthase 1 (Cps1), Cytochrome c oxidase subunit 8B (Cox8b)), which drove the accumulation of protective metabolites such as L‑arginine and carnosine. This protective process involved coordinated regulation of amino acid metabolism, mTOR signaling, and PPAR pathways, illustrating a novel metabolic‑transcriptional network through which AOS mitigates OTA‑induced nephrotoxicity.This study reveal that AOS antagonizes OTA-induced nephrotoxicity in mice through PPAR signaling axis, thus providing new insight into the renal protection mechanism of marine active substances.Copyright © 2026 Ye, Zhao, Yao, Zhang, Li and Liu.
Recent studies have shown glycerolipid metabolism played an essential role in multiple tumors, however, its function in osteosarcoma is unclear. This study aimed to explore the role of glycerolipid metabolism in osteosarcoma.We conducted bioinformatics analysis using data from the Therapeutically Applicable Research to Generate Effective Treatments (TARGET) database and single-cell RNA sequencing. Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression was used to identify the Glycerolipid metabolism-related genes associated with the clinical outcome of osteosarcoma. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and their interactions with immune cells were examined through single-cell analysis and co-culture experiments. Virtual screening was employed to identify the potential lysophosphatidic acid receptor 6 (LPAR6) inhibitors.Glycerolipid metabolism-related genes 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase 3 (AGPAT3) and aldehyde dehydrogenase 7 family member A1 (ALDH7A1) were identified as key prognostic genes in osteosarcoma, with high AGPAT3 expression correlating with improved survival. Single-cell analysis revealed that AGPAT3 expression is associated with tumor immune microenvironment, particularly with TAMs. Knockdown of AGPAT3 in osteosarcoma cells resulted in elevated lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) levels, which regulated the immune environment, inhibiting cytotoxic T cell function through TAMs' LPAR6 signaling. LPAR6 signaling in TAMs mediates immune regulation through cytokine secretion, including interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-10 (IL-10). Further drug virtual screening identified Dutasteride as a potential inhibitor of LPAR6.AGPAT3 is an important gene related to the prognosis of osteosarcoma. Its ability to modulate LPA signaling and TAM activity offers promising therapeutic opportunities for improving osteosarcoma treatment, particularly in immunotherapy contexts.© 2026 The Authors.
Pyridoxine dependent epilepsy (PDE) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder. Several genes involved in Pyridoxine (B6) metabolism have been implicated in the pathogenesis of PDE, two such genes are Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 7 Family Member A1 (ALDH7A1) and Pyridox(am)ine 5'- phosphate oxidase (PNPO). To add to the limited data on PDE, three cases of Vitamin B6 dependent neonatal epilepsy caused by pathogenic variation in the ALDH7A1 and PNPO genes are reported. PDE is a rare, but potentially debilitating, cause of neonatal-onset epilepsy. Keeping in view the variable presentations of this condition, patients with a clinical picture suggestive of PDE must be carefully evaluated and treatment initiated as early as possible to achieve the best outcomes.
Gemcitabine resistance remains a primary determinant of poor survival outcomes in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) patients, underscoring the urgent need to elucidate its molecular mechanisms and develop effective countermeasures. Here, gemcitabine-resistant pancreatic cancer cell lines and patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models are established, followed by high-throughput sequencing, which identified heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein C (HNRNPC) as a significantly upregulated factor in chemoresistant tumors. Silencing of HNRNPC expression substantially restores sensitivity to gemcitabine treatment in vitro and vivo. Mechanistically, multi-omics analysis reveals that histone H3 lysine18 lactylation (H3K18la) drives HNRNPC overexpression. HNRNPC stabilizes TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) transcripts in an N6-methyladenosine(m6A) -dependent manner, thereby activating autophagy to mediate gemcitabine resistance. Concurrently, HNRNPC orchestrates a metabolic reprogramming cascade by similarly stabilizing aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member A3 (ALDH1A3) mRNA, which enhances glycolysis and H3K18la levels, establishing a self-reinforcing histone lactylation-HNRNPC positive feedback loop. Notably, pharmacological inhibition of ALDH1A3 using 673A effectively disrupted this regulatory circuit and exerts a synergistic effect with gemcitabine in PDX. These findings not only delineate a histone lactylation-driven positive feedback loop sustaining chemoresistance through HNRNPC-mediated autophagy activation, but also develop the potential of 673A as a promising clinical candidate for overcoming gemcitabine resistance in PDAC treatment.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
SET domain-containing 7 (SETD7, also known as KMT7 or SET7/9), a histone lysine methyltransferase (HKMT) responsible for catalyzing histone H3 lysine 4 monomethylation (H3K4me1), has emerged as a key regulator in multiple cancers. However, the biological functions and epigenetic regulatory mechanisms of SETD7 in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) remain unclear. Our study found that SETD7 expression is significantly upregulated in ESCC tissues and positively correlates with clinical staging. Functional analyses revealed that SETD7 promotes ESCC cell proliferation and migration in vitro, while accelerating tumor growth in vivo. Additionally, SETD7 knockdown increased ESCC cell sensitivity to ferroptosis induction, indicating its dual functionality in tumorigenesis and ferroptosis resistance. Cleavage Under Targets and Tagmentation (CUT&Tag) sequencing analysis systematically mapped H3K4me1 modifications in ESCC cells, identifying ALDH1A3 (aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member A3) as a key downstream target. Mechanistically, SETD7-mediated H3K4me1 deposition at the ALDH1A3 promoter drives transcriptional activation, increasing the level of reduced coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10H₂) and inhibiting lipid peroxidation. This study reveals a novel epigenetic-metabolic axis (SETD7-H3K4me1-ALDH1A3/NADH/CoQ10H₂) that regulates ESCC progression and ferroptosis sensitivity, which highlights the clinical translational value of SETD7 in ESCC prognosis assessment and therapeutic development. Schematic diagram illustrating the mechanism by which SETD7 accelerates ESCC progression through enhancing ferroptosis resistance. Created with BioRender.© 2025. The Author(s).
Cadmium (Cd) contamination of agricultural soils represents a serious threat to crop productivity and food security due to its phytotoxic effects. In this context, the present study investigates the protective effects of molybdenum (Mo) against Cd-induced oxidative stress in germinating wheat (Triticum turgidum L.) seeds. Seeds were pretreated with ammonium molybdate at 0, 1, 2, or 3 µM for 12 h before germination under control or Cd stress conditions (400 µM CdCl2). Results indicated that 2 µM Mo was most effective at mitigating Cd-induced growth inhibition; therefore, this concentration was selected for physiological analyses. Mo pretreatment reduced Cd accumulation while increasing tissue Mo content, thereby improving the cellular redox state under Cd stress. This was associated with decreased levels of superoxide anions [Formula: see text], hydroxyl radicals (·OH), and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). Mo also protected membrane integrity, as indicated by reduced lipoxygenase activity and lower levels of malondialdehyde and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal, thereby decreasing electrolyte leakage and improving cell viability. Improved redox homeostasis was correlated with enhanced antioxidant enzyme activities, including superoxide dismutase, catalase, ascorbate peroxidase, glutathione peroxidase, and glutathione reductase. Moreover, Mo enhanced methylglyoxal detoxification by stimulating glyoxalase I and II activities, thereby limiting methylglyoxal accumulation. Likewise, Mo regulated the proline content by modulating its metabolism, particularly through the regulation of Δ1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthase and proline dehydrogenase. These findings highlight the protective role of Mo in mitigating Cd-induced stress, providing insights into potential strategies to enhance seed tolerance to Cd contamination.© Prof. H.S. Srivastava Foundation for Science and Society 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Cellular senescence is a stable cell cycle arrest program with important therapeutic implications in cancer, yet how metabolic perturbations are translated into redox-dependent senescence remains incompletely understood. Here, we identify triosephosphate isomerase 1 (TPI1) as a critical regulator of senescence in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) through a customized CRISPR-Cas9 metabolic screen. TPI1 depletion induces a robust senescence phenotype characterized by mitochondrial redox imbalance, DNA damage, and stable growth arrest. Mechanistically, loss of TPI1 leads to accumulation of dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP), which engages a SARM1-dependent signaling pathway, resulting in increased cyclic ADP-ribose (cADPR) production and intracellular Ca2+ release. This cADPR-Ca2+ axis drives mitochondrial ROS (mtROS) generation, thereby promoting DNA damage and activation of the p53-p21 pathway to enforce senescence. Pharmacological or genetic attenuation of calcium signaling, or mitochondrial ROS partially rescues these phenotypes, indicating that calcium-dependent redox stress is required for senescence induction. Importantly, this metabolic-redox signaling cascade is conserved across multiple cancer types. Collectively, our findings define a previously unrecognized TPI1-SARM1-cADPR-Ca2+ axis that links glycolytic metabolite accumulation to mitochondrial redox stress and cellular senescence, highlighting a metabolite-driven redox vulnerability that may be therapeutically exploitable in cancer.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Reactive α-oxoaldehydes, such as glyoxal (GO) and methylglyoxal (MGO), are cytotoxic glycolysis byproducts that induce cellular dysfunction by nonenzymatically modifying diverse macromolecules. Although DJ-1 (PARK7), a protein linked to Parkinson's disease, acts as a type-III glyoxalase/methylglyoxalase, the physiological function(s) of its prokaryotic homologs remain poorly understood. Here, we investigated the enzymatic and physiological properties of YhbO, one of four DJ-1 homologs in Escherichia coli. We demonstrate that YhbO has higher catalytic efficiency than DJ-1 and exhibits broad-spectrum α-oxoaldehyde hydratase activity against GO, MGO, and phenylglyoxal. Structural modeling and mutational analyses revealed that residues E17, G73, G74, C104, and H105 are important for catalysis, whereas D78, previously thought to comprise a Cys-His-Asp triad, is dispensable. Notably, H105 is strictly required, distinguishing the YhbO catalytic mechanism from that of DJ-1 and HchA. Further underscoring mechanistic divergence within the DJ-1 family, YhbO converted MGO into both L- and D-lactate, whereas DJ-1 generates only L-lactate. In cell-based assays, overexpression of wild-type YhbO conferred resistance to GO- and MGO-induced stress and suppressed the formation of GO- and MGO-derived adducts such as carboxymethyl-lysine and methylglyoxal-hydroimidazolone. In contrast, catalytically impaired YhbO mutants were unable to suppress adduct formation. Further, comparable levels of endogenous GO- or MGO-derived adducts in cells with YhbO knocked out, or a YhbO/HchA double knockout, suggest redundancy within the canonical glyoxalase I pathway. Taken together, these findings establish YhbO as a unique α-oxoaldehyde hydratase with distinct catalytic requirements and provide insights into the mechanistic diversity within the DJ-1 protein family.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Overexpression of the Ni2+-dependent glyoxalase I genes AtGLYI3 and AtGLYI6 enhances nickel stress tolerance in Arabidopsis. The transgenic lines exhibit reduced reactive oxygen species accumulation under nickel stress, indicating improved oxidative stress management and contributing to enhanced nickel tolerance. This study investigated the role of Ni2+-dependent glyoxalase I (GLYI) in nickel stress tolerance in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. A comparative analysis was conducted among wild-type, GLYI mutants (glyI-2, glyI-3, glyI-6), Zn2⁺ dependent (AtGLYI2_OE-1), and Ni2⁺ dependent (AtGLYI3_OE, AtGLYI6_OE) GLYI gene-overexpressing transgenic lines to elucidate the biochemical and phenotypic responses. Under 200 µM NiCl₂, AtGLYI3_OE and AtGLYI6_OE exhibited higher germination and enhanced root growth compared with wild-type, mutants, and AtGLYI2_OE-1, particularly in the presence of GA, SA, and IAA. Under severe nickel toxicity (20 mM NiCl₂), wild-type and AtGLYI2_OE-1 showed greater sensitivity, as indicated by reduced chlorophyll content and antioxidant activity, along with elevated MDA, D-lactate, and ROS levels, whereas AtGLYI3_OE and AtGLYI6_OE demonstrated improved tolerance. ICP-MS analysis revealed lower Ni2⁺ accumulation in glyI-2 than glyI-3 mutants, underscoring the importance of Ni2⁺-dependent AtGLYI3 in stress mitigation. Collectively, these results indicate that Ni2⁺-dependent GLYI plays a predominant role in nickel tolerance, whereas Zn2⁺-dependent GLYI is mainly involved in methylglyoxal detoxification. Subsequently, LC-MS/MS analysis revealed the lowest Salicylic acid (SA) in mutants, followed by all GLYI-overexpressing lines, compared to wild-type, indicating a potential link between GLYI activity and SA homeostasis. Further, exogenous SA enhanced recovery in AtGLYI3_OE and AtGLYI6_OE under Ni2⁺ stress, with minimal effects on wild type and mutants, indicating a complementary role of SA in Ni2⁺-dependent GLYI. Additionally, increased bZIP2 and NRT1.1 expression was observed in Ni2⁺-dependent GLYI transgenic lines under NiCl₂ stress. Therefore, future studies are needed to find potential links between Ni2⁺-dependent GLYI with SA/GA biosynthesis and nitrogen-related stress responses.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42318360 is a review article
Chemoresistance in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is associated with a poor prognosis in patients. Ferroptosis is one of the mechanisms by which anthracycline exerts anti-leukemic effects, with drug-resistant AML cells exhibiting increased resistance to ferroptosis. Elevated expression of aldehyde dehydrogenase 3 family member A2 (ALDH3A2) is correlated with poor prognosis in patients with AML. Patients with chemo-resistant AML exhibit higher levels of ALDH3A2, particularly the V subtype. ALDH3A2 degraded 4-hydroxynonenal and regulated the fatty acid proportion and content of AML cells, protecting AML cells against doxorubicin-induced ferroptosis. Moreover, overexpression of ALDH3A2 changes cell membrane fluidity and reduces drug uptake. Histone deacetylase 2 binds to the ALDH3A2 promoter and regulates its expression. The inhibition of ALDH3A2 or HDAC enhances chemotherapeutic efficacy in AML.© 2026 The Author(s).
Salinity stress disrupts plant metabolism by causing excessive buildup of methylglyoxal and reactive oxygen species, both of which demand efficient detoxification and redox balance. In this study, we combined genome-wide in silico analyses with molecular, biochemical, metabolic, and physiological approaches to explore how the glyoxalase system contributes to salinity stress adaptation in Artemisia annua. We identified 20 AaGLYI, 13 AaGLYII, and 7 AaGLYIII genes, all characterised by conserved domain structures, distinct motif patterns, and stress-responsive cis-regulatory elements. Phylogenetic analysis highlighted both evolutionary conservation and functional diversification of these gene families across plant species. Expression profiling of Arabidopsis orthologues, together with qRT-PCR validation of selected AaGLYs (AaGLYI18, AaGLYI20, AaGLYII05, AaGLYII11, AaGLYIII01, AaGLYIII02), revealed strong, time-dependent induction under salinity stress. This was coupled with enhanced glyoxalase enzyme activities and a transient spike in MG levels followed by efficient detoxification. Concurrent activation of the ascorbate-glutathione (AsA-GSH) cycle maintained redox equilibrium during early stress phases, though prolonged exposure imposed redox constraints. Physiological assessments indicated early reductions in stomatal conductance and photochemical efficiency, partially compensated by increased non-photochemical quenching and preserved PSII integrity. Interestingly, glyoxalase activation under stress paralleled elevated expression of key artemisinin biosynthetic genes and higher in vivo artemisinin accumulation, suggesting a functional link between MG detoxification, redox regulation, and secondary metabolism during salinity stress in A. annua.Schematic representation demonstrating cellular and physiological reactions of Artemisia annua to salt stress. Salinity-induced ionic and osmotic instability results in increased generation of reactive oxygen species and methylglyoxal, leading to oxidative and carbonyl stress. MG is detoxified by the glyoxalase route by the sequential actions of GLYI and GLYII in a glutathione (GSH)-dependent manner, while GLYIII facilitates glutathione-independent detoxification under prolonged stress conditions. The activation of the glyoxalase system is precisely synchronised with the ascorbate-glutathione (AsA-GSH) cycle, which includes APX, GR, MDHAR, and DHAR, to maintain redox homeostasis and mitigate oxidative damage. Metabolites generated from MG integrate into central carbon metabolism, facilitating metabolic reprogramming during stress. Simultaneously, physiological modifications such as proline buildup, increased non-photochemical quenching, and alterations in gas exchange and photosynthetic parameters facilitate the preservation of photosystem II integrity and adaptability to stress. The graphical abstract collectively emphasises the coordinated regulation of detoxification pathways, redox metabolism, and physiological responses that contribute to salinity tolerance. ROS, reactive oxygen species; MG, methylglyoxal; GLYI/II/III, glyoxalase I/II/III; GSH, reduced glutathione; GSSG, oxidised glutathione; AsA, ascorbate; APX, ascorbate peroxidase; GR, glutathione reductase; MDHAR, monodehydroascorbate reductase; DHAR, dehydroascorbate reductase; NPQ, non-photochemical quenching; PSII, photosystem II.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12298-026-01751-1.© Prof. H.S. Srivastava Foundation for Science and Society 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Biocides are widely used to control unwanted biological growth. Isothiazolinone biocides are one class of biocides used to stabilize a range of products against microbial contamination and degradation. Although the development of resistance to such biocides is thought to be unlikely, we describe a system capable of detoxifying the common isothiazolinone biocide MIT/CMIT (2-methyl-4-isothiazolin-3-one and 5-chloro-2-methyl-4-isothiazolin-3-one). It was found in Klebsiella oxytoca complex bacteria contaminating a commercial liquid soap that contained the isothiazolinone as a preservative. The isolate inactivates MIT/CMIT via a glutathione-dependent reaction catalyzed by a plasmid-encoded glutathione transferase system. This system comprises a glutathione transferase (gstA) and a hydroxyacylglutathione hydrolase (gloB), both located in one operon on an 80-kbp plasmid and co-localized with an arsenic resistance cassette. The plasmid can be transferred by conjugation to Escherichia coli. The findings highlight the risk that broadening biocide use can increasingly drive the evolution, selection, and spread of different resistance mechanisms.IMPORTANCEBiocide usage is increasing worldwide to combat organisms causing spoilage or infectious disease. However, the use of biocides is also recognized as a selection factor that shapes microbial communities and drives adaptation. Isothiazolinone biocides are mainly used to stabilize liquid products, personal care products, and fuel against microbial spoilage. The detoxification system described here allowed bacteria to survive in a liquid soap cleaning product containing the widely used biocide preservative MIT/CMIT. Importantly, the biocide detoxification system is mobile between different species and co-localized with a metal resistance operon. The system thereby demonstrates how the spread and co-selection of resistances can occur in bacterial populations exposed to biocides.
Recent studies showed that immune and cardiometabolic biomarker levels increased in individuals exposed to air pollution.We sought to identify a pollution exposure signature in a pilot cohort of 54 firefighters and controls in the Bay Area.We analyzed Olink-processed proteomics data under multiple approaches for feature selection, including the LASSO. We selected 67 biomarkers related to well-defined pathways for targeted analyses, whereas 1463 unique assays were considered for untargeted analyses.Levels of angiopoietin 1 and hydroxyacylglutathione hydrolase were consistently higher in firefighters compared to controls. Moreover, matrix metalloproteinase-1, a protein that promotes tumorigenesis, was higher at the visit with greater acute exposure. Fifteen other key biomarkers were jointly identified under untargeted and targeted approaches. Regression analysis found that 10 biomarkers were numerically higher in firefighters with high exposure.These analyses demonstrate the potential utility of large-scale plasma proteomics in identifying a pollution exposure signature.Exposure to particulate matter leads to proteomic changes that are associated with adverse health outcomes. Applying regularization-based feature selection methods to high-dimensional data can identify a small subset of biomarkers for targeted monitoring efforts. Our findings improve understanding of the implications of air pollution for healthy adults and serve as a foundation to developing strategies for mitigating occupational exposure.© 2026. The Author(s).
Fucoidans are natural compounds that exhibit bioactivity against age-related macular degeneration (AMD), the leading cause of central vision loss in industrialized nations. Pathological factors like oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation play vital roles in AMD pathogenesis. Lipid-induced alterations in the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) contribute to AMD development. In this study, a commercial fucoidan from Fucus vesiculosus (FVs) was tested for its activity regarding lipid-peroxidation-related effects. The human RPE cell line ARPE-19, primary porcine RPE, and RPE/choroid explants were stimulated with erastin, acting as an inducer of lipid peroxidation, and treated with fucoidan. Effects on cell viability (tetrazolium bromide (MTT) or calcein staining), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and interleukin 8 (IL8) secretion (ELISA), reactive oxygen species (ROS), protein expression (glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), CD59, and retinoid isomerohydrolase (RPE65), analyzed via Western blot), and gene expression (RT-qPCR) were investigated. FVs showed protective effects against erastin-induced reduction in viability (with a 12.7% increase in viability compared to erastin), RPE65 expression (with a 4.2-fold increase compared to erastin), and GPX4 expression (with a 2.3-fold increase compared to erastin) in primary RPE. Erastin-induced VEGF secretion was attenuated by FVs in ARPE-19 and primary RPE (with an up to 1.7-fold reduction compared to erastin). Elevated IL8 levels were reduced by FV treatment in primary RPE (with a 9.1-fold reduction compared to erastin). Induced VEGF in RPE/choroid explants was reduced by FVs (with an up to 2.9-fold reduction compared to erastin), and this reduction was correlated with slight improvements in viability. In conclusion, FVs exerted protective effects against lipid-induced stress. This study reveals further effects of fucoidans against AMD-related pathologies.
Purpose The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether bone marrow stem cells (BMSCs), vinpocetine, or their combination can attenuate amyloid-β (Aβ)-induced alterations in angiogenesis and visual cycle gene expression in a cellular model of age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Methods Human retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cells (ARPE-19) were exposed to Aβ 1-42 for 24h and divided into four groups: (i) co-culture with BMSCs, (ii) treated with vinpocetine, (iii) treated with BMSCs and vinpocetine, and (iv) untreated control. Cell viability was assessed using the Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was employed to evaluate the mRNA expression levels of angiogenesis-related genes, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF-A) and pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF), and RPE-associated visual cycle genes: lecithin retinol acyltransferase (LRAT), retinoid isomerohydrolase (RPE65), retinol dehydrogenase 5 (RDH5), retinol dehydrogenase 10 (RDH10), and retinaldehyde-binding protein 1 (RLPB1).  Results Aβ1-42 significantly reduced ARPE-19 cell viability (p=0.002); all treatments significantly restored viability. Aβ1-42 upregulated VEGF-A expression, which was significantly downregulated by all treatments. Although Aβ1-42 slightly increased PEDF expression, all treatments significantly enhanced its upregulation, with the combination therapy showing the greatest effect (p=0.006, 0.010, and 0.002, respectively). Furthermore, Aβ 1-42 induced upregulation of most visual cycle genes was reversed by all treatments. Conclusion Aβ1-42 induces cytotoxicity, angiogenesis, and dysregulation of visual cycle genes in RPE cells in vitro. BMSCs, vinpocetine, and their combination attenuate these effects, supporting a potential role in AMD therapy pending further investigation.Copyright © 2025, Almpanidou et al.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) represents a notable global health challenge, with neuropathic pain (NP) being a common complication that intensifies patient suffering. Existing research tends to overlook the temporal aspects of NP and fails to offer targeted treatment options. To tackle this issue, the present study initially examined genome‑wide association study summaries related to NP, incorporating expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) from blood samples through summary‑based Mendelian randomization. This allowed the investigation of the association between NP and eQTL, facilitating the identification of genes linked to the risk of NP. Following this, weighted gene co‑expression network analysis of a Gene Expression Omnibus dataset was utilized to identify SCI‑related module genes, resulting in the detection of 218 shared genes across these analyses. Subsequent functional enrichment assessments, protein‑protein interaction evaluations and machine learning technique analyses, including least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression, random forest and support vector machine recursive feature elimination analyses, highlighted three central genes: Glycerol‑3‑phosphate dehydrogenase 1‑like, epoxide hydrolase 2 and cytochrome P450 family 1 subfamily B member 1 (CYP1B1). Additionally, network pharmacology and molecular docking analyses confirmed CYP1B1 as a viable therapeutic target. A analysis of single‑cell RNA sequencing datasets demonstrated an increase in CYP1B1 expression within spinal cord fibroblasts following SCI. Furthermore, quercetin (Que) was shown to inhibit CYP1B1 expression and reduce NP (based on mechanical paw withdrawal threshold and thermal paw withdrawal latency) in murine models. The results of the present study highlight the important role of spinal cord fibroblast CYP1B1 as a notable contributor to NP following SCI and suggest that Que may serve as a promising mechanism‑based therapeutic option.
The nonsymbiotic sea anemone Anthopleura nigrescens dominates the shallow-water hydrothermal vents off the coast of Kueishan Island, Taiwan. These vents represent some of the world's most extreme environments, with recorded pH values as low as 1.52 and temperatures reaching 121°C. To investigate the adaptations of A. nigrescens to these extreme conditions, transcriptomic analyses were conducted to compare populations inhabiting vent and non-vent areas. To identify shared genetic mechanisms in vent-dwelling anemones, specific orthologs conserved in vent sea anemones were identified by comparing the genomic data of Anthopleura species and other sea anemones. Tank experiments with elevated temperatures were also performed to evaluate the expression profiles of genes associated with heat resistance. The transcriptomic analysis revealed that enriched genes in vent populations are involved in H2S homeostasis and stress resistance, suggesting that detoxification and thermal stress resistance are critical adaptive strategies. Two significantly upregulated genes encoding hydroxyacylglutathione hydrolase and thiosulfate sulfurtransferase may play a role in managing sulfur toxicity and maintaining redox balance. The enriched genes and vent-specific gene expression patterns also suggest that efficient DNA repair mechanisms play a crucial role in the thermal stress resistance of vent populations. Interestingly, some genes associated with circadian rhythms were upregulated in vent populations, suggesting these genes may help vent anemones adapt to the highly dynamic conditions of hydrothermal vents. Furthermore, the expression profiles of stress-resistance-related genes reveal that vent anemones have developed unique molecular regulatory mechanisms to cope with elevated temperatures, as observed in the tank experiment. These transcriptomic findings advance our understanding of the life adaptations in shallow-water hydrothermal vent environments.© 2025 The Author(s). Ecology and Evolution published by British Ecological Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39930177 is a review article
To investigate the expression patterns of Fibrillin-1 in idiopathic epiretinal membranes (iERM) and identify Fibrillin-1-secreting cells.iERM samples were collected via standard 27-gauge vitrectomy and subsequently subjected to flat-mount immunohistochemistry with double staining for the following markers: Fibrillin-1, glial acidic fibrillary protein (GFAP), cellular retinaldehyde-binding protein (CRALBP), retinoid isomerohydrolase RPE65 (RPE65), and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA).Fibrillin-1 was detected throughout the iERM. The colocalization of Fibrillin-1 with α-SMA, CRALBP, and RPE65 suggested that myofibroblasts and retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells secreted Fibrillin-1. The lack of colocalization between GFAP and Fibrillin-1 indicated that GFAP-positive glial cells did not secrete Fibrillin-1. The colocalization of CRALBP and RPE65 with α-SMA indicated the transformation of RPE cells into myofibroblasts. This suggested that RPE cells transformed into myofibroblasts and secreted Fibrillin-1. The lack of colocalization between GFAP and α-SMA implied that GFAP-positive glial cells did not express α-SMA.Fibrillin-1 is widely distributed in iERMs, and myofibroblasts were the primary sources of Fibrillin-1 secretion. Additionally, during their transformation into myofibroblasts, RPE cells secreted Fibrillin-1. GFAP-positive glial cells did not express α-SMA nor secrete Fibrillin-1.What is known Idiopathic epiretinal membranes are a common cause of visual acuity and quality impairment. The protein and cell components of idiopathic epiretinal membrane exhibit diversity. What is new Fibrillin-1 is present throughout the idiopathic epiretinal membrane. Myofibroblasts are the most important source of Fibrillin-1 secretion. Retinal pigment epithelial cells also secrete Fibrillin-1 when transforming into myofibroblast. Glial cells do not transform to myofibroblast and do not secrete Fibrillin-1.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
To investigate the short-term effects of low-level lasers (LLLs; also known as low-power laser therapy) on the structure, genetic, and phenotype of cultured human retinal pigment epithelial (hRPE) cells from both adult and neonatal sources.Cultivated adult and neonatal hRPE cells were irradiated with two types of LLL (630 nm and 780 nm), 1 min daily for five consecutive days.An increase in doubling time was observed in 630 nm-irradiated adult hRPE cells (P = 0.032). The gene expression profile revealed increased expression of retinoid isomerohydrolase RPE65 (RPE65) (P < 0.01 for 630 nm laser, P < 0.001 for 780 nm laser) and nestin (NES) (P < 0.01 for 630 nm laser) in neonatal hRPE cells, upregulation of RPE65 (P < 0.001 for 780 nm laser) and paired box 6 (PAX6) (P < 0.001 for 780 nm laser) genes in adult hRPE cells, and reduced expression of actin alpha 2 (ACTA2) in 780 nm-irradiated adult hRPE cells (P < 0.001). Except the significant increase of α -SMA in 780 nm-irradiated neonatal hRPE cells, no significant change was noted in the expressions of other investigated proteins.Short-term irradiation of neonatal and adult hRPE cells with LLLs may induce multipotency at the transcriptional level. Irradiation of neonatal hRPE cells with LLLs can be associated with increased risk of myofibroblastic transformation; however, adult hRPE cells irradiated with the 780 nm laser have minimal risk of myofibroblastic differentiation. It seems that the 780 nm laser may be a promising option for future photobiomodulation in retinal degenerations in adults.Copyright © 2024 Moshtaghion et al.
The enteric nervous system (ENS) is formed from vagal neural crest cells (NCC), which generate most of the neurons and glia that regulate gastrointestinal function. Defects in the migration or differentiation of NCC in the gut can result in gastrointestinal disorders such as Hirschsprung disease (HSCR). Although mutations in many genes have been associated with the etiology of HSCR, a significant proportion of affected individuals have an undetermined genetic diagnosis. Therefore, it's important to identify new genes, modifiers, and environmental factors that regulate ENS development and disease. Rdh10 catalyzes the first oxidative step in the metabolism of vitamin A to its active metabolite, retinoic acid (RA), and is therefore a central regulator of vitamin A metabolism and RA synthesis during embryogenesis. We discovered that retinol dehydrogenase 10 (Rdh10) loss-of-function mouse embryos exhibit intestinal aganglionosis, characteristic of HSCR. Vagal NCC form and migrate in Rdh10 mutant embryos but fail to invade the foregut. Rdh10 is highly expressed in the mesenchyme surrounding the entrance to the foregut and is essential between E7.5 and E9.5 for NCC invasion into the gut. Comparative RNA-sequencing revealed downregulation of the Ret-Gdnf-Gfrα1 gene signaling network in Rdh10 mutants, which is critical for vagal NCC chemotaxis. Furthermore, the composition of the extracellular matrix through which NCC migrate is also altered, in part by increased collagen deposition. Collectively, this restricts NCC entry into the gut, demonstrating that Rdh10-mediated vitamin A metabolism and RA signaling pleiotropically regulates the NCC microenvironment during ENS formation and in the pathogenesis of intestinal aganglionosis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
This study investigated the interactive effects of dietary vitamin A (VA) and all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) on growth performance and intestinal health in broilers. A total of 432 one-day-old male Arbor Acres chicks were assigned to a 2 × 3 factorial design with two VA levels (2000 and 6000 IU/kg) and three ATRA levels (0, 0.25, and 0.50 mg/kg). The maize-soybean meal basal diet contained 180 IU/kg VA without extra VA supplementation. Results showed that compared with 0 mg/kg ATRA, 0.50 mg/kg ATRA enhanced average daily gain (ADG) during days 1-21 (p < 0.05). Compared with 2000 IU/kg VA, 6000 IU/kg VA improved body weight on day 35 as well as ADG and feed intake during days 22-35 and reduced feed conversion ratio over the entire trial (p < 0.05). There were VA × ATRA interactions for the ratio of villus height (VH) to crypt depth (CD) in duodenum as well as VH and CD in ileum on day 21 (p < 0.05). The 0.25 mg/kg ATRA decreased duodenal VH/CD and ileal VH in broilers fed 2000 and 6000 IU/kg VA, respectively (p < 0.05). The 0.50 mg/kg ATRA increased ileal VH in broilers fed both 2000 and 6000 IU/kg VA (p < 0.05). When birds were fed 6000 IU/kg VA, 0.50 mg/kg ATRA increased ileal CD compared with 0.25 mg/kg CD (p < 0.05). On day 35, compared with 0 mg/kg ATRA, 0.25 mg/kg ATRA increased ileal VH while 0.50 mg/kg ATRA decreased ileal CD, and both of them increased ileal VH/CD (p < 0.05). The VA × ATRA interactions for mRNA expression of jejunal Mucin5ac on day 21 and jejunal Occludin, Claudin-1, Mucin 2, leucine-rich-repeat-containing G-protein-coupled receptor 5+ (Lgr5+), zinc and ring finger 3 (Znrf3), and secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1) on day 35 were detected (p < 0.05). Dietary 0.50 mg/kg ATRA up-regulated jejunal Mucin5ac expression in broilers fed 6000 IU/kg VA on day 21 as well as Claudin-1, Znrf3, and SPP1 expression broilers fed 2000 IU/kg VA on day 35 (p < 0.05). The 0.25 mg/kg ATRA down-regulated Occludin expression in broilers fed 6000 IU/kg VA on day 35 (p < 0.05). The 0.25 mg/kg ATRA decreased and increased Lgr5+ expression on day 35 in broilers fed 2000 and 6000 IU/kg VA, respectively (p < 0.05). Both 0.25 and 0.50 mg/kg ATRA down-regulated Mucin-2 expression in broilers fed 2000 IU/kg VA on day 35 (p < 0.05). The VA × ATRA interactions were observed for jejunal retinol dehydrogenase 10 (RDH10), cytochrome P450, family 26, subfamily A, polypeptide 1 (CYP26A1), retinoic acid receptor (RAR) α, and RARβ expression on days 21 and 35 (p < 0.05). Both 0.25 and 0.50 mg/kg up-regulated RDH10, CYP26A1, and RARβ expression in broilers fed 6000 IU/kg VA (p < 0.05). The RARα expression was up-regulated by 0.50 and 0.25 mg/kg ATRA on days 21 and 35, respectively (p < 0.05). Plasma metabolomics identified 269 VA- and 185 ATRA-associated differential metabolites, primarily enriched in lipid metabolism, vitamin digestion and absorption, and bacterial infection pathways. In conclusion, dietary 0.50 mg/kg ATRA and 6000 IU/kg VA enhanced growth performance, intestinal integrity, and VA metabolism, partly through activation of retinoic acid receptors and modulation of plasma lipid metabolism.
In the present study, we evaluate gene and protein expression levels in an in vitro siRNA-mediated PAX6 knockdown limbal epithelial cell (LEC) model after RA treatment. This study aims to investigate the direct effects of active RA products and their association with key regulators of the RA signaling pathway in siRNA PAX6 knockdown LECs, providing further insights into the potential role of RA signaling in AAK pathogenesis.Primary human limbal epithelial cells (LECs) were subjected to siRNA-mediated PAX6 knockdown to mimic PAX6 deletion in congenital aniridia (n = 8). Following knockdown, 0 µM, 1 µM, and 5 µM all-trans retinoic acid (RA) treatments were applied to both the siRNA PAX6 control and knockdown groups. After 48 hours of incubation, the mRNA expression levels of paired box 6 (PAX6), alcohol dehydrogenase 7 (ADH7), retinol dehydrogenase 10 (RDH10), aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member A1 (ALDH1A1), cytochrome P450 family 26 subfamily A member 1 (CYP26A1), retinol-binding protein 1 (RBP1), cellular retinoic acid-binding protein 2 (CRABP2), fatty acid-binding protein 5 (FABP5), retinoid X receptor alpha (RXRA), retinoid X receptor beta (RXRB), retinoic acid receptor alpha (RARA), retinoic acid receptor beta (RARB), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARG), and vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) were analyzed using qPCR. Protein expression levels were assessed using ELISA or Western blot, while cell proliferation rates were measured using the BrdU assay.PAX6, ADH7, ALDH1A1, FABP5 mRNA levels and PAX6, ADH7, ALDH1A1, FABP5, PPARG2, RARB protein levels were significantly lower in the PAX6 knockdown group, than in controls (p ≤ 0.018). PPARG mRNA level was significantly higher in the PAX6 knockdown group than in controls (p = 0.012). ALDH1A1 mRNA expression was significantly downregulated using 5 µM RA treatment in the control group (p = 0.038). CYP26A1 mRNA expression was upregulated using 1 µM and 5 µM RA treatment in both the PAX6 control (p < 0.001; p < 0.001) and the PAX6 knockdown group (p = 0.001; p = 0.002). CRABP2 mRNA expression in the PAX6 knockdown group (p = 0.02) and CRABP2 protein expression in both groups were downregulated using 5 µM RA concentration (p = 0.003; p = 0.02). Protein expression of RXRA was downregulated to 5 µM RA treatment in the controls (p = 0.007). mRNA expression of RARA in the PAX6 knockdown groups (p = 0.023) and mRNA expression of RARB in both groups (p = 0.007, p < 0.001) were downregulated to 5 µM RA treatment. RARB protein expression was downregulated to 1 µM and 5 µM RA treatment (p = 0.02, p = 0.004) in the controls. VEGFA mRNA expression in PAX6 controls was upregulated using 5 µM RA (p = 0.041). Cell proliferation rate was downregulated in PAX6 knockdown groups compared to the controls and downregulated using 5 µM RA concentration only in the controls (p < 0.001, p = 0.025).Our results reveal a reduced proliferation rate in PAX6 knockdown LECs, along with a less pronounced downregulation of proliferation in response to increased RA concentration. Additionally, the study highlights altered expression of key regulators in the RA signaling pathway, influenced by both PAX6 activity and RA treatment. These findings suggest a potential disruption in RA-mediated cellular regulation in PAX6-deficient LECs.Copyright: © 2025 Hsu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is an independent risk factor for type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), and its early identification and intervention offer opportunities for reversing diabetes mellitus.In this study, we identified biomarkers for the MASLD dataset (GSE33814, GSE48452) and the T2DM dataset (GSE76895 and GSE89120) by bioinformatics analysis. Next, we constructed weighted gene co-expression network (WGCNA) for disease module analysis to screen out shared genes strongly associated with diseases. We also analyzed the enriched pathways of shared genes using Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways. Next, hub gene validation was performed using the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. Finally, we used RT-qPCR, immunofluorescence, Western blotting and Elisa to validate hub gene expression in MASLD and T2DM mouse models.This analysis identified 20 genes shared by MASLD and T2DM that were enriched in the bile secretion, phototransduction, cancer, carbohydrate digestion and absorption, cholesterol/glycerol metabolism, and retinol metabolism. The LASSO algorithm and ROC curve identified Retinol Dehydrogenase 10 (RDH10) as the best diagnostic gene for MASLD and T2DM. Immunofluorescence and Western blot showed that RDH10 expression was reduced in the liver and pancreatic islets of MASLD and T2DM model mice. Similarly, serum levels of RDH10 were significantly lower in MASLD and T2DM model mice and humans than in controls.Our study suggests that RDH10 is a common diagnostic marker for MASLD and T2DM and provides new research directions for the prevention and treatment of MASLD and T2DM.Copyright © 2025 Li, Li and Deng.
The enteric nervous system (ENS) is formed from vagal neural crest cells (NCC), which generate most of the neurons and glia that regulate gastrointestinal function. Defects in the migration or differentiation of NCC in the gut can result in gastrointestinal disorders such as Hirschsprung disease (HSCR). Although mutations in many genes have been associated with the etiology of HSCR, a significant proportion of affected individuals have an undetermined genetic diagnosis. Therefore, it's important to identify new genes, modifiers and environmental factors that regulate ENS development and disease. Rdh10 catalyzes the first oxidative step in the metabolism of vitamin A to its active metabolite, RA, and is therefore a central regulator of vitamin A metabolism and retinoic acid (RA) synthesis during embryogenesis. We discovered that retinol dehydrogenase 10 (Rdh10) loss-of-function mouse embryos exhibit intestinal aganglionosis, characteristic of HSCR. Vagal NCC form and migrate in Rdh10 mutant embryos but fail to invade the foregut. Rdh10 is highly expressed in the mesenchyme surrounding the entrance to the foregut and is essential between E7.5-E9.5 for NCC invasion into the gut. Comparative RNA-sequencing revealed downregulation of the Ret-Gdnf-Gfrα1 gene signaling network in Rdh10 mutants, which is critical for vagal NCC chemotaxis. Furthermore, the composition of the extracellular matrix through which NCC migrate is also altered, in part by increased collagen deposition. Collectively this restricts NCC entry into the gut, demonstrating that Rdh10-mediated vitamin A metabolism and RA signaling pleiotropically regulates the NCC microenvironment during ENS formation and in the pathogenesis of intestinal aganglionosis.
Background: Spinal cord glioma (SCG), a rare subset of central nervous system (CNS) glioma, represents a complex challenge in neuro-oncology. There has been research showing that Retinol Dehydrogenase 10 (RDH10) may be a tumor promoting factor in brain glioma, but the biological effects of RDH10 remain undefined in SCG. Methods: We performed gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) and unsupervised clustering analysis to investigate the roles of EMT (epithelial-mesenchymal transition) in glioma. DEG (differently expressed gene) screening and correlation analysis were conducted to filter the candidate genes which were closely associated with EMT process in SCG. Enrichment analysis and GSVA (Gene Set Variation Analysis) were conducted to investigate the potential mechanism of RDH10 for SCG. Trans-well and healing assay were performed to explore the role of RDH10 in the invasion of SCG. Western blotting was performed to evaluate the levels of markers in PI3K-AKT and EMT pathway. In vivo tests were conducted to verify the role of RDH10 in EMT process. Results: Bioinformatic analysis demonstrated the EMT pathway was associated with dismal prognosis of glioma. Further analysis demonstrated that RDH10 showed the strongest correlation with the EMT process. Retinol Dehydrogenase 10 expression was significantly increased in SCG tissues, correlating with advanced tumor grade and unfavorable prognosis. Functional analysis indicated that decreasing RDH10 levels impeded the invasive and migratory abilities of SCG cells, whereas increasing RDH10 levels augmented them. Enrichment analysis and western blot revealed that RDH10 regulated EMT process of SCG by PI3K-AKT pathway. We observed that the enhanced invasion ability and increased EMT-related protein induced by RDH10 overexpression can be suppressed by PI3K-AKT pathway inhibitor (LY294002). Conclusion: Our research found that RDH10 was an effective biomarker associated with tumor grade and prognosis of SCG. RDH10 could regulate EMT process of SCG through PI3K-AKT pathway.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a complex group of neurodevelopmental disorders. Research has highlighted a close association between the retinoic acid (RA) signaling pathway and ASD. This study investigates alterations in the vitamin A (VA, retinol) to RA metabolic pathway in children with ASD and speculates on the underlying reasons for these changes. We propose a subtype characterized by downregulated RA signaling in ASD, laying the groundwork for precise diagnosis and treatment research.We included 489 children with ASD and 280 typically developing (TD) children. Those with ASD underwent evaluations of core symptoms and neuro-developmental levels, which were conducted by professional developmental behavior physicians using assessment scales. Serum VA and all-trans RA (atRA) levels were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography and ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. The expression levels and concentrations of enzyme molecules such as retinol dehydrogenase 10 were assessed using quantitative polymerase chain reaction and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.Children with ASD exhibited reduced serum atRA, accompanied by a downregulation of atRA synthesis enzymes. The reduction in serum atRA levels was linked not only to VA levels but also to the aberrant expression of metabolic enzymes responsible for atRA. Furthermore, the serum atRA levels in children with ASD were more strongly correlated with core symptoms and neurodevelopmental levels than VA levels.Children with ASD exhibited a dual regulation of reduced serum atRA levels, influenced by both VA levels and abnormal expression of atRA metabolic enzymes.© 2024. Children's Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine.
Copper ionophore NSC319726 has attracted researchers' attention in treating diseases, particularly cancers. However, its potential effects on male reproduction during medication are unclear. This study aimed to determine whether NSC319726 exposure affected the male reproductive system. The reproductive toxicity of NSC319726 was evaluated in male mice following a continuous exposure period of 5 weeks. The result showed that NSC319726 exposure caused testis index reduction, spermatogenesis dysfunction, and architectural damage in the testis and epididymis. The exposure interfered with spermatogonia proliferation, meiosis initiation, sperm count, and sperm morphology. The exposure also disturbed androgen synthesis and blood testis barrier integrity. NSC319726 treatment could elevate the copper ions in the testis to induce cuproptosis in the testis. Copper chelator rescued the elevated copper ions in the testis and partly restored the spermatogenesis dysfunction caused by NSC319726. NSC319726 treatment also decreased the level of retinol dehydrogenase 10 (RDH10), thereby inhibiting the conversion of retinol to retinoic acid, causing the inability to initiate meiosis. Retinoic acid treatment could rescue the meiotic initiation and spermatogenesis while not affecting the intracellular copper ion levels. The study provided an insight into the bio-safety of NSC319726. Retinoic acid could be a potential therapy for spermatogenesis impairment in patients undergoing treatment with NSC319726.© 2024. The Author(s).
Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) are the key regulators of tissue homeostasis and repair after damage. Accumulating evidence indicates the dual contribution of MSCs into the development of fibrosis induced by chronic injury: these cells can suppress the fibrotic process due to paracrine activity, but their promoting role in fibrosis by differentiating into myofibroblasts has also been demonstrated. Many model systems reproducing fibrosis have shown the ability of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) agonists to reverse myofibroblast differentiation. Thus, the differentiation of multipotent cells into myofibroblasts and adipocytes can be considered as processes that require the activation of opposite patterns of gene expression. To test this hypothesis, we analyzed single cell RNA-Seq transcriptome of human adipose tissue MSCs after stimulation of the myofibroblast or adipogenic differentiation and revealed several genes that changed their expression in a reciprocal manner upon these conditions. We validated the expression of selected genes by RT-PCR, and evaluated the upregulation of several relevant proteins using immunocytochemistry, refining the results obtained by RNA-Seq analysis. We have shown, for the first time, the expression of neurotrimin (NTM), previously studied mainly in the nervous tissue, in human adipose tissue MSCs, and demonstrated its increased gene expression and clustering of membrane receptors upon the stimulation of myofibroblast differentiation. We also showed an increased level of CHD3 (Chromodomain-Helicase-DNA-binding protein 3) in MSCs under profibrotic conditions, while retinol dehydrogenase-10 (RDH10) was detected only in MSCs after adipogenic induction, which contradicted the data of transcriptomic analysis and again highlights the need to validate the data obtained by omics methods. Our findings suggest the further analysis of the potential contribution of neurotrimin and CHD3 in the regulation of myofibroblast differentiation and the development of fibrosis.
Enzalutamide is a cornerstone therapy for castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC), yet acquired resistance remains a major clinical challenge. Although metabolic enzymes are increasingly recognized as modulators of therapeutic response, their specific roles-particularly their non-enzymatic functions-in sustaining enzalutamide resistance remain incompletely understood. In this study, we performed an in vivo screen using a custom metabolic CRISPR library in enzalutamide-treated xenografts and identified the pentose phosphate pathway enzyme ribulose-5-phosphate 3-epimerase (RPE) as a critical driver of enzalutamide resistance. Silencing RPE markedly restored enzalutamide sensitivity, enhanced apoptosis in vitro, and significantly suppressed tumor growth in both cell line-derived and patient-derived xenograft models. Mechanistically, RPE promoted resistance independently of its canonical enzymatic activity. Instead, RPE physically interacted with FKBP5 and promoted its ubiquitin-proteasome-mediated degradation. Loss of FKBP5 subsequently hyperactivated AKT signaling, leading to increased p-BAD and BCL-xL levels and suppression of enzalutamide-induced cell death. Conversely, disrupting the RPE-FKBP5 interaction or silencing RPE in vivo using a PSMA-targeted lipid nanoparticle system effectively abrogated these resistance phenotypes. Together, these findings illustrate how CRPC cells hijack the non-enzymatic function of a metabolic enzyme to evade antiandrogen therapy, establishing the RPE-driven degradation of FKBP5 and consequent AKT hyperactivation as a targetable vulnerability for overcoming enzalutamide resistance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
To clarify the clinical significance and biological function of retinol dehydrogenase-11 (RDH11) in prostate cancer (PCa) and to elucidate the downstream signaling mechanism through which it drives tumor progression.Public and in-house transcriptomic data were mined to compare RDH11 levels between PCa and matched normal tissues. RDH11 was stably silenced (shRDH11) or over-expressed (oeRDH11) in PC-3, DU145, and LNCaP cells; cell proliferation, migration, and invasion were quantified with CCK-8 and Transwell assays. RNA-seq and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) were performed to screen downstream targets and pathways. Rescue experiments in vitro and in vivo were used to confirm the mechanism.RDH11 levels were markedly elevated in human PCa tissues and cell lines. Silencing RDH11 hindered PCa cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, whereas its overexpression had the opposite effects. Mechanistically, we identified the tropomyosin receptor kinase (TRKA) and STAT3 signaling pathway as the downstream gene and pathway of RDH11. Rescue assays using PC3, DU145, and LNCaP cells demonstrated that RDH11 facilitated PCa progression by upregulation of TRKA and the activation of STAT3 signaling. In vivo studies further confirmed that RDH11 overexpression enhanced prostate tumor growth, whereas TRKA knockdown counteracted the oncogenic effects of RDH11.RDH11 promotes the development of PCa through the upregulation of TRKA and activation of the STAT3 signaling pathway.
Biallelic variants in RDH11, encoding retinol dehydrogenase 11, have been associated with a syndromic disorder, based on 4 individuals from 2 unrelated families. We aimed to profile the clinical variability, natural history and associated molecular spectrum of this condition.In the frame of a collaborative effort, clinical and molecular data were collected using a semistructured survey. Structural modeling of RDH11 with NADH(P) was used to assess the functional impact of missense variants.Sixteen affected individuals from 9 unrelated families with biallelic RDH11 variants were assembled, frequently showing juvenile-onset progressive myopathy with vacuolar degeneration and prodromic asymptomatic hyperCKemia. Neurodevelopmental impairment, juvenile-onset cataract, and retinal dystrophy were confirmed as common features. Microcephaly and distinct craniofacial traits were also recurrent, whereas short stature was less frequent than previously reported. Most pathogenic variants were truncating, supporting RDH11 loss of function as the mechanism of disease. Consistently, the identified missense changes were predicted to affect RDH11 catalytic function.We refine the clinical and molecular spectra of RDH11-related disorder, reclassifying it as syndromic intellectual disability with muscular (juvenile myopathy) and ocular (retinal dystrophy) involvement. These insights are expected to improve diagnostic accuracy and patient care, guiding clinical evaluation, and genetic counseling.Copyright © 2026 American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics. All rights reserved.
Formate utilization as a sustainable carbon source for microbial production of high-value chemicals and heterologous proteins presents considerable safety and environmental benefits over conventional feedstocks. As a low-cost, CO2-derived compound, formate serves as a non-flammable and non-toxic alternative to methanol for induction of recombinant expression in Komagataella phaffii. However, since native K. phaffii only utilizes formate as an energy source rather than a carbon substrate for biomass synthesis, we engineered a synthetic peroxisomal formate assimilation pathway by introducing heterologous acetyl-CoA synthetase (ACS) and acetaldehyde dehydrogenase (ACDH), thereby enabling formatotrophic growth with formate as the sole carbon source. This chassis was further optimized through (i) co-expression of the transcriptional activator Mit1 to enhance the coupling efficiency of the ACS-ACDH module, and (ii) reinforcement of the Xu5P pathway by overexpressing dihydroxyacetone synthase (DAS1) and ribulose-5-phosphate-3-epimerase (RPE) to redirect metabolic flux. The resulting formatotrophic K. phaffi strain achieved a specific growth rate of 0.012 h-1 in basal salt medium with formate as the sole carbon source, and produced 30.9 U/(mL·OD600) of xylanase from Aspergillus niger ATCC 1015 as a model heterologous protein. Furthermore, 13C isotopic tracing confirmed the incorporation of formate-derived carbon into central metabolism for the biosynthesis of amino acids, nucleotides, and structural carbohydrates, validating active formate assimilation. This study establishes a microbial platform for formate-based production of heterologous proteins and underscores the potential of metabolic engineering to advance sustainable biomanufacturing from one-carbon feedstocks.© 2025 The Authors.
Dysregulation of hepatic cholesterol metabolism can contribute to elevated circulating cholesterol levels, which is a significant risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Cholesterol homeostasis in mammalian cells is tightly regulated by an integrated network of transcriptional and post-transcriptional signalling pathways. Whilst prior studies have identified many of the central regulators of these pathways, the extended supporting networks remain to be fully elucidated.Here, we leveraged an integrated discovery platform, combining multi-omics data from 107 strains of mice to investigate these supporting networks. We identified retinol dehydrogenase 11 (RDH11; also known as SCALD) as a novel protein associated with cholesterol metabolism. Prior studies have suggested that RDH11 may be regulated by alterations in cellular cholesterol status, but its specific roles in this pathway are mostly unknown.Here, we show that mice fed a Western diet (high fat, high cholesterol) exhibited a significant reduction in hepatic Rdh11 mRNA expression. Conversely, mice treated with a statin (3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A reductase (HMGCR) inhibitor) exhibited a 2-fold increase in hepatic Rdh11 mRNA expression. Studies in human and mouse hepatocytes demonstrated that RDH11 expression was regulated by altered cellular cholesterol conditions in a manner consistent with SREBP2 target genes HMGCR and LDLR. Modulation of RDH11 in vitro and in vivo demonstrated modulation of pathways associated with cholesterol metabolism, inflammation and cellular stress. Finally, RDH11 silencing in mouse liver was associated with a reduction in hepatic cardiolipin abundance and a concomitant reduction in the abundance of proteins of the mitochondrial electron transport chain.Taken together, these findings suggest that RDH11 likely plays a role in protecting cells against the cellular toxicity that can arise as a by-product of endogenous cellular cholesterol synthesis.Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Chinese black truffle (Tuber indicum) is a hypogenous fungus of great value due to its distinctive aroma. In this study, both transcriptome and physicochemical analyses were performed to investigate the changes of nutrients and gene expression in truffle fruiting bodies during cold storage. The results of physicochemical analysis revealed the active metabolism of fruiting bodies in cold storage, showing the decreased contents of protein and soluble sugar, the variations in both polyphenol oxidase activity and total phenol content, and the detrimental effect of reactive oxygen species production caused by heavy metals (cadmium and lead) in truffles. Transcriptome analysis identified a total of 139,489 unigenes. Down-regulated expression of genes encoding the catalase-like domain-containing protein (katE), glutaredoxin protein (GRX), a copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (Sod_Cu), and aspartate aminotransferase (AAT) affected the degradation metabolism of intracellular oxides. Ribulose-5-phosphate-3-epimerase (RPE) was a key enzyme in response to oxidative stress in truffle cells through the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP). A total of 51,612 simple sequence repeats were identified, providing valuable resources for further genetic diversity analysis, molecular breeding, and genetic map-ping in T. indicum. Transcription factors GAL4 and SUF4-like protein were involved in glucose metabolism and histone methylation processes, respectively. Our study provided a fundamental characterization of the physicochemical and molecular variations in T. indicum during the cold storage at 4°C, providing strong experimental evidence to support the improvement of storage quality of T. indicum.Copyright © 2024 Zhang, Yang, Yao, Fang, Wu, Lin and Qing.
Gut microbes play a crucial role in transforming primary bile acids (BAs) into secondary forms, which influence systemic metabolic processes. The rumen, a distinctive and critical microbial habitat in ruminants, boasts a diverse array of microbial species with multifaceted metabolic capabilities. There remains a gap in our understanding of BA metabolism within this ecosystem. Herein, through the analysis of 9371 metagenome-assembled genomes and 329 cultured organisms from the rumen, we identified two enzymes integral to BA metabolism: 3-dehydro-bile acid delta4,6-reductase (baiN) and the bile acid:Na + symporter family (BASS). Both in vitro and in vivo experiments were employed by introducing exogenous BAs. We revealed a transformation of BAs in rumen and found an enzyme cluster, including L-ribulose-5-phosphate 3-epimerase and dihydroorotate dehydrogenase. This cluster, distinct from the previously known BA-inducible operon responsible for 7α-dehydroxylation, suggests a previously unrecognized pathway potentially converting primary BAs into secondary BAs. Moreover, our in vivo experiments indicated that microbial BA administration in the rumen can modulate amino acid and lipid metabolism, with systemic impacts underscored by core secondary BAs and their metabolites. Our study provides insights into the rumen microbiome's role in BA metabolism, revealing a complex microbial pathway for BA biotransformation and its subsequent effect on host metabolic pathways, including those for glucose, amino acids, and lipids. This research not only advances our understanding of microbial BA metabolism but also underscores its wider implications for metabolic regulation, offering opportunities for improving animal and potentially human health.© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the International Society for Microbial Ecology.
Bacillus subtilis is widely used in industrial-scale riboflavin production. Previous studies have shown that targeted mutagenesis of the ribulose 5-phosphate 3-epimerase in B. subtilis can significantly enhance riboflavin production. This modification also leads to an increase in purine intermediate concentrations in the medium. Interestingly, B. subtilis exhibits remarkable efficiency in purine nucleoside synthesis, often exceeding riboflavin yields. These observations highlight the importance of the conversion steps from inosine-5'-monophosphate (IMP) to 2,5-diamino-6-ribosylamino-4(3 H)-pyrimidinone-5'-phosphate (DARPP) in riboflavin production by B. subtilis. However, research elucidating the specific impact of these reactions on riboflavin production remains limited.We expressed the genes encoding enzymes involved in these reactions (guaB, guaA, gmk, ndk, ribA) using a synthetic operon. Introduction of the plasmid carrying this synthetic operon led to a 3.09-fold increase in riboflavin production compared to the control strain. Exclusion of gmk from the synthetic operon resulted in a 36% decrease in riboflavin production, which was further reduced when guaB and guaA were not co-expressed. By integrating the synthetic operon into the genome and employing additional engineering strategies, we achieved riboflavin production levels of 2702 mg/L. Medium optimization further increased production to 3477 mg/L, with a yield of 0.0869 g riboflavin per g of sucrose.The conversion steps from IMP to DARPP play a critical role in riboflavin production by B. subtilis. Our overexpression strategies have demonstrated their effectiveness in overcoming these limiting factors and enhancing riboflavin production.© 2024. The Author(s).
Studies have determined that nonredox enzymes that are cofactored with Fe(II) are the most oxidant-sensitive targets inside Escherichia coli. These enzymes use Fe(II) cofactors to bind and activate substrates. Because of their solvent exposure, the metal can be accessed and oxidized by reactive oxygen species, thereby inactivating the enzyme. Because these enzymes participate in key physiological processes, the consequences of stress can be severe. Accordingly, when E. coli senses elevated levels of H2O2, it induces both a miniferritin and a manganese importer, enabling the replacement of the iron atom in these enzymes with manganese. Manganese does not react with H2O2 and thereby preserves enzyme activity. In this study, we examined several diverse microbes to identify the metal that they customarily integrate into ribulose-5-phosphate 3-epimerase, a representative of this enzyme family. The anaerobe Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron, like E. coli, uses iron. In contrast, Bacillus subtilis and Lactococcus lactis use manganese, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae uses zinc. The latter organisms are therefore well suited to the oxidizing environments in which they dwell. Similar results were obtained with peptide deformylase, another essential enzyme of the mononuclear class. Strikingly, heterologous expression experiments show that it is the metal pool within the organism, rather than features of the protein itself, that determine which metal is incorporated. Further, regardless of the source organism, each enzyme exhibits highest turnover with iron and lowest turnover with zinc. We infer that the intrinsic catalytic properties of the metal cannot easily be retuned by evolution of the polypeptide.
Carbon fixation relies on Rubisco and 10 additional enzymes in the Calvin-Benson-Bassham cycle. Epimerization of xylulose-5-phosphate (Xu5P) into ribulose-5-phosphate (Ru5P) contributes to the regeneration of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate, the substrate of Rubisco. Ribulose-5-phosphate-3-epimerase (RPE, EC 5.1.3.1) catalyzes the formation of Ru5P, but it can also operate in the pentose-phosphate pathway by catalyzing the reverse reaction. Here, we describe the structural and biochemical properties of the recombinant RPE isoform 1 from Chlamydomonas (Chlamydomonas reinhardtii) (CrRPE1). The enzyme is a homo-hexamer that contains a zinc ion in the active site and exposes a catalytic pocket on the top of an α8β8 triose isomerase-type barrel as observed in structurally solved RPE isoforms from both plant and non-plant sources. By optimizing and developing enzyme assays to monitor the reversible epimerization of Ru5P to Xu5P and vice versa, we determined the catalytic parameters that differ from those of other plant paralogs. Despite being identified as a putative target of multiple thiol-based redox modifications, CrRPE1 activity is not affected by both reductive and oxidative treatments, indicating that enzyme catalysis is insensitive to possible redox alterations of cysteine residues. We mapped phosphorylation sites on the crystal structure, and the specific location at the entrance of the catalytic cleft supports a phosphorylation-based regulatory mechanism. This work provides an accurate description of the structural features of CrRPE1 and an in-depth examination of its catalytic and regulatory properties highlighting the physiological relevance of this enzyme in the context of photosynthetic carbon fixation.© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society of Plant Biologists. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.
With the steady increase in global travel, mountaineering, and logistics at extreme elevations, high-altitude pulmonary edema (HAPE) remains a life-threatening emergency with mortality rates reaching up to 50% if untreated. Current clinical management relies heavily on rapid descent or supplemental oxygen, which are often logistically unfeasible in remote areas, while existing pharmacological interventions face challenges regarding efficacy and side effects. There is an urgent need to identify the fundamental molecular switches that translate hypobaric hypoxia into the catastrophic "cytokine storm" and barrier failure characteristic of HAPE. This study investigates the role of the antioxidant protein parkinsonism associated deglycase (PARK7) as a potential therapeutic target.A mouse model simulating 6000 m altitude (72 h) and CoCl₂-induced hypoxia in MLE-12 and RAW264.7 cells were used. PARK7 expression in lung tissue and hypoxic cells was analyzed via RNA-seq, qPCR, and western blot analyses. Lung-specific PARK7 and Bach1 overexpression or knockdown was achieved using AAV9-mediated intratracheal instillation. Pulmonary edema, vascular permeability, histopathology, and ultrastructure were assessed. Lipid peroxidation and M1 macrophage polarization (F4/80⁺iNOS⁺) were evaluated using C11-BODIPY staining, 4-HNE immunohistochemistry, and flow cytometry.PARK7 expression was markedly reduced in HAPE lungs and hypoxic cells. Restoration of PARK7 alleviated pulmonary edema, barrier dysfunction, mitochondrial damage, and inflammatory cell infiltration, primarily macrophages. Mechanistically, PARK7 suppressed lipid peroxidation, reducing MDA and 4-HNE accumulation, thereby blocking pro-inflammatory M1 macrophage polarization. Hypoxia stabilized the antioxidant repressor BTB and CNC Homology 1 (BACH1), whereas PARK7 inhibited BACH1 to exert its protective effect. Re-expression of BACH1 negated PARK7's benefits, restoring lipid peroxidation and M1 macrophage infiltration.This study suggests PARK7 as a key protective factor during HAPE progression. PARK7 inhibits lipid peroxidation through downregulation of BACH1, thereby preventing pro-inflammatory M1 polarization of macrophages and ultimately preserving alveolar-capillary barrier integrity. Targeting the PARK7-BACH1 axis may offer a novel therapeutic strategy for the prevention and treatment of HAPE.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that is characterized by α-synuclein aggregation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and impaired proteostasis. The peripheral biomarkers that reflect these cellular perturbations remain incompletely defined. This study aimed to evaluate the enzymatic activity and gene expression of two key protein degradation enzymes, Acyl PEptide Hydrolase (APEH) and Proteasome Subunit Beta Type-5 (PSMB5), in the peripheral blood of PD patients and to relate these findings to the severity of the disease. Thirteen PD patients and 13 age-matched healthy controls (HLT) were recruited. APEH and PSMB5 chymotrypsin-like (CT-like) activity were measured in whole blood, erythrocytes and immune cell fractions. Gene expression analysis was performed for APEH and PSMB5 and their related genes, plus other genes typical of parkinsonism or indicative of metabolic alterations: N(alpha)-acetyltransferase (NAA10) Aminoacylase 1 (ACY1), Ubiquitin-activating enzyme 1 (UBA1), Ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 I (UBE2I), Parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (PRKN), Alpha-synuclein (SNCA), Parkinsonism associated deglycase DJ-1 (PARK7), and mitochondrial Mn-SOD (SOD2). APEH activity did not differ significantly between PD and HLT in whole blood cells or cellular fractions. Conversely, PSMB5 CT-like activity was reduced in lymphocytes from PD patients, whereas erythrocytes and whole blood exhibited elevated activity. No changes in APEH and PSMB5 expression were observed, while PARK7 significantly decreased in patients with PD. Correlation analysis showed that proteasomal changes correlated with disease severity, and cognitive impairment. Our findings revealed compartment-specific proteasomal dysregulation in the peripheral blood of PD patients, suggesting systemic proteostasis imbalance. These alterations appeared more pronounced in patients with more severe clinical progression. This study supports the potential of peripheral proteasomal activity profiles as biomarkers linked to PD progression, warranting further investigation in larger cohorts.© 2025. The Author(s).
Background/Objectives: β-Carotene oxygenase-2 (BCO2) is a mitochondrial carotenoid-cleaving enzyme expressed in multiple tissues, including the lungs. While BCO2 regulates carotenoid handling, its role in shaping pulmonary immune architecture and antiviral responses is unknown. We hypothesized that BCO2 deficiency reprograms epithelial-innate circuits and alters antiviral outcomes. Methods: BCO2-knockout (KO) and C57BL/6J wild-type (WT) mice underwent lung single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), immunoblotting, and intranasal SARS-CoV-2 challenge to assess cell-type heterogeneity, pathway programs (by gene set variation analysis, GSVA), and antiviral responses. Results: scRNA-seq resolved 14 major lung cell populations with cell-type-specific pathway shifts. Compared with WT, BCO2 KO lungs showed increased conventional dendritic cells and natural killer (NK) cells, with reductions in macrophages, B cells, and endothelial cells. In KO alveolar type II cells, GSVA indicated a stress-adapted metabolic program. Ciliated epithelium exhibited vitamin-K-responsive and axoneme-remodeling signatures with attenuated glucocorticoid and very-low-density lipoprotein remodeling. Innate lymphoid type 2 cells favored fatty acid oxidation and chromatin dynamics with reduced mitochondrial activity. NK cells were biased toward constitutive chemokine/cytokine secretion and counter-inflammatory signaling. Immunoblotting confirmed the elevated level of interferon regulatory factor-3 protein in BCO2-KO lungs. Functionally, BCO2-KO mice had improved outcomes after intranasal SARS-CoV-2 exposure. Conclusions: Loss of BCO2 reconfigures the pulmonary immune landscape and enhances antiviral responsiveness in mice. These findings identify BCO2 as a nutrient-linked enzyme with immunomodulatory impact and highlight cell-state changes as candidate mechanisms for improved antiviral tolerance.
Heat stress affects cattle production and suppresses immune function in cows. However, the effects of heat stress on myeloid lineage cells are unexplored. In this study, we aimed to identify genes affected by heat stress. We established three immortalized bovine myeloid cell lines and performed RNA sequencing to investigate their potential target genes. We identified 765 differentially expressed genes. We performed real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis on the top three upregulated genes, C-C motif chemokine ligand 17, CD1e molecule, and beta-carotene oxygenase 2, as well as the downregulated genes, RNA-binding motif protein 3, HD domain containing 2, and solute carrier family 25 member 12, to validate the RNA sequencing results. Our analysis revealed that heat stress affected 14 Gene Ontology processes and 13 molecular pathways. Our study provides a comprehensive gene expression profile of bovine myeloid cells under heat-stress conditions.© 2025 Japanese Society of Animal Science.
The ileum integrates nutrient absorption with mucosal immunity, yet its cell-type-specific functions remain poorly defined. Disruption of epithelial or immune pathways contributes to nutrient deficiency, Crohn's disease, and impaired barrier integrity. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) provides the resolution needed to uncover epithelial differentiation and immune crosstalk that bulk approaches cannot resolve.This study aimed to map ileal cellular heterogeneity and define epithelial differentiation, nutrient metabolism programs, and epithelial-immune interactions relevant to health and disease.scRNA-seq was performed on ileal cells from 8-wk-old male C57BL/6J mice. Gene expression and clustering were analyzed using Seurat, with pseudotime trajectory, cell-cell communication, and pathway enrichment analyses applied to characterize intestinal dynamics.A total of 32,076 ileal cells were identified, including 6 epithelial types and multiple immune populations. Enterocyte subclusters showed distinct nutrient-related functions: Ent_C1, C4, C7, and C8 were enriched for vitamin A absorption; Ent_C0, C1, C2 and C7 for carotenoid metabolism; and Ent_C1, C4, C7, C8, and C9 for vitamin B12 absorption. Coexpression of β-carotene oxygenase 2 (Bco2) and IL 18 (Il18) occurred across enterocytes, stem cells, and goblet cells, whereas noncanonical goblet cells exhibited high Bco2-Il18 expression together with signatures of fatty acid metabolism and stress responses. Plasmacytoid dendritic cells were identified as central regulators of immune-epithelial interactions.This study provides the first integrated single-cell atlas of the mouse ileum, profiling both epithelial and immune cells and revealing nutrient metabolism programs and epithelial-immune crosstalk relevant to intestinal health and disease.Copyright © 2025 American Society for Nutrition. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In light of the growing significance of molecular biomarkers in central nervous system tumours, in this study, we aimed to comprehensively and quantitatively analyze the mRNA expression levels of DJ-1 (Parkinsonism-associated deglycase 7, PARK7), GDF15 (Growth Differentiation Factor 15), and MFGE8 (Milk Fat Globule-EGF Factor 8 Protein) in glioma and meningioma tissues and to thoroughly evaluate the associations between these gene expression profiles and clinicopathological parameters. Real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analyses performed on tumour tissues obtained from a total of 27 glioma and 18 meningioma patients revealed that these three genes exhibited significantly elevated expression compared to control samples. Despite their different cellular origins, statistically significant positive correlations were observed between the expression levels of DJ-1, GDF15, and MFGE8 and both tumour grade and the Ki-67 proliferation index (Ki-67 Pi) in both glioma and meningioma cases, indicating that higher gene expression is associated with increased tumour aggressiveness in both tumour types. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analyses further confirmed the diagnostic and prognostic potential of these genes. Additionally, protein-protein interaction networks involving the target genes were characterised, providing valuable insights into their molecular mechanisms. These findings suggest that DJ-1, GDF15, and MFGE8 may play a role in the aggressiveness, invasion, and proliferation of gliomas and meningiomas. Moreover, integrating these genes as molecular biomarkers into tumour classification systems may provide a foundation for the development of personalised and targeted therapeutic strategies, although further studies are needed to support this.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40923197 is a review article
Ferroptosis, an iron-dependent form of programmed cell death, arises from the accumulation of lipid peroxides at toxic levels. Sorafenib, a first-line treatment for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma, shows limited clinical efficacy due to drug resistance. However, the mechanisms underlying Sorafenib resistance, especially related to ferroptosis, remain poorly understood. In this study, we identify activating transcription factor 7-interacting protein (ATF7IP) as a key inhibitor of ferroptosis. ATF7IP depletion promotes Sorafenib-induced ferroptosis, resulting in decreased cell viability, reduced cellular glutathione (GSH) levels, increased lipid peroxidation, and altered mitochondrial crista structure. Notably, ATF7IP knockdown shows cooperative effects with Sorafenib in inhibiting hepatocellular carcinoma growth in mice. Mechanistically, ATF7IP interacts with SET domain bifurcated histone lysine methyltransferase 1 (SETDB1) to epigenetically silence the transcription of cytochrome b5 reductase 2 (CYB5R2), thereby reducing cellular Fe2+ levels. Meanwhile, ATF7IP stabilizes the antioxidant sensor Parkinsonism-associated deglycase (PARK7) protein which preserves the transsulfuration pathway to produce GSH, also leading to the inhibition of Sorafenib-induced ferroptosis. In conclusion, our findings identify ATF7IP as a critical ferroptosis inhibitor and represent ATF7IP as a novel therapeutic target for Sorafenib-based combination therapies of hepatocellular carcinoma.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) represents a particularly aggressive and highly malignant neoplasm, characterized by its unfavorable prognosis and restricted treatment alternatives. The present study aimed to use bioinformatics methodologies to assess transcriptomic data sourced from The Cancer Genome Atlas and the Gene Expression Omnibus to pinpoint biomarkers associated with manganese metabolism that may forecast outcomes in PDAC. Utilizing differential expression analysis, Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator regression and multivariable Cox regression, 12 essential genes were identified that demonstrate notable associations with the prognosis of PDAC (Natriuretic Peptide A, Kynureninase, Integrin Subunit β6, Cytochrome P450 Family 27 Subfamily A Member 1, C-X-C Motif Chemokine Ligand 10, Protein Phosphatase 2 Regulatory Subunit Bβ, MET Proto-Oncogene Receptor Tyrosine Kinase, Matrix Metalloproteinase 3, Keratin 19, ATPase Na+/K+ Transporting Subunit α3, Pyridoxal Phosphatase and Interleukin 1 Receptor Accessory Protein Like 2). The validation of these genes was performing using both a training cohort and external datasets (GSE62452 and GSE28735), demonstrating the robustness of the model with area under the curve values of 0.82 and 0.83 in the training set and the external validation cohort, respectively. The results of the present study further elucidated the molecular processes underlying PDAC and highlight the crucial importance of manganese metabolism in its development. These biomarkers may provide significant prognostic insights and facilitate the advancement of targeted therapeutic strategies for PDAC.Copyright: © 2025 Xiong et al.
It has been reported that treatment of patients with non‑small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with gefitinib increases the risk of QT interval prolongation. Therefore, the present study aimed to investigate whether quercetin could delay gefitinib‑induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis and its underlying mechanism. A total of 32 nude mice were divided into the sham, NSCLC, NSCLC + gefitinib and NSCLC + gefitinib + quercetin groups. Cardiac fibrosis in mouse heart tissues was assessed by Masson's trichrome staining. Additionally, immunohistochemical staining was performed to detect the expression levels of Src homology‑2 domain‑containing protein tyrosine phosphatase (SHP2), X‑box binding protein 1 (XBP‑1), phosphorylated (p)‑stimulator of interferon genes (STING) and Nod‑like receptor protein 3. Bioinformatics analysis was carried auto to predict the association between quercetin and the SHP2/reactive oxygen species (ROS) axis. Furthermore, the effects of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) + gefitinib, SHP2 silencing and H2O2 on ROS levels, as well as on the p‑AMP‑activated protein kinase (AMPK)/XBP‑1/Parkinsonism associated deglycase (DJ‑1) axis, mitochondrial autophagy and apoptosis were assessed via detecting the expression levels of the corresponding proteins in cardiomyocytes by western blot analysis. JC‑1 immunofluorescence was performed to evaluate mitochondrial membrane damage. The results showed that NSCLC could not significantly affect cardiac function. In addition, compared with NSCLC alone, ventricular fibrosis was exacerbated in the NSCLC + gefitinib group. However, treatment with quercetin inhibited gefitinib‑induced ventricular fibrosis, activated the gefitinib‑suppressed SHP2 protein expression and downregulated the gefitinib‑induced XBP‑1 and p‑STING expression. Furthermore, the bioinformatics analysis results predicted that quercetin could interact with SHP2/ROS. The in vitro experiments demonstrated that the expression levels of the ROS‑related proteins, namely NADPH oxidase 4 and XBP‑1/DJ‑1, and those of the mitochondrial autophagy‑ and apoptosis‑related proteins were enhanced, while those of p‑AMPK, were reduced in cardiomyocytes of the NSCLC + ATP + gefitinib group. However, cell treatment with quercetin inhibited ROS production and the expression levels of XBP‑1/DJ‑1 and apoptosis‑related proteins activated by NSCLC + ATP + gefitinib. By contrast, quercetin activated the expression levels of mitochondrial autophagy‑related proteins and those of p‑AMPK. Furthermore, SHP2 silencing and cell treatment with H2O2 could separately inhibit the NSCLC + ATP + gefitinib‑induced expression of mitochondrial autophagy‑related proteins and p‑AMPK, while they could promote ROS production and upregulate XBP‑1/DJ‑1 and apoptosis‑related proteins. In summary, the results of the current study revealed a promising therapeutic approach for addressing cardiac issues caused by gefitinib treatment in patients with NSCLC. Therefore, quercetin could inhibit the gefitinib‑induced NSCLC‑mediated cardiomyocyte apoptosis via regulating the SHP2/ROS/AMPK/XBP‑1/DJ‑1 signaling pathway through mitochondrial autophagy.
New therapeutics are needed to address the rapid progression of calcium oxalate (CaOx) nephrolithiasis and life-threatening kidney failure afflicting infants and young adults with one of the three different genetic types of Primary Hyperoxaluria (PH) types 1, 2, and 3. Glyoxylate and hydroxypyruvate reductase knockout (Grhpr KO) mice recapitulate the pathophysiology of PH type 2 (PH2), developing accelerated hyperoxaluria and CaOx kidney stone formation. Previous studies have shown that this process can be mitigated by introducing an additional genetic knockout of the liver and kidney mitochondrial enzyme, hydroxyproline dehydrogenase (Hypdh/Prodh2), which is responsible for the first step in liver production of glyoxylate and oxalate.Using Grhpr KO mice, we evaluated N-propargylglycine (N-PPG) as a preclinical candidate for PH2, measuring oxalate levels, CaOx stone formation, Cystatin C levels, albumin/creatinine ratio, kidney tubule damage by kidney injury molecule-1 and Lotus Tetragonolobus lectin immunohistochemistry, metabolites, weight, and lifespan.Oral administration of N-PPG, a well-tolerated small-molecule inhibitor of Hypdh/Prodh2, significantly reduces hyperoxaluria and weight loss in Grhpr KO mice within three weeks, while preventing CaOx stone formation and kidney tubular damage. In a 24-week survival study during which vehicle-treated Grhpr KO mice exhibit a median survival of only 15 weeks, daily treatment with N-PPG fully restores weight and survival in the Grhpr KO mice to that of wild-type control mice. N-PPG suppressed hyperoxaluria during this extended treatment period, preventing CaOx stone formation, kidney tubule injury and loss of kidney function, achieving beneficial outcomes in this PH2 mouse model comparable to controls.Our findings establish N-PPG as a promising therapeutic candidate for the long-term prevention of CaOx kidney stone formation and kidney failure complications in PH2.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In vertebrates, vitamin A (VA) is crucial for development, tissue homeostasis, vision, and immunity. Retinal, a form of VA, can be produced via enzymatic cleavage of β-carotene by beta-carotene oxygenase 1 (bco1) and bco1-like (bco1l), but the developmental and tissue-specific functions of these genes are poorly understood. While bco1 is found across vertebrate taxa, bco1l is a paralog of bco1 that we discover to have evolved in the ray-finned fishes, the most abundant, speciose, and commercially important group of fishes. We investigated the function of bco1l in ray-finned Siamese fighting fish, commonly known as betta, an emerging model for genetics and development. Using CRISPR/Cas9 knockouts, we find that lack of bco1l results in reduced VA and elevated β-carotene in larvae, starting when animals have exhausted their yolk supply of retinal, followed by stunted growth and death during juvenile development. Exogenous retinoic acid largely rescues the mutation, demonstrating its deficiency causes these defects. bco1l is 7× more abundant than bco1 in the intestine. This, coupled with the inability of bco1 to sustain VA production in the bco1l mutant, indicates that bco1l is the primary enzyme for dietary carotenoid conversion into retinal. Our results show that VA production by bco1l is required for post-embryonic development, and that bco1l became essential after evolving via duplication of bco1.Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Genetics Society of America 2026.
Pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP), the coenzyme form of vitamin B6, is indispensable for diverse metabolic processes, especially amino acid metabolism. In mammals, PLP is primarily synthesized via a salvage pathway involving pyridoxal kinase (PLK), pyridoxine/pyridoxamine 5'-phosphate oxidase (PNPO), and pyridoxal phosphate phosphatase (PLPP). However, recent evidence suggests the presence of additional, yet unidentified, enzymatic contributors to this pathway. Here, we identify aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C (AKR1C) isozymes as previously unrecognized enzymes involved in vitamin B6 metabolism. We demonstrate that AKR1Cs catalyze two novel reactions: an NADPH-dependent pyridoxal reductase (PLR) activity that converts pyridoxal (PL) to pyridoxine (PN), and an NADP+-dependent pyridoxal dehydrogenase (PLD) activity that oxidizes PL to 4-pyridoxolactone (4-PLA). Both reactions occur under physiological conditions and significantly impact intracellular vitamin B6 vitamer profiles. Moreover, we show that elevated PL levels suppress AKR1C activities toward non-B6 substrates, indicating reciprocal cross-talk between vitamin B6 metabolism and other AKR1C-dependent metabolic processes. This study expands the current framework of mammalian vitamin B6 metabolism, highlighting AKR1Cs as metabolic hubs with broad regulatory implications.© 2026 The Author(s). The FEBS Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41635634
High-risk neuroblastoma (NB) remains a therapeutic challenge with a poor prognosis, necessitating the identification of novel prognostic biomarkers and effective therapeutics.We analyzed transcriptomic datasets from public repositories using weighted gene co-expression network analysis to identify gene modules associated with prognosis. Consensus clustering stratified patients into distinct subgroups. Differential expression analysis, integrated with 80 machine learning algorithm combinations, prioritized hub genes to construct a risk-scoring model, which was implemented via an online platform. We then screened the new drug eugenol using the proximity algorithm and explored its feasibility through in vitro trials.Consensus clustering based on prognosis-associated modules revealed two patient subgroups with significantly different survival differences (p < 0.001). A set of six hub genes (chromosome 21 open reading frame 58 (C21orf58), cannabinoid receptor 1 (CNR1), laminin alpha 4 (LAMA4), leptin receptor (LEPR), solute carrier family 25 member 10 (SLC25A10), and telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT)) was identified and used to build a risk-scoring model, accessible at online platform. Leveraging this model, we identified eugenol as a potential therapeutic candidate. Transcriptome analysis showed that eugenol selectively targeted high-risk NB cell populations predicted by the model. Preliminary in vitro experiments investigating its mechanism of action indicated that eugenol primarily functions by inhibiting the MYC-cyclin D1 (CCND1) axis.This study establishes an integrated precision medicine framework for NB, identifying a new high-risk group and suggesting eugenol as a promising therapeutic candidate for this group, potentially acting through MYC-CCND1 axis suppression.© Copyright: © 2025 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Viral remnants constitute approximately 8% of the human genome, reflecting extensive historical gene exchange between viruses and their hosts. Some viral genomes harbor genes acquired through horizontal gene transfer that are associated with potential benefits to human health, alongside genes associated with pathogenicity. However, their global distribution, functional characteristics, and coexistence patterns remain poorly understood. Here, using the Integrated Microbial Genomes and Virome (IMG/VR v4) database, we identified 4,556 viruses carrying gene segments associated with human health across eight habitat types spanning 13 regions and 76 countries worldwide. Among viruses with identifiable hosts, those distributed in humans (478) accounted for the highest proportion. The viral genes associated with human health included BCO1 (beta-carotene oxygenase 1), bioB (biotin synthase), COQ2 (4-hydroxybenzoate polyprenyltransferase), GPX1 (glutathione peroxidase 1), GSTs (glutathione transferases), GSTT1 (glutathione S-transferase theta 1), GULO (L-gulonolactone oxidase), and menA (1,4-dihydroxy-2-naphthoate polyprenyltransferase). These genes not only associate with human health but also function as auxiliary metabolic genes in viral genomes. Notably, four pathogenic genes were found in viral sequences carrying health-associated genes, with potential for transcription and expression, indicating functional interactions. Experimental transduction of the viral bioB gene into Escherichia coli altered the expression of host pathogenic genes GCH1 (GTP cyclohydrolase IA) and UGDH (UDP-glucose 6-dehydrogenase), supporting potential cross-regulatory interactions. Overall, this study incorporates health-associated genes into viral genomics, highlighting their coexistence with pathogenic genes, and provides new insights into virus-host coevolution and potential biotechnological applications.Viruses are the most abundant biological entities on Earth and key drivers of microbial evolution through horizontal gene transfer. While often studied for their pathogenic effects, viruses can also carry genes that influence host metabolism and health. Genes associated with human health have been identified in viral genomes, yet their global distribution, functions, and coexistence with pathogenic genes remain largely unexplored. This study integrates datasets of health-associated genes into viral genomic analyses, revealing for the first time the coexistence of viral health-associated genes with those linked to pathogenicity. This dual genetic potential is observed across diverse habitats, highlighting viruses as multifaceted reservoirs of both beneficial and harmful genes. The study findings advance understanding of viral functional diversity and open new avenues for exploring viral roles in microbial ecology, biotechnology, and human health.
In vertebrates, vitamin A (VA) is crucial for development, tissue homeostasis, vision, and immunity. Retinal, a form of VA, is produced via enzymatic cleavage of β-carotene by beta-carotene oxygenase 1 (bco1) and bco1-like (bco1l). While bco1 is found across vertebrate taxa, bco1l is a paralog of bco1 that we discover to have evolved in the ray-finned fishes, the most abundant, speciose, and commercially important group of fishes. We investigated the function of bco1l in ray-finned Siamese fighting fish, commonly known as betta, an emerging model for genetics and development. Using CRISPR-Cas9 knockouts, we find that lack of bco1l results in reduced VA and elevated β-carotene in larvae, starting when animals have exhausted their yolk supply of retinal, followed by stunted growth and death during juvenile development. Exogenous retinoic acid rescues the mutation, demonstrating its deficiency causes these defects. bco1l is 4× more abundant than bco1 in the intestine. This, coupled with the inability of bco1 to sustain VA production in the bco1l mutant, indicates that bco1l is the primary enzyme for dietary carotenoid conversion into retinal. Our results show that VA production by bco1l is required for post-embryonic development, and that bco1l became essential after evolving via duplication of bco1.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41246777 is a review article
Primary hyperoxaluria (PH) is a rare inherited disorder characterized by excessive oxalate accumulation in blood and urine due to defects in glyoxylate metabolism, leading to significant clinical consequences. As genetic and phenotypic heterogeneity contribute to the morbidity of PH, this study examined the phenotypes and genotypes of PH among confirmed pediatric patients (< 18 years) diagnosed with PH at a tertiary care center in Saudi Arabia between 2014 and 2023.Twenty-one patients from 14 families, including 10 boys (47.6%) and 11 girls (52.4%), were included. Six families had more than one affected child. The median age at diagnosis was 36 months (interquartile range = 6-84). All but one patient had PH type 1 [due to alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase gene variant (AGXT)], with the remaining patient having PH type 2 [associated with glyoxylate and hydroxypyruvate reductase gene (GRHPR)]. The most frequent variant in the AGXT gene was NM_000030.3: c.33dup (p.Lys12GlnfsTer156), which was detected in 38.1% of patients. High parental consanguinity (90.5%) and positive family history (81%) were notable. The major clinical manifestations were kidney stones (71.4%), nephrocalcinosis (47.6%), failure to thrive (38.1%), stage V chronic kidney disease (42.9%), and hematuria (33.3%). All patients received conservative management, in addition to liver transplantation in eight patients and combined liver-kidney transplantation in two patients. The mortality rate was 14.3% (3/21). AGXT variants such as NM_000030.3:c.481G > A(p.(Gly161Ser) and NM_000030.3: c.346G > A (p.(Gly116Arg) displayed potential trends with worse renal prognosis.PH type 1 is the predominant form of hyperoxaluria among Saudi patients. High consanguinity might contribute to its disease burden. Early diagnosis and intervention are critical for improving outcomes. Recently approved RNA interference-based therapies offer promising outcomes, potentially reducing the need for organ transplantation in patients with PH type 1.Not applicable.© 2025. The Author(s).
Meat color is an important economic trait of chicken that influences the willingness of consumers to buy it. Elucidating the genetic mechanisms regulating chicken color is essential to optimize poultry breeding strategies and improve meat quality. However, the genes and genetic variants involved remain unknown. In this study, the regulatory mechanism of the Jingxing yellow chicken color was revealed by a multi-omics approach, including transcriptomics/RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis, comprehensive metabolomics analysis and carotenoid measurement. Our results showed that a significant region on chromosome 11 (15.36-15.47 Mb) was associated with the breast muscle meat color yellowness (b*), and BCO1 was mapped to this region as a candidate gene. In addition, the detection of the higher expression level of BCO1 mRNA in the group with the high-b* by RNA-seq analysis further supports that BCO1 is a key candidate gene associated with the breast muscle meat color b*. Also, the relevant single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs315311588 identified among the SNPs present in the 10 introns of BCO1, was found to reduce the expression level of BCO1 and increase the breast muscle meat color b*. Moreover, the multi-omics results reveal that decreased expression level of BCO1 leads to reduced conversion of lycopene to retinol, but significantly increases the content of lutein, which gives the yellow color to the breast muscle meat. Additionally, we also found that increase in yellow pigment production may promote fat deposition in breast muscle meat.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Hepatitis E virus (HEV)-associated acute liver failure (ALF) lacks reliable biomarkers for risk stratification at hospital admission. This study evaluated the diagnostic utility of serum glypican-3 (GPC3) and aldo-keto reductase family 1 member B10 (AKR1B10).Between May 2023 and May 2025, 231 adults with acute HEV infection were classified as HEV-ALF (n = 43) or HEV without ALF (n = 188). Serum GPC3 and AKR1B10 concentrations were measured using enzyme linked immunosorbent assay. Associations were evaluated using Pearson correlation coefficient r; diagnostic performance was assessed by receiver operating characteristic curves, and independent predictors of ALF were identified using multivariable logistic regression.Patients with HEV-ALF had lower albumin, triglyceride, and cholesterol levels and higher total bilirubin, prothrombin time, and international normalized ratio values than patients without ALF (all P < .05). GPC3 and AKR1B10 concentrations were markedly elevated in the HEV-ALF group (both P < .001) and were strongly correlated (r = 0.610, P < .001). The combination of GPC3 and AKR1B10 demonstrated superior diagnostic performance for identifying ALF, with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.931, outperforming either GPC3 alone (AUC, 0.832) or AKR1B10 alone (AUC, 0.792). In multivariable logistic regression analysis, elevated GPC3 (odds ratio [OR], 2.138; 95% CI, 1.213-3.771) and AKR1B10 (OR, 2.304; 95% CI, 1.215-4.368) remained independent risk factors for ALF.Serum GPC3 and AKR1B10 were independent predictors of HEV-ALF and may facilitate risk stratification at hospital admission.https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42150245 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic potential of Tanshinone IIA (Tan-IIA) in alleviating chronic endometritis (CE), focusing on its role in mitigating mitochondrial dysfunction and suppressing neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) formation. HEnEpCs were stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to establish an inflammatory model. Application of Tan-IIA as a pretreatment was followed by a comprehensive assessment of mitochondrial function, including JC-1 staining, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) content, reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, and transmission electron microscopy. A co-culture system with human neutrophils was used to evaluate NETs formation. Molecular mechanisms were probed using real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR), Western blot, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), and immunofluorescence. A rat model of LPS-induced endometritis was used to validate the effects of Tan-IIA on uterine histopathology, NETs formation, and inflammatory cytokine levels. Tan-IIA significantly ameliorated LPS-induced mitochondrial damage, restored membrane potential, reduced ROS production, and increased ATP levels in HEnEpCs. DRAK2 was elevated in CE patient plasma and LPS-stimulated cells, of which overexpression antagonized protective effects mediated by Tan-IIA. Furthermore, Tan-IIA inhibited NETs formation in co-culture systems, an effect mediated through suppression of the lysine demethylase 3A (KDM3A)-histone H3 lysine 9 dimethylation (H3K9me2)-hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF-1A)-solute carrier family 2 member 3 (SLC2A3) epigenetic-metabolic axis. Tan-IIA reduced neutrophil infiltration, NETs formation, and pro-inflammatory cytokine levels to improve endometrial architecture in LPS-induced rats. Tan-IIA attenuates CE progression by targeting DRAK2 to restore mitochondrial function and inhibiting NETs formation via the KDM3A/SLC2A3 pathway, implying Tan-IIA as a promising multi-target agent for CE therapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Pancreatic cancer (PC), a malignant neoplasm of the gastrointestinal tract, is linked to dismal prognoses and a restricted response to chemotherapy. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) play critical roles in regulating PC stemness. This study investigated the mechanism of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs)-derived lncRNA nuclear paraspeckle assembly transcript 1 (NEAT1) promoting PC cell stemness via the microRNA-101-3p (miR-101-3p)/lysine demethylase 3A (KDM3A) axis. Human pancreatic CAFs were cultured in vitro and transfected with small interfering (si)-NEAT1. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) were isolated from CAFs using ultracentrifugation and identified using transmission electron microscopy, nanoparticle tracking analysis, and western blot. Human PC cells PANC-1 were treated with miR-101-3p mimic, si-KDM3A, and EVs. Expression of NEAT1, miR-101-3p, KDM3A, achaete-scute family BHLH transcription factor 2 (ASCL2), leucine-rich repeat-containing G-protein coupled receptor 5 (LGR5), octamer-binding transcription factor 4 (Oct4), and SRY-box transcription factor 2 (SOX2), CD44+CD133+ cell count, and cell malignant biological behaviors were assessed. miR-101-3p-KDM3A targeted binding sites were predicted by StarBase database, with the targeted relationship verified by the dual-luciferase reporter assay. After CAFs-derived EVs (CAFs-EVs) treatment, PANC-1 cells exhibited increased NEAT1, ASCL2, LGR5, Oct4, and SOX2 expression, cell malignant biological behaviors and stemness ability, and CD44+CD133+ cell count. CAFs-EVs-delivered NEAT1 potentiated PANC-1 cell stemness by downregulating miR-101-3p. NEAT1 upregulated KDM3A expression by inhibiting miR-101-3p. KDM3A knockdown partly reversed CAFs-EVs-carried NEAT1-promoted PANC-1 cell stemness. CAFs-EVs-shuttled NEAT1 encouraged PANC-1 cell stemness via the miR-101-3p/KDM3A axis. CAFs-EVs might carry lncRNA NEAT1 to inhibit miR-101-3p expression, thereby regulating KDM3A and eventually facilitating PC cell stemness.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is a prevalent metabolic disorder marked by excessive hepatic lipid accumulation, in which impaired autophagy plays a critical role. Aldo-keto reductase family 1 member B10 (AKR1B10) has been implicated in lipid metabolism; however, its regulatory function in MASLD pathogenesis remains poorly understood. This study aimed to elucidate the role of AKR1B10 in MASLD progression and the underlying molecular mechanisms. Differentially expressed genes were identified using the GSE135251 dataset. Serum and liver tissue samples were obtained from 28 patients with MASLD and 28 healthy controls. In vivo, a MASLD mouse model was established by feeding a high-fat diet (HFD), while in vitro, lipid accumulation was induced in AML-12 hepatocytes by treatment with free fatty acids (FFA). This study found that AKR1B10 expression was significantly upregulated in MASLD patients, HFD-fed mice, and FFA-treated AML-12 cells. Silencing AKR1B10 alleviated lipid accumulation, inflammation, and autophagic impairment in vitro, and attenuated hepatic steatosis and metabolic dysfunction in vivo. Mechanistically, AKR1B10 knockdown suppressed PI3K/AKT pathway activation, thereby ameliorating lipid deposition, inflammation, and autophagic dysfunction. Conversely, treatment with 740Y-P, a PI3K agonist, reversed these protective effects and exacerbated MASLD progression. Our findings demonstrates that AKR1B10 promotes MASLD progression through activation of the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway, contributing to dysregulated lipid metabolism, inflammation, and autophagy inhibition. These findings suggest that targeting AKR1B10 may represent a novel therapeutic strategy for MASLD.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Human Cell Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41918269 is a review article
The KRASG12C mutation is one of the special mutation types in patients with colorectal cancer liver metastasis (CRLM). Although several small molecule inhibitors specifically targeting KRASG12C mutation have been developed, they have only shown limited clinical benefits for CRLM patients. Thus, alternative approaches are still needed.We screened out the differentially expressed gene Aldo-keto reductase family 1 member B10 (AKR1B10) between the KRASG12C mutation and wild-type CRLM through RNA sequencing, and characterized the tumor microenvironment (TME) changes of the KRASG12C mutation CRLM using multi-omics analysis. The role of AKR1B10 in the TME and its progression of KRASG12C mutation CRLM was confirmed by in vitro and in vivo experiments, and the molecular mechanism of lactate on neutrophils reprogramming was detected by immunofluorescence, western blot and Chip-qPCR.AKR1B10 was highly expressed in the KRASG12C mutation CRLM and was associated with a poor prognosis. Mechanistically, AKR1B10 promotes the recruitment of neutrophils in the TME by CXCL8/CXCR2 pathway. Meanwhile, AKR1B10 could promote the production of lactate by regulating crucial glycolytic enzymes. The increased lactate accumulation in the TME promoted histone lactylation of neutrophils, which induced PD-L1 transcription and prompted the reprogramming of neutrophils to an immunosuppressive phenotype.AKR1B10 facilitated immune evasion of KRASG12C mutation CRLM by recruiting and reprogramming neutrophils to remodel the immunosuppressive TME, providing a potential therapeutic target for KRASG12C mutation CRLM patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chromatin architecture is highly dynamic, undergoing nanoscale rearrangements throughout the cell cycle and in response to environmental cues. In this study, we employed high-resolution stochastic optical reconstruction microscopy (STORM) to visualize chromatin organization and cellular plasticity at the nanoscale in two osteosarcoma cell lines, U2OS and MG63. To promote a tumor-suppressive bone microenvironment, we applied three biophysical modalities, namely mechanical vibration, electrical stimulation, and optical pulses, each previously linked to altered tumor behavior by reprogramming cells and generating induced tumor-suppressing (iTS) cells. These stimuli enlarged nuclear size and disrupted nuclear envelope integrity, as revealed by increased surface roughness. Critically, all three modalities transiently scattered nucleosome clusters, indicating chromatin decondensation as a hallmark of iTS cell generation. iTS cells exhibited elevated expression of histone demethylases lysine demethylase 3A (KDM3A) and lysine demethylase 4 (KDM4), accompanied by reduced levels of trimethylated histone H3 lysine 9 (H3K9me3). Consistently, pharmacological agents-Trichostatin A as a histone deacetylase inhibitor and chaetocin as a histone methyltransferase inhibitor-induced nucleosome scattering and converted U2OS cells into iTS cells, whose conditioned media exerted tumor-suppressive effects. Our findings highlight nucleosome clustering as a key epigenetic feature responsive to both biophysical and chemical cues, underscoring its role in microscale chromatin remodeling and reprogramming of the tumor microenvironment.
Lenvatinib resistance (LR) represents a significant obstacle in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) treatment. Aldo-keto reductase family 1 member B10 (AKR1B10) is involved in tumour metabolic reprogramming; however, its role in LR remains unclear.Bioinformatics analyses of public databases were integrated and validated in established LR HCC cell lines. Functional assays (CCK-8, flow cytometry and Seahorse XF analysis) were performed to assess proliferation, apoptosis and aerobic glycolysis. Post-translational modifications of AKR1B10 were characterized using co-immunoprecipitation, mass spectrometry and western blot.AKR1B10 was identified as a critical driver of resistance by establishing a metabolic positive feedback loop. Bioinformatics analyses and experimental validation demonstrated that AKR1B10 upregulation correlates with therapeutic resistance. Functional studies indicated that AKR1B10 promotes resistance by enhancing aerobic glycolysis. Mechanistically, alanyl-tRNA synthetase 1 mediates lactylation modification at AKR1B10 lysine 173 (K173), stabilizing AKR1B10 by blocking ubiquitin (Ub)-proteasomal degradation. Stabilized AKR1B10 interacts physically with lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA), promoting LDHA phosphorylation at Y10 and accelerating glycolytic lactate production. The increased lactate subsequently induces histone H3K18 lactylation (H3K18la), which transcriptionally upregulates LDHA expression. Thus, a self-reinforcing AKR1B10-lactate-LDHA amplification circuit is formed. Clinical analyses confirmed elevated AKR1B10 expression in LR HCC patient tissues. Importantly, targeting this axis with the AKR1B10 inhibitor epalrestat (EPA) synergized with lenvatinib, overcoming resistance in xenograft mouse models and patient-derived xenograft models.These findings establish AKR1B10 as both a biomarker and a therapeutic target in HCC. They reveal a novel lactylation-driven glycolytic adaptation mechanism and support the clinical translation of combined EPA-lenvatinib therapy.AKR1B10 confers lenvatinib resistance by enhancing aerobic glycolysis in HCC cells. AKR1B10 undergoes AARS1-mediated lactylation at K173, stabilizing it by antagonizing ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation. AKR1B10 promotes LDHA Y10 phosphorylation, boosting lactate production, which drives H3K18la-mediated transcriptional upregulation of LDHA, creating a feed-forward loop. Targeting AKR1B10 with epalrestat synergizes with lenvatinib to overcome resistance in preclinical models.© 2025 The Author(s). Clinical and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Institute of Clinical Bioinformatics.
Recent years have witnessed impressive growth in applying natural medicine in tumor treatment. Saffron is reported to elicit an inhibitory property against BC. Herein, we sought to explore the specific components and mechanistic basis of saffron's anti-breast carcinoma (BC) function.Bioinformatics analysis was employed to analyze saffron components' anti-BC activity and screen the corresponding target genes involved in BC. Then, the roles of the main saffron ingredient quercetin in the activity of BC cells were examined using CCK-8, MTS, flow cytometry, colony formation, Transwell, and Gelatin zymogram assays. Additionally, the interactions among Quercetin, EET, and Stat3 were assessed by immunofluorescence and Western blot, and LC-MS/MS determined the levels of AA, EETs, and CYP3A. Finally, BC xenograft mouse models were established to verify the anti-BC function of Quercetin in vivo.Quercetin, the main active component of saffron, inhibited BC progression. Quercetin suppressed BC cell growth, migration, and invasion and inhibited CYP3A4 expression and activity in BC. Mechanistically, Quercetin down-regulated CYP3A4 to block the nuclear translocation of Stat3 by decreasing the metabolization of AA to EETs, thereby alleviating BC. Moreover, exogenously added EETs counteracted the anti-tumor effect of Quercetin on BC. Quercetin also inhibited the tumor growth of tumor-bearing nude mice.Quercetin could inhibit the activity of CYP3A to down-regulate AA metabolites EETs, consequently hampering p-Stat3 and nuclear translocation, thus impeding BC development.© 2023. The Feinstein Institute for Medical Research.
Melatonin is traditionally classified as a melanogenesis inhibitor. However, in some tissues it has been recently found to stimulate melanogenesis, paradoxically, with a parallel decrease of tyrosinase activity. This study explores this paradox by examining melatonin's potential role in pigment formation. Pigments were synthesized from DL-DOPA and melatonin via autooxidation or enzymatic reaction with tyrosinase. The resulting biopolymers were characterized using dry-mass determination, Electron Paramagnetic Resonance (EPR) spectroscopy, potentiometric titration, Dynamic Light Scattering (DLS), and spectrophotometry. The biological effect of melatonin supplementation on the mitochondrial activity of primary melanocyte cell culture (HEMn-DP) after solar-simulated illumination was assessed using the MTT assay. The presence of melatonin during autooxidation increased the overall melanin free radical signal as determined using EPR, however did not impact the signal during enzymatic synthesis. More so, enzymatic oxidation of melatonin alone yielded a detectable pigment (Melat-Mel) with about 4.4% efficiency. EPR spectra of melatonin-derived polymers and copolymers in the presence of zinc (II) ions and after thermal treatment demonstrated behavior typical to melanin pigments. UV-Vis spectrometry showed a change in the absorption profile for copolymer (DOPA/Melat-Mel) with higher UV and lower VIS absorbance compared with homopolymer (DOPA-Mel). DLS measurements confirmed the formation of supramolecular aggregation for all the examined variants. Potentiometric titration showed that copolymer with melatonin exhibits the highest buffering capacity among examined pigments. Loading of HEMn-DP cells with melatonin yielded a dose-dependent reduction of mitochondrial activity following solar-simulated light treatment with no dark toxicity observed. The study provides a chemical model that may help explain part of the "melatonin paradox" in pigmentation, while emphasizing that direct confirmation of melatonin-containing pigment formation in cells remains to be established.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Amphibian skin is a multifunctional physiological interface involved in cutaneous respiration, water balance, immune defense, pigmentation, and environmental sensing. High-altitude anurans from the Qinghai-Xizang Plateau (QXP) provide useful models for examining skin-related trait variation under complex environmental conditions. Here, we compared dorsal skin morphology, antioxidant- and pigmentation-related enzyme activities, and skin transcriptomic profiles between two high-altitude anurans, Rana kukunoris and Nanorana pleskei, sampled from lower- and higher-altitude localities. The two species exhibited distinct, trait-specific skin-response profiles. Histological comparisons based on individual-level values did not reach statistical significance, although the group means showed species-specific directional variation. In R. kukunoris, the higher-altitude group had a greater mean epidermal thickness but lower mean dermal thickness, pigment-cell abundance, and pigment-cell area. In N. pleskei, the higher-altitude group had greater mean numbers of epidermal and dermal pigment cells, granular glands, and mucous glands, but lower mean dermal thickness, granular gland area, and pigment-cell area. The biochemical responses were more pronounced: peroxidase activity was elevated in higher-altitude R. kukunoris, whereas tyrosinase activity was markedly elevated in higher-altitude N. pleskei. Transcriptomic analyses identified species-specific candidate functional signatures related to redox regulation, extracellular matrix organization, immune and inflammatory signaling, DNA repair-related processes, and melanogenesis-associated regulation. Overall, species-associated differentiation was more evident at the biochemical and transcriptomic levels than in the measured histological traits. The descriptive histological patterns, together with the enzyme-activity and transcriptomic profiles, suggest that the two species may differ in the relative contributions of structural, antioxidant, and pigmentation-related processes under multifactorial high-altitude environmental conditions. These findings provide a physiological framework for understanding skin-response variation in plateau amphibians without attributing the observed patterns to a single environmental driver.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
A series of 4-(4-fluorobenzyl)piperazine derivatives (2a-u) were designed, synthesized, and evaluated as potential tyrosinase inhibitors. In vitro enzymatic assays using L-DOPA as a substrate revealed that several derivatives exhibited higher inhibitory activity than kojic acid under identical experimental conditions. Among them, compounds 2 h (4-NO2) and 2n (2-NO2) were identified as the most active derivatives, with IC50 values of 85.24 and 89.38 μM, respectively, compared with 206.42 μM for kojic acid. Structure-activity relationship analysis revealed that a short methylene linker, nitro substitution, and limited steric bulk were favorable for tyrosinase inhibition. Molecular docking studies supported these findings by demonstrating favorable interactions of the active compounds with key residues within the tyrosinase binding pocket. The biological profile of compound 2 h was further investigated through melanin content, cytotoxicity, and antioxidant activity assays. Melanin content studies revealed concentration-dependent biphasic effects on melanogenesis, while cytotoxicity assays demonstrated low toxicity toward 3 T3 cells. DPPH radical scavenging experiments indicated weak antioxidant activity for both compound 2 h and kojic acid. Overall, the combined biological, SAR, and molecular docking results identify compound 2 h as a promising lead structure for the further development of tyrosinase inhibitors.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42555868 is a review article
The stem extracts of Gymnosporia chevalieri were systematically evaluated for their biological activities. The methanol (M), the n-hexane (H), ethyl acetate (E), and water (W) extracts showed dose-dependent cytotoxic effects against human lung cancer cell lines (A549 and H460). The E and W extracts had selective cytotoxicity toward cancer cells compared with normal cells (BEAS-2B). The extracts also effectively suppressed cancer cell proliferation, migration, and invasion at non-cytotoxic concentrations, indicating strong anti-metastatic potential. Antioxidant evaluations showed that the E extract possessed the highest total phenolic and flavonoid contents and demonstrated the strongest ferric reducing antioxidant power and reducing power values, as well as the most potent ABTS and DPPH radical-scavenging activities, indicating a strong correlation between phenolic-flavonoid composition and antioxidant capacity. All extracts also displayed tyrosinase inhibitory activity, with the E and W extracts being more active than the M and H extracts. In parallel, pronounced anti-inflammatory effects were observed with the E and H extracts, as evidenced by inhibition of NO production. Phytochemical investigation further led to the identification of a mixture of two new phenolic glycosides, gymnosporosides A and B (1a-b), together with seven known components, thereby expanding the structural diversity to the Gymnosporia genus.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Enzymatic browning has deleterious implications in food industry. In musts, especially in white ones, this phenomenon driven by polyphenol oxidases threatens wine quality and stability. Herein, an oleanolic acid (OA)-enriched extract from Aglianico red grape pomace obtained by the green solvent dimethylcarbonate was investigated as an alternative anti-browning agent. The extract inhibited tyrosinase with an IC₅₀ of 83.84 ± 7.42 μg/mL. When added to Fiano di Avellino musts (0.01-5.0 mg/mL), it reduced browning, as demonstrated by CIELAB colorimetry, with effective stabilization at values ≥0.08 mg/mL. LC-MS/MS analyses highlighted preservation of caftaric acid, catechin, and epicatechin. These data, along with sustained levels of grape reaction product in treated samples, indicated reduced oxidative degradation. Principal component and correlation analyses confirmed a concentration-dependent protective effect against must browning. These findings highlight the potential of OA-enriched extracts as natural, sustainable alternatives to sulphur dioxide for limiting enzymatic browning.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
A comprehensive phytochemical investigation of the whole plant extract of Ainsliaea glabra Hemsl. led to the isolation of nine compounds, including a new ursane-type triterpene fatty acid ester named 3β-O-heptadecanoyl-urs-12-ene (1), along with eight known compounds (2-9). Their structures were elucidated based on extensive spectroscopic analysis, including 1D and 2D NMR and HR-ESI-MS, and comparison with the literature. Biological activity evaluation results revealed that compound 1 displayed the most potent tyrosinase inhibitory activity with an IC50 value of 16.7 μg/mL.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder characterized by microbial imbalance, particularly the overgrowth of Staphylococcus aureus. This study reports the green synthesis of silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) using Macaranga tanarius extract (MTE) and evaluates their in vitro antibacterial and bioactive properties. The synthesized MT-AgNPs exhibited a distinct surface plasmon resonance (SPR) peak at 430 nm, with TEM revealing predominantly spherical morphologies (mean size: 29.2 nm; range: 6-87 nm). Phytochemical analysis confirmed that MTE is rich in polyphenols (2429 ± 33.7 mg GAE/100 g) and flavonoids (236.3 ± 10.7 mg QE/100 mL), contributing to its strong antioxidant capacity (82.72% ± 3.12% DPPH scavenging; FRAP: 20.36 ± 0.02 mg FeSO4/100 mL). MT-AgNPs demonstrated potent antibacterial activity against 17 clinical S. aureus isolates (e.g., mecA-positive strains), with MICs of 9.375-18.75 μg/mL. At 6.25 μg/mL, MT-AgNPs significantly inhibited biofilm formation by up to 63% (p < 0.05). Crucially, MTE displayed a highly stable tyrosinase inhibitory profile, maintaining a consistent inhibition rate of approximately 45% throughout a 120-min kinetic assay (equivalent to 6.0-8.5 mg kojic acid/g). This sustained inhibitory stability suggests its potential application in addressing postinflammatory hyperpigmentation. These findings indicate that MT-AgNPs serve as a promising, eco-friendly antibacterial nanomaterial with potential in vitro applications for managing AD-related microbial challenges and skin recovery.Copyright © 2026 Hsin-Ya Yeh et al. International Journal of Microbiology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The fatty acid composition and multifunctional biological activities of seed oils from Brassica juncea (L.) Czern. (Indian mustard), Passiflora edulis Sims (passion fruit), and Persea americana Mill. (avocado) were investigated. GC-MS analysis revealed distinct lipid profiles among the oils.Avocado seed oil was dominated by oleic acid (92.37%), whereas Indian mustard oil contained high levels of erucic acid (48.23%) and α-linolenic acid (18.29%). Passion fruit seed oil was characterized by linoleic acid (54.03%), elaidic acid (20.04%), and stearic acid (15.85%). The unsaturated/saturated fatty acid ratio was highest in avocado oil (18.57), followed by Indian mustard (13.93) and passion fruit oil (3.81). Biological assays revealed differentiated functional properties. Passion fruit oil exhibited the strongest antioxidant activity, with a DPPH IC50 of 2.55 μg/mL and showed the highest butyrylcholinesterase inhibition (63.3%). Indian mustard oil demonstrated the greatest anti-arthritic activity (IC50 = 6.61 μg) and a high ABTS antioxidant capacity (5.18 μmol TE/g). Avocado oil displayed notable acetylcholinesterase inhibition (58.8%) and selective tyrosinase inhibitory activity (IC50 = 13.95 μg). Antibiofilm assays showed strain- and stage-dependent effects, with avocado oil producing a consistent inhibition of mature biofilm structure (77.80% against Listeria monocytogenes, and 68.76% against Pseudomonas aeruginosa) and inhibitory activity against microbial sessile cells, reaching 47.93% against P. aeruginosa and 53.63% against Escherichia coli. All three oils positively influenced the growth of selected probiotic strains. Molecular docking, correlation analysis, and principal component analysis highlighted distinct relationships between fatty acid composition and biological activities, suggesting complementary functional profiles and application- specific potential. This study provides the first comparative evaluation of the fatty acid composition, enzyme inhibitory properties, antibiofilm activity, and probiotic-supporting effects of these three seed oils, highlighting their potential as multifunctional ingredients for food, nutraceutical, cosmetic, and health-related applications.Copyright © 2026 Fratianni, Amato, Ombra, Coppola, De Giulio, Coppola, Zengin, Ayala Zavala, De Martino, De Feo and Nazzaro.
D-dopachrome tautomerase (D-DT, or MIF-2) is a homolog of the macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF), which shares receptor usage and downstream signaling. Although MIF is known to mediate UV-induced inflammation and matrix remodeling, the role of D-DT in cutaneous photoaging remains unclear. Therefore, we investigated whether D-DT contributes to UVB-induced skin photoaging by modulating the expression of MMP-13. Using D-DT knockout (Ddt-/-) and wild-type (Ddt+/+) mice exposed to chronic UVB, we assessed collagen degradation and immune cell infiltration in the skin. We also used primary dermal fibroblasts from Ddt+/+ mice to examine the recombinant D-DT (rD-DT)-induced MMP-13 expression and the signaling pathways. UVB exposure markedly increased the D-DT expression in epidermal keratinocytes both in vivo and in vitro. In addition to attenuated skin inflammation, Ddt-/- mice exhibited reduced UVB-induced MMP-13 expression levels, preserved type I collagen levels, and diminished leukocyte and neutrophil infiltration, comparing with WT mice. rD-DT directly upregulated MMP-13 in fibroblasts, and this effect was suppressed by ERK and JNK inhibitors. Furthermore, rD-DT induced the phosphorylation of ERK and JNK in fibroblasts. In conclusion, UVB-induced skin photoaging is accelerated by the expression of MMP-13 in dermal fibroblasts following the epidermal expression of D-DT. These findings identified D-DT as a novel regulator of UVB-induced dermal remodeling and suggest its potential as a therapeutic target for photoaging.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Radiation-induced skin injury (RISI) is common in both radiation therapy and accidental exposure. An appropriate animal model of RISI is of great significance for understanding its injury mechanism and developing medical countermeasures (MCMs). A reproducible, dose-dependent murine model of RISI was established via localized irradiation of the tail skin with graded doses.C57BL/6 mice were employed to establish RISI model by irradiating 2 cm section of the mouse tail with 20 Gy, 30 Gy, and 40 Gy of single irradiation with RS2000 Biological Irradiator. Skin injuries were scored with a modified semi-quantitative scale based on Kumar scale. H&E staining, measurement of the thickness of epidermis and dermis, IHC for dopachrome tautomerase (DTC), IF staining for α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) and Masson staining were used for histopathological evaluations of RISI.A murine model of RISI was established via graded-dose X-ray irradiation of the tail, followed by comprehensive characterization and evaluation of its phenotypic traits. Dynamic alterations in cutaneous melanin-excessive early deposition and subsequent reduction-triggered by tail irradiation rendered radiation-induced erythema undetectable. To address this issue, we specifically revised the early damage scoring criteria of the RISI scale based on Kumar scale. As radiation dose increased, mice exhibited typical symptoms in the irradiated area, including dry desquamation (20 Gy), moist desquamation (30 Gy), ulcers and necrosis (40 Gy), which mimic the key features of clinical RISI. Further histopathological assessment demonstrated a strong correlation between the scoring system and histological changes. Concurrently, we discovered that in the later stage of this model, the interstitial tissue at irradiated site presented a fibrotic phenotype with good dose dependence.In conclusion, this study established an easily operable and highly reproducible tail irradiation model, providing one new platform for in-depth research on the mechanisms and translational applications of RISI.
Astrocytes act as crucial cellular centres of cholesterol synthesis and metabolism and help maintain homeostasis in the healthy CNS. Spinal cord injury (SCI) results in abnormalities in astrocytic cholesterol metabolism and excessive oxysterol accumulation, contributing to the activation of inflammation. However, the relevant regulatory mechanism involved in aberrant cholesterol metabolism by astrocytes has not been fully elucidated. In the present study, we demonstrated that SCI-induced D-DT protein levels increased synchronously with CH25H expression. Administration of the D-DT inhibitor 4-CPPC markedly decreased CH25H expression in astrocytes following SCI. D-DT facilitates CH25H production in astrocytes by activating the intracellular ERK/NF-κB pathway through binding to the CD74 receptor. Conditioned culture medium from astrocytes following the knockdown of astrocyte CH25H expression by siRNA reduced microglial migration. The inhibition of D-DT or CH25H activity reduces microglia/macrophage accumulation at the lesion site and improves motor functional recovery following SCI. Our results reveal a novel function of D-DT-mediated astrocytic CH25H activation, which modulates pathological microenvironments through the activation of inflammation. These data may provide a potential therapeutic strategy for CNS inflammation-associated diseases.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42468973 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate the regulatory function of D-dopachrome tautomerase (DDT) in the occurrence and development of Knee Osteoarthritis (KOA).Single-cell data (GSE248453) and transcriptome data (GSE283079) related to KOA were retrieved from the GEO database. Seurat, limma, and clusterProfiler packages were used for computational analyses. For in vitro experiments, mouse Synovial Fibroblasts (SFs) were transfected with si-DDT and then stimulated with Lipopolysaccharide (LPS). RAW264.7 cells were cultured with SFs-conditioned medium to assess macrophage polarization. Finally, Transwell, qRT-PCR, Western blot, and NF-κB agonist rescue assays were performed for validation.Computational analysis showed that DDT and chemokine-ligand-2 (CCL2) were primarily expressed in fibroblasts and macrophages in KOA and showed a positive correlation with each other. DDT was upregulated in LPS-induced SFs, while its knockdown inhibited the migration of SFs and the expressions of fibrosis-related genes, NF-κB pathway, and CCL2. However, these effects were reversed by the NF-κB agonist. DDT silencing suppressed the levels of M1 markers (IL-6, IL-1β) and elevated those of M2 markers (IL-4, CD206) in macrophages.DDT acted as a key regulator in KOA pathogenesis. It was observed that knockdown of DDT downregulated the expressions of genes related to fibrosis and tissue remodeling (including TGF‑β, COL1A1, and TIMP1), suppressed M1 macrophage polarization, and promoted M2 phenotype, potentially through modulation of the NF‑κB/CCL2 pathway.This study identified DDT as a potential therapeutic target for the clinical treatment of KOA, providing new insights into the pathogenic mechanism of the disease.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Baeckea frutescens L. (BF) has been reported as a potential natural source for skin-whitening agents. However, its antimelanogenic activity and mechanisms remain unclear.The antimelanogenic effects of BF were evaluated in α-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (α-MSH)-stimulated B16F10 cells and in zebrafish embryos. Cell viability, intracellular tyrosinase activity and melanin content were measured. Western blot (WB) analysis was used to examine melanogenesis-related proteins. Network pharmacology and molecular docking were performed to predict potential targets and interactions of BF-derived metabolites.The ethanolic extract of BF reduced intracellular tyrosinase activity and melanin content in cells without cytotoxicity. Western blot analysis showed decreased expression of microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) and its downstream melanogenic enzymes, including tyrosinase (TYR), tyrosinase-related protein-1 (TRP-1), and dopachrome tautomerase (DCT). In addition, BF reduced phosphorylation of protein kinase A (PKA), cAMP responsive element-binding protein (CREB) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), suggesting potential suppression of PKA/CREB and ERK signaling pathways. These regulatory effects may contribute to MITF downregulation and subsequent inhibition of melanogenesis. BF reduced melanin accumulation in zebrafish embryos. Network pharmacology and molecular docking analyses further suggested that BF-derived metabolites, particularly bayogenin, may interact with multiple melanogenesis-related targets.BF may inhibit melanogenesis through coordinated modulation of multiple signaling pathways and may represent a promising skin-whitening candidate.
Background: Emerging evidence highlights the importance of the MIF-sCD74 axis in health and disease, including its role in regulating cell death. While studies in routine cardiac surgery suggest perioperative relevance, its role in end-stage heart failure (ESFH) patients undergoing left ventricular assist device (LVAD) implantation remains unexplored. Moreover, although MIF and sCD74 induce necroptosis in neonatal cardiac myofibroblasts, the effects of MIF, its paralog D-DT, and sCD74 on adult cardiac myofibroblasts (CMFs) are unknown. Methods: Plasma concentrations of sCD74, MIF and D-DT were measured perioperatively in a small cohort of patients with ESHF undergoing LVAD implantation (n = 20). As a preclinical model of ESHF, primary adult CMFs were treated with recombinant MIF, D-DT and sCD74 to evaluate their effects on cellular viability and health. Results: In LVAD patients, sCD74 and D-DT levels were significantly increased 24 h postoperatively, whereas MIF levels were reduced compared to baseline. ROC curve analysis demonstrated a good discriminatory power of 24 h post-OP sCD74 (AUC = 0.83), sCD74/MIF ratio (AUC = 0.82), and D-DT levels (AUC = 0.88) for acute kidney injury, composite outcome, and right heart failure (RHF), respectively. In adult CMFs, MIF and sCD74 synergistically reduced viable cell counts (p = 0.0083), whereas D-DT reduced cell counts in an sCD74-independent manner (p = 0.0004). Yet, measures of metabolism, proliferation, apoptosis and necrosis along with inflammatory gene expression remained unchanged. Conclusions: Our findings indicate that the balance of MIF, D-DT, and sCD74 during LVAD implantation may be clinically relevant. In particular, an imbalance characterized by elevated sCD74 or D-DT and reduced MIF levels 24 h post-surgery was associated with unfavorable clinical outcomes. Yet, the current findings are exploratory and hypothesis-generating because of a small sample size. Thus, the prognostic value of plasma levels for postoperative complications after LVAD implantation, and the effects of MIF/D-DT/sCD74 imbalance on cardiac myofibroblasts, need to be validated in larger cohorts and in advanced human experimental models.
Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) is a pleiotropic inflammatory cytokine and atypical chemokine that regulates both innate and adaptive immunity. Its broad expression and stress-induced release make MIF a key determinant of inflammation, cardiovascular diseases, and cancer. MIF acts as an upstream regulator within a complex ligand-receptor network comprising the more recently discovered MIF paralog, D-dopachrome tautomerase (D-DT, MIF-2), its cognate receptor CD74, and the chemokine receptors CXCR2, CXCR4, and ACKR3/CXCR7. MIF-driven effects, including leukocyte recruitment, cell migration, and inflammatory signaling, largely depend on the specific MIF receptor repertoire of the involved cell types, which can dynamically change in inflammatory settings. Here, we describe an optimized protocol for the ibidi 3D µ-Slide chemotaxis assay to study MIF-mediated pro-migratory effects on human neutrophils, a prototype of innate immune cells, and CD4+ T cells, a cornerstone of adaptive immunity. Additionally, we discuss the application of current inhibitor strategies to selectively target and identify the receptor pathways involved.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Human macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) was first recognized as a lymphokine that prevents macrophage migration in vitro. However, subsequent studies have revealed that MIF also functions as a chemokine, recruiting monocytes, neutrophils, and lymphocytes to sites of inflammation. While the role of its homologue, D-dopachrome tautomerase (D-DT or MIF-2), is less well understood, it shares both unique and overlapping functions with MIF. Both MIF and D-DT exhibit tautomerase catalytic activity, with MIF's tautomerase active site being associated with health, but also the pathogenesis of various inflammatory conditions, autoimmune diseases, and cancers. In contrast, the role of D-DT's tautomerase active site in disease remains poorly understood. In this study, we present a method for evaluating the tautomerase activity and inhibition of recombinant purified MIF and D-DT, using 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate (4-HPP) and phenylpyruvate (PP) as substrates. Although both substrates can be used to measure MIF tautomerase activity, 4-HPP is preferred, while PP is favored for D-DT, highlighting the distinct substrate specificities of the two enzymes.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations are a powerful computational tool grounded in classical mechanics and quantum principles that enables the detailed study of atomic and molecular interactions. MD simulations have evolved throughout the years to become indispensable for investigating complex macromolecular systems, such as proteins. In addition to insights into protein structure, dynamics, and function, MD simulations very often complement experimental data, providing in-depth analysis for findings that are otherwise challenging to explain. Herein, we describe an MD simulation protocol focusing on D-Dopachrome tautomerase (D-DT or MIF-2), a protein with diverse biological activities. Our protocol provides a step-by-step procedure for structure preparation, minimization, equilibration, and production run. Additionally, we describe how the conformational flexibility and correlated movements of D-DT are examined through the use of root mean square fluctuation (RMSF) and correlation analyses, respectively. With minor modifications, this protocol is applicable to proteins with diverse sizes and biological assemblies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Coat color variation in domestic animals provides important insights into the genetic mechanisms of phenotypic diversity. The gray coat of Hetian gray donkeys is a distinctive breed characteristic, yet its genetic basis remains elusive. We integrated multiomics data from 175 domestic donkeys, including whole-genome sequencing, RNA-seq (n = 6), and Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT) sequencing (n = 8). Genome-wide association study (GWAS) and selection signature analyses identified the agouti signaling protein (ASIP) locus as the top candidate associated with the gray coat phenotype. Transcriptomic analysis revealed a 6.17-fold increase in ASIP expression in Hetian gray donkeys, suggesting that elevated ASIP levels may inhibit eumelanin synthesis. Further, comparative ONT analysis identified a 30 bp deletion in the second intron of ASIP. Dual-luciferase assays demonstrated that this deletion significantly enhances transcriptional activity. The increased ASIP expression appears to prevent melanocyte maturation, resulting in hypopigmentation in the skin and hair of Hetian gray donkeys. Our study provides functional evidence that this structural variant in ASIP modulates pigmentation by enhancing its expression, thereby offering mechanistic insight into both a distinctive donkey breed phenotype and the evolutionary processes shaping coat color diversity in equids.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society of Animal Science. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Background: Melanin protects skin and hair from the effects of ultraviolet (UV) radiation damage, which contributes to all forms of skin cancer, including melanoma. Human melanocytes produce two main types of melanin: eumelanin provides effective photoprotection, and pheomelanin offers less protection against UV-induced skin damage. The agouti signaling protein (ASIP) antagonizes the melanocortin-1 receptor (MC1R), hinders melanocyte signaling, and shifts pigmentation toward pheomelanin, promoting UV vulnerability. In this study, we aim to discover compounds that inhibit ASIP-MC1R interaction and effectively preserve eumelanogenic signaling. Methods: The ASIP-MC1R interface-based pharmacophore model from ASIP is implicated in MC1R receptor protein engagement. We performed virtual screening with a validated pharmacophore model for ~4000 compounds curated from ZINCPharmer and applied drug-likeness filters, viz. ADMET and toxicity profiling tests. Further, the screened candidates were targeted for docking to the ASIP C-terminal domain corresponding to the MC1R-binding moiety. Top compounds underwent a 100-nanosecond (ns) run of molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to assess complex stability and persistence of key contacted residues. Results: Sequential triage, including pharmacophore, ADME-toxicity (ADMET), and docking/ΔG, yielded a focused group of candidates against ASIP antagonists with a favorable fit value. The MD run for 100 ns supported pose stability at the targeted pocket. Based on these predictions and analyses, compound ZINC14539068 was screened as a new potent inhibitor of ASIP to preserve α-MSH-mediated signaling of MC1R. Conclusions: Our in silico pipeline identifies ZINC14539068 as a potent inhibitor of ASIP at its C-terminal interface. This compound is predicted to disrupt ASIP-MC1R binding, thereby maintaining eumelanin-biased signaling. These findings motivate experimental validation in melanocytic models and in vivo studies to confirm pathway modulation and anti-melanoma potential.
Periodic patterning is fundamental to biological organization. In birds, colour stripes and spots on growing embryonic surface and elongating feather filaments provide a unique system to study continuous periodic patterning in expanding domains. Agouti-signaling protein (ASIP) directly reports epigenomic activity during colour patterning. Using a neural-network-like architecture, we show that ASIP's cis -regulatory landscape functions as hidden layers, integrating morphogen feedback, chromatin topology, and tissue geometry to generate discrete colour outputs. Single-nucleus multiome and Micro-C uncover stage- and context-specific enhancer-silencer coalitions. Epidermal Wnt ligands activate ASIP while inducing Wnt inhibitors in fibroblasts, forming a negative-feedback loop coupling periodic patterning to domain expansion. Comparative cross-tissue and cross-species analyses define cis -regulatory modules comprising an epigenetic grammar; functional assays highlight retrotransposon co-option expanding ASIP's cis -regulatory repertoire, potentially contributing to colour pattern evolution. Together, these findings motivate a Turing-principle-based communication model: ASIP reflects epigenetic coalitions shifting to drive diverse, environmentally tunable colour motifs for adaptation.
Agouti signaling protein (ASIP) and agouti-related protein (AGRP) are paralogous inverse agonists of melanocortin receptors with distinct physiological roles, but their structural and biochemical properties in birds remain poorly understood. Here, we characterized chicken ASIP and AGRP proteins. Analysis of available sequences revealed that a motif resembling the mammalian proprotein convertase 1/3 (PC1/3, also known as PCSK1) cleavage site is conserved across a broad range of avian orders, but Western blot analysis of transfected Chinese hamster ovary (CHO-K1) cells and chicken hypothalamus detected no cleavage, suggesting that avian AGRP may not be post-translationally processed at this site. Chicken ASIP mRNA contains an in-frame upstream ATG (uATG) and a putative N-linked glycosylation site at Asn-42, both conserved across multiple avian orders. Overexpression in CHO-K1 cells showed that ASIP translated from either ATG produces a mature protein of the same size that is N-glycosylated at Asn-42 and exhibits markedly lower secretion efficiency than AGRP. Domain-swapping experiments revealed that the N-terminal domain reduces secretion, whereas a naturally occurring ASIP-b variant with an additional N-glycan at Asn-47 shows enhanced secretion. Proteasome inhibition increased intracellular ASIP, and endoglycosidase H (Endo H) sensitivity indicated endoplasmic reticulum (ER) retention, suggesting that the N-terminal domain limits secretion via ER-associated proteasomal degradation. These findings reveal species-specific post-translational regulation of avian melanocortin inverse agonists, in which N-terminal features and site-specific N-glycosylation determine secretion efficiency, likely contributing to their distinct roles in pigmentation and hypothalamic energy balance.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The reshuffling of genomic variation from multiple origins is an important contributor to phenotypic diversification, yet insights into the evolutionary trajectories of this combinatorial process and their interplay with genetic architecture remain scarce. We show that convergent plumage color evolution in wheatears involves a monogenic architecture with modular variation introgressed at the agouti signaling protein (ASIP) locus. Introgression of a new transposable element insertion and linked protein-coding variation underpin a transspecific throat color polymorphism, which stable isotopes suggest is associated with alternative foraging niches. Cointrogression of linked regulatory ASIP variation resulted in mantle color convergence in one species, whereas convergent color evolution at the genus level required new variation. Our results demonstrate evolutionary trajectories from introgressed variation realized within the constraints of a monogenic architecture.
Sheep coat color is an important phenotypic trait that influences consumer preferences and breeding. Although the Agouti Signaling Protein (ASIP) gene has been linked to pigmentation, the mechanisms underlying its function remain unclear. In a previous study, we generated ASIP gene-edited fine-wool sheep (F0) with diverse coat colors using CRISPR/Cas9. Building on this foundation, the present study investigates coat color variation in 33 F1 offspring produced by mating F0 gene-edited rams with either F0 gene-edited ewes or wild-type white ewes. Comprehensive genotyping identified two inherited ASIP mutations-a 4-bp deletion and a 27-bp deletion with a 1-bp insertion-alongside natural variants (D5, D9) and copy number variation. These genetic differences were associated with a wide range of coat color phenotypes in the F1 population. To explore the underlying mechanisms, we conducted histological analyses (H&E staining), immunohistochemistry, melanin content quantification, qRT-PCR, and Western blotting. Results showed that dark-coated individuals exhibited reduced ASIP expression and elevated levels of TYR and TYRP1, consistent with increased eumelanin synthesis. In contrast, white-coated sheep showed higher ASIP expression and lower levels of melanogenic enzymes. Our findings provide functional validation that ASIP is a central regulator of pigmentation in sheep and reveal how the interplay between gene editing, natural mutations, and gene dosage contributes to diverse coat color outcomes. This work establishes a valuable model for dissecting coat color genetics and offers a molecular framework for future breeding strategies aimed at wool color diversification and economic trait improvement in fine-wool sheep.© 2025 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Male investment in offspring rearing through paternal care is rare among mammals and the neural mechanisms governing its emergence are poorly understood. We leveraged the natural paternal behavior of African striped mice (Rhabdomys pumilio) in combination with brain-wide cFos quantification, single-nucleus RNA-sequencing, viral-mediated gene manipulation, and environmental manipulation to dissect the neural basis of natural variation in male parenting. We find that socio-environmental conditions drive individual variation in male alloparenting such that post-weaning social isolation increases paternal care while social living in higher density groups increases infanticide. This natural variation in care corresponds to neural activity in the medial preoptic area and changes in correlated activity across brain regions. Within the medial preoptic area, expression of agouti signaling protein (Agouti) in neurons is increased by group housing and is negatively associated with care, and overexpression of Agouti reduces care and enhances infanticide in previously tolerant animals. Naturalistic manipulations further reveal that Agouti integrates long-term housing conditions rather than food availability/hunger. Together, our results demonstrate that Agouti acts as a molecular integrator of socio-environmental information to drive variation in paternal care.
Coat color is a complex trait and plays an important role in breed identification. However, information regarding genes associated with coat color in cattle is limited, especially at the skin transcriptome level.We investigated the differential expressed genes (DEGs) and genomic selection signal underlying the coat color variation between black and brown cattle breeds. A total of 19 cattle (Brangus, Angus, Simmental, and Guanling) were performed skin transcriptome analysis and 262 cattle (Angus and Simmental) were performed whole genome analysis.Angus cattle (black coat) had a significantly higher melanin content in both their hair and skin compared to that of Simmental and Guanling cattle (brown coat). Transcriptomic analysis identified 14,118 expressed genes, with principal component analysis and hierarchical clustering revealing clear differences between black and brown cattle. DEGs analysis across four pairwise breed comparisons highlighted 343 downregulated and 54 upregulated genes common to all comparisons, with the ASIP gene (agouti signaling protein) emerging as a key gene linked to melanogenesis. The ASIP expression was several dozen-fold higher in brown cattle than in black cattle, suggesting a crucial role in coat color determination. Path-way enrichment and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) identified the "Melanogenesis" pathway as significantly enriched and central to coat color variation. Genes such as FZD10, WNT6, and ASIP showed differential expression patterns that correlated with coat color. Genomic analysis revealed strong selection signals in the ASIP gene region, with several SNPs exhibiting high linkage disequilibrium. Notably, the mutation type was predominant in Simmental cattle, while the reference allele was more common in Angus cattle.Based on the skin transcriptomic and genomic analyses, we found that ASIP was significantly differential expressed between black and brown cattle breeds and under strong positive selection. These findings provide valuable insights into the genetic basis of coat color variation in cattle and highlight the ASIP gene as a critical determinant of this trait.Copyright © 2025 Wang, Xu, Zhou, Lv, Wu, Zhao, Ni, Zhou, Zhang, Wang and Zhang.
Bovine embryos produced in vitro are developmentally inferior compared to in vivo derived embryos due to the lack of optimization of the oocyte and embryo culture conditions in vitro. Agouti-signaling protein (ASIP), a secreted protein produced by the bovine oocyte, has been recently shown to aid in acquiring oocyte developmental competence. Therefore, in the present study, we aimed to reveal the effects of supplementation of ASIP during in vitro oocyte maturation and embryo culture on subsequent embryonic development.Cumulus-oocyte complexes or presumptive zygotes were placed in culture medium containing either 0, 1, 10, or 100 ng/mL of recombinant ASIP (rASIP). Effects on development, gene expression, lipid content, and blastocyst cell allocation were examined.Supplementation of rASIP during oocyte maturation was found to significantly increase the blastocyst development rate (P < 0.05) and produced blastocysts with an increased inner cell mass to trophectoderm cell ratio. Addition of rASIP during oocyte maturation increased oocyte (P < 0.05) but not embryo (P > 0.05) lipid levels. The expression of genes involved in lipid metabolism, including FASN, PPAR γ , SCD, CSL1, ELOVL5, and ELOVL6, was not significantly altered in blastocysts due to treatment (P > 0.05). Supplementation of rASIP during embryo culture was not found to affect blastocyst rates.The data presented in this study further support the role of ASIP in oocyte competence and suggest that the supplementation of rASIP during oocyte maturation may lead to the production of blastocyst of increased quality.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Pre-mRNA processing factor 4B (PRP4) has previously been shown to induce epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and drug resistance in cancer cell lines. As melanin plays an important photoprotective role in the risk of sun-induced skin cancers, we have investigated whether PRP4 can induce drug resistance and regulate melanin biosynthesis in a murine melanoma (B16F10) cell line. Cells were incubated with a crucial melanogenesis stimulator, alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone, followed by transfection with PRP4. This resulted in the inhibition of the production of melanin via the downregulation of adenylyl cyclase-cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (AC)-(cAMP)-tyrosinase synthesis signaling pathway. Inhibition of melanin production by PRP4 leads to the promotion of carcinogenesis and induced drug resistance in B16F10 cells. Additionally, PRP4 overexpression upregulated the expression of β-arrestin 1 and desensitized the extracellular calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR), which in turn, inhibited the influx of extracellular Ca2+ ions. The decreased influx of Ca2+ was confirmed by a decreased expression level of calmodulin. We have demonstrated that transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily C member 1 was involved in the influx of CaSR-induced Ca2+ via a decreasing level of its expression. Furthermore, PRP4 overexpression downregulated the expression of AC, decreased the synthesis of cAMP, and modulated the actin cytoskeleton by inhibiting the expression of Ras homolog family member A (RhoA). Our investigation suggests that PRP4 inhibits the production of melanin in B16F10 cells, blocks the influx of Ca2+ through desensitization of CaSR, and modulates the actin cytoskeleton through downregulating the AC-cAMP pathway; taken together, these observations collectively lead to the promotion of skin carcinogenesis.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN), a vascular complication of diabetes, is the leading cause of death in patients with diabetes. The contribution of aberrantly expressed circular RNAs (circRNAs) to DN in vivo is poorly understood. Integrated comparative circRNA microarray profiling was used to examine the expression of circRNAs in diabetic kidney of db/db mice. We found that circRNA_010383 expression was markedly downregulated in diabetic kidneys, mesangial cells, and tubular epithelial cells cultured in high-glucose conditions. circRNA_010383 colocalized with miRNA-135a (miR-135a) and inhibited miR-135a function by directly binding to miR-135a. In vitro, the knockdown of circRNA_010383 promoted the accumulation of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins and downregulated the expression of transient receptor potential cation channel, subfamily C, member 1 (TRPC1), which is a target protein of miR-135a. Furthermore, circRNA_010383 overexpression effectively inhibited the high-glucose-induced accumulation of ECM and increased TRPC1 levels in vitro. More importantly, the kidney target of circRNA_010383 overexpression inhibited proteinuria and renal fibrosis in db/db mice. Mechanistically, we identified that a loss of circRNA_010383 promoted proteinuria and renal fibrosis in DN by acting as a sponge for miR-135a. This study reveals that circRNA_010383 may be a novel therapeutic target for DN in the future.© 2020 by the American Diabetes Association.
Ivabradine (IVA), a broad-spectrum inhibitor of HCN cation channels, is recognized for enhancing cardiac function in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases and may serve as a potential therapeutic agent for mitigating drug-induced cardiotoxicity. This study aimed to investigate the protective effect of IVA against cardiac damage induced by cisplatin (Cis) and to elucidate the underlying mechanisms.We investigated the impact of IVA (5 mg/kg, orally for 28 consecutive days) on Cisplatin-induced cardiac injury (7.5 mg/kg intraperitoneally on day 5) in rats. Biomarkers of oxidative stress and levels of inflammatory cytokines in cardiac tissue were assessed. H&E staining was employed to identify histopathological alterations in cardiac tissue. The molecular mechanisms of IVA in ameliorating cardiac injury were examined.The results indicated that IVA enhanced cardiac tissue structure by suppressing the pathological alterations observed in H&E staining. IVA demonstrated antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties through reducing malonaldehyde (MDA), NADPH oxidase, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and interleukins (IL-1β and IL-6) levels, while elevating superoxide dismutase (SOD), IL-10, and eNOS levels. IVA diminished the expression of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK), Protein Kinase C-epsilon (PKC epsilon), and microRNA-34a (miRNA-34a), while enhancing the expression of Protein Kinase G (PKG), Myosin Light Chain Phosphatase (MLCP), and Rapidly Accelerated Fibrosarcoma (Raf-1), as confirmed by western blotting and PCR results. Furthermore, its impact on cardiac tissue viability was supported by increased B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl2) levels and decreased caspase-3 staining in immunohistopathology.IVA may significantly mitigate cardiac injury in Cis-induced cardiotoxicity through regulating multiple pathways and miRNA-34a levels.
Understanding the architecture of biological adaptations is a major endeavor of evolutionary biology. Using Natural History collections, we study the genetic basis and evolution of white/brown winter coat color variation in the long-tailed weasel (Neogale frenata), a crucial phenological adaptation for camouflage in habitats with seasonal snow. We produced whole-genome sequencing data for museum specimens, along two winter color morph transition areas in North America, at the West and East coasts. Genome-wide association scans identified a single genomic region linked to color variation polymorphism with approximately 300 kb and 200 kb in the West and East regions, respectively, which included the pigmentation gene MC1R. We identified three MC1R alleles, two of which with deletions of nine or eight amino acids, alternatively associated with the winter brown morphs in the West and East, respectively. These deletions affect the second transmembrane domain, and in one case also the first extracellular loop, which in silico analyses predicted to impact the protein's function. Our findings show alternative intraspecific evolutionary solutions for environmental adaptation in long-tailed weasels, building on the evidence that major genes of the melanin production pathway are hotspots for recurrent and independent evolution of winter camouflage adaptation. This adaptive variation may be crucial to anchor adaptive responses facing future environmental change.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Society for the Study of Evolution (SSE). All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site-for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Stage IIB-IIC cutaneous melanomas carry a substantial risk of recurrence and disease-related mortality despite complete surgical excision, highlighting the need for reliable prognostic biomarkers. We retrospectively analyzed 153 patients with stage IIB-IIC cutaneous melanoma who underwent surgery at the Instituto Valenciano de Oncología between May 2000 and August 2024. Recurrence-free survival (RFS), disease-free survival (DFS), and overall survival (OS) were estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods. Associations between clinicopathologic and molecular characteristics and survival outcomes were assessed by log-rank test and Cox proportional hazards models. At a median follow-up of 81.6 months, median RFS, DFS, and OS were 43, 31, and 50 months, respectively. In univariate analyses, both telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) promoter mutations [hazard ratio = 0.38, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.18-0.8, P = 0.008] and the absence of melanocortin-1 receptor (MC1R) variants (hazard ratio = 0.38, 95% CI = 0.16-0.91, P = 0.024) were significantly associated with RFS. In multivariate analyses, only TERT promoter mutations remained an independent predictor of both RFS (hazard ratio = 0.44, 95% CI = 0.20-0.96, P = 0.038) and DFS (hazard ratio = 0.47, 95% CI = 0.24-0.93, P = 0.030). Patients harboring TERT promoter mutations exhibited significantly poorer survival outcomes compared with those with wild-type TERT promoter status. Combined analysis supported the contrasting prognostic roles of TERT and MC1R. Our findings identify TERT promoter mutations as an independent prognostic factor and suggest a potential protective role of MC1R variants in stage IIB-IIC cutaneous melanoma.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
The melanocortin 1 receptor (MC1R) is a pro-resolving anti-inflammatory target under clinical development for scleroderma, arthritis, light intolerance or melanoma prevention. Genetic diversity at MC1R is high in certain populations, with some variants associated with loss-of function (LoF) resulting in red hair and poor tanning response. However, how these variants influence the anti-inflammatory efficacy of drug candidates targeting MC1R is unknown. We analysed the impact of 30 variants on receptor signalling (cAMP and phospho-ERK) and the anti-inflammatory response to nine agonists on the whole-blood assay on healthy volunteers. LoF presents as a continuum rather than as a binary characteristic (benign/pathogenic) and differentially affects each signalling pathway, undermining the usefulness of in silico tools to predict variants pathogenicity. Moreover, variants affected compounds differently, even causing LoF, no effect or gain-of-function depending on the compound tested. We identified responders and non-responders to melanocortin compounds, and the efficacy of most compounds (determined as reduction of cytokine release) was diminished by the presence of variants at MC1R. Carrying red-hair variants (RHC) also associated with reduced efficacy but not having light skin phototype. These data encourage the incorporation of pharmacogenetics strategies during melanocortin drug development programs to ensure targeted interventions for maximal efficacy and safety.© 2026. The Author(s).
The domestic chicken exhibits extraordinarily high plumage diversity in sharp contrast to the uniform plumage phenotype in its wild ancestor, the red junglefowl. The melanocortin-1 receptor (MC1R) locus is the most variable pigmentation locus in domestic chicken. Here we have analyzed whole-genome sequence data from 10,026 birds, including red junglefowls and 393 populations of domestic chicken. We document ultrarapid evolution of 18 MC1R alleles, due to the accumulation of 9 missense mutations combined with reshuffling of sequence variants within the single MC1R exon. The lack of linkage disequilibrium at the MC1R locus strongly suggests that this combinatorial allele diversity is generated by interallelic gene conversion, possibly promoted by its high guanine-cytosine content. Functional analyses of MC1R variants expressed in transfected cells, using second-messenger and bioluminescence resonance energy transfer assays together with homology modeling, demonstrate that most missense mutations have significant effects on MC1R signaling and include both activating and inhibitory changes. One common MC1R allele differs by as many as three functionally relevant missense mutations from the most closely related wild-type allele, and its phenotype reflects their combined effects. Genome-wide analyses further show that MC1R acts as a modifier of dominant white and recessive white phenotypes caused by mutations in premelanosome protein and tyrosinase, respectively. In both cases, MC1R alleles promote a pure white phenotype, either by enhancing eumelanin pigmentation (dominant white) or inhibiting eumelanin pigmentation (recessive white).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42260055 is a review article
Genetic drift and gene flow can give rise to a complex population genetic structure. The inverse problem of estimating the genetic drift and gene flow in the past, based on the present-day genomic population structure, can be solved using an admixture graph. This describes differentiated local populations in terms of population splits and migrations between populations. The history and associated levels of genetic drift and admixture can be estimated based on the genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphism allele frequency data. Here, we present a set of statistical methods based on the admixture graph. Applying a prior on the stochastic variation of the effective population size decomposes the genetic drift values that are associated with the non-migration edges into the timings of the population splits and the effective population sizes at those times. This decomposition facilitates downstream analyses such as reconstruction of ancestral allele frequencies via a Brownian motion model with admixture. To trace changes in allele frequencies on a world map, we estimated the geographic locations of the ancestral populations using Brownian motion, the rate of which depends on the genetic drift values. Mapping the history of putative adaptations onto a world map can illuminate factors responsible for regional population heterogeneity. We investigated the effectiveness of detecting adaptations with a numerical simulation that mimics human population history, and by analyzing the expression quantitative trait loci of the melanocortin 1 receptor gene, which is involved in regulation of skin and hair pigmentation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution.
This study presents a preclinical assessment of 177Lu-DOTA-Pip-Nle-CycMSHhex (177Lu-CCZ01048), a previously reported radiolabeled α-MSH analogue targeting melanoma, with a focus on additional in vivo evaluation and human dosimetry extrapolation. 177Lu-CCZ01048 was radiolabeled with a radiochemical purity exceeding 99% and demonstrated high stability in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) and human serum, consistent with previous reports. Receptor binding assays confirmed a high affinity for the melanocortin-1 receptor (MC1R), with a dissociation constant (Kd) of 0.51 ± 0.09 nM, while internalization studies showed more than 50% cellular uptake in B16F10 melanoma cells within 6 h. Cytotoxicity evaluation using the MTT assay revealed a significant reduction in cell viability, with a 31% decrease observed at a concentration of 1000 nM. Biodistribution studies in tumor-bearing mice demonstrated high tumor uptake, rapid blood clearance, and minimal accumulation in non-target organs, accompanied by predominant renal metabolism and excretion. SPECT imaging confirmed selective tumor targeting. Absorbed dose estimates based on tumor-bearing mice biodistribution data identified the kidneys as the dose-limiting organ, while overall dosimetry values were within the range reported for clinically used and FDA-approved 177Lu-labeled radiopharmaceuticals, including 177Lu-DOTATATE and 177Lu-PSMA-617. These findings support further preclinical and translational evaluation of 177Lu-CCZ01048 for melanoma-targeted radionuclide therapy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Acetaminophen (APAP)-induced acute liver injury (AILI) is a prevalent clinical liver condition caused mostly by oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage. Dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs) possess antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and immunomodulatory capabilities, demonstrating significant potential in liver diseases. However, during in vitro culture, they are typically maintained under normoxic conditions (21% O2), which is very different from the hypoxic oxygen level that is found in vivo. It remains unclear whether hypoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells (Hyp-DPSCs) exhibit superior therapeutic effects compared to normoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells (Nor-DPSCs). This study demonstrated that 24-h exposure to 1% O2 significantly enhanced HIF1A/HIF-1α expression in DPSCs. It promoted mitophagy through the MYC-HIF1A-BNIP3 pathway, enhancing mitochondrial shape and function while reducing oxidative stress in DPSCs. Furthermore, in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that Hyp-DPSCs were far more potent than Nor-DPSCs in boosting the expression of hepatic antioxidant factors and enhancing macroautophagy/autophagy to reduce AILI. These findings revealed that hypoxia activated mitophagy in DPSCs, enhancing their therapeutic efficacy against AILI and providing a novel strategy for stem cell-based AILI treatment.Abbreviations: AILI: acetaminophen-induced acute liver injury; ANOVA: analysis of variance; APAP: acetaminophen; BAX: BCL2 associated X, apoptosis regulator; BCL2: BCL2 apoptosis regulator; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; BNIP3L: BCL2 interacting protein 3 like; CASP3: caspase 3; CAT: catalase; CCK-8: cell counting kit-8; CM: conditioned medium; COX4I1: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4I1; CPT1A: carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A; CQ: chloroquine; DPSCs: dental pulp stem cells; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; GO: Gene Ontology; GOT1/AST: glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT: glutamic - pyruvic transaminase; GPX4: glutathione peroxidase 4; GSH: glutathione; Hyp-DPSCs: hypoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells; H&E: hematoxylin and eosin; HIF1A/HIF-1α: hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit alpha; HMOX1/HO-1: heme oxygenase 1; HUVECs: human umbilical vein endothelial cells; IF: immunofluorescence; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IL1B/IL-1β: interleukin 1 beta; IL6: interleukin 6; i.p.: intraperitoneally; i.v.: intravenous injection; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MSCs: mesenchymal stem cells; MYC: MYC proto-oncogene, bHLH transcription factor; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NAPQI: N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine; NFE2L2/NRF2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; Nor-DPSCs: normoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells; PRKN/parkin: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; PLIN2: perilipin 2; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PPARA/PPARα: peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha; PPARG/PPARγ: peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SEM: standard error of the mean; SOD1: superoxide dismutase 1; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; VDAC1: voltage dependent anion channel 1; WB: western blot.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42047332 is a review article
Feruloyl esterase produced by certain microorganisms can help to break down plant fiber. We investigated the effects of inoculating feruloyl esterase-producing lactic acid bacteria in alfalfa silage on production performance and blood and liver markers of inflammation and oxidative stress in lactating dairy goats. Alfalfa was ensiled for 1 mo without an additive (control; CON), with Limosilactobacillus reuteri YM13 without feruloyl esterase activity (YM13), or with a feruloyl esterase-producing L. reuteri A4-2 (A4-2). Forty-two dairy goats (53 ± 4 DIM; 37.2 ± 2.3 kg BW) were randomly assigned to 1 of the 3 dietary treatments (n = 14/treatment) and fed during 60 d. Silage and composite samples (concentrate + silage) were taken weekly. Jugular vein blood samples were taken on d 20, 40, and 60 before the morning feeding. Dairy goats were milked twice per day, and milk samples were taken on d 58 to 60. Five dairy goats from each group were slaughtered at the end of the experiment, and liver tissue samples were collected for real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) assay. Serum antioxidant activity on d 20, 40, and 60, and production data were analyzed with PROC MIXED (SPSS 21.0, SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL). Biochemical indicators in silage and composite feed; serum cytokine, immunoglobulin, and biochemical indicators; and liver RT-qPCR data in samples harvested on d 60 were analyzed using one-way ANOVA (SPSS 21.0, SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL). Compared with CON and YM13, inoculating with L. reuteri A4-2 led to lower silage pH and NDF assayed with a heat-stable amylase and expressed inclusive of residual ash but greater concentrations of lactic acid and ferulic acid, as well as activities of superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and total antioxidant capacity. Feeding A4-2 inoculated alfalfa silage did not alter DMI, milk yield, or feed efficiency. Dairy goats fed A4-2 had greater serum total antioxidant activity and lower proinflammatory cytokine concentrations at 60 d. Furthermore, we also observed greater total protein, albumin, and IgM, and lower alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, and lactate dehydrogenase in serum in response to feeding A4-2. Compared with CON and YM13, overall mRNA abundance of the NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2 (NFE2L2) target genes HMOX1, NQO1, SOD2, CAT, GPX1, GPX2, and GSR was greater in the liver of goats fed A4-2. In contrast, relative to CON and YM13 groups, feeding A4-2 resulted in an overall downregulation of KEAP1 and the NF-κB signaling pathway-related genes NFKB1, RELA, NOX4, TNF, and IFNG. Overall, feruloyl esterase-producing lactic acid bacteria used as silage inoculant can confer potential health benefits without affecting production performance. Further studies to determine the specific mechanisms controlling these responses are warranted.© 2026, The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of the American Dairy Science Association®. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
In recent years, insect-derived peptides have attracted attention for their potential biological activities, particularly antioxidant properties. This study assessed the antioxidant activity of two widely consumed edible insects, T. molitor and A. diaperinus larvae, using cell-free and cell-based approaches. Whole lyophilized larvae, digestion products from the oral, gastric, and intestinal phases, as well as the <3 kDa permeate fraction (D-P3) derived from the intestinal digestion phase, were evaluated using biochemical antioxidant assays. Overall, digested samples exhibited higher antioxidant capacity than their undigested counterparts. At the cellular level, treatment of LPS-stimulated, PMA-differentiated THP-1 macrophages with A. diaperinus D-P3 was associated with increased mRNA expression of genes related to antioxidant defense, including NFE2-like bZIP transcription factor 2 (NFE2L2, also known as Nrf2), glutathione-disulfide reductase (GSR), superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), and catalase (CAT), whereas T. molitor D-P3 preferentially modulated nuclear factor kappa B p50 subunit (NFKB1) and nuclear factor kappa B p65 subunit (RELA). Overall, these findings indicate that gastrointestinal digestion enhances the bioaccessibility of antioxidant components in both edible insect species while revealing species-specific transcriptional responses under in vitro inflammatory conditions. This multilevel assessment provides mechanistic insight into the antioxidant-related biological activity of digestion-derived insect peptides and supports their further investigation as functional ingredients in food and feed systems.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41692973 is a review article
Esophageal cancer (EC) is the eighth most prevalent malignancy worldwide and exhibits the sixth poorest prognosis. Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is the predominant pathological subtype. Ferroptosis, an iron-dependent form of cell death, plays a critical role in cancer progression. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have emerged as key regulators in the initiation and progression of EC. However, the role of lncRNAs in modulating ferroptosis within EC remains poorly understood. Therefore, this study aimed to identify key ferroptosis-related lncRNAs in ESCC and to investigate the role and mechanism of a specific lncRNA, long intergenic non-protein-coding RNA 92 (LINC00092).Bioinformatics analysis was conducted to identify ferroptosis-related lncRNAs, transcription factors (TFs), and genes associated with ESCC. The expression, function, tumor microenvironment, immunotherapy, and downstream molecular pathways were also determined. The expression levels of LINC00092, MYC-associated zinc finger protein (MAZ), and NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2 (NFE2L2) were detected using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), immunohistochemical analysis, and western blotting. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) was performed to determine the subcellular localization of LINC00092. 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT), colony formation, wound healing, Transwell, and flow cytometry apoptosis assays were performed to determine the phenotypes and functions of loss- and gain-of LINC00092. RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) and luciferase reporter assays were used to evaluate interactions involving LINC00092. The expression of ferroptosis-related proteins was verified by western blotting.LINC00092 was found to be downregulated in ESCC datasets, cell lines, and tissue samples. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that LINC00092 was associated with ferroptosis and negatively correlated with NFE2L2 expression. Further investigations demonstrated that LINC00092 acted as a binder to the TF MAZ, modulating the expression of the ferroptosis-related gene NFE2L2. Overexpression of LINC00092 inhibited ESCC cell progression, whereas its downregulation promoted tumor progression. RIP and luciferase reporter assays confirmed that MAZ was a target of LINC00092, and NFE2L2 was a downstream target of MAZ. Western blot analysis showed that LINC00092 enhanced ferroptosis in ESCC cells. The LINC00092/MAZ/NFE2L2 axis appeared to inhibit cancer progression by promoting ferroptosis through the regulation of NFE2L2 and sequestration of the TF MAZ.LINC00092 exerts tumor-suppressive effects in ESCC cells by inhibiting cancer progression through the LINC00092/MAZ/NFE2L2 axis and promoting ferroptosis. Therefore, LINC00092 may serve as a potential therapeutic target for ESCC.© AME Publishing Company.
The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and macroautophagy/autophagy are two major pathways for maintaining cellular protein homeostasis. Increasing evidence has highlighted the complex interactions and crosstalk between these pathways; however, the specific molecules and mechanisms mediating the interplay between the UPS and autophagy are still not fully elucidated. In this study, we discovered that knocking down the Drosophila Cul2 (Cullin 2)-RING ubiquitin ligase complex adaptor CG12084/DmZer1 impedes autophagy and autophagic flux. DmZer1 interacts with the Drosophila SQSTM1/p62 homolog ref(2)P, promoting its association with ubiquitinated proteins and degradation. ref(2)P is a crucial player in regulating autophagy and the Keap1-cnc/NFE2L2 pathway-mediated antioxidant response. Knockdown of DmZer1 leads to the formation of ref(2)P bodies, which sequester Keap1 and promote cnc/NFE2L2-mediated antioxidant responses under oxidative stress conditions. These findings reveal the pivotal role of DmZer1 in regulating autophagy and the ref(2)P-Keap1-cnc/NFE2L2-mediated oxidative stress response.Abbreviations: ARM: armadillo-like domain; ATG: autophagy related; BTZ: bortezomib; CL1-GFP: GFP fused with a CL1 degron; cnc: cap-n-collar; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CRL2: Cullin 2-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase complex; CQ: chloroquine; CUL2/Cul2: cullin 2; EloB: Elongin B; EloC: Elongin C; esg: escargot; ISCs: intestinal stem cells; KEAP1: kelch like ECH associated protein 1; LIR: LC3-interacting region; LLPS: liquid-liquid phase separation; LRR: leucine-rich repeat; NFE2L2/Nrf2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; p-H3: phospho-histone H3; PQ: paraquat; ref(2)P: refractory to sigma P; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; UBA: ubiquitin-associated; UPS: ubiquitin-proteasome system; VHL: von Hippel-Lindau tumor suppressor; ZER1: zyg-11 related cell cycle regulator.
Diabetic wounds are hard to heal due to ferroptosis, a specific type of cell death triggered by high blood sugar in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) in the lining of blood vessels. Ferroptosis occurs as a result of excessive iron accumulation and lipid peroxidation. The resulting impairment in endothelial function and tissue scaffolding creates a persistent barrier against effective wound healing. Our study found that artemisitene (ATT), a bioactive compound derived from the herb Artemisia annua, speeded up diabetic wound healing by blocking ferroptosis through the Nrf2 (NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2, also known as NRF2: Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2)/GPX4 (Glutathione peroxidase 4) pathway. In studies with HG (high glucose)-damaged HUVECs, treatment with ATT (20 μM) effectively counteracted harmful iron buildup and lipid peroxidation, while also restoring mitochondrial health and reducing the levels of damaging reactive oxygen species (ROS). Computational modeling confirmed that ATT binds tightly to both Nrf2 and GPX4 molecules. Notably, when Nrf2 was blocked, ATT completely lost its protective effect, indicating that Nrf2 is essential for its action. In diabetic rats, applying ATT directly to wounds (20 mg/kg/day) significantly accelerated the rate of wound closure. This treatment worked by triggering two key regenerative processes: stronger new blood vessel growth and better-organized collagen structure. In practical terms, ATT prevents diabetic wound complications through three connected mechanisms: it uses GPX4 to counteract lipid peroxides, leverages Nrf2 to restore healthy antioxidant balance, and regenerates endothelial cells to drive new blood vessel formation. As the first drug of its kind to target ferroptosis this way, ATT offers a promising multitarget approach for diabetic wounds, tackling the combined problems of oxidative damage, mitochondrial failure, and poor tissue regeneration.© 2025 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
To investigate the role of 3-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase 2 (BDH2) in regulating ferroptosis and its impact on the metastasis of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). Expression levels of BDH2 were modulated in LUAD cell lines (A549, PC9) using pcDNA-BDH2 plasmid transfection. Cell motility was assessed by Transwell assays, while ferroptosis-associated markers, including Fe2+, malondialdehyde (MDA), lipid reactive oxygen species (ROS), ACSL4, and GPX4, were evaluated by biochemical assays, flow cytometry, and Western blotting. The involvement of the Nrf2/HO-1 signaling axis was analyzed by Western blotting and RT-qPCR. Furthermore, a xenograft mouse model was established to confirm the effect of BDH2 on tumor progression and metastasis in vivo. Overexpression of BDH2 significantly inhibited LUAD cell migration and invasion. BDH2 upregulation enhanced ferroptosis, effects that were reversed by the ferroptosis inhibitor Fer-1. Mechanistically, BDH2 suppressed the activation of the Nrf2/HO-1 pathway, thereby enhancing sensitivity to ferroptosis. In vivo, BDH2 overexpression markedly reduced tumor growth and metastasis in nude mice, while inhibition of ferroptosis attenuated these effects. BDH2 suppresses metastasis in LAUD by promoting ferroptosis via suppression of the Nrf2/HO-1 pathway, highlighting BDH2 as a potential therapeutic target for LUAD.© 2026 Qiao Yang et al., published by Hirszfeld Institute of Immunology and Experimental Therapy.
5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) is an effective drug in the treatment of colorectal cancer (CRC); however, the development of acquired resistance to 5-FU poses a great challenge in clinical practice. Through the analysis of public datasets, we found that reduced 3-Hydroxybutyrate Dehydrogenase 2 (BDH2) expression in CRC tissues predicted poor survival in CRC patients. Low expression of BDH2 in clinical CRC tissue samples predicted a higher degree of malignancy. In addition, public dataset analysis showed that GLI Pathogenesis Related 1 (GLIPR1) expression was elevated in CRC patients following 5-FU treatment, contrasting with the expression pattern of BDH2. We reported that in 5-FU-resistant CRC cell lines (LOVO/5-FU and HCT15/5-FU), BDH2 was downregulated, while the expression of GLIPR1 was increased. To explore the regulatory relationship between BDH2 and GLIPR1 in 5-FU resistance, BDH2 and GLIPR1 overexpression plasmid vectors were constructed to transfect 5-FU resistant CRC cell lines. BDH2 led to enhanced 5-FU sensitivity in 5-FU-resistant CRC cell lines and inhibited the malignant behavior of CRC-resistant cells in vitro. In nude mice with subcutaneous tumors and intraperitoneal injections of 5-FU, tumor tissues formed by BDH2-overexpressing cells exhibited slower growth and increased apoptosis. Mechanistically, the upregulation of BDH2 increases GLIPR1 promoter methylation, mediated by DNA methyltransferases, thereby inhibiting GLIPR1 expression. High expression of GLIPR1 reduces 5-FU sensitivity in 5-FU-resistant CRC cell lines, which abolished the impact of BDH2 expression. These results suggest that BDH2 inhibits GLIPR1 expression by increasing GLIPR1 promoter methylation, thereby enhancing 5-FU sensitivity of 5-FU-resistant CRC cell lines and inhibiting CRC progression.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Hypoxia plays a critical role in the pathophysiology of cardiomyopathy, myocardial infarction, and heart failure. Promoting ketone metabolism has been shown to be beneficial for myocardial cells under hypoxic conditions. However, the expression and regulatory mechanisms of key enzymes in the ketone pathway under hypoxic conditions are still unclear. This study aimed to investigate the effects of hypoxia on the expression of key enzymes in the ketone metabolic pathway and the underlying regulatory mechanisms involved.H9C2 myocardial cells were cultured for 6 h in an oxygen-glucose-deprived state, and the expression of various genes was detected by quantitative real-time PCR. ELISA and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) cytotoxicity assay were used to measure CoAs, itaconic acid, and LDH levels, respectively, and the dependence of gene expression on hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF-1α) was evaluated using the inhibitor LW6.H9C2 cardiomyocytes exhibited increased ketone body metabolism in response to hypoxia. Hypoxia induced the expression of the ketone body enzymes succinyl-CoA:3-oxoacid CoA transferase (SCOT/OXCT1), 3-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase 2 (BDH2), and acyl-CoA: cholesterol acyltransferase 1 (ACAT1) in cardiomyocytes, with a concomitant increase in the level of acyl-CoA and a decrease in the level of succinyl-CoA. The HIF-1α inhibitor LW6 could partially reverse the expression of BDH2 and ACAT1, as well as the levels of succinyl-CoA. Interestingly, however, hypoxia-induced SCOT/OXCT1 expression was not regulated by the HIF-1α inhibitor. In addition, hypoxia promoted the expression of inflammatory factors.These data confirm the critical role of ketone metabolism in myocardial hypoxia and help to elucidate the pathophysiology of cardiomyopathy, myocardial infarction and heart failure.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
Renal ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) is a major cause of acute kidney injury (AKI). Recent findings suggest that Testis-Specific Protein Y-encoded-Like 2 (TSPYL2) plays a fibrogenic role in diabetes-associated renal injury. However, the role of TSPYL2 in IRI-induced kidney damage is not entirely clear. In this study, we found that the expression of TSPYL2 was upregulated in a mouse model of AKI and in the hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) cell model. Knockdown of TSPYL2 attenuated kidney injury after IRI. More specifically, the knockdown of TSPYL2 or aminocarboxymuconate-semialdehyde decarboxylase (ACMSD) alleviated renal IRI-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress in vitro and in vivo. Further investigation showed that TSPYL2 regulated SREBP-2 acetylation by inhibiting SIRT1 and promoting p300 activity, thereby promoting the transcriptional activity of ACMSD. In conclusion, TSPYL2 was identified as a pivotal regulator of IRI-induced kidney damage by activating ACMSD, which may lead to NAD+ content and the damaging response in the kidney.© 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 36515768
The kynurenine pathway (KP) and inflammation are substantial in depression pathogenesis. Although there is a crosstalk between the KP, inflammation, and neurotrophic factors, few studies examine these topics together. Novel medications may be developed by clarifying dysregulations related to inflammation, KP, and neurotrophic factors in treatment-resistant depression (TRD). We aimed to evaluate the serum levels of KP metabolites, proinflammatory biomarkers, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in healthy controls (HC) and the patients with TRD whose followed up with three different treatments. Moreover, the effect of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) and repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) on biomarkers was investigated. Study groups comprised a total of 30 unipolar TRD patients consisting of three separate patient groups (ECT = 8, rTMS = 10, pharmacotherapy = 12), and 9 HC. The decision to administer only pharmacotherapy or ECT/rTMS besides pharmacotherapy was given independently of this research by psychiatrists. Blood samples and symptom scores were obtained three times for patients. At baseline, quinolinic acid (QUIN) was higher in the patients with TRD compared to HC, whereas picolinic acid (PIC), PIC/QUIN, and PIC/3-hydroxykynurenine were lower. Baseline interleukin-6 (IL-6), and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) were higher in nonresponders and non-remitters. ECT had an acute effect on cytokines. In the rTMS group, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) decreased in time. PIC, QUIN, and aminocarboxymuconate-semialdehyde decarboxylase (ACMSD) enzyme may play a role in TRD pathogenesis, and have diagnostic potential. rTMS and ECT have modulatory effects on low-grade inflammation seen in TRD. Baseline inflammation severity is predictive in terms of response and remission in depression.© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Austria, part of Springer Nature.
T follicular helper (Tfh) cells are a subset of CD4+ T cells that are essential in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Notably, iron is required for activated CD4+ T lymphocytes to sustain high proliferation and metabolism. In this issue of the JCI, Gao et al. showed that CD4+ T cells from patients with SLE accumulated iron, augmenting their differentiation into Tfh cells and correlating with disease activity. Using human cells and murine models, the authors demonstrated that miR-21 was overexpressed in lupus T cells and inhibited 3-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase-2 (BDH2). The subsequent loss of BDH2 drove labile iron to accumulate in the cytoplasm and promoted TET enzyme activity, BCL6 gene demethylation, and Tfh cell differentiation. This work identifies a role for iron in CD4+ T cell biology and the development of pathogenic effectors in SLE. We await future investigations that could determine whether modulating iron levels could regulate Tfh cells in human health and disease.
3-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase-2 (Bdh2), a short-chain dehydrogenase, catalyzes a rate-limiting step in the biogenesis of the mammalian siderophore, playing a key role in iron homeostasis, energy metabolism and apoptosis. However, the function of Bdh2 in embryonic stem cells (ESCs) remains unknown. To gain insights into the role of Bdh2 on pluripotency and cell fate decisions of mouse ESCs, we generated Bdh2 homozygous knockout lines for both mouse advanced embryonic stem cell (ASC) and ESC using CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing technology. Bdh2 deficiency in both ASCs and ESCs had no effect on expression of core pluripotent transcription factors and alkaline phosphatase activity, suggesting dispensability of Bdh2 for self-renewal and pluripotency of ESCs. Interestingly, cells with Bdh2 deficiency exhibited potency of endoderm differentiation in vitro; with upregulated endoderm associated genes revealed by RNA-seq and RT-qPCR. We further demonstrate that Bdh2 loss inhibited expression of multiple methyltransferases (DNMTs) at both RNA and protein level, suggesting that Bdh2 may be essentially required to maintain DNA methylation in ASCs and ESCs. Overall, this study provides valuable data and resources for understanding how Bdh2 regulate earliest cell fate decision and DNA methylation in ASCs/ESCs.Copyright © 2021 Fu, Liu, Cao, Zhang, Wang, Wu, Song, Duo, Li and Bao.
Chronic inorganic arsenic (iAs) exposure affects > 220 million people worldwide and skin cancer is a hallmark of long-term iAs exposure. Limited information exists regarding arsenic methylation by human keratinocytes and how methylation influences skin carcinogenesis. Inorganic arsenite (iAsIII) and its methylated metabolites disrupt diverse zinc finger proteins, leading to differential toxicity patterns. We examined arsenic methylation capacity in non-malignant human keratinocytes and interrogated proteomic remodeling across three stages of iAsIII induced malignant transformation using the well-established preclinical HaCaT model. Arsenic methylation was assessed by hydride generation cryotrapping inductively coupled-mass spectrometry and global proteomic changes were analyzed by tandem-mass tagging liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Primary, hTERT-immortalized and HaCaT human keratinocytes exhibited negligible arsenic methylation, with iAsIII comprising at least 98.5% of total intracellular arsenic, attributable to minimal expression of arsenite methyltransferase. Proteomic profiling identified over 275 differentially expressed proteins at each stage of transformation, including multiple zinc finger proteins implicated in cell cycle control, RNA metabolism, and genome stability. Ingenuity® Pathway Analysis revealed progressive, coordinated disruption of cancer-associated pathways and regulatory networks over the transformation timeline, including zinc-coordinating upstream regulators that may explain widespread pathway dysregulation. Collectively, our findings suggest that iAsIII promotes skin carcinogenesis by disrupting C3H1- and C4-type zinc finger protein-centered regulatory networks that coordinate cancer-associated signaling and metabolic pathways in human keratinocytes, highlighting key candidates for future mechanistic studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Arsenic poisoning has severe health effects, and accordingly, most research on the arsenite methyltransferase 3 (AS3MT) enzyme has focused on its role in arsenic metabolism, overlooking potential endogenous functions. We discovered an arsenic-independent role for AS3MT in regulating hepatic energy metabolism. as3mt loss in zebrafish caused differential expression of thousands of genes in the liver, with many of the downregulated genes playing roles in mitochondrial energy metabolism. Similar genes were downregulated in AS3MT-depleted human cells. as3mt zebrafish mutants had large, malformed mitochondria, were more sensitive to both arsenic and the mitochondrial toxin rotenone, and impaired swimming velocity. as3mt mutants developed steatosis, a hallmark of mitochondrial dysfunction. Restoring As3mt in hepatocytes of as3mt mutants rescued steatosis and mitochondrial gene expression. Overexpression of As3mt in wild-type hepatocytes protected against steatosis caused by iAs induced. This demonstrates a novel, conserved, endogenous role for As3mt in hepatic energy metabolism, identifies As3mt loss as a previously unrecognized cause of steatosis, and suggests that arsenic may induce mitochondrial dysfunction due to sequestering As3mt from its endogenous role.© 2026 The Author(s). The FEBS Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41991794 is a review article
Domestic Baroque donkeys are popular animals in many European parks and zoos. Although their cream coat color is very charismatic, the underlying genetics is still undiscovered. Addressing this question, a candidate approach was used to search for the causative mutation.Considering the knowledge from domestic horses, the Solute Carrier Family 45 Member 2 (SLC45A2) was identified as the most promising candidate. Samples from 77 domesticated donkeys, 11 wild equids, 1 mule and 2 domestic horses were included in comparison. All exons and the flanking intron sequences of the SLC45A2 were sequenced (2774bp).Sequence comparison revealed that a mutation found exclusively in exon 7 transmembrane region 11 (c.1457C>T; p.Ala486Val) is very likely responsible for the charismatic coat color phenotype in Baroque donkeys. Family studies produced evidence for an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance. Since the coat color in Baroque donkeys varies from almost white to gold, the question remains whether the base coloration, which in mammals is regulated by the ASIP and MC1R genes, also have an impact but no remarkable mutations were found in Baroque donkeys.Thieme. All rights reserved.
Schizophrenia and related psychotic disorders represent a major cause of global disability, while patients show wide variability in their response to antipsychotic therapy. Genetic variants in one-carbon metabolism (folate and vitamin B12-dependent), catecholamine degradation, and methylation pathways may influence symptom severity and treatment outcomes. This study aimed to assess whether polymorphisms in these pathways are associated with baseline symptomatology and treatment response in a naturalistic setting.In this prospective observational study, we examined common polymorphisms in methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR; rs1801133), methionine synthase (MTR; rs1805087), methionine synthase reductase (MTRR; rs1801394), catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT; rs4680), and a variable number tandem repeat in arsenite methyltransferase (AS3MT) in relation to baseline symptoms and four-week treatment response in 163 patients with schizophrenia spectrum or other psychotic disorders. Symptoms were assessed with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale and the Calgary Depression Scale.The COMT rs4680 polymorphism was associated with higher baseline severity of negative symptoms in methionine homozygotes and with greater reduction in depressive symptoms. The MTR rs1805087 polymorphism was significantly associated with improvement in positive symptoms, particularly in patients with higher baseline vitamin B12 levels, whereas the AS3MT variable number tandem repeat showed a nominal association with positive symptom improvement in patients with lower B12 levels. No significant effects were observed for MTHFR rs1801133 or MTRR rs1801394.Polymorphisms in one-carbon metabolism, particularly MTR rs1805087, may predict positive symptom response under adequate vitamin B12 conditions, while AS3MT variation may influence outcomes at lower B12 levels. COMT rs4680 is linked to both negative symptom severity and improvement in depressive symptoms. Although limited by modest sample size, lack of dietary and homocysteine data, and inclusion of non-drug-naïve patients, these findings support the potential of genetic and metabolic profiling for personalized antipsychotic treatment.Not applicable.© 2025. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Maj Institute of Pharmacology Polish Academy of Sciences.
Arsenic (As) is a toxic trace element with neurodevelopmental, carcinogenic, and other adverse effects. Meanwhile, selenium (Se) is an antioxidant trace element with essential physiological roles in humans. The preterm neonate is the most heavily transfused patient. The multiple blood transfusions could expose this vulnerable group to trace elements with variable effects. This study aimed to quantify As and Se in various blood products that were used in neonatal blood transfusions alongside an estimate of a dose per transfusion. In addition to exposure quantification, database mining and molecular docking analysis were performed to explore potential detoxification strategies. Samples from transfusion bags: N = 120; 30 samples of each type of blood product (plasma, platelets, packed RBCs (pRBCs), and whole blood "WB") were analyzed for As and Se by using Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry (ICP-MS). The As and Se medians of all blood units were 0.6 and 74 μg/L, respectively. About 20% of donors have As levels above 1 μg/L. In addition, 74% of donors have Se levels less than 100 μg/L (the level of sub-optimal activity of the antioxidant enzyme glutathione peroxidase), and 60% of the donors have Se levels below the accepted minimum Se level (80 μg/L). The pRBCs were the units with the highest As and Se content. Meanwhile, WBs were the units with the highest dose per transfusion. Key methyl donors-folic acid, S-adenosylmethionine (SAM), and glutathione (GSH)-showed strong binding affinity to the active site of arsenite methyltransferase (AS3MT), a crucial enzyme in As metabolism. These ligands interacted with conserved catalytic residues such as ASN173, ASP115, and CYS92, suggesting a supportive role in enhancing As methylation and clearance. The present study highlights that neonates are exposed to As and Se via different blood product transfusions with high potential to increase As and decrease Se after transfusion. It is recommended to select donors and screen blood units with optimal Se levels and minimal As content for neonatal transfusions. The integration of in silico docking with exposure assessment adds mechanistic insight and highlights the potential for targeted nutritional interventions to reduce As toxicity in vulnerable neonatal populations.
Adequate treatment and safe disposal of high-acidity effluents generated during mining containing elevated concentrations of heavy metals and metalloids, such as arsenic, are a critical environmental challenge. In this work, we isolated and characterized an acidophilic fungus from acid mine drainage-affected tailings pond sludge containing high levels of heavy metals. This fungus was identified as Acidomyces acidophilus strain MSS1 and was characterized by its capacity to tolerate and metabolize As(V) and As(III). Our results show that As tolerance and removal capacity by this fungus is highly dependent on pH, being more effective at pH 3.0 than pH 5.4. The biotransformation mechanism involves internalization of As species, As(V) reduction to As(III), and possible biomethylation. It is also capable of oxidizing As(III) in the medium to As(V) to a lesser extent. Arsenite methyltransferase expression was upregulated in the presence of As(III), increasing approximately 25-fold at pH 3 and approximately 14-fold at pH 5.4, compared with fungus not exposed to As. However, in the presence of As(V), it only increased approximately five-fold at pH 5.4; thus, methylation of As is highly dependent on pH and the type of As species present. Additionally, As was removed by biosorption to the fungal biomass. Overall, our results suggest that A. acidophilus can be considered as a potential As bioremediation agent for the removal of As, in particular As(III), in highly acidic effluents, due to its remarkable tolerance to low pH and high metal concentrations.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
The neurodevelopmental theory of schizophrenia emphasizes early brain development in its etiology. Genome-wide association studies have linked schizophrenia to genetic variations of AS3MT (arsenite methyltransferase) gene, particularly the increased expression of AS3MTd2d3 isoform. To investigate the biological basis of this association with schizophrenia pathophysiology, we established a transgenic mouse model (AS3MTd2d3-Tg) ectopically expressing AS3MTd2d3 at the cortical neural stem cells. AS3MTd2d3-Tg mice exhibited enlarged ventricles and deficits in sensorimotor gating and sociability. Single-cell and single-nucleus RNA sequencing analyses of AS3MTd2d3-Tg brains revealed cell fate imbalances and altered excitatory neuron composition. AS3MTd2d3 localized to centrosome, disrupting mitotic spindle orientation and differentiation in developing neocortex and organoids, in part through NPM1 (Nucleophosmin 1). The structural analysis identified that hydrophobic residues exposed in AS3MTd2d3 are critical for its pathogenic function. Therefore, our findings may help to explain the early pathological features of schizophrenia.
Arsenic compounds are accumulating in deep ocean, but their ecological impacts on deep-sea ecosystem remain elusive. We studied 32 sediment cores (101 layers for metagenomes, along with 41 global reference sediment metagenomes) collected from the South China Sea and the Mariana Trench (MT), characterized with high arsenic accumulation in MT. In these metagenomes we revealed a significantly positive correlation between relative abundance of arsenite methyltransferase gene (arsM) and sampling depth, which suggests that arsenic methylation is the most prevalent arsenic biotransformation process in the deep sea. Lower relative abundance of arsenic efflux gene, compared with arsM, indicates that microbes in deep-sea sediments were prone to methylate arsenite and retain it rather than efflux it. Phylogenetic analysis identified seven clades of ArsM proteins, including two new clades derived primarily from deep-sea microorganisms. Five metagenome-assembled genomes containing aioA for arsenite oxidation also harbor carbon fixation genes in the deep-sea sediment layers, suggesting previously unnoticed contribution of arsenite-oxidizing autotrophic bacteria to the carbon cycle. Therefore, deep-sea microorganisms adopt different detoxification and transformation strategies in response to arsenic compounds, which renews our understanding of arsenic in their ecological impacts and potential contribution in deep ocean.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Melatonin is synthesised from tryptophan by the sequential action of enzymes that are highly expressed in the pineal gland. Homeobox gene-encoded transcription factors typically control organ development; however, a set of homeobox genes is strongly expressed in the adult pineal gland. Previous in vitro experiments revealed that knockdown of homeobox genes in rat pinealocyte cultures reduced expression of melatonin-synthesising enzymes. Until now, it was not possible to determine the impact of homeobox genes on melatonin synthesis in vivo, which is needed to evaluate physiological functions. Using the cone-rod homeobox (Crx) gene as an example, we therefore developed an experimental pipeline to deliver short-hairpin RNA, via adeno-associated viral vectors, into the pineal gland of adult rats. This approach enabled us to selectively reduce Crx expression in the mature pineal gland, which we confirmed at both the transcript and protein levels. We employed a common approach in pharmacology to correlate Crx knockdown with the expression level of the tagged fluorescent reporter, which provided a quantitative basis to define data exclusion/inclusion criteria. Our efforts confirmed that knockdown of Crx in vivo reduced the expression of two melatonin-synthesising enzymes, namely tryptophan hydroxylase 1 and acetylserotonin O-methyltransferase, consistent with in vitro data. Furthermore, knockdown of pineal Crx significantly reduced nighttime plasma melatonin levels. Our work demonstrates a method through which knockdown of target genes in the rat pineal gland can be achieved without the need for transgenic models.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Pineal Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Glioblastoma cells strongly express the tryptophan-metabolizing enzyme indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1), which is important in enabling immune evasion. Notably, glioma stem-like cells (GSCs) express higher levels of IDO1 than differentiated glioblastoma cells (DGCs); therefore, it was hypothesized that IDO1 inhibition in GSCs may induce differentiation. The present study used the glioblastoma cell line U-87MG, and newly established GSC lines 0125-GSC and 0222-GSC. A model GSC line, Rev-U-87MG, was created by culturing U-87MG in serum-free medium. Rev-U-87MG-IDO(-) was generated by continuous treatment with an IDO1 inhibitor. The DGC lines 0125-DGC and 0222-DGC were derived by culturing 0125-GSC and 0222-GSC in serum-containing medium. IDO1-inhibited GSC lines 0125-GSC-IDO(-) and 0222-GSC-IDO(-) were generated by continuous IDO1 inhibitor exposure. The expression levels of IDO1 and stem cell markers (Nestin, Nanog and Sox2) were measured by western blotting, and temozolomide sensitivity was evaluated by cell counting. Notably, U-87MG, 0125-DGC and 0222-DGC adhered without sphere formation. By contrast, Rev-U-87MG, 0125-GSC and 0222-GSC formed spheres, whereas IDO1-inhibited cells showed partial adhesion with reduced sphere formation. IDO1 and stem cell marker expression were reduced in all IDO1-inhibited cell lines. Rev-U-87MG exhibited decreased temozolomide sensitivity compared with U-87MG, whereas Rev-U-87MG-IDO(-) showed increased sensitivity. Similarly, 0125-DGC and 0222-DGC were more sensitive than their parent GSC lines, and 0125-GSC-IDO(-) and 0222-GSC-IDO(-) also exhibited enhanced drug sensitivity compared with their parent GSC lines at multiple concentrations. These findings suggest that IDO1 inhibition may induce the differentiation of GSCs and reduce their resistance to temozolomide.Copyright: © 2026 Nishide et al.
Biomaterial scaffolds hold great potential for addressing tumor recurrence and tissue defects following surgical tumor resection; however, personalized therapy remains a critical barrier to their clinical translation. To address this issue, we developed an autologous tumor cell-integrated microporous annealed particle (MAP) scaffold co-delivering an immune adjuvant and an indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1) inhibitor for tumor postoperative therapy. This scaffold was fabricated using microfluidic electrospray combined with step-by-step crosslinking technology. The injectable microspheres, prior to annealing, can be directly delivered into the defect site and conform to its shape upon crosslinking, forming a stabilized, porous structure. Featuring interconnected pores that facilitate cell infiltration and proliferation, the scaffold demonstrated effective tissue repair in mice subjected to full-thickness skin excision. Within the scaffold, cryo-inactivated tumor cells and the immune adjuvant recruit and activate dendritic cells (DCs) in situ, stimulating a robust antitumor immune response. This response is further amplified by the IDO1 inhibitor, which reverses immunosuppression by inhibiting regulatory T cells (Tregs). Consequently, the scaffold exhibited remarkable anti-recurrence efficacy and prolonged survival in a melanoma mouse model. These properties highlight the significant potential of our personalized microporous hydrogel particle scaffold for efficient postoperative antitumor therapy and tissue regeneration. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Tumor recurrence and tissue defects represent significant challenges following surgical tumor removal in cancer patients. Meanwhile, a critical barrier to the clinical translation of postoperative biomaterial scaffolds is the lack of personalization for both antitumor therapy and tissue reconstruction. Here, we developed a personalized microporous annealed particle (MAP) scaffold that integrates autologous tumor cells, immune adjuvant, and IDO1 inhibitor to simultaneously address tumor recurrence and tissue defects. Personalized antitumor therapy is achieved by the injectable MAP scaffold through a tumor vaccine formed from autologous tumor-derived cells within the scaffold, eliciting tumor-specific T-cell responses that are further amplified by reversing the local immunosuppressive microenvironment. Personalized tissue repair is also enabled by such scaffold, which conforms to irregular wound shapes and supports cell infiltration. This work establishes a paradigm that unifies personalized immunotherapy with personalized tissue repair, offering substantial promise for postsurgical cancer therapy.Copyright © 2026 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Depression is a growing threat to adolescent health worldwide. NO2 potentially contributes to depression onset. A knowledge gap exists in the characterization of neurotoxicity in early life caused by prenatal NO2 exposure. In this study, pregnant C57BL/6 mice were exposed to NO2 throughout the gestational period. On postnatal day 22, we evaluated neurobehavioral changes, hippocampal disruption, and transcriptional alterations in pups to elucidate the neurodevelopmental toxicity of NO2. The results showed that prenatal NO2 exposure induced significantly decreased exploration in the open field test and elevated plus maze test, and increased despair time in the tail suspension and forced swimming tests. The transcriptomic alterations were enriched in neuroinflammation and neurotransmission, as well as diversified catabolic and metabolic processes. Elevated hippocampal microglial density, neuroinflammation, and the PTGDS-PGD2 pathway were observed in both genders. We identified a hippocampal shift in tryptophan metabolism from serotonin biosynthesis toward the kynurenine pathway, driven by the upregulation of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1), resulting in reduced serotonin synthesis. These findings demonstrate the intergenerational detrimental effects of maternal NO₂ exposure on offspring psychiatric health and elucidate underlying mechanisms involving multiple biological pathways. This insight aids in refining ambient pollution control strategies and personal protective measures during the perinatal period.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Joint injuries, such as rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL), are associated with the development of post-traumatic osteoarthritis (PTOA). ACL rupture can lead to disruption of metabolic pathways, including the conversion of tryptophan to kynurenine, which is associated with a sustained inflammatory response. An in vivo study was undertaken to determine the acute effects of intra-articular administration of liposomes loaded with the tryptophan-catabolizing enzyme indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase-1 (IDO-1) following ACL rupture. Using a rat model of non-surgical ACL injury, male and female rats underwent a single intra-articular injection of empty liposomes, or liposomes loaded with IDO-1 and were subsequently randomized to 1- or 2-week endpoints. IDO-1 treatment after ACL injury was associated with a significant reduction in synovial fluid concentration of tryptophan at both 1- and 2-week endpoints. In addition to reduced tryptophan, IDO-1 treatment led to significantly lower synovial fluid concentrations of IL-1β and TNF-α. IDO-1-loaded liposomes also increased the ratio of regulatory T lymphocytes (Tregs) to IL-17-secreting helper T lymphocytes (Th17 cells). Similarly, IDO-1 treatment increased the number of CTLA4+ cells relative to IL-17 A+ cells that infiltrated joint tissues. Contrast-enhanced micro-computed tomography (CE-μCT) was used to quantify treatment-based effects on articular cartilage thickness and surface roughness at 2-week endpoint. In addition to sex-based differences, IDO-1-loaded liposome treatment was associated with increased cartilage thickness, with no significant effects on surface roughness. Later endpoints and more thorough histologic characterization is needed to determine whether this increased cartilage thickness represents a chondroprotective effect, or an anabolic effect.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. and Société Française de Biochimie et Biologie Moléculaire (SFBBM). All rights reserved.
Background: Glioblastoma (GBM) has emerged as a model of resistance to immunotherapy because of the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME), which is closely associated with tryptophan metabolism. Inhibiting the expression of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase-1 (IDO1, a key enzyme in tryptophan metabolism) is a promising strategy for improving the immunosuppressive TME. Meanwhile, Gasdermin B (GSDMB)-mediated pyroptosis is a newly identified mechanism for activating the immune response. Methods: We prepared a GBM cell membrane (CM)-modified lipid nanoparticle (CMLNP) to deliver CRISPR/Cas9 components and mRNA encoding the N-terminal domain of GSDMB (GSDMBNT mRNA). Results: The CM modification endowed the LNP with a tumor homing/homotypic targeting effect. Then, CRISPR/Cas9 components realized the knockdown of the IDO1 gene, thus remodeling the TME. GSDMBNT mRNA triggers pyroptosis, thus eliciting an immune response. Conclusions: This system generated potent antitumor immunity and offered a novel strategy for GBM immunotherapy.
The tryptophan-kynurenine pathway, mediated by indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1) and tryptophan 2,3-dioxygenase (TDO), is critically involved in the pathogenesis of depression. A series of novel morpholine-coumarin derivatives were designed and synthesized as dual IDO1/TDO inhibitors. Through in vitro enzyme screening, compound 14d exhibited potent inhibitory activity with IC50 values of 0.34 µM and 0.75 µM, respectively. In lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated BV2 microglial cells, 14d downregulated IDO1/TDO expression, suppressed pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, COX-2, iNOS, TNF-α), and upregulated the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. In an LPS-induced acute depressive mouse model established in C57BL/6 mice, intraperitoneal administration of 14d (20 mg/kg) significantly reduced immobility time in the forced swim and tail suspension tests, without affecting spontaneous locomotor activity. Mechanistic studies revealed that 14d inhibited microglial activation in the hippocampal dentate gyrus, reduced cerebral kynurenine levels, increased serotonin content, and upregulated BDNF/PKA signaling. Molecular docking further predicted the binding interactions of 14d with the active sites of IDO1 and TDO. These findings suggest that 14d represents a promising dual IDO1/TDO inhibitor lead compound for the treatment of inflammation-associated depression through modulation of the kynurenine pathway and neuroinflammatory responses.
Neuroinflammation, particularly Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-mediated signaling, plays a critical role in the pathophysiology of depression. This study aimed to investigate the mechanisms by which S-ketamine (S-ket) and S-hydroxynorketamine (S-HNK) modulate TLR4 and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα) signaling in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) to exert antidepressant effects. Male C57BL/6 J mice were subjected to chronic social defeat stress (CSDS) to induce depression-like behaviors. Mice received intraperitoneal administration of S-ket or S-HNK. In a subset of mice, adeno-associated virus expressing TLR4 (AAV-TLR4) or a negative control (NC) was stereotaxically injected into the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Behavioral assessments included the sucrose preference test (SPT), forced swim test (FST), and social interaction test (SIT). Levels of monoaminergic neurotransmitters, including dopamine (DA), serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT), and norepinephrine (NA), pro-inflammatory cytokines (interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, IL-8, and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α)), TLR4, PPARα, indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1), and kynurenine (Kyn) in the PFC were analyzed. CSDS induced depression-like behaviors, decreased DA, 5-HT, and NA levels in the PFC, and increased the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-α. Treatment with S-ket or S-HNK significantly reversed these behavioral deficits, neurotransmitter alterations, and neuroinflammatory responses. Both compounds also reduced plasma and PFC Kyn levels, upregulated PPARα expression, and downregulated TLR4 and IDO1. Notably, TLR4 overexpression partially abolished the antidepressant and anti-inflammatory effects of S-ket and S-HNK. S-ket and its metabolite S-HNK exert antidepressant effects by modulating the TLR4/PPARα signaling pathway, restoring monoaminergic neurotransmission, and attenuating neuroinflammation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
While classical tumor suppressors in colorectal cancer (CRC) are predominantly recognized for restraining cell-autonomous proliferation, their extrinsic mandate in orchestrating the tumor immunometabolic niche remains poorly defined. Clinically, we document that APC membrane recruitment protein 1 (AMER1) downregulation correlates with advanced progression and cytotoxic CD8+ T cell spatial exclusion in CRC patients. Using parallel homograft models in diverse host immune backgrounds, we show that tumoral AMER1 confers robust in vivo tumor-suppressive effects that are dependent on a fully functional immune system. Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals that tumoral AMER1 enrichment actively preserves CD8+ T cell effector stemness by expanding the CXCR5+ precursor exhausted subset (Tpex) across regional lymph nodes and primary tumor microenvironments. Integrated multi-omics and biochemical tracking identify dopamine (DA) as the conserved neurometabolic effector driving this niche remodeling. Mechanistically, AMER1 physically binds and rescues dopa decarboxylase (DDC) from post-translational degradation to sustain tumoral DA secretion; conversely, AMER1 loss creates a localized DA void. Cell-autonomously, tumoral DA accumulation triggers gasdermin D (GSDMD)-dependent tumor pyroptosis. Therapeutically, local DA administration halts multi-lineage carcinoma progression by reversing CD8+ T cell terminal exhaustion and reinforcing central memory differentiation. Collectively, our findings redefine AMER1 as a critical immunometabolic gatekeeper and establish neurotransmitter metabolic bypassing as a promising therapeutic strategy for CRC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Neuroinflammatory PET offers a direct in vivo means of quantifying neuroinflammatory processes through molecular targets expressed by activated glia, including the 18 kDa translocator protein (TSPO), monoamine oxidase B, and the P2X7 receptor. This review synthesizes current evidence for neuroinflammatory PET in epileptogenic zone (EZ) localization across these and emerging targets. TSPO PET demonstrates ipsilateral uptake in temporal lobe and neocortical epilepsy, detects the EZ in MRI-negative cases, and shows strong concordance with intracranial electroencephalography, with complete resection of TSPO-positive regions associated with seizure-free outcomes. Monoamine oxidase B PET identifies the epileptogenic hippocampus through astrogliosis-specific signaling, whereas P2X7 receptor PET shows promise in preclinical models and ex vivo resected tissue. Emerging targets further expand the repertoire for neuroinflammatory characterization of the EZ. Neuroinflammatory PET has the potential to improve EZ localization, better inform surgical eligibility, and guide resection extent in patients where conventional imaging is insufficient.© 2026 by the Society of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging.
Neurodegenerative diseases' treatments still represent one of the major unmet medical needs, and their related clinical trials are characterized by one of the highest failure rates. Despite the promising preclinical premises, pioglitazone lies among those drugs that failed clinical translation. It is an antidiabetic drug acting as a PPARγ agonist and later repurposed as a competitive and selective MAO-B inhibitor featuring polyhedral neuroprotective properties. In pursuing our efforts to broaden the therapeutic potential of pioglitazone toward the neurodegenerative context, we herein developed and preliminarily characterized a new series of glitazone derivatives. Particularly, by means of different connectors, a disulfide covalent warhead was attached to the 5-benzylthiazolidine-2,4-dione head to potentially engage cysteines located in MAO-B and PPARγ binding sites and turn pioglitazone into a prolonged-acting modulator. Interestingly, compound 5 emerged as a selective competitive MAO-B inhibitor and a PPARγ agonist with a very slow dissociation rate, revealing long-lasting target engagement, albeit exhibiting lower potencies with respect to pioglitazone. This peculiar biological profile resulted in promising antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, laying the ground for future development of covalent pioglitazone derivatives.© 2026 The Author(s). ChemMedChem published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Variants in the glucocerebrosidase gene (GBA1) are the predominant genetic risk factor for Parkinson's disease (PD), often accelerating disease progression. While biological sex modulates PD progression, the longitudinal association between rasagiline (a monoamine oxidase-B [MAO-B] inhibitor) and motor outcomes in GBA1-associated Parkinson's disease (GBA1-PD) remains unclear. This retrospective cohort study (2019-2026) analyzed 259 patients with PD (106 females, 153 males) with a median follow-up of 1.56 years to evaluate the association between rasagiline use and motor decline, emphasizing sex-stratified outcomes. Motor progression was evaluated using the Movement Disorder Society-Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale part III (MDS-UPDRS-III). Rates of change were calculated using sex-stratified Generalized Estimating Equations models, with adjustment for age at diagnosis to evaluate treatment effects and sex-specific associations. Among 259 patients, rasagiline use was associated with a significantly slower annual rate of motor decline (Slope Difference: -0.95; p = 0.03). In the GBA1-PD subgroup, females using rasagiline exhibited a clinically relevant slower rate of progression (approximately 1 point/year on the MDS-UPDRS-III) compared with non-users, although not statistically significant (p = 0.08); no association was observed in males. These findings suggest a potential sex-specific association of rasagiline with motor progression in GBA1-PD. Results highlight the importance of sex-stratified analyses to support personalized therapeutic approaches for PD genetic variants.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511567 is a review article
The substantia nigra is the critical part of the midbrain responsible for movement-related functions. Nigral alterations have been associated with neurological conditions related to movement disorders, including Parkinson's disease (PD). 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) is a toxin commonly used as a model of PD due to its selective nature of destroying dopaminergic neurons. However, toxicity varies among different animals and strains. Therefore, this study aimed to assess a comprehensive multi-level profile of early dopaminergic dysfunction by evaluating behavioural, biochemical, mitochondrial, neuroinflammatory, and histological assessments to characterise early nigrostriatal alterations in Swiss mice following subacute MPTP exposure.Twelve (12) adult male mice were randomly divided into two groups of six (6) mice each. Group I (control) was administered normal saline (1 ml/kg i.p.), while group II was administered MPTP (30 mg/kg i.p.) daily for 5 consecutive days. Twenty-four (24) hours following the last MPTP administration, the mice were assessed for neurobehavioural performance using the beam walk, pole, and traction test. Assessments of oxidative stress biomarkers [malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) and reduced glutathione (GSH)], mitochondrial complex 1 activity, neuroinflammatory markers (IL-1β and TNF-α), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B), dopamine level, and histological examination of the substantia nigra were conducted following subacute MPTP exposure.Exposure to MPTP altered neurobehavioural performance, oxidative stress biomarkers, neuroinflammatory markers (IL-1β, TNF-α), and other assessed biochemical parameters, as evidenced by increased beam performance latency, bradykinesia, and a lower traction score. Significant (p < 0.05) increase in MDA level and decrease in SOD, CAT, and GSH were also observed. A significant (p < 0.05) increase was observed in IL-1β and TNF-α levels, and a decrease (p < 0.05) was observed in mitochondrial complex 1 activity, BDNF and dopamine levels. Nigral histological distortions were observed following MPTP exposure.These findings confirm the established alterations in neurobehavioral, physiological and morphological features in the substantia nigra of MPTP-exposed Swiss mice. The study assesses early nigral alterations after subacute MPTP exposure and supports the use of this model for investigating MPTP-induced neurotoxicity.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1) inhibitors have shown limited clinical translation, partly because IDO1 blockade can be bypassed by tryptophan 2,3-dioxygenase (TDO) and may stabilize nonenzymatic IDO1 signaling states that promote tumor progression. Here, we report compound 66, an ortho-benzamidourea derivative obtained through the optimization of VS-15. Compound 66 displayed improved metabolic stability, balanced IDO1/TDO inhibition, and spectroscopic behavior consistent with apo-enzyme targeting. In tumor cells, 66 reduced kynurenine-pathway output and attenuated the IDO1/SHP-2 interaction, counteracting IDO1-driven noncatalytic signaling. This multimodal profile was associated with the inhibition of cancer cell proliferation and migration. Compound 66 therefore represents a chemical probe for dissecting enzymatic and signaling functions within the IDO1/TDO axis and supports small-molecule modulation of both catalytic and noncatalytic immune-metabolic pathways as an alternative to purely catalytic IDO1 inhibition or complete IDO1 degradation.
Tryptophan is an essential amino acid metabolized in the body primarily through enzymatic degradation involving indoleamine and tryptophan 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO and TDO), generating kynurenine as the initial step, and ultimately leads to multiple bioactive metabolites including NAD and quinolinic acid. We have previously shown that kynurenine accumulates with age and contributes to age-induced bone loss, and we hypothesized that knocking out IDO1 might be protective against bone loss in states such as aging by decreasing kynurenine levels in osteoprogenitor cells. To begin to characterize the target cell responsible for this effect, we generated conditional IDO1 knockout (KO) mouse model using floxed mice created by EUCOMM/IMPC and an osteoprogenitor-expressed (Osterix-promoter-driven) Cre possessing a Tet-off element. In an IACUC-approved protocol using male/female conditional IDO1 KO (cKO) C57BL/6 mice, we found sex-dependent differences in changes in bone mass. We report that bone mineral density (BMD) at the femoral (but not spinal) site was significantly higher in 21-month-old cKO male mice compared to wild-type (WT). In contrast, spinal (but not femoral) BMD was higher in 21-month-old female cKO mice versus WT. There were no significant differences in trabecular μCT parameters in female mice; however, male cKO mice showed increased trabecular number and decreased trabecular separation. In contrast, there were no differences between male mice in cortical bone measurements whereas female cKO mice had decreased cortical thickness. These data suggest that there are sex-dependent differences in the role of IDO1 in osteoprogenitor cells with aging.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Postinfectious irritable bowel syndrome (PI-IBS) is defined by persistent gastrointestinal symptoms that follow recovery from an episode of infectious enteritis, which worsen after experiencing psychological stress. Mucosal neurite outgrowth stimulated by neurotrophins and serotonin/5-hydroxytryptamine receptor subtype 7 (5-HT7) activation is linked to visceral hypersensitivity. Rifaximin (RFX) is a poorly absorbed antibiotic that improves IBS symptoms; however, the exact mechanisms remain unclear. The aims are to evaluate changes in microbiota and neuroplasticity in PI-IBS mice after RFX treatment and the analgesic effects of combined treatment with a novel 5-HT7 antagonist, CYY1005 (CYY). A mouse model with dual triggers of Giardia postinfection and water avoidance stress exhibited intestinal hyperalgesia, as measured by visceromotor responses (VMRs). Higher Shannon diversity and increased relative abundances of Lachnospiraceae, Dehalobacteriaceae, and Ruminococcus gnavus were observed in the microbiota of PI-IBS mice, which were restored to baseline after RFX treatment. Reduced VMRs were associated with attenuated mucosal neurite outgrowth and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression after RFX treatment. BDNF/high affinity tropomyosin receptor kinase B activation induced mTOR-dependent nerve fiber elongation and upregulated tryptophan hydroxylase 2 and 5-HT7 expression via Rac1/ROCK pathway in SH-SY5Y neuron cultures. Combined treatment with RFX and CYY reduced VMRs to levels comparable with those of the control groups. Finally, bacteria-free colonic mouse supernatants induced neurite elongation in SH-SY5Y cells, which was inhibited by neutralizing anti-BDNF antibodies. In conclusion, microbiota restoration by RFX treatment attenuated BDNF-induced neurite outgrowth and alleviated visceral hypersensitivity in mice. Analgesic combinations of RFX and a 5-HT7 receptor antagonist reduced intestinal nociception to baseline levels.NEW & NOTEWORTHY A mouse model of postinfectious IBS was developed using dual triggers of Giardia postinfection and water avoidance stress to mimic diverse risk factors. Rifaximin treatment reduced intestinal hyperalgesia and was associated with decreased mucosal neurite outgrowth and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression. BDNF activation induced nerve fiber elongation and upregulated 5-HT7 expression via separate signaling pathways. Analgesic combinations of RFX and a 5-HT7 receptor antagonist reduced intestinal nociception to baseline.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42338858 is a review article
Background Depression is a multifactorial neuropsychiatric disorder involving alterations in neuroplasticity, neurotransmission, and oxidative stress. Zebrafish larvae are a useful model for studying stress-induced behavioral changes. Pithecellobium dulce, rich in bioactive phytochemicals, has reported antioxidant properties, but its effects in stress models remain underexplored. Methods Zebrafish larvae were subjected to a chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) paradigm and divided into control, CUS, extract, CUS + standard (sertraline), and CUS + P. dulce extract (1 mg/mL) groups (n = 20). Behavioral assays included color preference, vertical exploration, thigmotaxis, and light-dark tests. Toxicity assessment, phytochemical screening, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis, DPPH antioxidant assay, and quantitative real-time PCR analysis of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (TPH2) were performed. Results CUS induced significant behavioral deficits, including reduced exploration and increased dark preference. Pithecellobium dulce treatment improved these behaviors without observable toxicity at 1 mg/mL (no observed adverse effect concentration). Phytochemical analysis confirmed alkaloids, flavonoids, tannins, saponins, and phenolics. GC-MS identified bioactive compounds such as 5-hydroxymethylfurfural. The extract showed concentration-dependent antioxidant activity (max 84.83%; IC50 ~38 µg/mL). BDNF and TPH2 expression were reduced in CUS and showed partial restoration following treatment. Conclusions Pithecellobium dulce extract was associated with improvement in stress-induced behavioral alterations, potentially involving antioxidant effects and modulation of neuroplasticity and serotonergic pathways. However, findings are based on indirect evidence and require further mechanistic and translational validation.Copyright © 2026, Vellore Sureshkumar et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42134428 is a review article
Depression is a common mental disorder that substantially impairs patients' daily life and work. To identify natural and safe preventive options, we investigated the preventive effect and underlying mechanism of the Ganoderma lucidum and Rosa roxburghii Tratt formula (GLRRTF) on depression. A total of 72 chemical components in GLRRTF were identified by UHPLC-ESI-Q-Exactive Plus Orbitrap-MS Analysis. GLRRTF (containing 400 mg/kg of G. lucidum extract and 800 mg/kg of R. roxburghii extract per day), administered as a 1-week preventive intervention followed by 4 weeks of co-administration with chronic unpredictable mild stress, prevented the development of depression-like behaviors in male C57BL/6J mice and reduced neuronal damage in the hippocampus. Airflow-assisted desorption electrospray ionization mass spectrometry imaging and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays showed that GLRRTF corrected abnormalities in neurotransmitter levels. The 16S rRNA sequencing indicated that GLRRTF restored dysbiosis of the gut microbiota. Metabolomic profiling revealed that GLRRTF increased the level of tryptophan and promoted tryptophan metabolism towards the 5-HT and indole pathways in feces and the brain. Western blot demonstrated that GLRRTF increased 5-HT production from tryptophan in the brain by regulating tryptophan hydroxylase 2 and DOPA decarboxylase. GLRRTF activated the PI3K/AKT pathway by regulating brain-derived neurotrophic factor and its receptor tropomyosin receptor kinase B. This research provides a comprehensive mechanistic understanding of GLRRTF's preventive effect against depression, highlighting its potential as a novel, safe, and preventive functional food formulation.
Cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury (CIRI) is a major contributor to poor outcomes after ischemic stroke, yet the mechanisms linking oxidative stress and inflammation remain incompletely understood. Neutrophil cytosolic factor 1 (NCF1), a key organizer subunit of the NOX2 NADPH oxidase complex, is involved in reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and immune activation. Here, we investigated the expression pattern, pathological role, and mechanistic significance of NCF1 in CIRI. A public spatial transcriptomic dataset of ischemic mouse brain tissue was reanalyzed to assess the spatial distribution of Ncf1 after stroke. A transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) model was established, and NCF1 expression was evaluated by spatial transcriptomics, immunofluorescence staining, RT-qPCR, and Western blotting. Loss-of-function experiments were performed using NCF1 knockdown, followed by neurological deficit scoring, TTC staining, ROS detection, and inflammatory gene analysis. We found that NCF1 was markedly upregulated in the ischemic brain after stroke and was enriched in infiltrating neutrophils. NCF1 knockdown significantly improved neurological outcomes and reduced infarct volume in MCAO mice. Mechanistically, silencing NCF1 suppressed NOX2 expression and ROS accumulation, indicating attenuation of oxidative stress. In addition, NCF1 knockdown decreased the expression of multiple pro-inflammatory mediators, including IL-1β, IL-2, IL6, HMGB1, TNF-α, and iNOS, while increasing the expression of the anti-inflammatory and reparative factors Arg-1 and IGF-1. These findings indicate that NCF1 aggravates cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury by amplifying NOX2-dependent oxidative stress and inflammatory responses, and suggest that NCF1 may serve as a potential therapeutic target for ischemic stroke.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Metabolic hijacking of tryptophan (Trp) via the IL4I1-AHR axis is a pivotal immune evasion mechanism in cancers, yet therapeutic strategies to disrupt this pathway remain unexplored. Here, we report the identification of ZY-MY-111, a selective small-molecule inhibitor of interleukin-4-induced-1 (IL4I1), through an in-house compound library screening and structural optimization. ZY-MY-111 exhibits potency (IC50 = 1.86 ± 0.13 μM) in blocking IL4I1-mediated oxidative deamination. Mechanistically, ZY-MY-111 acts as a mixed-type inhibitor, competitively occupying the catalytic pocket of IL4I1 and disrupting Trp-AHR signaling in cells. Functionally, ZY-MY-111 promotes T cell proliferation, enhancing immune responses against the tumor cells. In syngeneic tumor models, ZY-MY-111 achieved 49% tumor growth inhibition in CT26 colon carcinoma (P < 0.001) and 56% tumor growth inhibition in A20 lymphoma (P < 0.001) by remodeling the immunosuppressive microenvironment: increasing CD8+/CD4+ T cell ratios, reducing myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs, 59% decrease), and enhancing effector memory T cell infiltration. Our findings position IL4I1 inhibition as a potential strategy to restore anti-tumor immunity.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
Understanding drivers of tuberculosis (TB) associated lung pathological damage is vital in identifying targets for host directed therapies (HDT). NETosis is a neutrophil specific cell death characterized by release of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). The role of NETosis in TB-associated lung damage and disease pathogenesis is still poorly understood. We analysed human lung TB granuloma samples using a proteomics approach, which revealed enrichment of neutrophil-associated proteins in necrotic regions of caseous and cavitary granulomas. Using immunohistochemistry (IHC), we validated the abundance of neutrophil-associated proteins, including myeloperoxidase (MPO), cytochrome b-245 beta chain (CYBB) and neutrophil cytosolic factor 1(NCF1), as well as NETosis markers, neutrophil elastase (NE) and citrullinated H3, in necrotizing caseum of human TB granulomas. MPO protein expression was also more abundant in the plasma of TB patients compared to healthy and latently infected (LTBI) participants. MPO directly correlated with an inflammatory disease marker, IP-10. In addition, MPO and IP-10 colocalized in caseous lesions. In-vitro drug inhibition assays were used to investigate potential drivers of NETosis, with pharmaceutical inhibition of MPO, NE and CYBB resulting in reduction of NETosis induced by Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). Using RT-qPCR we analysed the expression of 18 neutrophil associated genes in the blood of healthy (n = 20), latent TB infection (LTBI) (n = 20) and TB (n = 30) participants. We found that MPO, NCF1 and NCF2 were upregulated in the TB group. Furthermore, the NETosis-associated genes were induced in a human standardized antigen challenge model. Our data shows evidence of NETosis as an associate of lung pathological damage in TB and identifies key drivers of the neutrophil cell death that can be intercepted as potential HDT targets to reduce neutrophil driven lung pathological damage.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic Granulomatous Disease (CGD) is a defect or abnormality in the immune system that produces severe and persistent signs and symptoms in affected individuals. Phenotypic diversity and genetic heterogeneity exist among patients with inborn errors of immunity (IEI). Symptoms may vary even when the mutations are identical; conversely, patients with different mutations may have similar clinical features. The expression of phenotype may be determined by the gene sequence, epigenetic changes, and sometimes environmental factors. Some of these outcomes are influenced by the individual's past immunological exposure. This study discusses two CGD cases, a father and son; after the diagnosis of CGD in the child and confirmation of the genetic mutation, the same mutation was also identified in the father. Therefore, physicians should have more awareness that a single genetic mutation can have different clinical manifestations.
The tumor microenvironment undergoes dynamic biomechanical alterations during hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progression. However, the identification and characterization of biomechanically specialized macrophage subsets remains unexplored.In this study, single-cell RNA sequencing and spatial transcriptomics were used to characterized the spatial distribution patterns, phenotypic plasticity, and mechanoresponsive behaviors of IL4I1+ macrophages. Atomic force microscopy revealed substantial biomechanical heterogeneity within HCC tissues. Complementary in vitro and in vivo mechanobiology models demonstrated that macrophages dynamically respond to biomechanical cues and actively promote HCC progression. Furthermore, using a multimodal drug discovery platform combined with experimental validation, we elucidated IL4I1+ macrophages as a critical therapeutic target for HCC.Our findings demonstrate that IL4I1+ macrophages exhibit a distinct mechanosensitive phenotype capable of dynamically responding to biomechanical cues. Biomechanical-driven-IL4I1+ macrophages promote HCC progression by orchestrating multifaceted oncogenic programs, including enhanced tumor cell proliferation (n = 3, p <0.05), migratory capacity (n = 3, p <0.01), stem-like properties (n = 6, p <0.001), and immune evasion potential. SB505124 treatment significantly attenuated HCC progression in preclinical models, concomitant with a reduction in IL4I1+ macrophages (n = 5, p <0.001).Our study established that IL4I1+ macrophages respond to biomechanical cues within the tumor microenvironment and functionally convert them into immunosuppressive and pro-tumorigenic signals. These findings offer new insights into HCC mechanobiology and highlight IL4I1+ macrophage as a promising target for combination therapy.The tumor microenvironment undergoes dynamic biomechanical changes in HCC progression. However, biomechanically responsive macrophage subsets remain poorly characterized. Here, we identify IL4I1+ macrophages as a biomechanics-sensing subpopulation that promotes HCC progression by fostering an immunosuppressive microenvironment and enhancing tumor proliferation, migration, and stemness. Our study unveils a novel mechanism by which macrophages regulate tumor progression from a biomechanical perspective and proposes a potential therapeutic strategy via targeted inhibition of IL4I1+ macrophages.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
We have shown that extracellular ATP promotes senescence through the activation of the P2Y11 receptor (P2Y11R). The underlying molecular mechanisms remain to be fully established. Synthesis of tryptophan (Trp)-derived indole metabolites is mediated mostly by the gut microbiota. Trp metabolites can activate the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR). Whether eukaryotic cells can generate Trp-derived indoles and their functional significance remains to be fully established. Here, we investigated the role of Trp metabolites and AhR activation in purinergic-mediated senescence of human fibroblasts. We find that ATP activated AhR in a P2Y11R-dependent manner and that AhR activation was necessary for ATP-induced senescence. Stimulation with an AhR agonist was sufficient to induce senescence. Interestingly, depletion of Trp in the conditioned medium inhibited ATP-induced senescence. We show that ATP stimulation upregulated the expression of the L-amino acid oxidase interleukin-4-induced-1, which has been shown to metabolize Trp into indole-3-pyruvate (I3P), in a P2Y11R-dependent fashion. We find that I3P-derived Trp metabolites are upregulated in ATP-induced senescent human fibroblasts and that stimulation with I3P and I3P-derived Trp metabolites was sufficient to promote senescence in these cells. In addition, I3P stimulation activated AhR, and AhR inhibition impaired I3P-induced senescence. Downregulation of interleukin-4-induced-1 inhibited ATP-induced AhR activation and senescence. Finally, we show that conditioned medium derived from senescent lung fibroblasts, which were induced to senesce by I3P treatment, promoted the proliferation of breast cancer cells and their tumorigenic potential. Our study identifies the existence of a novel purinergic dependent signaling pathway that functionally couples Trp metabolism to the development of a premature senescent phenotype in human fibroblasts.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
We assessed the role of a systemic lupus erythematosus causal, hypofunctional variant, neutrophil cytosolic factor 1 (NCF1)-p.Arg90His (p.R90H) substitution, in Sjögren's disease (SjD).Association between NCF1-H90 and SjD was assessed in case-control cohorts. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and minor salivary gland (MSG) from patients with Sjögren's Syndrome type A antigen (SSA)+ SjD were assessed using cytometry by time-of-flight and single-cell RNA sequencing, respectively.The NCF1-H90 allele was associated with increased risk for SjD in Chinese and European Americans (Pmeta = 1.15E-55, odds ratio [OR] = 2.58), exhibiting a more robust association in patients with SSA+ SjD (OR = 3.37 in Chinese and OR = 2.60 in European Americans). In a longitudinal observational cohort, patients with homozygous H90 SjD at baseline had lower levels of complement C4 and higher scores on labial salivary gland biopsy, European Alliance of Associations for Rheumatology (EULAR) Sjögren's Syndrome Disease Activity Index (ESSDAI), and EULAR Sjögren's Syndrome Patient Reported Index (ESSPRI). These patients with H90 SjD sustained elevated ESSDAI and ESSPRI scores during follow-up years with decreased survival. The 0, 1, and 2 copies of H90 carriage in SjD PBMCs exhibited dose-dependent decreases in switched memory B cells, which might be recruited by fibroblasts into MSG, and further differentiated into long-lived Immunoglobulin G (IgG+) plasma cells, resulting in elevated serum SSA+ IgG levels and greater disease severity. In a retrospective belimumab-treated SSA+ female cohort, homozygous H90 patients showed significantly greater improvement in ESSDAI, C4 levels, and serum SSA+ IgG levels, supporting the role of NCF1-H90 as a predictive biomarker for enhanced response to B-cell-targeted therapy.Low NCF1 activity increases the risk of severe SSA+ SjD by driving switched memory B-cell trafficking and IgG+ plasma cell differentiation, revealing targetable pathways in SSA+ SjD.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Phosphorothioate antisense oligonucleotides (PS ASOs) are a clinically validated therapeutic modality, yet their capacity to activate innate immunity through Toll-Like Receptors, specifically Toll-Like Receptor 9 (TLR9), remains a challenge. While the molecular mechanisms governing TLR9 activation, including PS content, CpG motifs, 2' modifications, sequence composition, and protein interactions, are well defined, far less is understood about the mechanisms that resolve these responses. Here, we investigate how PS ASO-mediated innate immune activation interfaces with tryptophan metabolizing enzymes, indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1) and interleukin-4-induced-1 (IL4I1), which generate immunomodulatory tryptophan oxidation products. Across lymphoid and myeloid cell systems, we demonstrate that PS ASOs differing in TLR9 agonist potency and kinetics elicit differential induction of IDO1/IL4I1, accompanied by proportional changes in downstream metabolites. Complementary IDO1 knockdown and IL4I1 overexpression experiments alter TLR9-dependent signaling, indicating that these enzymes actively constrain PS ASO-driven immune activation. Finally, exogenous kynurenine and indole pathway metabolites attenuate PS ASO-induced signaling, supporting their role as negative-feedback regulators. Together, these findings solidify a mechanistic link between PS ASO innate immune activation and tryptophan catabolism, revealing enzymatic and metabolite feedback mechanisms that attenuate innate immune signaling, which may be leveraged to enhance the tolerability of immunostimulatory PS ASOs.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41956840 is a review article
Tissue function and homeostasis are sustained through dynamic interactions between resident cells and their surrounding microenvironment. In the skin, these niche-specific signals coordinate epithelial metabolism and secretory activity. Although reduced sweating is a widely recognized phenomena of aging, the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying eccrine sweat glands decline, particularly those involving age-associated niche remodeling, remain poorly understood. In this study, we combine multiomics profiling with functional assays to define an immune-epithelial circuit that governs sweat gland metabolism and is disrupted during aging. Spatial transcriptomics, single-cell RNA-sequencing, and immunostaining of aged murine paw and human palm skin reveal that structural shrinkage of eccrine sweat glands, elevated senescence-associated secretory phenotype factors, and dendritic cells (DCs) around sweat gland coils (SGCs) were significantly reduced. In youthful skin, DCs support sweat secretion by promoting oxidative phosphorylation SGCs through nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase-insulin receptor signaling. However, this signaling axis was perturbed with aging where SGCs secreted macrophage migration inhibitory factor, which signaled through major histocompatibility complex class II invariant chain (CD74) to impair the expression of lysosomal membrane protein and lysosomal protease in DCs through cytochrome b-245 beta chain, exacerbating DC dysfunction and reinforcing a deteriorating glandular niche. Our findings identify DCs as guardians of SGC metabolic homeostasis, revealing a reversible niche-dependent mechanism through DC-SGC crosstalk that drives age-related glandular decline.Copyright © 2026 Society for Investigative Dermatology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548510 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511983 is a review article
To develop and validate a radiomics-based predictive model integrating clinical and imaging features to evaluate cervical lymph node response to I-131 therapy in differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC).A retrospective cohort of patients with pathologically confirmed DTC who underwent cervical lymph node dissection followed by 131I therapy was analyzed. Patients were stratified into Excellent and Non-Excellent response groups according to biochemical, imaging, and follow-up outcomes. Key inflammatory-related targets were initially identified through analysis of the GSE33630 dataset, and representative radiomics features potentially associated with inflammatory activity were subsequently extracted from pre-therapeutic CT images. Feature selection was performed using the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) and multivariable logistic regression to construct predictive models. Model discrimination, calibration, and clinical utility were assessed using AUC, calibration curves, Hosmer-Lemeshow test, and decision curve analysis. A nomogram was further developed to facilitate clinical interpretation.The integrated clinical-radiomics model demonstrated favorable discrimination in both the training and validation cohorts, with good calibration and net clinical benefit across clinically relevant threshold probabilities.The proposed radiomics-assisted model shows promising ability to predict cervical lymph node response to 131I therapy in DTC, providing a potentially useful tool to support individualized postoperative management. Nevertheless, external validation and comparison with existing predictive strategies are required before routine clinical adoption.Copyright © 2026 Ruan, Yuan, Zheng, Chen and Xu.
Vaccination is an important control measure against infections with Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae (M. hyopneumoniae), the primary pathogen of enzootic pneumonia in pigs. The present study investigated local and systemic humoral and cell-mediated immune responses and efficacy upon vaccination of piglets with a combined vaccine containing inactivated M. hyopneumoniae and porcine circovirus 2d (Cirbloc® M Hyo, Ceva), followed by experimental M. hyopneumoniae infection (D21). Forty-five piglets were allocated to three groups, namely the not-vaccinated and infected (C) (n = 20), vaccinated and infected (V) (n = 20), and not-vaccinated and not-infected (NC) groups (n = 5). Vaccination was applied once (D0) intramuscularly. Four pigs from the V and C groups were euthanized 2 weeks post-infection (D35), and the remaining pigs 2 weeks later (D49). Blood, lung tissue, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), and bronchial lymph nodes were collected at different timepoints. Piglets in the V group exhibited seroconversion on days 21 and 35, with markedly elevated levels of specific IgA and IgG in BALF on D35. Furthermore, the V group showed activation of interferon (IFN)-γ+/tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α+ CD4+CD8α+ T cells and T cell proliferation on day 7, with these responses remaining elevated through D21. The concentrations of interleukin (IL)-1β, TNF-α, C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 8 (CXCL-8), and IL-17A in BALF of the C group were higher on D49, correlating with higher M. hyopneumoniae DNA loads. Clinical signs and lung lesions were less severe in vaccinated pigs. The combined vaccine elicited robust M. hyopneumoniae-specific humoral and cellular responses in blood and enhanced post-infection cellular immunity in draining lymph nodes, underscoring its protective efficacy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Diabetic foot ulcer (DFU) is a severe complication of diabetes, characterized by chronic inflammation and impaired healing. Although cellular and immunosenescence are associated with chronic wounds, the specific cell types, regulatory mechanisms, and pathological consequences within the DFU microenvironment remain poorly defined. We conducted an integrative multi-omics analysis combining bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing data from human DFU and control tissues. The novel macrophage senescence score (MSS) was constructed by integrating aging-related genome-wide association studies signals with DFU-specific transcriptional signatures. Machine learning was used to identify key regulators. Functional validation was conducted in high glucose-stimulated human macrophages in vitro. Our single-cell atlas revealed macrophages as the most prominently senescent stromal cell population in DFUs. These senescent macrophages exhibited a distinct pro-inflammatory senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) and engaged in aberrant intercellular communication, notably enhancing the C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 8 (CXCL8) - atypical chemokine receptor 1 (ACKR1) signaling axis to endothelial cells. We developed and validated a disease-relevant MSS, which demonstrated superior predictive value for DFU. Mechanistically, the transcription factor runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) was identified as the top feature. Functional assays established that RUNX1, upregulated under diabetic conditions, and is associated with promoted P53 acetylation. This study establishes macrophage senescence as a central pathological mechanism in DFU, propelled by the RUNX1-P53 acetylation axis. We define its role in disrupting the wound microenvironment through aberrant SASP and cell crosstalk. The findings provide a novel predictive tool MSS and a precise molecular target with implications for prognostication and therapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Neurosyphilis has resurged globally, presenting a significant public health threat, yet challenges in early diagnosis persist. This study aims to evaluate the diagnostic value of C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CXCL1), C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 5(CXCL5), and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 8 (CXCL8) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) for neurosyphilis.A total of 126 patients were included in this study, comprising 44 syphilis patients and 82 diagnosed with neurosyphilis (28 asymptomatic and 54 symptomatic). We assessed CSF chemokines, CSF parameters, and lymphocyte subpopulations. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses were conducted to identify predictors of neurosyphilis. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was employed to evaluate the diagnostic value of individual and combined biomarkers for this condition.CSF CXCL1 and CSF CXCL8 levels were significantly elevated in the neurosyphilis group compared to the syphilis group (P < 0.05). Additionally, CSF white cell count (CSF WBC) and CSF total protein (CSF TP) levels were increased, while CD4 levels were decreased. Binary logistic regression analysis identified CSF CXCL8 and CSF TP as independent predictors of neurosyphilis. ROC curve analysis revealed areas under the curve (AUC) for CSF CXCL8 and CSF TP distinguishing neurosyphilis from syphilis of 0.766 and 0.830, respectively. The combined assessment of CSF CXCL8 and CSF TP further improved diagnostic accuracy, with an AUC of 0.865.The levels of CSF CXCL1 and CSF CXCL8 are valuable for diagnosing neurosyphilis and assessing treatment efficacy. The combined detection of CSF CXCL8 and CSF TP enhances diagnostic precision.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Jin, Liu, Xue, Gu, Du, Liu and Xu.
Osteomyelitis, often caused by Staphylococcus aureus, presents treatment challenges owing to antibiotic resistance. This study aimed to explore the therapeutic potential of Coicis Semen against osteomyelitis through bioinformatics and experimental validation.An integrated analysis of GEO datasets (GSE16129 and GSE6269) was performed to identify osteomyelitis-related differentially expressed genes. Active compounds of Coicis Semen were screened using HERB and SwissADME, and target genes were predicted using SwissTargetPrediction. Protein-protein interaction networks, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and in vitro and in vivo experiments were conducted to validate the mechanisms.Eleven bioactive compounds and three key genes, Integrin subunit beta 3 (ITGB3), Myeloperoxidase (MPO), and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 8 (CXCL8) were identified. Molecular docking confirmed the stable binding of 6-Methoxy-2-benzoxazolinone (MBOA)-MPO and Nonanoic acid-CXCL8. Both compounds inhibited Staphylococcus aureus growth in vitro and reduced bone destruction in a mouse model.Coicis Semen may alleviate osteomyelitis through multi-target immunomodulatory and antibacterial mechanisms, offering potential adjunctive treatment options.© 2026 Li et al.
Endothelial dysfunction is a critical determinant of sepsis-associated organ injury, often driven by its interaction with overactivated immune cells. Neutrophils, the dominant early responders in sepsis, contribute to endothelial barrier disruption, yet the underlying metabolic and epigenetic mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here, we observed elevated intracellular lactate levels in neutrophils from septic patients which correlated with organ dysfunction and systemic inflammatory markers. Mechanistically, lactate-induced histone H3K18 lactylation (H3K18la) enhanced ATG7/GSA7 (autophagy related 7) transcription, initiating a non-degradative, secretory autophagy program. This facilitated the extracellular release of IL1B/IL-1B (interleukin 1 beta), a key driver of endothelial dysfunction. Interference of lactate production, ATG7 expression or IL1B signaling alleviated endothelial dysfunction in vitro. In vivo, myeloid-specific deletion of the lactylation writer EP300/p300 (EP300 lysine acetyltransferase) mitigated pulmonary endothelial dysfunction and lung injury. Additionally, the stress-responsive transcription factor ATF4/CREB-2 (activating transcription factor 4) was found to directly interact with both EP300 and H3K18la, amplifying H3K18la-driven ATG7 transcription. Our findings uncover a metabolically driven, epigenetically regulated secretory autophagy pathway in neutrophils that mediates endothelial dysfunction. Our study provides mechanistic insights into neutrophil-endothelial crosstalk in sepsis and identifies EP300, ATG7, and IL1B as potential therapeutic targets for sepsis.Abbreviations: ALI: acute lung injury; ANOVA: analysis of variance; ATF4/CREB-2: activating transcription factor 4; ATG7/GSA7: autophagy related 7; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BMDN: bone marrow-derived neutrophil; C-CASP1: cleaved-caspase 1; CDH5/CD144: cadherin 5; CRP/PTX1: C-reactive protein; CST3: cystatin C; CXCL8/IL-8: C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 8; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DEG: differentially expressed gene; dHL-60: dimethyl sulfoxide-differentiated HL-60 cell; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; EP300/p300: EP300 lysine acetyltransferase; GOT1/AST: glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT: glutamic - pyruvic transaminase; GSDMD-N: gasdermin D N-terminal; H&E: hematoxylin and eosin; H3K18la: histone H3K18 lactylation; HRP: horseradish peroxidase; ICU: intensive care unit; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IL1B/IL-1B: interleukin 1 beta; IL1R1/CD121A: interleukin 1 receptor type 1; IL6/IL-6: interleukin 6; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LAMP1/CD107a: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LDHA: lactate dehydrogenase A; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; NLRP3/NALP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PCT: procalcitonin; PMN: peripheral neutrophils; Rapa: rapamycin; RNA-seq: RNA-sequencing; SERPINE1/PAI1: serpin family E member 1; SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; SOFA: Sequential Organ Failure Assessment; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TNF/TNF-alpha: tumor necrosis factor; panKla: pan-histone lactylation; VCAM1/CD106: vascular cell adhesion molecule 1.
Degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is driven by fibrosis and hypertrophy of the ligamentum flavum (LF). Oxidative stress-an excess of reactive oxygen species (ROS) over antioxidant defenses-may underlie LF remodeling, but tissue-level evidence is limited. LF from patients with LSS (n = 180) and controls (n = 102) underwent transcriptomic microarray and microRNA (miRNA) profiling, reverse-transcription quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and biochemical assays of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS), total glutathione (GSH), and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) and functional enrichment analyses were performed. Among 14,130 oxidative-stress-related transcripts, 8,197 were differentially expressed (p < 0.05). Redox-sensitive inflammatory mediators were upregulated, including tumor necrosis factor (TNF), interleukin-1β (IL-1B), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 8 (CXCL8), alongside mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK8/JNK1, MAPK14/p38α, MAPK1/ERK2) and superoxide dismutase 2 (SOD2) and peroxiredoxin-1 (PRDX1). Antioxidant defenses-catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutases SOD1/SOD3, glutathione peroxidase-1 (GPX1), and sirtuin-3 (SIRT3)-were downregulated. RT-qPCR confirmed these trends. ELISA demonstrated higher MAPK8 and IL-6 and lower SIRT3 and GPX1 in hypertrophic LF (all p < 0.05). Biochemically, LSS tissue showed increased TBARS and GPx activity and decreased GSH versus controls; oxidative imbalance intensified with greater pain and higher body mass index. Selected miRNAs (e.g., hsa-miR-3163→MAPK8, hsa-miR-4291→SIRT3) were reduced. PPI networks were highly enriched (p < 1 × 10⁻¹⁶). Notably, MAPK8, SIRT3, GPX1, and IL-6 dysregulation was independent of pain category. LF in LSS exhibits a persistent ROS-driven, MAPK-amplified inflammatory program with mitochondrial vulnerability (SIRT3 loss) and impaired peroxide detoxification (GPX1 decline). This oxidative signature likely sustains fibrosis and LF thickening and nominates MAPK8-SIRT3-GPX1-IL-6 as candidate biomarkers and therapeutic targets.© 2026. The Author(s).
The immunological role of carbonic anhydrase IX (CA9) in colorectal cancer (CRC) progression remains undefined. This study reveals a CA9-driven mechanism promoting tumor progression through neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs).CA9 was identified as ‌a candidate oncogene in CRC through public single-cell RNA sequencing data screening. Endogenous modulation of CA9 in vitro and in vivo was performed to elucidate its function. Flow cytometry and immunofluorescence assays were employed to assess how CA9 promotes neutrophil infiltration and NETs formation in tumor tissues. Finally, molecular docking, co-immunoprecipitation, and cytokine arrays were integrated to investigate the specific mechanisms of CA9-driven CRC progression.Serum CA9 expression level in CRC patients exhibited significantly elevated relative to controls, correlating with poor clinical prognosis (P < 0.05). Interestingly, CA9 mainly played a significant pro-tumor role in CRC mouse models, promoting tumor progression by regulating neutrophil recruitment and NETs formation. Mechanistically, CA9 binds to ITGB1, activating the NF-κB pathway and triggering increased secretion of C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 8 (CXCL8), which subsequently promoted neutrophil recruitment and NETs formation. Thus, the CA9-ITGB1-CXCL8 axis induces neutrophil reactive oxygen species production and NETs formation, thereby promoting CRC tumor progression.The CA9-driven ITGB1-CXCL8-NETs signaling axis significantly promotes CRC progression, thereby establishing CA9 as a novel potential therapeutic target for CRC.© 2026. The Author(s).
The "metabolism-inflammation" vicious cycle is an important driving factor for lymphatic dysfunction in secondary lymphedema (SL). Among them, lymph endothelial cells (LECs) act as a key regulatory hub. Liubao tea (LBT), a traditional post-fermented black tea, has anti-inflammatory, anti-fibrotic and lipid-lowering effects. However, whether the effects of LBT can extend to the lymphatic system, especially whether it functions by regulating the metabolism and immune function of LECs, still needs further clarification.This study combined single-cell transcriptomics, bulk transcriptomics, network pharmacology, and molecular docking to systematically identify potential genes related to LBT in LECs. Subsequently, the effects of the LBT extract on the functions of human lymphatic endothelial cells (HLECs) and the expression of target genes were verified using the Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), wound healing experiments, and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR).The single-cell analysis revealed that the proportion of endothelial cells (ECs) in SL was significantly reduced (from 1.09% to 0.54%), but the expression of protein kinase Cβ (PRKCB) in the ECs showed a significant increase [fold change (FC) = 24.30, log2FC = 4.60, p = 1.44 × 10-7], and the positive rate increased from <1% to 12%. Multigene integration analysis revealed that PRKCB was the only gene that overlapped among all the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in large-scale transcriptomes, the DEGs specific to ECs, and the predicted targets of LBT. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis revealed that PRKCB interacts with the nuclear factor κB kinase inhibitor β subunit (IKBKB), the phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit γ (PIK3CG), and glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK3B). Molecular docking results indicated that multiple LBT components (especially tirilose) have a strong affinity for PRKCB (minimum binding energy: -9.3 kcal/mole). In vitro experiments demonstrated that the extract of LBT (50 μg/ml) significantly reversed the decline in the survival rate and migration ability of HLECs caused by lipopolysaccharide (LPS; p < 0.01 and p < 0.001), and downregulated the mRNA expression of PRKCB (p < 0.05), and upregulated the mRNA expression of PROX1 (p < 0.05).This study reveals that LBT may ameliorate LEC dysfunction in lymphedema by targeting PRKCB to disrupt the bidirectional "inflammation-metabolism" vicious cycle. These findings provide a scientific basis for the use of LBT as a functional fermented food in lymphedema intervention and open new avenues for targeting PRKCB with natural products in the treatment of inflammation-related lymphatic diseases.Copyright © 2026 Huang, Tan, Lu and Xu.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is the most aggressive breast cancer subtype with high metastatic potential and limited treatment options. Natural killer (NK) cells represent a promising immunotherapy strategy due to their innate tumor-killing capacity, but their efficacy against TNBC remains limited. We found that TNBC cells, particularly the mesenchymal-like subtype, exhibited greater resistance to NK cells compared to non-TNBC cells. Mechanistic studies indicate that TNBC cells' survival in response to NK cells occurs in three phases. First, within 1 h of NK cell co-culture, TNBC cells accumulate reactive oxygen species (ROS), which upregulate C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CXCL1) and interleukin 8 (IL8) expression in an NF-κB- and ERK/JNK-AP-1-dependent manner. Second, secreted CXCL1/IL8 binds to C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 1/2 (CXCR1/2), activating the AKT-BCL-2 pathway to enhance cancer cell survival and suppress NK cell function by downregulating NKG2D, TRAIL, and IFN-γ expression. Third, CXCL1/IL8-CXCR1/2 autocrine loop further amplifies their own synthesis and induces programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression via NF-κB and ERK/JNK-AP-1 pathways. High CXCL1/IL8 expression correlates with reduced NK cell infiltration and shorter distant-metastasis-free survival in breast cancer patients. Combinatorial application of CXCR1/2 inhibitor with anti-PD-L1 antibody can overcome NK cell dysfunction and reduce TNBC metastasis.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is one of the most aggressive brain tumors with a poor prognosis despite current treatment modalities. This study aimed to identify genes whose high expression is paradoxically associated with both poor survival and enhanced immune activity, as potential targets for combination chemotherapeutic and immunotherapeutic strategies.Transcriptomic data from patients with central nervous system World Health Organization (WHO) grade IV gliomas (based on the 2016 WHO classification) were analyzed, using datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas (525 cases), the Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas (250 cases), and the Genotype-Tissue Expression (1,152 normal samples). We initially screened 12,041 genes, prioritizing those showing a paradoxical association with prognosis and immune activation. Key genes were selected through rank statistics, machine-learning-based survival modeling, and pathway network analysis. Further subgroup validation was performed using only isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH)-wildtype GBM cases, in line with the 2021 WHO classification.Among the 12,041 candidate genes analyzed, phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit gamma (PIK3CG), protein kinase C delta type (PRKCD), and tripartite motif-containing protein 22 (TRIM22) were identified as key biomarkers whose elevated expression was significantly associated with poorer overall and disease-specific survival in IDH-wildtype GBM. These genes also correlated with enhanced immune activity, including increased tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and elevated expression of programmed death-ligand 1. Pathway network analysis revealed indirect associations with critical immune markers such as CD8A and CD4, suggesting potential immunomodulatory functions. Additionally, differential gene expression and disease ontology analyses demonstrated their relevance across various cancer types. Drug sensitivity profiling using the Genomics of Drug Sensitivity in Cancer database identified AGI-6780, linsitinib, and Nutlin-3a as potential therapeutic agents targeting these genes.This study identifies PIK3CG, PRKCD, and TRIM22 as potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets in IDH-wildtype GBM. Their paradoxical association with poor survival and immune activation may inform personalized treatment strategies that combine conventional chemotherapy with immune-based therapies. While our findings are robust across both mixed and IDH-wildtype-focused cohorts, further mechanistic validation is warranted.© 2026 The Korean Academy of Medical Sciences.
Glioblastoma (GBM), the most aggressive form of primary malignant brain neoplasm, is characterized by extensive invasiveness, high recurrence rates, and poor clinical outcomes. Tumor-associated macrophages, particularly those exhibiting an alternatively activated (M2) phenotype, play a critical role in promoting progression within the GBM environment. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying macrophage polarization in GBM remain insufficiently defined.The expression of neutrophil cytosolic factor 2 (NCF2) was evaluated in GBM tissue specimens and cell lines using immunohistochemistry, western blot analysis, and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Associations between NCF2, the M2 macrophage marker CD163, and osteopontin (OPN) were analyzed in 18 GBM specimens. Functional studies were performed by co-culturing human monocyte-derived macrophages with GBM cells that either overexpressed or exhibited silenced NCF2 expression. The roles of Notch1 signaling and OPN in NCF2-mediated macrophage polarization were evaluated using pharmacological inhibitors and neutralizing antibodies.NCF2 expression was significantly elevated in GBM tissues and cell lines and demonstrated a positive correlation with CD163+ M2 macrophage infiltration (r = 0.765, p < 0.001). In vitro assays indicated that NCF2 promoted polarization toward the M2 phenotype, as indicated by upregulation of CD163 and CCL18, without affecting proinflammatory markers such as TNF-α or CD86. NCF2 levels correlated positively with OPN expression (r = 0.745, p < 0.001), and OPN was identified as a downstream target regulated through the Notch1 pathway. Activation of Notch1 restored OPN expression in NCF2-silenced cells, whereas its inhibition reduced OPN expression in NCF2-overexpressing cells. Neutralization of OPN reversed the M2-polarizing effect induced by NCF2.NCF2 contributes to the establishment of an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment in GBM by promoting macrophage polarization via the Notch1-OPN pathway. These findings highlight NCF2 as a potential molecular target for therapeutic intervention in GBM.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Li, Cheng, Xiang and Sun.
The extensive use of antibiotics in intensive farming weakens immunity and threatens food safety. Stevia isochlorogenic acid (SICA), a kind of dicaffeoylquinic acid derived from stevia residue, exhibits strong antioxidant activity. This study evaluated the ability of SICA to improve immune function in an immunosuppressed broiler model. SICA significantly increased the spleen, thymus, and bursa of Fabricius indices (p < 0.05), alleviated spleen damage, and elevated serum interleukin-2 (IL-2), IL-4, interferon-γ, IL-1β, tumor necrosis factor-α, immunoglobulins (IgA, IgM, IgG), and complement components C3 and C4 (p < 0.05). Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification-based proteomics indicated that SICA enhanced splenic immune function by activating cell adhesion molecules, phagosomes, and the intestinal immune network for IgA production pathways. Quantitative PCR analysis showed upregulation of mRNA and protein levels of B-cell receptor, major histocompatibility complex class II, protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C, and neutrophil cytosolic factor 2 (p67phox) and downregulation of C-C motif chemokine receptor 9. Molecular docking demonstrated the strongest binding affinity between SICA and p67phox. Overall, SICA effectively alleviated immunosuppression in broiler chickens and represents a promising natural alternative to antibiotic feed additives.
Airborne microplastics (MPs) are prevalent indoors, and due to their low aerodynamic diameter, they can be inhaled, posing potential health risks. Although the toxic effects of airborne MPs have been explored using in vivo and in vitro models, the interactions between MPs and cellular receptors remain understudied. In this research, dust samples from a confined space within an academic setting were investigated for microplastics (MPs) and their abundance. Further, the most prevalent microplastics were used to study receptor binding and competition interaction studies using the In-Silico method against natural agonists and antagonists of major inflammatory receptors, including the human platelet-activating factor receptor (PAFR), C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 1 (CXCR1), β2-adrenergic receptor (β2-AR), and toll-like receptor 2 (TLR-2). Results revealed that polyester (PE) was the predominant polymer, accounting for 23.96 % of the samples. Analysis indicated that a monomer of PET, Ethylene Terephthalate (ET), exhibited a high binding affinity of -6.5 kcal/mol with the PAFR receptor. Additionally, the molecular dynamics and protein-ligand interaction study, which involves hydrogen bonding, explains the differential binding effect of ET and the control compound with the targeted receptor. The complex was formed between the ET and the receptors of β2-AR, CXCR1, and TLR-2, with a maximum of seven and a minimum of one hydrogen bond throughout the simulation. This research lays a foundation for understanding the potential health implications of MPs in confined office spaces, underscoring the need for further in vivo and in vitro examinations.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Esophageal cancer has remained a therapeutic challenge despite the advancements in targeted therapy and immunotherapy. This study investigated the mechanism by which neoadjuvant pembrolizumab combined with carboplatin and varying dosages of albumin-bound paclitaxel (ABP) regulates immune microenvironment in esophageal cancer. In vivo, a homograft mouse model was constructed. Both combined treatment groups displayed considerably decreased tumor volume (P < 0.001). Furthermore, the combined treatment inhibited tumor progression by downregulating SHC adaptor protein 4 (shc4) expression, and modulating immune cell homeostasis, as evidenced by remarkably reduced T helper Th1/Th2 and Th17/Regulatory T (Treg) ratios (P < 0.05). Cytokine analysis data revealed that levels of neutrophil cytosolic factor 2 (Ncf2) and related factors were higher in the two combined treatment groups than the Model group (P < 0.05). This study demonstrates that neoadjuvant combination therapy inhibits esophageal cancer progression by reshaping the immune landscape.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a debilitating inflammatory condition with growing global prevalence. While immune dysregulation is a known hallmark, the specific molecular drivers and their link to fibrosis remain incompletely characterized. To address this, we conducted a study combining bioinformatic analyses of public datasets with experimental validation to identify and validate key biomarker candidates involved in UC pathogenesis.Three publicly available ulcerative colitis gene expression datasets (GSE38713, GSE87466, GSE119600) were retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). Immune cell infiltration was evaluated using ssGSEA, with significant cell types identified by Wilcoxon test and LASSO regression. DEGs were screened and analyzed using GO, KEGG, and PPI networks. Hub genes were identified using cytoHubba and validated via ROC curves. RT-qPCR, WB, and IHC validated findings in UC rat models and clinical samples.The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were evaluated using ten distinct algorithms, resulting in the identification of eight common DEGs following an intersection analysis. 4 hub genes were further identified through validation using the GSE119600 dataset, namely Cluster of Differentiation 274 (CD274), Matrix Metallopeptidase 1 (MMP1), neutrophil cytosolic factor 2 (NCF2), Plasminogen Activator Urokinase (PLAU). Notably, NCF2 demonstrated the highest specificity and sensitivity for diagnosing ulcerative colitis (UC), suggesting its potential utility as a diagnostic biomarker. Additionally, a distinct immune cell type exhibited significant differences between UC patients and healthy controls (HC). Correlation analyses utilizing bioinformatics techniques revealed that the hub genes CD274, MMP1, NCF2, and PLAU were positively associated with macrophage infiltration, highlighting their potential role in the immune response in UC.CD274, MMP1, NCF2, PLAU can serve as hub genes associated with UC. Among these, NCF2 stands out as a particularly promising target for further research into the underlying mechanisms of UC. Additionally, NCF2 may play a role in the development and progression of UC by modulating macrophage infiltration.© 2025 Zhang et al.
Eleutheroside E (EE), a natural compound, shows promise in mitigating cellular senescence-a key factor in skin aging-though its mechanisms remain incompletely understood. This study integrated network pharmacology, molecular docking, and cellular experiments to explore the protective effects and mechanistic basis of EE against D-galactose (D-gal)-induced senescence in human skin fibroblasts (HSFs). Network pharmacology analyses suggested EE's involvement in inflammation-related pathways, especially phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and protein kinase B (PI3K-AKT) and hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1) signaling, which were corroborated by molecular docking revealing strong binding affinities between EE and key targets such as hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF1A), AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (AKT1), phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit gamma (PI3Kγ), and interleukin-6 (IL-6). Cellular assays showed that EE markedly lowered oxidative stress markers, including reactive oxygen species (ROS) and malondialdehyde (MDA), reduced senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-β-gal) activity, and boosted antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT). Additionally, EE dose-dependently inhibited apoptosis and downregulated PI3K/AKT phosphorylation as well as the B-cell lymphoma 2-associated X protein/B-cell lymphoma-2 (Bax/Bcl-2) ratio. These findings suggest that EE alleviates cellular senescence in HSFs mainly via the PI3K/AKT pathway by attenuating oxidative stress and apoptosis, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic agent for anti-aging strategies.
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is associated with variable clinical outcomes, even among tumours with similar characteristics, complicating treatment. Here, we identify acetyl-CoA carboxylase 1 (ACC1), a key lipogenic enzyme, as a factor influencing this variability. Specifically, ACC1 knockdown in ESCC cells induces histone acetylation, activating c-Fos and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 8 (CXCL8) transcription, which in turn promotes epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and enhances migration and invasion via CXCL8-C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 1/2 (CXCR1/2)-mediated PI3K/AKT and MEK/ERK signalling. Additionally, ACC1 knockdown stimulates neutrophil recruitment and neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation through CXCL8-dependent paracrine signalling, further enhancing tumour cell migration and invasion. In ESCC xenografts, ACC1 knockdown increases neutrophil infiltration and NET formation, accelerating metastasis. Clinically, low ACC1 expression and high CXCL8 levels are linked to poor prognosis in patients with ESCC, while NET formation further correlates with reduced survival. These findings highlight the ACC1-CXCL8-NET axis as a potential therapeutic target and prognostic marker in ESCC.© 2025. The Author(s).
Intra-abdominal infection frequently progresses to sepsis, where the liver is an early and commonly injured organ. In a cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) mouse model combined with bulk and single‑cell RNA sequencings, we observed marked neutrophil infiltration in the liver that correlated with injury severity. Sepsis‑associated neutrophils displayed a pro‑inflammatory phenotype and specifically upregulated the divalent metal transporter solute carrier family 11 member 1 (SLC11A1). Conditional knockout of Slc11a1 in neutrophils (Ly6G-Cre+ Slc11a1f/f) significantly alleviated liver injury and improved survival. Mechanistically, SLC11A1 drives intracellular Fe2+ accumulation and reactive oxygen species production via the Fenton reaction, promoting the formation of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). Hepatocytes were found to secrete C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10) through nuclear factor kappa B (NF‑κB) activation, which both recruit neutrophils and stimulates the JAK/STAT1/SLC11A1 axis, thereby enhancing NETs‑mediated pro‑inflammatory macrophage polarization. Clinically, peripheral blood CXCL10 levels correlated with liver injury markers in sepsis patients. Neutralization of CXCL10 using an anti-CXCL10 antibody or liver-specific knockdown of CXCL10 via Adeno-Associated Virus (AAV) reduced NETs formation and attenuated liver damage in CLP mice. This study delineates a "CXCL10-SLC11A1-NETs" signaling axis that exacerbates sepsis‑induced liver injury, offering a novel target for therapeutic intervention.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Cardiac fibrosis is a pivotal pathological process driving heart failure following ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury. STC1 (stanniocalcin-1), a conserved glycoprotein with mitochondrial regulatory functions, remains unexplored in myocardial fibrosis. This study investigates the mechanistic role of cardiomyocyte-derived STC1 in cardiac fibrosis.Mouse models of myocardial I/R injury were established by left anterior descending coronary artery ligation followed by 24-hour reperfusion. Cardiac-specific STC1 knockdown (adeno-associated virus 9-shSTC1) or overexpression (adeno-associated virus 9-STC1) preceded I/R injury induction. Cardiac function was assessed via echocardiography, and fibrosis was quantified histologically (Masson's trichrome, Sirius red) and molecularly (α-SMA [alpha smooth muscle actin], COL1A1 [collagen type I alpha 1 chain], COL3A1 [collagen type III alpha 1 chain], Smad2 [SMAD family member 2]). In vitro, cardiomyocyte-derived conditioned medium was applied to TGF-β (transforming growth factor beta)-stimulated fibroblasts, supplemented with recombinant STC1 for rescue assays. Protein-protein interactions were analyzed via coimmunoprecipitation and domain-deletion mutants.STC1 deficiency exacerbated post-I/R cardiac dysfunction and fibrosis, accompanied by elevated α-SMA, COL1A1, and phosphorylated-Smad2 levels. Conversely, STC1 overexpression attenuated I/R-induced functional decline and fibrosis. In addition, cardiomyocyte-derived STC1 suppressed TGF-β-driven fibroblast activation and Smad2 nuclear translocation. Mechanistically, STC1 directly interacted with the DOCKER domain of DOCK1 (dedicator of cytokinesis 1), disrupting DOCK1/RAC1-GTP (Rac family small GTPase 1 bound to guanosine triphosphate) signaling. Genetic ablation of the DOCKER domain abolished STC1's antifibrotic effects, restoring RAC1-GTP activity and fibrosis markers.Cardiomyocyte-derived STC1 mitigates cardiac fibrosis post I/R by targeting the DOCK1/RAC1 axis via its interaction with the DOCKER domain. These findings identify STC1-DOCK1 as a novel therapeutic pathway for ischemic heart failure.
Myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (MIR) injury remains the leading cause of adverse outcomes after myocardial infarction, and its prevention remains a major therapeutic challenge.The GSE160516 and GSE61592 datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus database were analyzed to screen MIR-related differentially expressed genes. To simulate clinical MIR injury, male C57BL/6 mice were subjected to ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery for 30 minutes, followed by reperfusion for 24 hours.In this study, the protein-protein interaction network was generated based on the 34 common upregulated genes, and among them, 11 genes were identified as hub genes, including solute carrier family 11 member 1 (Slc11a1), a gene associated with immune response. Herein, the upregulation of myocardial Slc11a1 was validated in mice with MIR injury. Mice subjected to MIR had improved cardiac function when Slc11a1 was knocked down via myocardial injection of Slc11a1 small interfering RNA (siRNA): the infarcted areas reduced from 38.43±4.13% to 22.18±3.45%; CK-MB levels decreased from 12.01±3.11 to 5.84±1.24. Slc11a1 silencing also reduced infiltration of F4/80 macrophages, deactivated the p65 proinflammatory pathway, and decreased the generation of IL-6 and TNF-α. Myocardial oxidative stress induced by IR challenge was attenuated in mice receiving Slc11a1 siRNA.Our study demonstrates that the abnormal elevation of Slc11a1 contributes to IR-related myocardial injury.©The Author(s) 2026. Open Access. This article is licensed under a Creative Commons CC-BY International License.
Ferroptosis is a critical contributor to cardiomyocyte injury in acute myocardial infarction (AMI). This study aimed to identify key ferroptosis-associated genes and elucidate their roles in AMI. Transcriptomic datasets from AMI patients and healthy controls were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). The role of the solute carrier family 11 member 1 (SLC11A1) was validated in vitro using a hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) model in H9c2 cardiomyocytes and in vivo using a murine AMI model. SLC11A1 expression was elevated in H/R-treated cardiomyocytes and infarcted murine hearts. SLC11A1 silencing reduced infarct size and improved cardiac function, and suppressed ferroptosis. Mechanistically, SLC11A1 led to the transcriptional suppression of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) mediated by the transcription factor specificity protein 1 (Sp1). This study identifies the SLC11A1-Sp1-GPX4 axis as a pivotal transcriptional regulator pathway driving ferroptosis in AMI. These findings highlight SLC11A1 as a promising therapeutic target in AMI.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is an aggressive hematological malignancy that remains a clinical challenge because of drug resistance and relapse, necessitating deeper insights into the mechanism of leukemogenesis and progression. Connexin 43 (CX43) modulates tumor growth and metastasis by regulating cell-extracellular matrix interactions and the tumor microenvironment, but its role in T-ALL remains unclear. The study aims to investigate the changes in the expression of CX43 in the context of T-ALL, its effect on patient prognosis, and the underlying mechanisms.To investigate the impact of CX43 on survival and relapse, this study retrieved databases to analyze the differential expression of CX43 between patients with T-ALL and healthy individuals, as well as its prognostic implications. Meanwhile, the CX43-overexpressing (CX43OE) and neurogenic locus notch homolog protein 1 (Notch1)-mutant plasmids were used to develop a primary T-ALL knock-in mouse model and investigate the effects of CX43 on T-ALL in vitro and in vivo.The overexpression of CX43 significantly promoted the development and progression of T-ALL and suppressed apoptosis by increasing the stemness of T-ALL cells through the upregulation of Rac family small GTPase 1 (RAC1) expression and the promotion of the phosphorylation of the protein kinase B (AKT)/glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) pathway. Targeting the AKT/GSK3β axis attenuated the stemness induced by CX43 overexpression.These findings suggest that targeting CX43-mediated pathways may help overcome leukemia stem cell-driven relapse and improve treatment outcomes in patients with T-ALL.Copyright © 2026 The Chinese Medical Association, produced by Wolters Kluwer, Inc. under the CC-BY-NC-ND license.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42146949 is a review article
Pelvic floor dysfunction (PFD) is a common disease in women that seriously affects physical and psychological health. Menopause-associated estrogen reduction is one of the risk factors. However, the role and mechanism of estrogen in PFD remains unclear. In this study, we observed atrophy of both fast and slow muscle fibers in the pelvic floor muscle (PFM) of ovariectomized rats, accompanied by decreased expression of estrogen receptor α (ERα). Estrogen deficiency severely impaired the proliferation, differentiation, and mitochondrial function of C2C12 myoblasts and increased apoptosis, which could be rescued by ERα agonist. Mechanistically, estrogen deficiency led to the downregulation of ERα, which in turn suppressed the expression of glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) and its trafficking regulator Rac family small GTPase 1 (RAC1). This disruption abolished the critical co-localization of GLUT4 with RAC1, resulting in defective glucose uptake, mitochondrial dysfunction, and ultimately impaired myoblast proliferation and differentiation. Both ERα activation and GLUT4 overexpression rescued these defects. Thus, our study delineates a novel ERα/GLUT4 pathway that mediates PFM atrophy under estrogen deficiency conditions, providing a potential therapeutic target for PFD.Copyright: © 2026 Huang et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Sotorasib has introduced new therapeutic opportunities for Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (KRAS)G12C-mutant tumors, but resistance emerging within months poses a major clinical challenge. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway reactivation is a key driver of sotorasib resistance, yet its mechanisms remain incompletely elucidated. We observe that MAPK pathway reactivation following sotorasib treatment is largely independent of RAS activity and instead driven by accumulation of sotorasib-bound KRASG12C (soto-KRASG12C). Mechanistically, accumulated soto-KRASG12C promotes activation of the Rac family small GTPase 1 (RAC1)- p21-activated kinase 1 (PAK1) axis through interaction with DExD/H-box helicase 9 (DHX9), thereby reactivating the MAPK pathway. DHX9 shuttles between the nucleus and cytoplasm, and its interaction with soto-KRASG12C results in its cytoplasmic retention. Co-treatment with an Son of Sevenless 1 (SOS1) inhibitor also leads to sustained suppression of soto-KRASG12C levels. Furthermore, combining sotorasib with either a DHX9 inhibitor or an SOS1 inhibitor significantly enhances its anti-tumor efficacy in both KRASG12C-mutant and sotorasib-resistant models. These findings provide previously uncharacterized mechanistic insights to guide therapeutic strategies aimed at overcoming sotorasib resistance.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Bladder cancer (BCa) patients frequently develop resistance to platinum-based therapies, particularly cisplatin. The link between chemoresistance and glycolysis has been well documented. Emerging evidence suggests that Rac family small GTPase 3 ( RAC3 ) may play significant roles in cisplatin resistance. This study investigated the underlying molecular mechanisms. Clinical specimens (cisplatin-sensitive/resistant BCa tissues and matched adjacent normal tissues) were collected from hospital. Cisplatin-resistant cell lines [T24-derived cisplatin-resistant cells (T24-DDP) and 5637-derived cisplatin-resistant cells (5637-DDP)] were generated through stepwise dose escalation. RAC3 , Myc-binding protein 2 (MYCBP2 ), P21-activated kinase 1 ( PAK1 ), Ki-67, and glycolysis markers were analyzed by quantitative PCR, immunohistochemistry, and Western blot. RAC3 ubiquitination was assessed via co-immunoprecipitation. Cell viability, apoptosis, and glycolytic metabolism were evaluated using the cell counting kit-8 assay, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase deoxyuridine triphosphate/flow cytometry, and ATP/lactate assays, respectively. Glycolytic flux was measured by extracellular acidification rate. Additionally, BCa xenograft models were established for in-vivo detection. Elevated RAC3 expression and glycolytic activity were observed in BCa tissues, with further augmentation in cisplatin-resistant tumors. RAC3 overexpression promoted cell viability, glycolysis, invasion, and migration in cisplatin-treated T24 and 5637 cells. Conversely, RAC3 knockdown exerted the opposite effects and restored cisplatin sensitivity in resistant T24-DDP and 5637-DDP cells. Notably, the sensitizing effect of RAC3 knockdown was reversed by PAK1 overexpression. Furthermore, MYCBP2 regulated RAC3 stability, as MYCBP2 overexpression enhanced RAC3 ubiquitination, suppressed glycolysis, and sensitized resistant cells to cisplatin. These effects were abrogated by the proteasome inhibitor MG132, confirming proteasome-dependent degradation of RAC3 . MYCBP2 -mediated ubiquitination of RAC3 modulates the PAK1 /pyruvate dehydrogenase E1 subunit alpha axis to regulate glycolytic activity, ultimately determining cisplatin sensitivity in BCa.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
Subchorionic hemorrhage (SCH) is characterized by a fluid-filled hypoechoic area in early pregnancy. This study investigates how laminin subunit β1 (LAMB1) modulates type III collagen (COL3A1) and Rac family small GTPase 1 (RAC1) in SCH coagulation and immunity.We recruited ten early-pregnancy SCH patients and ten gestational age-matched women undergoing elective abortion as controls. Proteomic and transcriptomic analyses were performed on decidua and villous tissues to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and genes (DEGs). Key biomarkers were screened using bioinformatics and machine learning algorithms (LASSO, SVM-RFE). An in vivo SCH-like model was established via LPS induction in pregnant rats, and in vitro experiments were conducted using HTR-8/SVneo trophoblast cells.Proteomic analysis revealed enrichment in extracellular matrix and coagulation pathways, identifying LAMB1 as a central protein. Transcriptomic data confirmed upregulation of LAMB1 and COL3A1 and downregulation of RAC1 in SCH samples. Clinical blood analysis indicated coagulation abnormalities and Th1/Th2 imbalance in SCH patients. In vivo, LAMB1 knockdown alleviated inflammation, improved pregnancy outcomes, and restored Th2 cytokine expression. In vitro, LAMB1 silencing enhanced trophoblast proliferation, migration, and invasion while reducing pro-inflammatory cytokine levels. Mechanistically, LAMB1 modulated SCH progression via the COL3A1/RAC1 axis.LAMB1 promotes inflammation and coagulation dysfunction in SCH by regulating COL3A1 and RAC1 expression. Targeting LAMB1 may offer a novel strategy for early diagnosis and therapeutic intervention in SCH to improve pregnancy outcomes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Distraction osteogenesis (DO) is a surgical technique used to repair skeletal defects by promoting bone and soft tissue regeneration. However, prolonged use of external fixators often causes complications such as infections and joint contractures. Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) enhances osteoblast differentiation via bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) and Akt signaling and may also modulate the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. In this study, we investigated the role of NT-3 in bone regeneration during DO. A DO model was established in 9-week-old male ICR mice, in which tibiae were osteotomized and stabilized with external fixators under anesthesia. After a 5-day latency period, distraction was performed at 0.2 mm every 12 hours for 8 days. RNA was extracted at defined time points post-osteotomy for quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) analysis, and NT-3 was administered post-distraction. Bone regeneration was evaluated by radiographic, histological, and biomechanical analyses. The effects of NT-3 and Dickkopf-1 were further examined in ST2 bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells. NT-3 significantly enhanced bone formation, increased bone mineral density within the DO gap, and improved the mechanical stiffness of regenerated bone. Histological examination revealed earlier bone continuity and greater callus formation in the NT-3 group. Gene expression analysis demonstrated upregulation of Wnt/β-catenin pathway components, including Wnt10b, β-catenin, and low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 5 (LRP5). In ST2 cells, NT3 increased the expression of LRP5, LRP6, β-catenin, and Runx2, while cotreatment with Dickkopf1 abolished these effects. These findings suggest that NT-3 promotes bone regeneration during DO by activating the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, highlighting its therapeutic potential to improve DO outcomes.
Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) is a validated therapeutic target for regulating low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels and treating dyslipidemia-related cardiovascular diseases. In this study, pharmacophore-based virtual screening identified 4 (ZINC4681905) as a lead compound, which was subsequently optimized into a series of N,N'-diacyl-m-phenylenediamine derivatives. A total of fourteen compounds were synthesized and evaluated using a fluorescence polarization-based assay. Among them, compound 4a exhibits the highest potency with an IC50 value of 1.07 μM, surpassing that of the positive control berberine (IC50 = 2.59 μM), while compound 4f shows comparable activity. Structure-activity relationship (SAR) analysis revealed that the inhibitory activity of this N,N'-diacyl-m-phenylenediamine scaffold is influenced by the cooperative interplay of the two terminal substituents, with a combination of a multisubstituted hydrophobic aryl group and a flexible, bulky alicyclic moiety affording favorable potency. In cell-based assays, 4a reduced PCSK9 expression and concurrently increased low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) levels in HK-2 cells, and this effect was partially rescued by PCSK9 overexpression, providing supportive cell-based evidence for the involvement of the PCSK9 pathway. Collectively, these findings support further optimization of this scaffold as a potential class of small molecule PCSK9 inhibitors. However, direct LDL uptake assays and assessment of PCSK9-LDLR interaction disruption have not been performed; therefore, the functional evidence remains preliminary.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
Targeted in vivo transduction, entailing direct administration of viral vector preparations to patients, is the next big step in gene therapy. To redirect lentiviral vector (LV) particles selectively to desired cell type(s), different glycoproteins have been engineered to alter their tropism, including the glycoprotein G from Vesicular Stomatitis Virus (VSV-G) as the most commonly employed tropism-defining protein for LV particles. For detargeting from its natural receptor, the low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR), a VSV-G variant with two blinding substitutions, K47Q and R354A, is commonly used (VSV-G.pub). We provide first evidence for insufficient blinding of VSV-G.pub in human and murine cell lines and primary cells. In silico modeling pointed toward only slightly reduced LDLR binding affinity of VSV-G.pub. To lower the affinity further, we generated three novel VSV-G variants based on charge-reversing substitutions in two, four, or six key residues. These variants achieved a more stringent blinding compared with VSV-G.pub in the tested cell lines and primary cells. Codisplay of a CD4 binder enabled lentiviral particles pseudotyped with the novel variants to selectively transduce CD4-expressing cells. In summary, we present improved VSV-G variants with a better on/off-target ratio as attractive tools for in vivo gene therapy applications.
This study explored the mechanism by which Tougu Xiaotong Capsules(TGXTC) improve osteoarthritis(OA) degeneration, focusing on the regulation of cholesterol metabolism in OA chondrocytes via microRNA-16-5p(miR-16-5p). In vivo experiments were performed. A total of fifty 8-week-old C57BL/6 mice were acclimated for one week and then randomly divided into a blank group(10 mice) and a modeling group(40 mice). The OA model was established in the modeling group using the modified Hulth method. These mice were then randomly subdivided into four groups(n=10 per group): model, TGXTC, miR-16-5p antagomir, and TGXTC+miR-16-5p antagomir. Mice in the antagomir groups received intra-articular injections of miR-16-5p antagomir. After four weeks of intervention, cartilage structure was observed using Masson's trichrome, hematoxylin-eosin(HE), safranin O-fast green, and toluidine blue staining. The mRNA levels of miR-16-5p and cholesterol metabolism-related factors-ATP-binding cassette transporter A1(ABCA1), apolipoprotein A1(ApoA1), liver X receptor beta(LXRβ), sterol regulatory element-binding protein(SREBP), cholesterol-25-hydroxylase(CH25H), 25-hydroxycholesterol-7-alpha-hydroxylase(CYP7B1), and endoplasmic reticulum stress-associated factors C/EBP homologous protein(CHOP) and caspase-3, were detected by quantitative real-time PCR(RT-qPCR). The protein expression levels of ABCA1, ApoA1, LXRβ, SREBP, CH25H, CYP7B1, CHOP, and caspase-3 were analyzed by Western blot. In vitro experiments were also conducted. A chondrocyte degeneration model was established by stimulating mouse chondrocytes with thapsigargin(TG). RT-PCR was used to examine the levels of ABCA1, ApoA1, LXRβ, SREBP, CH25H, CYP7B1, CHOP and caspase-3 under miR-16-5p inhibition conditions. Flow cytometry was employed to assess the effect of TGXTC on the apoptosis rate of TG-induced chondrocytes following miR-16-5p inhibition. Histological staining results showed that, compared to the model group, the TGXTC group exhibited relatively clear and intact cartilage layer structure. Furthermore, compared to the miR-16-5p antagomir group, the TGXTC+miR-16-5p antagomir group showed improved cartilage surface damage. RT-PCR results indicated that, compared to the model group, the TGXTC group had significantly increased mRNA levels of miR-16-5p and ABCA1, ApoA1, and LXRβ, while the mRNA levels of SREBP, CH25H, CYP7B1, CHOP, and caspase-3 decreased. Western blot results showed that, compared to the model group, the TGXTC group showed upregulated protein expression of ABCA1, ApoA1, and LXRβ, and downregulated protein expression of SREBP, CH25H, CYP7B1, CHOP, and caspase-3. The RT-qPCR results for the in vitro experiments showed that in miR-16-5p-inhibited chondrocytes, TGXTC intervention increased the mRNA levels of ABCA1, ApoA1, and LXRβ, and decreased those of SREBP, CH25H, CYP7B1, CHOP, and caspase-3. Flow cytometry results confirmed that TGXTC mitigated the apoptosis of TG-induced chondrocytes. In conclusion, TGXTC can alleviate cholesterol metabolism disorders in osteoarthritic chondrocytes by regulating miR-16-5p.
Mechanical chest compressions during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) can produce pulmonary edema, described as cardiopulmonary resuscitation-associated lung edema (CRALE), which has been largely interpreted as a hydrostatic phenomenon. However, whether early molecular changes associated with epithelial injury, coagulation, and inflammation are also present during resuscitation remains uncertain. We hypothesized that bronchoalveolar lavage fluid proteomics would identify early protein signatures of lung injury after CPR.Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) was collected separately from the right and left caudal lung lobes of nine pigs before cardiac arrest and again after ventricular fibrillation, 8 min of untreated arrest, and up to 45 min of CPR. In animals achieving return of spontaneous circulation, post-CPR BALF was obtained immediately after resuscitation; in the remaining animals, sampling was performed at the end of CPR. Proteins were digested, tandem mass tag 18-plex labeled, and analyzed by high-resolution liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Differentially abundant proteins were defined by fold change >1.5 or <0.67 with P < 0.05. Functional enrichment, histologic assessment, and western blot validation were performed.A total of 1088 proteins were identified in left lung BALF and 1200 in right lung BALF. Comparison of pre- and post-CPR samples identified 74 and 78 differentially abundant proteins in the left and right lungs, respectively, with 28 shared proteins across both lungs. Among the most increased proteins were plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (SERPINE1/PAI-1), apolipoprotein A1, inter-alpha inhibitor family proteins, vitronectin, histones, and advanced glycation end-product receptor (AGER). Functional enrichment showed over-representation of proteins related to complement and coagulation, platelet degranulation, lipid metabolism, and extracellular matrix signaling. Histology showed mild septal thickening, vascular neutrophilic infiltration, interstitial edema, and patchy fibrin deposition, consistent with early pneumocyte injury and mild inflammation. Western blot confirmed increased post-CPR abundance of PAI-1 and apolipoprotein A1.Early after resuscitation, BALF proteomics identified molecular changes characterized by increased antifibrinolytic and complement-related proteins, together with proteins associated with epithelial and endothelial stress. These findings suggest that pulmonary abnormalities after CPR may involve not only hydrostatic edema but also an early biologic response consistent with lung injury, which may contribute to post-cardiac arrest respiratory dysfunction and progression to acute respiratory distress syndrome.© 2026 The Authors.
Monitoring microglial activation mediators remains challenging in neurodegeneration. Few imaging studies track amyloid-β (Aβ)-linked microglial dynamics across a wide field of view with high spatiotemporal resolution. Leveraging the triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2), a pivotal Alzheimer's disease (AD) biomarker that enhances Aβ clearance while suppressing neuroinflammation, we developed a dual-modal probe, TREM2-ICG, by conjugating a TREM2-specific antibody with indocyanine green (ICG), an FDA-approved dye, for robust in vivo photoacoustic and near-infrared-II (NIR-II) fluorescence imaging. Multi-wavelength photoacoustic microscopy imaged AD pathology at 532 nm (hemoglobin, vasculature), 559 nm (Aβ probe AOI987), and 780 nm (TREM2-ICG for peri‑plaque microglia). Time-resolved NIR-II imaging (30 frames/sec) tracked Aβ-oligomer-induced microglial displacement at ∼50 µm resolution, showing a rapid chemotaxis phenomenon. Immunofluorescence-verified TREM2-microglia plaque engagement demonstrates AD pathogenesis. Overall, our multiscale photoacoustic-fluorescence imaging resolved cortex-wide Aβ-microglial interactions, combining wide-field, high-speed, and deep-penetration to overcome confocal depth and two-photon field of view limits. This enabled in vivo tracking of microglial responses to Aβ, revealing potential for investigating AD-specific mechanisms.© 2026 The Authors.
The gut mycobiome plays an essential role in human health, yet its influence on the progression of arterial stiffness, a key feature of vascular aging, remains obscure. In this study, we aimed to investigate the involvement of intestinal fungi in the exacerbation of arterial stiffness. In total, 763 participants were invited for the brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity test to determine their status of arterial stiffness. The gut mycobiome was identified through internal transcribed spacer sequencing, host genetics were determined by genotyping arrays, and plasma metabolites were quantified using untargeted liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. A less clustered but more communicative fungal community was found in individuals with elevated stiffness. Five driving fungal genera contributing to the shift of fungal interaction networks from normal to elevated stiffness, including Apiotrichum, Mycothermus, Flavocillium, Hyaloscypha, and Microscypha, were associated with arterial stiffness. Integrative analysis with metabolomics further demonstrated that organic acids, fatty acyls, and alkaloids mediated the effect of Apiotrichum, Mycothermus, and Microscypha on arterial stiffness. Moreover, alpha-1A adrenergic receptor, alpha-2B adrenergic receptor, cytochrome P450 Family 11 subfamily B member 2, angiotensin I converting enzyme, angiotensin II receptor type 1, matrix metallopeptidase 2, tumor necrosis factor, and rho-associated coiled-coil containing protein kinase 2 were identified as the key molecular transducers associated with increased Apiotrichum in arterial stiffness. Our study uncovers a strong association between disruption in gut fungi and the progression of elevated arterial stiffness, and highlights the potential of targeting the gut mycobiome for improving vascular health.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Neuronal hyperexcitability is crucial to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Activating the Kv7 channel is an effective way to reduce neuronal excitability. The Kv7 channel opener retigabine (RTG) has been demonstrated to alleviate spatial memory deficits in APP/PS1 transgenic mice. However, the mechanism by which RTG reduces cognitive deficits in APP/PS1 mice remains unclear. In this study, we revealed that RTG could ameliorate learning and spatial memory deficits in APP/PS1 mice during novel object recognition and Morris water maze tests. Meanwhile, RTG increased NeuN neuronal fluorescence intensity, increased the expression of the synaptic proteins postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD95) and synaptophysin (SYN), improved synaptic plasticity, increased insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) expression, decreased beta-secretase 1 (BACE1) expression, reduced Aβ1-40 and Aβ1-42 levels, and increased pAKT (ser473) and pGSK-3β (ser9) expression. These results indicated that RTG alleviates learning and spatial memory deficits in APP/PS1 mice, with potential mechanisms involving a reduction in neuronal loss, attenuation of synaptic damage, a decrease in β-amyloid (Aβ) deposition, and activation of the AKT/GSK-3β pathway.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The inhibition of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) to lower angiotensin is important in the treatment of hypertension (HT). ACE inhibitory activity is rarely documented in Thai traditional and indigenous medicine. Here, we evaluated the angiotensin I-converting enzyme inhibitory (ACEi) activity through bio-screening of selected medicinal plant species traditionally used for HT treatment by ethnic communities in northern Thailand, including Blumea balsamifera (L.) DC., Clerodendrum chinense (Osbeck) Mabb., Rotheca serrata (L.) Steane & Mabb., and Zingiber purpureum Roscoe. Using an in vitro assay, ethanolic extracts were evaluated for ACE inhibitory activity. Among the four extracts tested, the ethanolic leaf extract of Blumea balsamifera was the most effective by reducing ACE activity by 29, 36, and 64% at concentrations of 0.4, 2.0, and 10.0 mg/mL, respectively. The rhizome extract of Zingiber purpureum showed the second highest activity, with inhibition rates of 34%, 39%, and 40% at the corresponding concentrations. Cytotoxicity testing in HEK293T kidney cells was conducted to underscore the detectable toxicity under the tested conditions. Interestingly, intercultural and cross-cultural comparisons revealed a degree of agreement in the use of medicinal plants for hypertension treatment. Plant species traditionally used across multiple cultures tended to show higher levels of ACE inhibitory activity, suggesting their potential as candidates for the development of novel anti-hypertensive agents. To our knowledge, this is the first report describing the ACE inhibitory activity of medicinal plant species used for hypertension treatment by ethnic communities in northern Thailand.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) poses a significant threat to human health, and with the number of patients increasing annually, developing effective prevention and treatment strategies has become an urgent priority. Early intervention is a viable strategy for treating AD, as biomarker changes associated with β-amyloid (Aβ) can emerge 20 or more years before cognitive impairment becomes apparent. Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) offers a potential avenue for treatment at this early stage.This study investigated the potential therapeutic effects of the Yin Huang Ge compound on cognitive function in a mouse model of AD and evaluated its efficacy in mitigating Aβ accumulation, a key pathological feature of AD.APP/PS1 mice were randomly assigned to the following groups: Controls (C57BL/6 J mice) group, the Model group, YHG group, and donepezil (DNP) group. The YHG group and the DNP group were administered their respective drugs through gastric gavage, whereas the normal group and the Model group were supplied with saline. Administration sustained for a period of 30 consecutive days. We assessed mouse learning, memory, and spatial cognition using the Morris water maze, novel object recognition, Y-maze spontaneous alternation, and novel arm tests. Western blotting quantified the protein levels of β-amyloid 1-42 (Aβ1-42), insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE), neprilysin (NEP), matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2), and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9). ELISA measured IDE and NEP enzymatic activity, while immunohistochemistry evaluated the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3).In contrast to the Control group, mice in the Model group exhibited significant impairments in learning, memory, and spatial cognition. The protein expression levels of Aβ1-42, MMP-2, and MMP-9 were markedly elevated (p < 0.01), whereas the expression of IDE and NEP was significantly reduced (p < 0.05, p < 0.01). ELISA analysis further revealed a substantial decrease in IDE and NEP activity (p < 0.01). A concomitant reduction in the expression of NT-3 and BDNF was also observed (p < 0.01). Compared to the Model group, mice treated with YHG or DNP exhibited significantly improved learning, memory, and spatial cognition. The protein expression of Aβ1-42, MMP-2, and MMP-9 was reduced (p < 0.05, p < 0.01), whereas the expression of IDE and NEP was elevated (p < 0.05). ELISA results confirmed the increased activity of IDE and NEP (p < 0.05). These assays also revealed a marked upregulation in the expression of NT-3 and BDNF (p < 0.01).The YHG compound reduces cerebral Aβ deposition via a bidirectional regulatory mechanism, upregulating IDE and NEP to promote clearance while downregulating MMP-2 and MMP-9 to mitigate associated damage. It also elevates the expression of the neurotrophic factors BDNF and NT-3, which enhances endogenous neuroprotection and ameliorates core Alzheimer's disease pathology. Consequently, this treatment markedly improves cognitive function in APP/PS1 mice.Copyright © 2026 Hao, Yang, Zhong, Zhang, He and Dong.
Objectives. Hemolysis significantly interferes with insulin measurements in clinical settings, leading to inaccurate results. Although the activity of insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) is assumed to be the primary mechanism, the potential involvement of additional mechanisms remains unclear. This study aims to determine if IDE is the sole cause of this interference by using a selective IDE inhibitor, 6bK, and to explore whether this inhibition can completely prevent hemolysis-related inaccuracies in insulin assays. Methods. The effects of 6bK on insulin degradation were evaluated in hemolyzed and non-hemolyzed serum samples at room temperature, following the CLSI guidelines EP07-A2 and C56-A. Insulin levels were measured using chemiluminescent immunoassays. Additional assessments included the impact of 6bK on serum C-peptide, proinsulin, and standard biochemical parameters. The effects of 6bK were also evaluated at 4 °C and after 21 days of storage at room temperature prior to use. Results. Hemolysis caused a significant decrease in insulin concentrations, dependent on hemolysate levels and incubation time. The addition of 10 µM 6bK completely reversed hemolysis-induced insulin degradation in serum across a broad range of insulin baseline concentrations and degrees of hemolysis. Furthermore, 6bK did not affect insulin levels in non-hemolyzed samples or alter the quantification of C-peptide, proinsulin, or standard biochemical parameters. Conclusions. The decrease in serum insulin concentration due to hemolysis is exclusively attributed to the action of IDE. Selective inhibition of IDE by 6bK effectively eliminates hemolysis-induced interference in insulin measurements, providing a novel and reliable solution for accurate insulin quantification in hemolyzed clinical samples.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42327726 is a review article
Disruption of the circadian glucocorticoid rhythm occurs in human settings including chronic stress, sleep restriction, circadian misalignment, ageing and autonomous cortisol secretion; in mild autonomous cortisol secretion (MACS) and Cushing's syndrome, loss of the normal cortisol trough is clinically informative, and flatter diurnal cortisol profiles are associated with cardiometabolic disease. We previously showed that flattening of glucocorticoid rhythms in mice induces rapid and sustained hyperinsulinemia without hyper or hypo-glycaemia, implying that glucocorticoid rhythms may directly regulate the relationship between circulating glucose and systemic insulin output. Here we tested the hypothesis that beta cell glucocorticoid receptor (GR) signalling is required for the compensatory hyperinsulinaemia that maintains glucose homeostasis during glucocorticoid rhythm flattening, and that this reflects glucocorticoid-dependent reprogramming of beta cell stimulus-secretion coupling.Glucocorticoid rhythms were flattened in male C57BL/6J mice by subcutaneous corticosterone pellet implantation, which elevates trough levels and reduces peak amplitude while preserving the daily mean hormone concentration. Fasting plasma insulin and blood glucose were measured longitudinally and compared with placebo-implanted controls and high-fat diet-fed mice. Beta cell secretory function was assessed by static and dynamic glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in isolated islets, and beta cell excitability by GCaMP6f Ca²⁺ imaging in islets from Ins1-Cre;GCaMP6f mice. To test the requirement for beta cell GR in mature beta cells while avoiding developmental effects of constitutive GR deletion, we generated adult-inducible beta cell-specific GR knockout mice (MIP-CreERT;Nr3c1fl/fl; βGRKO). Combined beta cell and hepatic GR knockout mice (double-GRKO) were used to examine an additional extra-pancreatic contribution to systemic insulin availability. Glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity were assessed by intraperitoneal glucose and insulin tolerance tests. As a secondary question, a possible contribution of altered insulin clearance was examined from plasma C-peptide:insulin ratios and hepatic insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) abundance.Glucocorticoid rhythm flattening produced sustained hyperinsulinaemia with maintained euglycaemia, distinct from the delayed hyperinsulinaemia and hyperglycaemia observed in high-fat diet-fed mice. Islets from glucocorticoid-flattened mice exhibited increased insulin secretion at subthreshold (3 mmol/l) glucose, enhanced secretory responses to stimulatory glucose and increased Ca²⁺ responses, indicating a lowered glucose threshold for beta cell activation that persisted ex vivo. Beta cell-specific deletion of GR markedly attenuated the hyperinsulinaemic response to glucocorticoid flattening (insulin AUC reduced ∼40% vs controls; p < 0.001) and produced progressive hyperglycaemia and impaired glucose tolerance, despite unchanged or improved insulin sensitivity. A reduced plasma C-peptide:insulin molar ratio (p = 0.007) and decreased hepatic IDE abundance (p = 0.032) indicated that reduced insulin clearance contributes additionally to the elevated circulating insulin, and combined beta cell and hepatic GR deletion lowered circulating insulin further than beta cell GR deletion alone. The absence of hypoglycaemia despite persistent hyperinsulinaemia is consistent with concurrent insulin resistance.Beta cell GR signalling is required for the compensatory hyperinsulinaemia that maintains glucose homeostasis when glucocorticoid rhythmicity is disrupted, acting through glucocorticoid-dependent lowering of the glucose threshold for insulin secretion; reduced insulin clearance contributes additionally to the rise in circulating insulin. These findings identify beta cell GR signalling as a key determinant of glucose homeostasis during disrupted glucocorticoid rhythmicity. Clinically, the work is most relevant not simply to nonspecific chronic stress, but to human states in which the cortisol rhythm is measurably flattened or the nocturnal trough is lost, including MACS, Cushing's syndrome, sleep restriction, shift work/circadian misalignment and ageing.What is already known about this subject?: Flattened or disrupted glucocorticoid rhythmicity in humans is observed most directly in MACS and Cushing's syndrome, where loss of the late-night cortisol nadir is clinically informative, and more broadly as flatter salivary cortisol slopes or elevated evening cortisol in ageing, sleep restriction and circadian misalignment; these patterns are associated with type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease and mortality.Flattening of glucocorticoid rhythms in mice induces rapid and sustained hyperinsulinaemia without hypoglycaemia, indicating that circulating insulin can be elevated independently of glucose.Hepatic insulin clearance, mediated in part by insulin-degrading enzyme and CEACAM1, is a major determinant of circulating insulin levels.What is the key question?: How does disruption of glucocorticoid rhythmicity increase circulating insulin while maintaining glycaemic control, and is beta cell glucocorticoid receptor signalling required for this adaptive response?What are the new findings?: Glucocorticoid rhythm flattening lowers the glucose threshold for beta cell activation through enhanced Ca²⁺ excitability, an effect that persists in isolated islets and indicates in vivo reprogramming of beta cell function. Beta cell-specific deletion of the glucocorticoid receptor blunts the hyperinsulinaemic response to glucocorticoid flattening and produces hyperglycaemia and impaired glucose tolerance despite unchanged or improved insulin sensitivity.Reduced insulin clearance, associated with decreased hepatic insulin-degrading enzyme abundance, contributes additionally to the elevated circulating insulin, but is not required for maintenance of glucose homeostasis.How might this impact on clinical practice in the foreseeable future?: Identifying beta cell glucocorticoid receptor signalling as a requirement for glucose homeostasis during disrupted glucocorticoid rhythmicity may inform strategies for understanding hyperinsulinaemia and steroid-associated metabolic dysfunction in human conditions marked by loss of the cortisol trough or flatter diurnal cortisol profiles, particularly MACS, Cushing's syndrome, shift work/circadian misalignment and ageing.
Spirulina (Arthrospira platensis) contains peptides with angiotensin-I converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitory activity, suggesting possible antihypertensive effects. However, food-matrix interactions may alter peptide release or bioactivity. This study evaluated (i) the in-vitro ACE-inhibitory activity of <3 kDa peptide fractions after simulated gastrointestinal digestion of spirulina biomass (SB) and a spirulina-enriched yogurt-like dessert (YSB), and (ii) the effects of daily YSB consumption on blood pressure (BP) and vascular function in overweight/obese adults with elevated cardiometabolic risk.SB, YSB, and control yogurt (YC) underwent simulated gastrointestinal digestion and <3 kDa fractions were assessed for ACE-inhibition. In a randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel, clinical trial, adults (n = 64 completers; 32 per group) consumed YSB (4 g/day spirulina) or isoenergetic YC for 8 weeks, followed by 4 weeks of observation. Peripheral BP, central BP, pulse wave velocity (PWV), and augmentation index (AIx) were measured at baseline, week 8, and week 12. In-vitro, SB and YC exhibited ACE-inhibitory activity, while YSB did not. Clinically, no significant group∗time interactions were observed for BP, PWV, or AIx. Results were unchanged in sensitivity analyses excluding antihypertensive-treated participants and in subgroups with elevated baseline BP.SB exhibited ACE-inhibitory activity in vitro; however, incorporation into a yogurt-like matrix abolished this effect. Daily YSB consumption did not lower BP or improve vascular markers. Findings highlight the critical role of food-matrix interactions in functional food development.gov: NCT06114563.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Insulin degrading enzyme (IDE) is a dimeric M16A zinc metalloprotease that degrades amyloidogenic peptides diverse in shape and sequence, including insulin and amyloid-β, to prevent toxic amyloid fibril formation. IDE has a hollow catalytic chamber formed by two ~55 kDa N- and C- domains (IDE-N and IDE-C, respectively), in which peptides bind, unfold, and are repositioned for proteolysis. IDE is known to transition between a closed state, poised for catalysis, and an open state, able to release cleavage products and bind a new substrate. Here, we present six cryo-EM structures of the IDE dimer at 3.0-5.1 Å resolution, obtained in the presence of a sub-saturating concentration of insulin. Combining cryo-EM heterogeneity analysis with all-atom molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, we identified the structural basis and key residues for IDE conformational dynamics that were not previously revealed by IDE static structures. Notably, R668 serves as a molecular latch mediating the open-close transition and facilitates key protein motions through charge-swapping interactions at the IDE-N/C interface. Our small-angle X-ray scattering analysis and enzymatic assays of an R668A mutant indicate a profound alteration of conformational dynamics and catalytic activity. By integrating coarse-grained MD simulations, our analysis reveals that IDE unfolds its substrates through the coordinated motion between IDE-N and IDE-C, as well as β-sheet formation between IDE and insulin. Additionally, our time-resolved cryo-EM analysis uncovers IDE allostery within the IDE dimer. Collectively, our findings demonstrate the strength of combining experimental and computational approaches to probe protein dynamics and pave the way for developing substrate-specific modulators of IDE activity.© 2025, Mancl et al.
Microglia play crucial roles in Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet the molecular mechanisms are unclear. Here, we show that CD31, a recognized endothelial marker, is predominantly expressed in microglia but not in neurons or astrocytes, and it is significantly elevated in the brains of AD patients and mouse models. Microglia-specific CD31 knockdown in 5xFAD mice substantially attenuated the dysregulated transcription networks, suppressed microglia hyperactivation and the disease-associated microglia (DAM), mitigated Aβ deposition and inflammation, and eventually improved cognitive functions in mice. Mechanistically, CD31 knockdown damaged the simultaneous recruitment of Src homology phosphatase 2 (SHP2) and STAT3, leading to a reduced dephosphorylation and enhanced activation of STAT3, a transcription factor. STAT3 activation increased transcription of membrane metalloendopeptidase (MME) and promoted Aβ clearance. Collectively, this study identifies microglial CD31, by regulating SHP2-STAT3-MME axis, plays a role in AD pathogenesis and targeting CD31 is promising in AD drug development.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42541427 is a review article
Acne inversa, or hidradenitis suppurativa, is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder that causes painful and reoccurring abscesses. The PSEN1 gene is responsible for the sequence coding for the presenilin 1 protein, which is part of the gamma-secretase complex and is responsible for cleaving multiple peptides. Acne inversa occurs when the Notch signaling pathway of PSEN1 is disrupted. Analysis of multiple pathogenicity predictors and simulated aqueous environments of the transmembrane protein in its native state and mutated state through molecular dynamics simulation predicted deleterious effects from swap of tyrosine to cysteine at the highly conserved and buried position 189.Copyright: © 2026 by the authors.
Cerebral Small vessel disease (cSVD) is a prevalent feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. Whether this pathology is a late consequence of amyloid and tau accumulation or an early, direct effect of PSEN1 dysfunction has remained unresolved. We found that it is more severe in familial AD (FAD) caused by E280A mutation in presenilin 1 (PSEN1). These cases present with a distinctive proteomic signature, associated with pathological features, more dysregulated in the occipital cortex (OC) compared to the frontal cortex (FC), and characterized by multiple dysregulated proteins involved in extracellular matrix (ECM) and RNA-associated processes. This proteomic fingerprint was associated with abnormal collagen build up, ECM disorganization, and signatures of aberrant angiogenesis. Six months old transgenic knock-in mice homozygous for Psen1 E280A mutation (PSEN1Ki) also showed a similar phenotype with microvascular tortuosity and proteomic changes. Critically, these mice develop neither Aβ plaques nor tau tangles, indicating that the shared microvascular and RNA-associated changes are direct consequences of PSEN1 dysfunction rather than downstream effects of amyloid pathology. Remarkably, dysregulated RNA-associated protein networks overlapped between FAD and PSEN1Ki mice. Cerebral microvessels microstructure in PSEN1Ki mice at two months and six months showed abnormal astrocytic end-feet with lamellar deposits implicating blood-brain barrier damage. Finally, single nuclei transcriptomic analysis of AD patients and controls showed similar abnormal astrocytes in both sporadic and familial variants, but FAD astrocytes expressed dysregulated genes identified in the proteomic analyses, such as GLUL, APOE, and CLU. Our findings suggest that cSVD is an early pathological event in PSEN1 FAD and that is driven by abnormal RNA-associated processes and astrocytic dysfunction.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by early synaptic dysfunction followed by progressive amyloid beta (Aβ) accumulation, neuroinflammation, and cognitive decline. We previously identified secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (SFRP1) as a multifactorial contributor to AD pathogenesis and provided initial evidence that its neutralization ameliorates pathological AD-like traits in mice. Here we evaluate the pharmacodynamics, biodistribution, and therapeutic window of an anti-SFRP1 monoclonal antibody (α-SFRP1) in double transgenic amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilin-1 (PS1) mice (APP/PS1).Pharmacokinetics and target engagement of α-SFRP1 were assessed in groups of both male and female APP/PS1 mice using biotinylated or Zirconium-89 labeled (89Zr) antibodies, with tissue distribution and α-SFRP1 levels quantified by in-house enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) or positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT). Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated by administering α-SFRP1 or the SFRP1 inhibitor WAY-316606 at different stages of disease progression via retro-orbital injection, followed by analysis of AD-like pathology using ELISA and quantitative immunofluorescence assays and statistical analysis.Using 89Zr-labeled antibodies, we show that intravenously administered α-SFRP1 engages its target systemically and reaches the brain, although at substantially lower levels and with a rapid 24-h clearance. Treatment with α-SFRP1 had no apparent systemic side effects or sex-dependent differences, but its therapeutic efficacy against AD-like brain pathology was strongly dependent on disease stage. Although early administration reduced amyloid pathology in previous studies, treatment initiated at intermediate or advanced stages showed minimal benefit at standard doses. Higher antibody doses reduced amyloid burden and dystrophic neurites but were associated with increased mortality. Pharmacological inhibition of SFRP1 using a small-molecule inhibitor similarly failed to ameliorate pathology at intermediate stages.Together, these findings demonstrate that SFRP1 remains a relevant therapeutic target in AD, but its effective modulation is constrained by limited brain exposure and a narrow therapeutic window, underscoring the importance of early intervention and prompting the search for improved brain-targeted delivery strategies.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Clinically relevant NOTCH1 activation is frequently observed in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), even in the absence of gene mutations, raising questions about the underlying mechanisms. In CLL cells, NOTCH1 activation may occur through mutation-independent mechanisms involving ligand interaction or cell-intrinsic, ligand-independent pathways that are not yet fully elucidated. To explore ligand-independent activation, we examined the involvement of NOTCH1 endocytic trafficking in generating the active intracellular domain (N1-ICD) in CLL cells. Using proximity ligation assay, we demonstrated that the NOTCH1 extracellular domain (N1-ECD), transmembrane subunit (N1-TM), and N1-ICD colocalize with Rab5 and Rab7, indicating NOTCH1 internalization and cleavage within endosomal compartments. Experiments with the endocytosis inhibitor Pitstop-2 demonstrated that NOTCH1 internalization is essential for N1-ICD generation. We provided evidence that N1-ICD generation occurs in Rab5 and Rab7 endosomal membranes. Treatment with chloroquine reduced N1-ICD, due to impaired endosomal acidification affecting enzymatic activity. Presenilin-1, the catalytic subunit of the γ-secretase complex responsible for N1-ICD generation, was found in early endosome compartments and colocalized with Rab5, Rab7, N1-TM, and N1-ICD. CLL cells expressing N1-ICD showed higher Rab5, Rab7, and presenilin-1 levels, increased Rab5 membrane association, and presenilin-1 activity versus N1-ICD-negative cells which showed increased lysosomal targeting. Silencing Rab5 or Rab7 by siRNA, or inhibiting Rab prenylation with psoromic acid, led to reduced N1-ICD levels and increased apoptosis in CLL cells. Interestingly, NOTCH1-mutated cases showed similar NOTCH1 trafficking. These findings identify for the first time a Rab-dependent endocytic trafficking as a key regulator of NOTCH1 activation and a potential therapeutic target in CLL.© 2026 The Author(s). HemaSphere published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Hematology Association.
Neuroinflammation assumes a pivotal role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) regulate neuroinflammation through a competitive endogenous RNA (ceRNA) mechanism. This study aimed to explore the mechanism of SNHG3/miR-128-3p/UBR5 axis in AD associated neuroinflammation. SNHG3, miR-128-3p, and UBR5 levels were recognized by reverse transcription - quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). In vitro AD model was established by Aβ1-42 stimulation in human microglial cells HMC3 and neuronal cells SK‑N‑SH. Cell apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry. Enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and oxidative stress indicators were used to evaluate the neuroinflammatory phenotype. Morris water maze (MWM) test assesses the spatial learning and memory abilities of amyloid precursor protein/presenilin 1 (APP/PS1) mice with AAV-si-SNHG3. Serum SNHG3 was clearly upregulated in AD patients, and negatively related to MMSE score (r = -0.691, P<0.001). SNHG3 had diagnostic potential for AD (AUC=0.847, 95% CI = 0.806-0.888, sensitivity=75.63%, specificity=76.88%). SNHG3 regulates UBR5 expression by sponges miR-128-3p. Silence of SNHG3 inhibited M1 polarization (reducing TNF-α, IL-6, and iNOS), promotes M2 polarization (increasing Arg1, IL-10, and TGF-β), inhibits IL-1β release, suppresses neuronal apoptosis, and mitigates oxidative stress damage (reducing MDA and increasing SOD) via miR-128-3p/UBR5 axis in Aβ-stimulated HMC3 cells. SNHG3 also contributes to Aβ‑induced neuronal apoptosis, inflammation, and oxidative stress in SK‑N‑SH cells. AAV-si-SNHG3 significantly enhances spatial learning and memory abilities of APP/PS1 mice, and inhibits neuroinflammation and oxidative stress in the hippocampus. This study is the first to elucidate that SNHG3 could regulate microglial polarization and neuroinflammation through the SNHG3/miR-128-3p/UBR5 axis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42501808 is a review article
Background: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) ranks as the third leading cause of death worldwide and is primarily caused by cigarette smoke (CS) exposure. A reduction in the number of ciliated cells significantly contributes to the development and progression of COPD. Nicastrin (NCSTN), a core subunit of γ-secretase, plays an important role in the pathogenesis of various tumors. However, to date, no studies have demonstrated its role in COPD. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect and underlying mechanism of NCSTN on the differentiation of airway epithelial basal cells into ciliated cells under cigarette smoke extract (CSE) exposure. Methods: Mouse tracheal epithelial basal cells were differentiated at the air-liquid interface (ALI) in vitro and exposed to CSE for 7 days. Lentiviral overexpression and knockdown of NCSTN in basal cells were performed. The effects on cell differentiation, NCSTN expression and the Notch signaling pathway in response to CSE were assessed using reverse transcription‑quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) and western blotting (WB). Results: We found that CSE exposure in vitro inhibited ciliated cell differentiation, while simultaneously increasing the expression of NCSTN, Notch3, and Hes1. Overexpression of NCSTN suppressed ciliated cell differentiation and induced Notch3 activation. Conversely, knockdown of NCSTN attenuated the CSE-mediated reduction in ciliated cell differentiation and inhibited Notch3 activation. Our findings indicate that CSE exposure inhibits basal cell differentiation into ciliated cells by upregulating the NCSTN-Notch3-Hes1 pathway. Conclusions: Inhibition of the NCSTN-Notch3-Hes1 pathway promoted ciliated cell differentiation and ameliorated the CSE-induced reduction in ciliated cells.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42052762 is a review article
The γ-secretase complex is a membrane-embedded protease essential for intramembrane cleavage of substrates such as Notch receptors and the amyloid precursor protein (APP), processes central to cancer progression and Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. However, catalytic inhibition of γ-secretase disrupts multiple signaling pathways, resulting in dose-limiting toxicities. In this study, we report a structure-guided approach to generate peptides with binding and stability profiles that disrupt the assembly of γ-secretase by targeting the interactions of Presenilin-1 and Nicastrin with APH1. First, molecular docking was performed for 36 248 peptides of varying lengths to assess their affinity scores to the PS1 and NCT interaction regions of APH1. Peptides filtered based on their affinity scores and physicochemical properties were then subjected to global molecular docking. 50-nanosecond molecular dynamics simulations and MM/PBSA analyses were performed on the top 10 potential candidates, identifying those with high dynamic interaction potential. Thus, seven γ-secretase inhibitor candidates with favorable affinity scores capable of providing stable interactions and thereby having the potential to disrupt the APH1:PS1 assembly were identified. This approach, which overcomes the challenges of targeting the transmembrane catalytic domain, is based on the inhibition of subunit assembly and presents promising candidates for future experimental studies.© 2026 The Author(s). PROTEINS: Structure, Function, and Bioinformatics published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
ABCA7 (ATP binding cassette subfamily A member 7) encodes a lipid transporter associated with increasing risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD). A 44-base pair deletion in ABCA7 (rs142076058; p.Arg578Alafs) is a strong risk factor in individuals of African ancestry (AA). However, the biological consequences of this deletion are poorly understood.We expressed the truncated ABCA7 protein in HEK and HepG2 cells to assess cellular localization and impact on lipid metabolism, respectively. Additionally, induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived neurons carrying the deletion were functionally assessed compared to isogenic controls.Truncated ABCA7 localized to endoplasmic reticulum and plasma membranes similarly to the wild type in HEK cells but induced significant lipid droplet accumulation in HepG2 cells and iPSC-derived neurons while reducing mitochondrial membrane potential in iPSC-derived neurons.These findings show that the AA-specific ABCA7 deletion disrupts lipid and mitochondrial homeostasis, supporting a mechanistic link between the ABCA7 deletion and increased AD risk.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Dysregulation of extracellular matrix (ECM) degradation pathways has been increasingly implicated in major depressive disorder (MDD), yet its genetic basis remains unclear. This study investigated the relationship between ECM-related genetic polymorphisms and MDD susceptibility. In a case-control study, we analyzed 317 MDD patients and 1268 sexmatched controls from the Taiwan Biobank (TWB). Genomic DNA was analyzed using the Affymetrix TWB array, targeting single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 140 ECM degradation genes (Reactome database). Full-model association tests identified significant SNPs, validated with 5000 max(T) permutations and adjusted via logistic regression for age, body mass index, education level, and marital status. We identified 12 SNPs across 10 ECMrelated genes significantly associated with MDD, including ADAM metallopeptidase domain 17 (ADAM17, rs55820761), brevican (BCAN, rs11264511), CD44 molecule (CD44, rs12270356), collagen type XVII alpha 1 chain (COL17A1; rs2282436 and rs10883962), collagen type III alpha 1 chain (COL3A1; rs16830979 and rs10883962), collagen type VI alpha 6 chain (COL6A6, rs16830219), cathepsin L (CTSL, rs2274611), Kallikrein-related peptidase 2 (KLK2, rs2664156), matrix metallopeptidase 11 (MMP11, rs738791), and nicastrin (NCSTN, rs3753391). This study provides the first genetic evidence linking ECM degradation pathways to MDD susceptibility, identifying novel biomarkers for early diagnosis and precision therapy. Further research and cross-population studies are needed to confirm these findings.© the Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41509669
Rare mutations in the ATP binding cassette subfamily A member 7 (ABCA7) gene are known risk factors for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Genetic sequencing in 1372 Belgian patients previously revealed rare ABCA7 mutations in 102 carriers, 58 with a premature termination codon mutation (PTC) and 44 with a missense mutation. Among carriers, 14 received post-mortem examination. Here, we reviewed and report the demographics, clinicopathological phenotypes, and diagnoses of identified ABCA7 mutation carriers. Carriers mostly developed late-onset AD (71 ± 9 years) and had a high familial load (67 % with positive family history). Patients presented with classic amnestic AD based on neuropsychological assessment, imaging and CSF biomarkers. However, vascular involvement was observed in a considerable part of patients, leading to diagnosis of vascular dementia (9 %) and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) (6 %). In line with this, neuropathology of the 14 examined carriers uncovered extensive levels of CAA and AD hallmarks. Carriers of an ABCA7 missense mutations displayed a less aggressive phenotype, with comparable onset but longer disease duration compared to carriers of a PTC mutation. Furthermore, non-amnestic features including language, dysexecutive and behavioural symptoms, were more frequently seen in PTC patients (18 % vs 9 %), as was the case for concomitant vascular disease (22 % vs 10 %). Taken together, the clinical phenotype of rare ABCA7 mutation carriers spans the AD-CAA spectrum. Patients present with a classical AD phenotype although clinical heterogeneity is observed among carriers. The presence of a cerebrovascular component (CAA) may, in part, explain this heterogeneity.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Intestinal goblet cells play a crucial role in producing mucus that forms the protective mucosal barrier. However, the complex in vivo interactions among microbial, dietary, and immune factors make it challenging to dissect the intrinsic regulatory mechanisms underlying goblet cell mucus production. In this study, we established a novel HT-29-derived cell line lacking Presenilin-1 and Nicastrin, two core components of γ-secretase, a membrane-associated protease complex that cleaves multiple transmembrane proteins, including Notch receptors. Similar to γ-secretase-inhibited HT-29 cells, our newly established cell line suppressed Notch signaling, upregulated ATOH1, and increased the expression of MUC2, a major colonic mucin and a goblet cell marker, thereby maintaining a stable mature goblet-like phenotype with continuous activation of the transcriptional program driving mucus secretion. Therefore, we designated it as induced Mature Intestinal Goblet-like cells (iMIGs). In contrast, RBPJ-deficient HT-29 cells exhibited an unexpected decrease in MUC2 expression, suggesting the involvement of additional γ-secretase-dependent pathways beyond canonical Notch signaling. Furthermore, inhibition of the MEK/ERK pathway, which also regulates goblet cell differentiation in vivo, reduced both ATOH1 and MUC2 expression, indicating that iMIGs retain in vivo-like regulatory mechanisms for mucus production. Under dextran sulfate sodium-induced colitis-mimicking conditions, iMIGs enhanced MUC2 expression and exhibited altered endoplasmic reticulum stress responses, independent of intestinal microbiota or immune cell influence. These findings demonstrate that iMIGs provide a versatile in vitro platform for investigating the molecular regulation of mucus production in goblet cells under both physiological and pathological conditions, including inflammatory bowel disease.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hidradenitis Suppurativa (HS) is an inflammatory skin disorder with limited treatments and unclear etiology. While monogenic HS is linked to gamma secretase mutations, particularly in the NCSTN subunit, the pathogenesis of the more common sporadic form remains uncertain, though associated with risk factors such as diets high in ultra-processed foods. Consistent with the clinical overlap between sporadic and monogenic HS, we find loss of NCSTN protein in sporadic HS fibroblasts. We hypothesize the rising incidence of sporadic HS and its hormonal associations implicate endocrine-disrupting chemicals, especially plastic-associated EDCs (p-EDs) common in UPFs. We detect elevated p-ED adducts in HS skin, persisting in ex vivo cultured fibroblasts. At nanomolar concentrations, p-EDs inhibits NCSTN and primes fibroblasts for inflammation, mimicking NCSTN knockdown. These findings suggest p-ED exposure contributes to HS pathogenesis, highlighting the need to address environmental exposures in HS and other gamma secretase-related diseases.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 40927393 is a review article
Obesity is a disease associated with an increased risk of various medical complications, including cardiovascular problems, diabetes, and infectious diseases. The higher incidence of infections in individuals with obesity is likely due to impaired immune functions. Neutrophils deploy microbicidal functions. However, it is unclear whether neutrophils in individuals with obesity function effectively against infections. To evaluate whether neutrophils in obesity have dysfunctional antimicrobial functions, neutrophils from individuals with normal weight and from individuals with obesity were isolated, and their phenotype and microbicidal functions were assessed. Neutrophils from individuals with obesity showed higher expression of CD66b, CD11b, CD15, CD14, CD18, and CD182 on their membranes. The higher expression of these molecules correlated with higher BMI, suggesting that obesity is associated with neutrophil activation. Accordingly, the PMA-induced respiratory burst in neutrophils from individuals with obesity was greater than in those from individuals without obesity. But, phagocytosis and PMA-induced NETosis were comparable between neutrophils from individuals with or without obesity, implying that neutrophil functions are not impaired by obesity. However, NET formation of neutrophils from individuals with obesity was selectively reduced in response to Staphylococcus aureus. Nevertheless, the actual killing of these bacteria was similar between neutrophils from individuals with or without obesity. In contrast, neutrophils from individuals with obesity exhibited impaired killing of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and of Klebsiella quasipneumoniae. Together, these findings suggest that obesity induces neutrophil activation but disrupts pathogen-specific antimicrobial mechanisms of neutrophils. This deficiency in pathogen clearance could explain the increased susceptibility to infections observed in individuals with obesity.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for Leukocyte Biology.
In mammals, glutathione peroxidase 7 (GPx-7) is a member of the GPx family that exhibits peroxidase activity. Its immunological functions, especially in host defense against bacterial infection, remain unexplored in lower vertebrates. In this study, we identified a GPx-7 homolog from Paralichthys olivaceus (PoGPx-7) and investigated its roles during Vibrio alginolyticus infection. PoGPx-7 possesses a conserved GSH-Px domain and carries positive net charges. PoGPx-7 was constitutively expressed in various tissues, with significant upregulation upon bacterial challenge. Recombinant PoGPx-7 (rPoGPx-7) exhibited GPx activity and bound to V. alginolyticus via interaction with lipopolysaccharide and peptidoglycan. In addition, rPoGPx-7 could directly kill bacteria by disrupting membrane integrity, leading to severe structural damage and content leakage. The bactericidal activity was modulated by protein concentration, pH, temperature, and Zn2+. Furthermore, rPoGPx-7 bound to peripheral blood leukocytes (PBLs), reduced bacterial attachment and LDH release, and protected PBLs from cell death. It also significantly enhanced phagocytosis, respiratory burst, and acid phosphatase activity of PBLs. In vivo administration showed that rPoGPx-7 reduced bacterial loads in the tissues, and improved fish survival, whereas knockdown of PoGPx-7 increased susceptibility to infection. These findings provide the first evidence that teleosts GPx-7 functions as a dual-effector molecule with direct bactericidal activity and immunomodulatory capacity, providing an immunological insight of GPx family members on resistance bacterial infection.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Non-typhoidal Salmonella use molybdenum cofactor-containing MopB- or DMSO reductase-family members to respire chemically diverse substrates, including formate, nitrate and methionine sulfoxide, during infection. The DmsABC enzymatic complex encodes one such DMSO reductase to promote oxidative stress resistance. The Salmonella genome encodes several gene paralogues but their role in virulence is unclear. Here we characterize three Salmonella MopB-family extracytoplasmic sulfate reductases, which we call Xsr1A, Xsr2A and Xsr3A. Infection experiments in mice and macrophages show that these sulfate reductases support Salmonella growth and virulence in the gut and during systemic infection, countering the oxidative effects of host respiratory burst activity. Further experiments show that they are molybdenum cofactor-independent enzymes, and instead depend on the nearby redox-active [4Fe-4S] prosthetic group for catalytic activity. Orthologues of these sulfate reductases were found across distant evolutionary branches, suggesting that [4Fe-4S]-dependent catalysis may occur across the ubiquitous MopB superfamily. Our findings offer insights into the modular evolution of redox centres in the widespread MopB superfamily.© 2026. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
The present study evaluated the effects of dietary Ocimum gratissimum leaf extract (OGE) on growth performance, haemato-biochemical responses, immune status, and tissue integrity in Labeo rohita (Hamilton, 1822). Among different solvent fractions, ethanol and acetone extracts exhibited superior antibacterial activity against major fish pathogenic bacteria. The ethanolic extract demonstrated strong bactericidal activity against Edwardsiella piscicida, Aeromonas veronii, A. sobria, Serratia nematodiphilia, and Pseudomonas putida, with minimum inhibitory concentrations ranging from 0.0078 to 0.0156 mg mL-1. Time-kill kinetics further confirmed concentration- and time-dependent antibacterial effects, with ≥ 3× MIC producing marked reductions in viable bacterial counts. A 90-day dose standardisation feeding trial using graded dietary inclusion levels of OGE (1×-4× MIC) identified supplementation at 3× MIC for 60 days as the optimum regimen for sustained enhancement of innate immune and antioxidant responses in L. rohita. Fish fed the 3× MIC diet exhibited markedly higher respiratory burst activity, ceruloplasmin, antiprotease activity, myeloperoxidase, and ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP). Dietary OGE supplementation markedly improved growth performance, including final body weight, weight gain, specific growth rate, and feed conversion ratio. Haematological indices showed no adverse changes during the feeding phase but improved significantly following A. veronii challenge, with elevated RBC, WBC, haemoglobin, and packed cell volume in OGE-fed group. Serum biochemical analyses revealed transient elevations of glucose, cholesterol, total protein, ALT, AST, LDH, and CRP in OGE-fed fish, accompanied by faster recovery towards basal levels following infection. Dietary OGE supplementation also improved post-challenge survival against A. veronii infection, resulting in a relative percent survival (RPS) of 71.4%. Histopathological severity scoring further demonstrated significantly reduced renal and hepatic lesion scores in OGE-fed fish, whereas the positive control group developed progressive lesions characterised by tubular degeneration, glomerulonephritis, hepatocellular necrosis, vacuolation, and cellular hypertrophy. Overall, dietary supplementation with OGE at 3× MIC for 60 days effectively enhanced growth, immune competence, antioxidant defence, haemato-biochemical stability, and tissue integrity in L. rohita, highlighting its potential as a sustainable phytogenic feed additive in aquaculture.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
WRKY transcription factors (TFs) play regulatory roles in leaf senescence and resistance to biotic stress. Elucidation of the underlying regulatory mechanisms is crucial for improving crop performance and resistance. However, functional characterization of WRKY TFs in Lilium species is limited. Here, three Botrytis cinerea-responsive genes, LrWRKY33b, LrWRKY41b, and LrWRKY53, were cloned from L. regale Wilson and transiently expressed in tobacco to investigate the specific role of LrWRKY53 in leaf yellowing. LrWRKY53 is a 308-amino-acid cluster III protein encoded by a 927-bp open reading frame. Tissue-specific analysis showed that LrWRKY53 was significantly upregulated in senescent leaves and was responsive to salicylic acid (SA) and jasmonic acid (JA) signaling. LrWRKY53 was localized to the nucleus and demonstrated transcriptional activity in yeast cells. Transient overexpression of LrWRKY53 in lily plants induced leaf yellowing and increased susceptibility to Botrytis cinerea infection, which was suppressed on downregulation of LrWRKY53. LrWRKY53 overexpression led to significantly increased levels of hydrogen peroxide and the oxygen anion (O2-). Moreover, overexpression of LrWRKY53 in Arabidopsis promoted leaf senescence and enhanced B. cinerea susceptibility, which coincided with increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and upregulation of the associated respiratory burst oxidase homolog (AtRboh)A and AtRbohD genes. Furthermore, yeast one-hybrid and transactivation assays indicated that LrWRKY53 activated the promoter of LrRBOH1 isolated from L. regale. Collectively, this is the first report of a WRKY regulator mediating leaf senescence and B. cinerea susceptibility in lily through its effects on ROS homeostasis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are key signaling molecules in plant responses against biotic stresses, however their regulation must be controlled to prevent cellular damage. WRKY transcription factors (TFs) play role in regulating biotic stresses via oxidative stress-related signaling molecules; however, specific functions of WRKY62 and WRKY63 in oxidative stress signaling remain poorly understood. The paper aims to investigate the physiological and molecular function of WRKY62 and WRKY63 TFs in Arabidopsis thaliana under biotic stress induced by oligogalacturonides (OGs).In this study, photosynthetic performance, ROS accumulation, activities of antioxidants and selected defense-associated transcriptional responses were evaluated in wrky62 and wrky 63 mutants along with wild-type (WT) plants of A. thaliana following OGs treatment.In silico studies depicted conserved WRKYGQK motif; while phylogenetic analysis formed two clades of WRKY TFs with orthologs. Promoter analysis showed that they contain environment-related, hormone-related and light-responsive elements. Treatment of 200 μM OGs to WT and wrky mutant plants increased proline, ROS, malondialdehyde accumulation, and increased activities of enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants, with lesser increase in wrky mutants. These results support with their predicted regulatory roles in stress signaling. Furthermore, expression analysis showed upregulation of wall-associated kinase 1 and respiratory burst oxidase homolog D genes in WT plants compared to wrky mutants.These findings suggest that WRKY62 and WRKY63 are strongly associated with OGs-induced redox homeostasis and antioxidant responses under the tested experimental conditions and could serve as possible targets for enhancing stress tolerance in plants.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study evaluated whether polyethylene glycol (PEG) formulation could prolong the biological efficacy of dietary tyramine (TA) and provide sustained oral immunostimulation in Litopenaeus vannamei by examining growth performance, immune responses, disease resistance, and biogenic amine regulation during a 120-day feeding trial. Shrimp were assigned to four dietary treatments: basal diet (BD), TA, PEG, and TA + PEG. Results showed that TA significantly enhanced growth performance, exhibiting higher weight gain than all other treatment groups at 56 days and improved feed efficiency at 56 and 120 days. At 120 days, both TA and TA + PEG groups showed significantly greater weight gain than the BD group. Immune analyses revealed that TA induced rapid activation of hemocyte parameters, phenoloxidase activity, and respiratory burst during the early feeding period (7-28 days), whereas TA + PEG maintained elevated immune responses at later stages (56-120 days), indicating prolonged immunostimulation. In disease challenge tests against Vibrio alginolyticus, both TA and TA + PEG improved survival at 28 days, but only TA + PEG maintained significantly higher survival at 56 days compared with all other groups, demonstrating superior long-term protection. Biogenic amine analysis showed that TA-fed shrimp had significantly lower tyramine levels than the BD group at 28 days, whereas the TA + PEG group exhibited significantly higher tyramine levels than the BD group, while octopamine levels were consistently elevated in both TA and TA + PEG groups at 28 and 56 days. Overall, PEG formulation prolonged the oral biological efficacy of dietary tyramine, resulting in sustained immune activation and enhanced disease resistance against to V. alginolyticus.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Male sterility is a vital trait for hybrid seed production. However, the synergistic coordination between sugar metabolism and reactive oxygen species (ROS) during pollen development remains poorly understood. Here, we identified a plastid-localized hexokinase, CsHXK3, that participates in both processes in cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.). CsHXK3 is localized to the tapetum, microspores, and vascular tissues of the anther. The significant downregulation of CsHXK3 expression in cell wall invertase 3-silenced (CsCWIN3-RNAi) lines supports its essential role in downstream hexose utilization. Biochemical analysis confirmed that CsHXK3 is a glucose-preferring enzyme that is essential for hexose phosphorylation. The CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout of CsHXK3 resulted in severe male sterility, characterized by defective tapetal programmed cell death, collapsed pollen grains, and severely impaired pollen germination. Loss of CsHXK3 led to reduced accumulation of sugars (glucose, fructose, and sucrose) and starch in the anthers, accompanied by substantially downregulated expression of sugar transporter genes, including Sugars Will Eventually be Exported Transporters (CsSWEETs) and Sugar Transport Protein 13 (CsSTP13). CsHXK3 deficiency disrupted ROS homeostasis by reducing hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) levels, which was accompanied by the downregulated expression of the ROS-generating gene Respiratory Burst Oxidase Homolog B (CsRBOHB) and upregulated expression of genes encoding ROS-scavenging peroxidases. Our findings indicate that CsHXK3 may coordinate carbohydrate metabolism with ROS homeostasis during pollen development, offering insights into the metabolic regulation of male reproductive success in plants.© 2026 Society for Experimental Biology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
To address the existing gap in knowledge regarding the small subset of chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) patients who present during the neonatal period, this study aimed to characterize their clinical features, genetic profiles, and long-term prognosis.This study retrospectively selected CGD patients with neonatal onset who were diagnosed using neutrophil respiratory burst tests and genetic analysis at the Guangzhou Women and Children's Medical Center, Guangzhou Medical University, between January 2018 and September 2024.This study included nine male patients diagnosed with CGD presenting with neonatal onset. The median age at onset was 20 days (7-23 days). Pneumonia was observed in eight patients (88.9%), with Aspergillus species detected in five of these cases (62.5%). The stimulation index (SI) in the neutrophil oxidative burst assay was significantly reduced. All nine patients exhibited hemizygous variants in the CYBB gene. The median hospital stay was 42 days (15.5-48 days). Three patients died due to disease progression during their initial hospitalization. Regarding long-term prognosis, one patient was lost to follow-up at six months of age, and three patients died from severe infections during infancy. The remaining two patients underwent hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) and achieved complete clinical remission.Patients with CGD presenting in the neonatal period predominantly harbor mutations in the CYBB gene, which are associated with severe clinical manifestations. Aspergillus species are the most common pathogens in these patients. Although the prognosis is generally poor, it may be improved by hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT).© 2026 Zhang, Xu, Fan, Zhou, Li, Yang, Wu and Lu.
Baricitinib (BARI), the selective JAK1/JAK2 inhibitor demonstrates enhanced immunological activity against several inflammatory conditions. Given the complex, multiple pathogeneses of acute liver inflammatory injury (ALIs), this study investigates BARI in a non-sterile murine model of fulminant hepatic failure to address existing management gaps.Mice were exposed to a toxic challenge with a single dose of lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 80 μg/kg, ip) and D-galactosamine (D-GaIN, 800 mg/kg, ip) on day 3. BARI (10 and 20 mg/kg, po) were administered prophylactically from day 1 to day 3 with the last dose of BARI given 2 h before LPS/D-GaIN.Investigations revealed substantial lowering in liver function indices in BARI-treated groups after the pathogenic elevation in the LPS/D-GaIN group. These results coincided with remarkable reduction of necrosis and an improvement of hepatic architecture identified by the H&E staining in the BARI-treated groups compared to the disrupted histological features with substantial infiltration of inflammatory cells. The inflammatory cells observed in the LPS/ D-GaIN group represent a major source of ROS that contributes to nitrosative stress via the respiratory burst (NO), peroxidation of the PUFA of the cell membrane (MDA), and consumption of the cellular antioxidant molecules (TAC). This oxidative condition was reversed in BARI groups together with reestablishment of the antioxidant axis of Nrf2/HO-1 showing a remarkable capacity to restore redox equilibrium. The observed ameliorative potential of BARI is probably attributed to inhibition of IL-6 transcription, as confirmed by the inhibited activation of the transcription factor NF-κB, with subsequent inhibition of JAK2/STAT3. While curbing apoptosis as evidenced by reduced levels of cleaved caspase-3, BARI presented its ability to preserve the level of PI3K/AKT/ mTOR signaling.These findings highlight the protective capacity of BARI and its value for repurpose in medical management of acute liver failure.Copyright © 2026 Almutairi, Hazem and Suddek.
