The apolipoprotein E ε4 (APOE ε4) allele confers the greatest genetic risk for sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD).To identify APOE ε4-associated metabolic factors related to AD risk and to provide preliminary insights into their biological and nutritional context.We leveraged multi-omics analyses across two independent cohorts to characterize biomarkers associated with AD. The effects of metabolite × APOE ε4 interactions were tested on incident AD and the ε4-specific metabolic signatures were pinpointed. Multimodal analyses were used to test the underlying mechanisms, including neuroimaging, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and PET biomarkers within the A/T/N framework, as well as plasma proteomics combined with bioinformatics enrichment analyses.Across both cohorts, valine emerged as the only metabolite associated with a reduced risk of incident AD specifically among APOE ε4 carriers (P < 0.005). Significant interaction effects between valine and APOE ε4 were detected in both cohorts (P for meta-analyses < 0.005). Higher levels of valine were associated with greater total white matter and posterior cingulate cortex volumes, as well as with lower levels of CSF tau proteins. Higher valine levels also predicted a slower decline in FDG-PET metabolism. No association was found between valine and Aβ. Mediation analyses of plasma proteomic data suggested statistically significant mediation effects involving GFAP, NEFL, and APOE (P < 2 × 10-16).Valine is a metabolite associated with lower AD risk in APOE ε4 carriers, with potential associations with tau pathology, neurodegeneration, and neuroinflammation-related processes. As this was an observational study, causality cannot be inferred.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Low-carbohydrate and low-fat diets (LCDs and LFDs) are promoted for cardiometabolic prevention.This study examined associations of LCDs and LFDs with incident dementia and evaluated modification by genetic susceptibility.We included 5301 dementia-free adults aged ≥55 years from the Health and Retirement Study. Overall LCD and LFD indices were constructed based on macronutrient composition rankings assessed using a food frequency questionnaire in 2013-2014. Plant-based, animal-based, healthy, and unhealthy sub-scores were derived to characterize macronutrient sources and quality. Incident dementia was defined using the Langa-Weir algorithm through 2022. Genetic susceptibility was assessed using APOE genotype and Alzheimer disease polygenic risk score (AD-PRS). Cox models estimated hazard ratios (HRs).During the 9-year follow-up, 506 participants developed dementia. Greater LCD score was associated with lower dementia risk (HR per SD increment 0.90, 95% CI, 0.82, 0.99), whereas an overall LFD was not (1.05, 95% CI, 0.96, 1.15). Plant-based and healthy LCDs showed stronger inverse associations (0.85, 95% CI, 0.78, 0.94 and 0.82, 95% CI, 0.74, 0.90), while higher animal-based (1.10; 95% CI, 1.00, 1.20) and unhealthy LFDs (1.13; 95% CI, 1.04, 1.24) were linked to higher dementia risk. Associations were consistent across APOE genotype and AD-PRS strata. Higher plant-based and healthy LCDs were also associated with better global and domain-specific cognitive performance.Adherence to LCDs, particularly plant-based and higher-quality LCDs, was associated with lower dementia risk, consistently across genetic susceptibility strata. These findings underscored the importance of macronutrient quality, in addition to quantity, in promoting cognitive health.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Tumor immune barriers (TIBs) are spatially organized stromal-immune niches that restrict lymphocyte entry. To explain persistent immune-checkpoint blockade (ICB) resistance in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), we mapped TIBs and defined a peritumoral variant built from POSTN+ cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) interlaced with APOE+ tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs). This niche excluded CD8+ T cells from tumor cores, and was enriched in poor-prognosis, ICB-refractory patients. Spatial transcriptomics and single-cell profiling showed TIB regions enriched for extracellular-matrix remodeling, immunosuppressive ligand-receptor circuits, and metabolic reprogramming. Mechanistically, tumor-derived TGF-β1 activated CAFs via SMAD signaling, inducing POSTN and recruiting APOE+TAMs through integrin and chemokine axes. TAMs secreted TGF-β1 and VEGFA, amplifying stromal programs and sustaining exclusion. Blocking POSTN reprogrammed macrophages, reduced matrix-mediated suppression, and restored CD8+ infiltration. In vivo, POSTN inhibition combined with ICB boosted antitumor immunity, reduced tumor burden, and reversed immunosuppressive infiltration, nominating POSTN-directed strategies to potentiate ICB.
Neuroimaging with [18F]FDG PET can support the diagnosis of Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB), but it remains unclear how genetic factors influence metabolic phenotypes.To determine whether GBA1 and APOE ε4 status are associated with diverging [18F]FDG PET metabolic patterns in DLB.We analyzed [18F]FDG PET scans from 43 patients with DLB stratified by GBA1 and APOE ε4 status, and 35 from healthy subjects. Analyses included the cingulate island sign (CIS), regions of interest, SSM/PCA disease patterns, and a machine learning multi-class model. We evaluated the similarity of the DLB patient scans in our cohort with respect to typical DLB, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD)-like patterns.APOE ε4 status mainly influenced the CIS, with APOE ε4-negative patients showing greater preservation of the DLB-typical CIS pattern (p = 0.03) compared to APOE ε4 carriers. In contrast, GBA1 status influenced global metabolic phenotype. GBA1 carriers showed a more homogeneous PD/DLB-like metabolic pattern in the machine learning model (p = 0.003) compared to GBA1 non-carriers, whereas the latter group demonstrated greater heterogeneity and higher expression of the AD-related metabolic pattern (p = 0.004). These effects were observed along a metabolic spectrum rather than as distinct clusters.APOE ε4 and GBA1 modulate distinct aspects of the metabolic phenotype in DLB. GBA1 non-carriers and APOE ε4 carriers showed a higher rate of atypical metabolic signatures, which may contribute to biological heterogeneity and increase the risk of diagnostic misclassification.© 2026. The Author(s).
ABBV-916, an anti-amyloid immunotherapy, was evaluated in patients with early Alzheimer's disease (AD).This phase 1b/2, double-blind, placebo-controlled study consisted of two stages: multiple ascending dose (Stage A) and dose expansion (Stage B). In Stage A, patients were randomized to one of six planned cohorts to receive intravenous ABBV-916 (10 mg to 3000 mg) or placebo monthly through week 24. Assessments included amyloid PET, blood-based biomarkers, pharmacokinetics (PK), and safety. Dose selection for Stage B was to be based on results from Stage A.One hundred six patients were randomized to ABBV-916 or placebo. The 3000 mg dose was reduced to 2000 mg and subsequently to 900 mg after safety review. Dose-proportional PK were observed, and amyloid reduction was observed over 24 weeks at doses ≥300 mg. Most adverse events were non-serious amyloid-related imaging abnormalities. The program ended before dose expansion due to business considerations.Amyloid clearance rate and safety of ABBV-916 were generally comparable to approved anti-amyloid AD therapies.NCT05291234.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564156 is a review article
Vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) are essential for maintaining vascular tone and participate in all stages of atherosclerosis. The transition of VSMCs into macrophage-like cells is a major source of plaque foam cells. Nevertheless, the mechanisms regulating this phenotypic transition remain elusive. RNA Binding Motif Protein 47 (RBM47) expression was increased by more than twofold in aortas of ApoE-/- mice and was markedly elevated in RBM47+α-SMA+ double-positive cells within atherosclerotic plaques. RBM47 knockdown significantly reduced plaque burden and vascular inflammation, and suppressed VSMC-to-macrophage-like transition. In POV-PC-treated VSMCs, RBM47 knockdown inhibited VSMC proliferation, migration, inflammation, and macrophage-like transition. Mechanistically, RBM47 was found to directly bind to two specific sequences within the 3'UTR of GALNT4 mRNA and enhance its stability. Functional rescue experiments confirmed that GALNT4 mediated the effects of RBM47 on VSMC-to-macrophage-like transition. These findings suggest that RBM47 contributes to atherosclerosis by stabilizing GALNT4 mRNA and promoting VSMC-to-macrophage-like transition.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
About one third of amyloid positive, cognitively normal individuals develop mild cognitive impairment or clinical Alzheimer dementia (AD) over 5 years of follow-up. Sensitive cognitive measures, in addition to biomarkers of amyloid pathology, add to the efficiency of secondary prevention trials by identifying cognitively normal individuals at greatest risk of clinical progression. The Stages of Objective Memory Impairment (SOMI) system, based on the picture version of the Free and Cued Selective Reminding Test with immediate recall (pFCSRT+IR), predicted clinical progression in two observational studies.Our objective was to extend SOMI's findings to clinical trials using participants from the Anti-Amyloid Treatment in Asymptomatic Alzheimer's(A4) study.Eligible participants were cognitively normal, had a Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) =0, an elevated amyloid level, the pFCSRT+IR, pTau217, and longitudinal data on the CDR. Cox proportional hazards model was used to assess the association of baseline SOMI stage for clinical progression defined by time to the first of 2 consecutive CDRs > 0 or CDR>0 at last assessment. The sample was censored at 4.5 years of follow-up.Of the 911 eligible participants, mean age was 72 years, 59% were female, 62% were APOE ε4 carriers, and 37% progressed over 4.5 years. Hazard ratios (HR) for progression were estimated with follow-up time as the timescale and the SOMI 0 group as the reference. The HRs for progression across SOMI stage increased from 1.48(1.15-1.92 p=.003) for SOMI-1, to 1.83 (1.32-2.54, p ≤ 0.001) for SOMI-2, and to 3.04 (1.97-4.68, p ≤ 0.001) for SOMI 3/4. SOMI remained an independent and significant predictor when pTau217 was added to the model.SOMI's risk profile in A4 was similar to prior findings in observational cohorts. SOMI provides a low-cost, non-invasive enrichment tool for identifying individuals at risk for early cognitive decline in secondary prevention trials.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
Background and objectivesTo evaluate the safety and clinical efficacy of efgartigimod in adults with severe generalized myasthenia gravis (MG) exacerbations requiring ventilatory or enteral support.MethodsProspective, single-arm, open-label study conducted between November 2024 and April 2025. Sixteen consecutive adults with AChR- or MuSK-antibody-positive generalized MG requiring invasive or non-invasive ventilatory support or enteral feeding were enrolled; all met 2016 MG Guidelines criteria for impending myasthenic crisis. MGFA classification included Class IIIb (n=14), IIIa (n=1), and IVb (n=1). The primary endpoint was clinically meaningful improvement (CMI) in MG Activities of Daily Living (MG-ADL), defined as ≥2-point reduction from baseline at weeks 4 and 8.ResultsAll 16 participants (mean age 58.5±17.4 years; 8 women) completed eight weeks of follow-up. At week 8, 12 patients (75%; 95% CI 47-91%) achieved the primary endpoint. Median MG-ADL decreased from 11 (IQR 9-13) to 7 (IQR 6-9) (median change -5 points; p=0.003). Median QMG decreased from 21 (IQR 19-23) to 13 (IQR 11-16) (median change -7.5 points; p<0.001), with 56% meeting QMG-CMI by week 1. Among 12 participants receiving corticosteroids (mean starting dose 21.2 mg/day), 50% reduced or discontinued by week 8. No treatment-related serious adverse events occurred.DiscussionEfgartigimod produced rapid, clinically meaningful improvement in severe MG exacerbations without safety concerns. FcRn blockade may represent a practical alternative to plasma exchange or IVIG in acute care settings. Findings are limited by the absence of a control arm, which precludes definitive attribution of clinical improvement to efgartigimod alone.Clinical trials registrationNCT06688253.
The apolipoprotein E (APOE) +4 allele is a major genetic risk factor for mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and is associated with hippocampal dysfunction. However, its effects on hippocampal subregional functional connectivity (FC) and clinical manifestations in MCI patients with subsyndromal depression (MCID) remain unclear.In this study, 88 patients with MCID were stratified into APOE+4 homozygotes (n = 12), heterozygotes (n = 31), and non-carriers (n = 45). Resting-state FC of the dorsal (dHIP) and ventral hippocampus (vHIP) was examined. Mediation analyses were conducted to investigate the effect of neurological biomarkers on APOE +4 gene dose, depressive symptoms with cognitive function in MCID.Compared with non-carriers, APOE +4 homozygotes showed decreased FC between the left vHIP and the left inferior temporal gyrus and right precentral gyrus, while heterozygotes showed decreased FC between the left vHIP and the right middle frontal gyrus and left cerebellum. In addition, APOE +4 homozygotes exhibited a gene dose-dependent reduction in FC between the vHIP and the left postcentral gyrus (PoCG) compared with heterozygotes. Importantly, vHIP-PoCG FC mediated the relationship between depressive symptoms and cognitive impairment, and between APOE +4 gene dose and cognitive impairment in MCID patients.These findings suggest that reduced vHIP-PoCG FC may represent a candidate neuroimaging correlate in MCID and may underlie APOE +4-related vulnerability to depressive and cognitive symptoms. Moreover, the mediating effect of vHIP-PoCG FC may partly account for the association among APOE +4 gene dose, depressive symptoms, and cognitive impairment in MCID.Copyright © 2026 Du, Li, Wen, Du and Jiang.
SHINE syndrome is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder caused by mutations in DLG4, which encodes the postsynaptic scaffolding protein PSD-95. Key symptoms include sleep problems, hypotonia, intellectual disability, neurological disorders, and epilepsy, hence the name 'SHINE.' Here, we developed and characterized a mouse model of SHINE syndrome carrying the patient-derived DLG4V692Wfs*12/+ variant associated with a severe form of the disorder. The mutant transcript escapes nonsense-mediated decay but results in reduced PSD-95 protein expression, faithfully reproducing the molecular phenotype observed in the patient. Behavioral analyses revealed that Dlg4V692Wfs*12/+ mice recapitulate several hallmark features of SHINE syndrome, often in a sex-specific manner. Male mutants showed deficits in learning and cognitive flexibility. Dlg4V692Wfs*12/+ mice also demonstrate trends toward altered sensory processing and socialization. Male mutants exhibited an increased proportion of short sleep bouts and compensatory longer average sleep bout length, suggesting sporadic sleep reminiscent of the patient. While spontaneous seizures were not observed, future studies will test susceptibility to provoked seizures. Together, these findings establish Dlg4V692Wfs*12/+ mice as a robust and translationally relevant model that reproduces key molecular and behavioral features of SHINE syndrome. This model provides a valuable resource for elucidating the mechanisms underlying synaptic neurodevelopmental disorders and for identifying potential therapeutic strategies.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) is the gold-standard technique for characterizing nonischemic structural cardiomyopathies, offering tissue characterization and precise localization of myocardial injury.A 24-year-old man presented with recurrent chest discomfort and tachyarrhythmias. Initial CMR revealed an apical left ventricular aneurysm with imaging features consistent with a true aneurysm and normal coronary arteries, successfully treated surgically. Five years later, recurrent ventricular tachycardia prompted re-evaluation; CMR identified a new inferolateral basal aneurysm in a region previously normal on postoperative imaging. Coronary computed tomography angiography again showed normal epicardial coronary arteries. Surgical patch repair and implantable cardioverter-defibrillator placement were performed. Genetic testing revealed a pathogenic desmin (DES) c.785A>T (p.Glu262Val) variant and additional variant of unknown significance in VCL and CDH2.The identification of a pathogenic DES variant suggests a potential underlying susceptibility to structural remodeling, although causality cannot be confirmed.CMR was crucial in identifying sequential, anatomically distinct left ventricular aneurysms. The combination of recurrent nonischemic aneurysms and a pathogenic DES variant suggests a possible cytoskeletal genetic cardiomyopathy with arrhythmic risk.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
We report a 34-year-old male with childhood developmental delay, severe intellectual disability in adulthood, episodes of agitation with a previous diagnosis of schizoaffective disorder and adult-onset cognitive regression who developed progressive generalised dystonia due to a de novo DLG4 pathogenic loss-of-function variant. This case expands the phenotypic spectrum of recognised movement disorder manifestations associated with DLG4-related synaptopathy.Crown Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
NRXN1 (2p16.3) is essential for synaptic function and has been implicated in autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and other neurodevelopmental disorders. However, the phenotypic features associated with NRXN1 copy number variants remains incompletely characterised, which complicates risk assessment in genetic counselling. This case series describes five children, who were evaluated at the Genetics and Developmental Pediatrics Clinic of a tertiary care hospital in Muscat, Oman, from 2011 to 2023, with rare NRXN1 deletions (57-150 kb). All met DSM-5 criteria for ASD and had speech and language delays with cognitive impairment. Consanguinity was reported in three of the families and two had a family history of ASD. Microcephaly was present in four children and one showed facial dysmorphism. Generalised tonic-clonic seizures were present in one child and one child had comorbid attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. These findings illustrate clinical heterogeneity among children with NRXN1 deletions and supports the need for larger studies to better define genotype-phenotype relationships.© The Author(s) 2026.
The prevalence of pediatric neurological disorders has increased in recent years and has emerged as a major social concern. While genetic factors play a role, environmental factors may also contribute to these disorders, particularly exposure to harmful chemicals in the fetal environment during pregnancy. However, the concentrations of these chemicals in the fetal environment are extremely low compared with those in experimental conditions, and their influence on the development of neurological disorders after birth remains unclear. Epigenetic regulation plays a crucial role in gene expression and/or chromatin formation, ensuring normal cellular development and differentiation. The relationship between impaired epigenetic regulation and neurological disorders has been previously reported. Therefore, this study aimed to identify chemicals that disrupt epigenetic systems at detectable concentrations in pregnant mothers' serum using a human neural differentiation model. Among the 11 chemicals, including pesticides and heavy metals, exposure to octachlorodipropyl ether (S-421) altered heterochromatin formation in neural stem cells at concentrations found in maternal and umbilical cord blood serum. Additionally, exposure to several chemicals, including S-421, affected neural differentiation, leading to excessive neural fiber growth. Furthermore, S-421 exposure induced DNA hypermethylation of the neural-related genes Cadherin 2 (CDH2) and Sry-related HMG-Box gene 10 (SOX10) in neural stem cells. These findings suggest that S-421, which is present in the fetal environment, functions as an epimutagen that disrupts the epigenetic system within biologically relevant exposure levels. The established epimutagenic screening is expected to provide new insights into the relationship between prenatal chemical exposure and postnatal childhood neurological disorders.
Dengue virus (DENV) represents a growing global health challenge with billions of people at risk. Severe Dengue (SD), a complication of DENV infection that involves generalized hemorrhage, is driven, at least in part, by endothelial dysfunction. Endothelial dysfunction refers to increased permeability due to inflammation, mechanical injury and/or modification of the genetic program of endothelial cells. Previous work showed that exposure of endothelial cells to conditioned media from DENV-infected cells (CMDV) increased permeability and cellular stiffness, repressed endothelial markers and induced mesenchymal genes. However, the generality, extent, mechanism and ultimate impact of these events in the onset of SD remain elusive. Here, we integrate analysis from in vitro treatment of endothelial cells with media containing UV-inactivated DENV with computational modeling to investigate the key features of CMDV-induced endothelial alterations and their potential impact on endothelial dysfunction. We found that CMDV increased SNA1 and CDH2 expression, while suppressing endothelial genes OCLN and CDH5. Global transcriptomics analysis revealed that CMDV triggered a transient pro-inflammatory response, followed by induction of selected tissue repair genes and matrix remodeling. A non-directed asynchronous network model (NDAM-CMDV) identified IL6 and FN1 as central nodes of DENV-induced endothelial trans-differentiation, providing new molecular insights that predict the evolution of the disease and identify potential therapeutic targets.Copyright: © 2026 Alfaro-García et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Diabetic retinopathy remains a major cause of vision loss, and therapeutic strategies beyond anti-vascular endothelial growth factor treatment are still needed. This study aimed to identify genetically supported druggable targets for diabetic retinopathy and to evaluate finerenone as a candidate therapeutic intervention in experimental retinopathy. We performed druggable Mendelian randomization by integrating druggable-gene resources, blood cis-expression quantitative trait locus data, and a large genome-wide association dataset for diabetic retinopathy. Significant genes were further evaluated using colocalization analysis, functional enrichment, protein-protein interaction network analysis, drug prediction, and molecular docking. Finerenone was subsequently assessed in db/db mice and in the oxygen-induced retinopathy model. Thirty candidate druggable genes were associated with diabetic retinopathy after false discovery rate correction. Among them, CDH2 was the only candidate showing significant colocalization with diabetic retinopathy risk, with a posterior probability for a shared causal variant of 0.85. Protein-protein interaction analysis showed relatively high connectivity of CDH2 within the candidate network, and molecular docking suggested a favorable predicted interaction between finerenone and N-cadherin. In vivo, finerenone reduced avascular and neovascular areas in oxygen-induced retinopathy retinas and decreased retinal expression of TNF-α, IL-1β, and N-cadherin in db/db mice. These findings prioritize CDH2/N-cadherin as a genetically supported candidate target in diabetic retinopathy and support finerenone as a potential therapeutic candidate. The retinal protective effects of finerenone may be associated with suppression of inflammatory responses and downregulation of N-cadherin, although the direct mechanistic link requires further validation.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Zhang, Wu, Zhang, Sun and Chen.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511584 is a review article
Identify genetic variants associated with amblyopia in African American (AFR) and Admixed American (AMR) ancestry groups, expanding upon a previous studies conducted in European ancestry.Retrospective ancestry-stratified genome-wide association study (GWAS) and gene-level rare variant association study (RVAS).Participants in the All of Us Research Program from AFR and AMR ancestry groups with whole genome sequencing available. Cases and controls were distinguished based on presence of ICD-9/10/SNOMED diagnosis codes for amblyopia in electronic health records. This yielded ancestry-stratified subsets of 269 cases and 71,585 controls of AMR ancestry and 366 cases and 79,460 controls of AFR ancestry.Stratified logistic regression models adjusted for age, sex, and the top 10 principal components of genomic ancestry. GWAS was limited to common variants (mean allele frequency or MAF > 1%) and RVAS was limited to rare variants with coding sequence-altering effects (MAF < 1%, exonic only, excluded synonymous variants) aggregated at the gene level using the SKAT algorithm. Downstream analyses of the significant variants were performed using KEGG and GO pathway analysis and STRING database queries for protein-protein interactions and gene-gene interactions.Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were determined to have genome-wide significance if p < 5e-8 in the GWAS and genes were determined to have significant association with amblyopia in the RVAS if p < 8.0 x 10-4.In the AMR GWAS, 245 unique SNPs mapping to 97 distinct loci were identified, notably within neurodevelopmental and axonal guidance genes, including ROBO1, SEMA4B, PTPRD, NRXN1, and CAMK2D. The AFR GWAS identified 11 significant variants corresponding to 6 loci mapping primarily to long-noncoding RNAs and pseudogenes. The AMR RVAS identified 15 genes, including axonal transport genes (KIF1B, KIF7) and growth factor signaling genes (EGF, ERBIN, and AKAP17A). The AFR RVAS identified a single gene, DLG2, which encodes the postsynaptic protein PSD-93, which promotes the closure of the sensitive period of neuroplasticity for vision in early childhood.Genetic risk architectures for amblyopia differ across ancestries but fundamentally converge on neurodevelopmental signaling, cortical synapse assembly, and sensitive period plasticity rather than ocular structural dynamics.Copyright © 2026 American Academy of Ophthalmology, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Microarray and Next Generation Sequencing studies offer insight into gene regulation in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, analysing vast numbers of genes can make the interpretation of data difficult when considering the platforms and techniques used across different studies. In this study, transcript expression, restricted to genes related to G-protein coupled receptors, activating agonists, agonist precursors, synthesis enzymes and transduction processes, as well as stress-related chaperones and solute carriers, was assessed across nine microarray platforms and two RNAseq studies of the substantia nigra (nigral volume). Changes in gene expression associated with PD were assessed by differential expression analysis while RNAseq studies were also used to calculate transcript per million values for each of the genes within the nigral volume. This analysis showed extensive changes in nigral volume signalling for several robustly expressed signal-related transcripts including tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), WNT signalling components (SFRP1, RSPO2 and DKK3), Kallikrein Related Peptidase 6 (KLK6), neurexins (NRXN1, NRXN3), prostaglandin synthases (PTGES2, PTGES3) and fractalkine (CX3CL1). The nigral volume signalling ligand data was then cross-referenced to the most abundant G-protein coupled receptor and signal transduction transcripts in the pigmented neurons using two RNAseq and two microarray studies. There were 32 significant changes in G-protein coupled receptor and associated signalling genes in pigmented neurons from PD tissue. Of these, 30 genes were upregulated. Analysis of the transcription factors likely regulating the 30 upregulated genes indicates a stimulation of cell stress pathways, particularly the JNK-MAP kinase pathway. Following this pathway back to changes in nigral signalling transcripts indicates that deficits in at least two autocrine/paracrine signalling systems; dopamine, via Gαo-coupled dopamine D2 receptors and Dickkopf-3 (DKK3) appear likely to contribute to pigmented neuron stress in PD.Copyright: © 2026 John M. Haynes. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Astrocytes perform multifarious roles in the formation, regulation, and function of synapses in the brain, but the mechanisms involved are incompletely understood. Interestingly, astrocytes abundantly express neuroligins, postsynaptic adhesion molecules that function as synaptic organizers by binding to presynaptic neurexins. Here, we examined the function of neuroligins in astrocytes with a rigorous genetic approach that uses the conditional deletion of all major neuroligins (Nlgn1-3) in astrocytes in vivo in mice and complemented this approach by a genetic deletion of neuroligins in glial cells that are co-cultured with human neurons. Our results show that early postnatal deletion of neuroligins from astrocytes in vivo has no detectable effect on cortical or hippocampal excitatory or inhibitory synapses, and does not alter the cytoarchitecture of astrocytes when evaluated in young adult mice. Moreover, deletion of astrocytic neuroligins in co-cultures of human neurons produced no detectable consequences for the formation and function of synapses. Thus, astrocytic neuroligins are unlikely to fundamentally shape synapse formation or astrocyte morphogenesis, but likely perform other important roles that remain to be discovered.© 2023, Golf et al.
Adverse historical conditions shape biodiversity by driving demographic shifts and genomic divergence through evolutionary mechanisms. Selective pressures foster adaptive strategies in response to extreme environments, with hibernation as a key example. The expression of torpor and its various forms exemplify such adaptations. However, the genomic basis of these processes and the influence of evolutionary forces, particularly natural selection, remain largely unexplored. The Monito del Monte (Dromiciops), a small marsupial considered a living fossil, exhibits torpor, hibernation, and aestivation as key survival strategies. In this study, we investigated genomic adaptations in Dromiciops and their potential relationship with the physiological state of torpor and hibernation. Historical climate change, along with varying expansions and bottlenecks, appears to have shaped the genetic diversity and local adaptation of Dromiciops. At the ancestral Dromiciops node, positive selection was detected in PFKFB2, LAMP3, OTX1, and RAPSN, alongside enrichment in the MAPK signaling and steroid hormone biosynthesis pathways-both previously implicated in hibernation physiology. Gene family expansions further converged on mitochondrial maintenance and redox regulation. At the species level, D. gliroides and D. bozinovici show no overlap in positively selected genes: D. gliroides presents additional signals in LSS and RASL11B, related to sterol and stress-response metabolism, while D. bozinovici shows signatures of broad thermal stress tolerance through HSPA2. These findings underscore unique adaptations possibly linked to hibernation in Dromiciops and species-specific differences.© 2026 The Author(s). Ecology and Evolution published by British Ecological Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Abnormal excitatory synaptic function plays a critical role in major depressive disorder. In this study, we investigated the role of the A3 adenosine receptor (A3AR), previously implicated in affective disorders, in excitatory synapse formation within prefrontal cortical circuits. Using a corticosterone-induced mouse model of depression, we found that the adenosine receptor activator 3'-deoxyadenosine (3'dA) produced antidepressant-like effects and selectively increased A3AR expression, whereas fluoxetine did not. 3'dA also restored the synaptic organizers neuroligin-2 (NLGN2) and neurexin-2 and elevated BDNF, excitatory synaptic markers (synapsin-1, PSD-95, and GluR1), and dendritic spine density in the PFC. Notably, enhanced NLGN2 immunoreactivity co-localized with astrocytes exclusively in 3'dA-treated mice but not in fluoxetine-treated mice. Pharmacological blockade of A3AR with MRS-1191 prevented the 3'dA-induced behavioral and molecular changes in this corticosterone-induced depressive-like mouse model. Together, our findings identify A3AR as a key regulator of NLGN2 expression and excitatory synapse formation and suggest a potential target for antidepressant therapies.© 2026 The Authors.
Oxytocin (OXT)- and arginine vasopressin (AVP)-synthesizing neurons are traditionally classified into magnocellular and parvocellular types based on their projection targets. However, molecular markers that reliably distinguish these neuronal subtypes across hypothalamic regions remain undefined. Recent single-cell transcriptomic studies suggest that Calb1 and Reln are differentially expressed in magnocellular and parvocellular OXT-synthesizing neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN). Whether this molecular distinction extends to OXT neurons beyond the PVN or to AVP neurons has remained unclear. Fluorogold (FG) was administered to adult male C57BL/6J mice via tail vein injection. Calbindin 1 and reelin expression in OXT- and AVP-synthesizing neurons in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), PVN, supraoptic nucleus (SON), and retrochiasmatic supraoptic nucleus (SOR) was examined by immunocytochemistry. FG-labeled neurons were distributed in the PVN, SON, and SOR. Most OXT-immunoreactive (ir) neurons in the anterior PVN, SON, and SOR were FG-positive, whereas many OXT-ir neurons in the posterior PVN were FG-negative. Most FG-positive OXT-ir neurons showed calbindin 1 immunoreactivity. Two-thirds of FG-negative OXT-ir neurons in the posterior PVN expressed reelin. Almost all Reln-positive OXT-ir neurons were FG-negative. Nearly all AVP-ir neurons were FG-positive, and more than half expressed calbindin 1, whereas reelin expression was not detected. In corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH)-Venus knock-in mice, AVP-ir neurons and CRH-positive neurons were not colocalized within the PVN, and AVP-ir and CRH-positive fibers were localized to distinct layers of the median eminence. These findings indicate that AVP expression in parvocellular CRH neurons was below the detection threshold of the methods used in this study. Calbindin 1 serves as a marker for magnocellular OXT neurons, whereas reelin identifies a subset of parvocellular OXT neurons. Given that the detected AVP-ir neurons were predominantly magnocellular, calbindin 1 labels a subset of this magnocellular AVP population. This molecular distinction provides a framework for distinguishing OXT- and AVP-expressing neuronal populations and for examining their respective roles in endocrine and behavioral regulation.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Neuroendocrinology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Society for Neuroendocrinology.
Congenital myasthenic syndromes (CMS) are inherited disorders caused by defects of the neuromuscular junction. Both the definitive diagnosis and the treatment are structured in accordance with genetic analysis. We aimed to investigate the clinical and genetic characteristics of CMS in a pediatric cohort from Southeastern Türkiye, a region with high rates of consanguineous marriage. The clinical features and demographic data of fifteen patients (9 girls, 6 boys) with CMS were evaluated. Genetic analysis was performed using clinical exome sequencing. The mean age of patients was 7.4 ± 4.1 years, and the mean age at diagnosis was 5.8 ± 4 years. Symptoms were present from birth in most patients. The latest age at symptom onset was 11 years. The patients presented with ptosis, ophthalmoplegia, muscle weakness, frequent falls, collapse, respiratory distress, dysphagia, and laryngomalacia. Homozygous variants in COLQ (11/15, 73%), CHAT (1), DOK7 (1), RAPSN (1), and a compound heterozygous variant in MYO9A (1) were identified. The same variant, c.444G > A, was detected in all patients with COLQ variants except one, in whom the c.706C > T variant was identified. Epilepsy was observed in three patients (two with COLQ and one with CHAT variants). CMS in Southeastern Türkiye is predominantly caused by COLQ variants, particularly the recurrent c.444G > A nonsense variant, likely reflecting a founder effect in this region with a consanguineous marriage rate of 43%.Copyright © 2026 European Paediatric Neurology Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42383519 is a review article
Cerebral angiogenesis is essential for brain development and the maintenance of homeostasis. The secreted glycoprotein Reelin has been implicated in this process; however, the underlying mechanisms, particularly its functional relationship with the axon guidance molecule Netrin-4, remain incompletely understood. In this study, we used Reln⁻/⁻ mouse models and bEnd.3 brain microvascular endothelial cells. Experimental approaches included western blotting, immunofluorescence, quantitative PCR (qPCR), in vitro tube formation assays, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), and dual-luciferase reporter assays. Functional validation was performed by intracerebroventricular injection of recombinant Reelin protein, the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin, and recombinant Netrin-4. Compared with wild-type mice, Reln⁻/⁻ mice exhibited significantly reduced Netrin-4 expression and markedly impaired angiogenic capacity. These defects were rescued by exogenous Reelin through the Dab1/mTOR/HIF-1α pathway. Direct supplementation with Netrin-4 similarly restored angiogenesis. In vitro experiments confirmed the conservation of this pathway, and ChIP analysis together with luciferase reporter assays demonstrated direct binding of HIF-1α to the Netrin-4 promoter. In summary, this study identifies the Reelin-Dab1-mTOR-HIF-1α-Netrin-4 axis as a signaling pathway that is associated with cerebral angiogenesis during development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Accelerated CHRN/AChR/nicotinic acetylcholine receptor internalization induced by auto-antibodies impairs neuromuscular junction transmission and contributes to myasthenia gravis (MG), a typical autoimmune disease. Although CHRN internalization is well established in MG pathogenesis, the downstream cellular events, especially those related to autophagy, remain poorly described. Here, we report that RAPSN/rapsyn, an intracellular CHRN-binding protein essential for its clustering, accumulates as aggregates in experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG) mice. In CHRN antibody-treated myotubes, RAPSN dissociates from internalized CHRN and forms aggregates due to exposure of its hydrophobic domains. These aggregates in turn impair the trafficking and membrane incorporation of newly synthesized CHRN, thereby exacerbating CHRN loss. Notably, the accumulation of RAPSN aggregates facilitates formation of HSPA/HSP70-BAG3 complex, which recognizes and transports the aggregates along microtubules to form perinuclear aggresomes for subsequent lysosomal degradation. Accordingly, pharmacological inhibition or knockdown of HSPA-BAG3 complex increases RAPSN aggregation, which participates in enhanced CHRN loss and worsened muscle weakness in EAMG mice. This study identifies HSPA-BAG3 aggrephagy as a protective mechanism that clears RAPSN aggregates to maintain CHRN integrity and suggests a potential therapeutic strategy for MG.Abbreviation: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; AAV: adeno-associated virus; CASA: chaperone-assisted selective autophagy; CHRN/nicotinic acetylcholine receptor: cholinergic receptor nicotinic; CHRN-ab: CHRN antibodies; CHX: cycloheximide; CMAP: compound muscle action potential; CQ: chloroquine; EAMG: experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; GAS: gastrocnemius; MAP1LC3A/B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 alpha/beta; MG: myasthenia gravis; NMJ: neuromuscular junction; Rapa: rapamycin; RAPSN/rapsyn: receptor associated protein of the synapse; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; TA: tibialis anterior; αBTX-A594: α-bungarotoxin-Alexa-594.
Coordinated mammalian locomotion relies on spinal circuits where DMRT3 regulates strides and alternative gaits. However, DMRT3 does not explain differences between the Colombian paso horse breed's specialized gaits, Colombian trocha and Colombian trot. We used inertial sensors and machine learning to develop accurate phenotyping (n = 225 horses), before performing genome-wide association analysis (n = 85 horses, 670K array). We identified a 2.43 Mb quantitative trait locus (QTL) on ECA16, where haplotypes featuring lead variants (rs1147402472, p = 1.95 × 10-8; rs1136628503, p = 8.52 × 10-8) explained 48.6% of gait variance (p < 0.001). The QTL contained 11 genes linked to neurodevelopment and muscle regulation, including LHFPL4, SRGAP3, and ATP2B2. Interaction analyses suggested a functional link between the latter genes. rs1147402472-C was common across diverse gaited horse breeds, but the Colombian trot-specific haplotype (rs1147402472-C/rs1136628503-T) was absent elsewhere. These findings demonstrate that fine-scale genetic differentiation at ECA16 underlies neural adaptations distinguishing complex locomotor traits and highlight the power of AI-assisted phenotyping in genomics.© 2026 The Authors.
Synaptic proteins are critical for maintaining healthy neuronal transmission but can also drive prion-like trans-synaptic spreading of pathological aggregated proteins found in many neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease. Recognizing technological limitations for in situ identification of synaptic proteins, we built a modular synaptic chimeric antigen receptor (synCAR) for capture of synaptic proteins by fusing a single-chain antibody fragment with the post-synaptic protein neurolignin-1 (NLGN1). Using our synCAR platform, we show that anchoring the tau antibody PHF1 to the synapse effectively captures pathogenic synaptic tau species. Expressing PHF1 synCAR at synapses in mouse primary and human neuronal tau seeding models results in increased tau aggregation, likely due to concentrating pathological tau seeds at the synapse. These findings provide the first published method for the isolation and modulation of synaptic protein function within relevant biological contexts, highlighting synCAR as a relevant instrumental platform for synaptic protein research and neurodegenerative disease drug development.© 2026 The Authors.
Glioma pathophysiology is robustly regulated by interactions with neurons. Key to these interactions is the role of neuroligin-3 (NLGN3), a synaptic adhesion molecule shed in response to neuronal activity that functions as a paracrine factor crucial for glioma growth. Here we elucidate the mechanistic pathway whereby shed NLGN3 interacts with glioma and their normal glial counterparts. NLGN3 binds to chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan 4 (CSPG4, also known as NG2) on both glioma and healthy oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs), facilitating CSPG4 shedding by ADAM10. NLGN3-CSPG4 interactions alter membrane tension, thereby activating mechanotransducers, primarily PIEZO1, leading to membrane depolarization and subsequent ADAM10-mediated CSPG4 shedding. The NLGN3-CSPG4-PIEZO1 pathway maintains OPCs in an undifferentiated, stem-like state and promotes glioma proliferation, underscoring its dual roles in healthy and malignant contexts.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mitochondrial dynamics and metabolic homeostasis are pivotal for the aggressive progression of glioblastoma (GBM); however, how membrane-bound organelles modulate mitochondrial remodeling remains unclear. In this study, we identified LRRC4 as a Golgi-anchored tumor suppressor that coordinates a novel vesicle-to-mitochondrial axis to inhibit tumor growth. Using single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA), we established a mitoDynamic score and identified LRRC4 as a key downregulated regulator associated with poor prognosis. Mechanistic analyses combining transmission electron microscopy, Blue Native PAGE, showed that LRRC4 engages AP2A1-containing clathrin-coated vesicles in the Golgi apparatus and redirects them to the inner mitochondrial membrane. This targeted vesicular recruitment disrupted the MICOS complex, suppressing Mic60 expression, resulting in cristae collapse, respiratory chain destabilization, and impaired oxidative phosphorylation. Functional assays and xenograft models have demonstrated that structural and metabolic remodeling triggers excessive mitophagy, depletes cellular metabolic fitness, and suppresses GBM proliferation and invasion. Integrating mitoDynamic scoring with mechanistic and rescue experiments established the LRRC4-AP2A1-Mic60 axis as a validated mitochondrial vulnerability. Collectively, these findings revealed a previously unrecognized Golgi mitochondria crosstalk, demonstrated that clathrin-coated vesicles can act as active modulators of mitochondrial architecture, and suggested that targeting Golgi-derived clathrin-coated vesicle-mediated mitochondrial remodeling is a novel therapeutic strategy for GBM.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
DNA methylation is an epigenetic mechanism that regulates gene function and plays a crucial role in adaptability traits. Unlike commercial chickens, which have been bred for uniform production performance, desi chickens experience varying environmental pressures, shaping their genetic diversity and survival strategies through organized methylation patterns. We compared global DNA methylation profiles between indigenous (Al, Kn, Nb, and Nn) and commercial chickens (Br and Ly) to identify epigenetic factors. In this study, a single cytosine base modification was observed globally in all six breeds, ranging from 11,935,490 to 44,572,168. Each indigenous and commercial chicken breed exhibited a unique methylation pattern. Further analysis revealed that more than 6979 differentially methylated regions (DMRs) were identified in each indigenous breed compared to the commercial layer and broiler. The identified DMR-associated genes (DMGs) revealed various adaptational processes in each breed. The chicken breeds studied showed different levels of methylation across various genes, indicating breed-specific differences. They were inferred as epigenetic markers for traits, which makes them differ between the breeds, like cognitive behavioral (LINGO1, EFNB1 and NFIA), feed intake (CUX1), thermal stress adaptation (CDC37 and ELOVL5), egg production (RUNX1, and CBFA2T3), hyperpigmentation (SLC31A1), osmotic stress adaptation (SIK1 and Rasd1), growth and carcass quality (LINGO1, PTK7, GPHN, LDB2 and FGF14) and feathering pattern (EFNB1). This study extends our understanding of the epigenetic regulatory mechanisms across different chicken breeds and highlights the value of the environmental adaptability of indigenous germplasm. Finally, we suggest that validating these markers by integrating transcriptomic, phenotypic, and ecological data will be critical for the comprehensive integration of epigenetic and phenotypic data into breeding and conservation biology.© 2026. The Author(s).
Neuronal aging is accompanied by changes in chromatin regulation, but the gene-level mechanisms that connect epigenetic remodeling to circuit decline remain incompletely defined.We performed a secondary, Activity-by-Contact (ABC)-inspired analysis of histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27me3) signal tracks from purified mouse forebrain neurons in GSE190102, focusing on the contrast between young adult neurons at 3 months and old neurons at 24 months, with 12-month samples used to evaluate age trajectories.We identified 1,500 age-associated region-gene assignments, with a strong predominance of H3K27me3 gain. In total, 1,383 assignments, representing 92% of the interpreted set, showed gain, whereas 117, representing 8%, showed loss. The strongest gain module involved clustered protocadherin genes, including multiple Pcdhb genes, Pcdhgb4, Pcdhgc3, and Pcdha7. A second gain module involved synaptic maintenance and neurotransmission genes, including Nlgn3, Cask, Dlg4, Dlg3, Syn1, Chrm2, Chrna5, and Chrnb4. These changes were accompanied by a smaller loss module involving chromatin, transcriptional, lysosomal, and stress-response candidates, including Med14, Med12, Atp6ap2, and Heph. Functional enrichment highlighted calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion, cell-adhesion molecules, neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction, and cholinergic synapse pathways.These results support a working model in which aging neurons undergo Polycomb redistribution rather than simple uniform loss of H3K27me3. In this model, focal hyper-repression of neuronal identity and synaptic scaffold programs may reduce circuit precision, while selected loss of repression at stress and transcriptional regulators may permit compensatory or maladaptive rewiring. We propose a compact candidate 14-gene Synaptic Epigenetic Aging Signature as a practical biomarker and screening panel for cognitive aging, neuromodulatory treatment stratification, and future locus-specific epigenome-editing studies.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Axon myelination can tune neuronal circuits through placement and modulation of different patterns of myelin sheaths on distinct types of axons. How myelin formation is coordinated on distinct axon classes remains largely unknown. Recent work indicates neuronal activity and vesicle release promote myelin formation, and myelin-producing oligodendrocytes express canonical postsynaptic factors that potentially facilitate oligodendrocyte-axon interaction for myelin ensheathment. Here, we examined whether the inhibitory postsynaptic scaffold protein Gephyrin (Gphn) mediates selective myelination of specific axon classes in the larval zebrafish. Consistent with this possibility, Gphn was enriched in myelin on GABAergic and glycinergic axons. In gphnb deficient larval oligodendrocytes, myelin sheaths were longer and the frequency of myelin placement on GABAergic axons was reduced. Collectively, our results indicate that oligodendrocyte lineage cells use Gphn to promote myelin formation on GABAergic axons and limit myelin sheath length.© 2026. The Author(s).
Neurexin (nrxn) genes encode synaptic cell-adhesion molecules that have been repetitively associated with neurodevelopmental and mental disorders. While the zebrafish animal model offers tremendous advantages for dissecting neural development/function, no complete loss-of-function (LOF) nrxn zebrafish models are currently available. In this study, we generated the first collection of zebrafish knockout lines for each nrxn gene, with mutations ranging from transmembrane domain- to full genomic locus-deletions. Surprisingly, all homozygous lines developed normally, presenting no gross neurodevelopmental or obvious early behavioural abnormalities. However, this absence of early phenotypes translated into profound, paralog-specific behavioural alterations emerging during later developmental stages. All neurexin knockouts affected mating behaviour, complicating the generation and maintenance of homozygous lines. Except for this shared behavioural alteration, nrxn1, but not nrxn2 or nrxn3, led to marked changes in affiliative social behaviour and aggression. In contrast, nrxn2 mutants exhibited severe anxiety-like behaviours, including bottom-dwelling and repetitive freezing/seizure events. Strikingly, nrxn1 full-locus deletion mutants showed opposing behaviour, spending most of their time near the surface. The two also displayed opposite responses to open/closed field transitions; confinement alleviated nrxn2 anxiety but enhanced nrxn1 surface-dwelling. Meanwhile, nrxn3 mutants behaved normally in all our initial tests. In summary, our study introduces a complete set of zebrafish mutants covering the whole nrxn gene family, presenting striking adult behavioural alterations despite the absence of noticeable early defects; echoing the delayed onset of human psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia. This work confirms the value of zebrafish to study mental disorders and unlock a novel platform to unravel the pathogenic contribution of neurexins and associated subtle neurodevelopmental changes/timing that drive the emergence of mental illnesses.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42312194 is a review article
While human umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hUC-MSCs) hold great potential for spinal cord injury (SCI) treatment, their intrinsic mechanisms are not fully understood. Given their multipotency, especially their neuronal transdifferentiation potential, we hypothesized that investigating the in situ transcriptional reprogramming of transplanted hUC-MSCs within the spinal cord microenvironment (SCE) could shed light on crucial genes for SCI repair.DiD-labeled hUC-MSCs were intrathecally transplanted in rats with or without sub-acute spinal cord bilateral hemisection injury and subsequently retrieved for RNA-seq. Comparative analysis of the transcriptomes of hUC-MSCs and functional screenings in vitro and in vivo, including heterologous synapse formation assay, transplantation of MSCs with gene overexpression or knockdown, AAV-mediated neuron-specific gene expression in SCI rats, behavioral tests, and motor evoked potentials (MEPs) were performed to identify the novel target gene Neuroligin 3 (Nlgn3). Immunoprecipitation followed by mass spectrometry (IP-Mass spec), cell aggregation assay, and immuno-electron microscopy were used to reveal the functional interacting partners of Nlgn3. Moreover, RT-qPCR, western blotting, immunofluorescence staining, and co-IP were used to elucidate the underlying mechanism.Using RNA-seq and functional screening, we identified NLGN3 as a neuronal cell adhesion molecule (CAM) activated by the SCE in transplanted hUC-MSCs to promote therapeutic efficacy. Critically, the neuron-specific restoration of Nlgn3 in the injured spinal cord alone was sufficient to achieve a comparable therapeutic effect. Mechanistically, Nlgn3 recruits the synaptic vesicle proteins Sar1a and Hspa8 to modulate synaptic strength. The combinatorial restoration of Nlgn3 with either Sar1a or Hspa8 synergistically enhanced SCI repair, highlighting the functional importance of this noncanonical Nlgn3-Sar1a-Hspa8 axis.This work unveils a novel therapeutic role for Nlgn3 in SCI treatment, demonstrating its ability to both enhance MSC transplantation efficacy and directly promote neural circuit reconstruction. We also propose a combinatorial strategy of targeting the noncanonical Nlgn3-centered protein complex. Furthermore, our study provides a valuable framework for uncovering novel therapeutic targets by investigating the transcriptional reprogramming of transplanted MSCs within injury microenvironments.© 2026. The Author(s).
Exposure to high-energy charged particles like ¹⁶O ions poses risks to brain function during deep space travel. This study examined long-term neuroinflammatory and synaptic changes in rats 6 months after low-dose total-body ¹⁶O irradiation (1 cGy and 10 cGy), focusing on the frontal cortex, striatum, hippocampus, and thalamus. Using Western blotting, qPCR, and digital PCR, we assessed expression levels of neuroinflammatory (GFAP and IBA1) and synaptic (GAP43, PSD95, SYP, SPINO, and GPHN) markers. Correlation analyses to examine the relationship between the assessed molecular changes and behavioral performance in social odor recognition and psychomotor vigilance tasks were performed. In the hippocampus, 1 cGy exposure resulted in increased IBA1, GAP43, and PSD95, whereas 10 cGy exposure led to decreased GFAP and increased PSD95, SPINO, and GPHN. In the striatum, synaptic markers were elevated after both 1 cGy and 10 cGy exposure, though region-specific differences in gene expression levels were observed (qPCR/dPCR). In the frontal cortex, no changes across any of the targeted markers were detected, except for increased SYP in 1 cGy rats. In the thalamus, GFAP was reduced in 10 cGy rats, while GAP43 was increased in 1 cGy and PSD95 was increased in both 1 cGy and 10 cGy exposed animals. Correlation analyses revealed significant associations between molecular changes and behavior, including a negative correlation between hippocampal SYP protein levels and social memory performance in the 1 cGy group. Taken together, these results suggest dose- and region-specific brain responses to low-dose 16O ion exposure-a vital component of space radiation-culminating in an enhanced synaptic remodeling and possible neurological alterations. The data also highlight potential molecular mechanisms underlying region-based (i.e., striatum) cognitive vulnerability following low-dose particle exposure.© 2026. The Author(s).
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the simultaneous disruption of interconnected molecular pathways, yet the structural mechanisms underlying this transcriptional disintegration remain poorly characterized. To address this, we constructed condition-specific gene co-expression networks from DLPFC bulk RNA-seq data, using a mutual-information (MI) framework with infomap community partitioning. Functional enrichment of network communities via Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) identified GABAergic signaling, SNARE complex assembly, Synaptogenesis, and neurexin and neuroligin interactions as significantly overrepresented pathways. Integration of node degree with condition-specific average expression revealed coordinated topological centralization of key synaptic genes-including NRXN2, LRRTM1, DLGAP3, and SHANK1-alongside a widespread transcriptional downregulation in GABAergic and Synaptogenesis modules. A shortest-path analysis revealed a consistent expansion of intra-pathway distances across all evaluated canonical pathways in AD, a pattern statistically consistent with reduced local co-expression cohesion. These findings reframe Late-Onset Alzheimer's Disease (LOAD) as an active structural-rewiring process, in which the observed topological centralization pattern seems to be consistent with a consolidation of co-expression around synaptic components, though we cannot exclude that shifts in cellular composition contribute to this signal in bulk RNA-seq data.
Leptomeningeal disease (LMD) is a devastating complication of metastatic breast cancer that leads to severe neurologic symptoms and a poor prognosis. Current treatment options, including radiation and intrathecal chemotherapy, offer limited efficacy and are associated with significant toxicity. Generally, systemic therapy in LMD poorly penetrates the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Leveraging the L-type amino acid transporter 1 (LAT1) represents a unique therapeutic strategy, as LAT1 facilitates transport of medications across the BBB, and is also highly expressed in metastatic cancer cells. QBS72S is a first-in-class BBB-penetrant bifunctional molecule targeting overexpression of LAT1 to selectively eliminate cancer cells. It has shown preclinical efficacy in a mouse model of breast cancer LMD.This Phase 2a, single-arm, open-label clinical trial (NCT05305365) investigated the safety, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentration, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary efficacy of QBS72S in participants with breast cancer brain metastases. Secondary endpoints included progression-free survival, overall survival, and duration of response. Correlative analyses included LAT1 immunohistochemistry and CSF cell-free RNA sequencing.In this analysis, we report results from breast cancer patients with LMD (n = 10) treated with QBS72S. QBS72S was reliably detected in CSF, adequately tolerated, and two participants exhibited long-term radiographic stability or improvement lasting 6-7 months.These early findings support further investigation of QBS72S as a targeted therapy for LMD, addressing an urgent unmet need in metastatic breast cancer.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Neuro-Oncology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Niemann-Pick type C1 (NPC1) disease is a rare neurodegenerative disorder linked to defective cholesterol biosynthesis. Because olfactory dysfunction frequently precedes clinical manifestations in neurodegenerative conditions, we investigated whether the olfactory system might provide early insights into disease processes in NPC1. Using a knock-in mouse model carrying the human I1061T mutation, we investigated the olfactory epithelium in wild-type, heterozygous, and mutant mice to analyze neurodegeneration at 36 and 60 days after birth. Mutant mice showed reduced density of mature olfactory sensory neurons, increased apoptosis, and infiltration of macrophage/microglia. These structural alterations were accompanied by reduced odor-evoked responses and impaired odor-guided behavior. Finally, we assessed olfaction in a family with a child carrying biallelic NPC1 mutations and two heterozygous carrier parents, finding hyposmia of different severity in all three individuals. Our work extensively characterized the OE structurally and functionally, proposing it as a sentinel to monitor disease progression.© 2026 The Author(s).
Blown pack spoilage (BPS) is a major concern to the meat industry and is primarily caused by Clostridium estertheticum, a psychrophilic spore-forming, anaerobic bacterium. We investigated the survival mechanisms of C. estertheticum and the efficacy of various sanitizers against C. estertheticum spores. When cultured alone or with Pseudomonas poae at 10°C in a biofilm reactor, viable C. estertheticum vegetative cells were recovered only sporadically from stainless steel coupons. However, they were consistently and constantly recovered from planktonic cultures under various conditions for up to 96 h. Spores attached to stainless steel coupons (5.76 ± 0.03 log CFU/cm2) were treated with water, PowerFoam, BioDestroy, peroxyacetic acid, UV-C LED, or plasma-activated water. BioDestroy and UV-C reduced (P < 0.05) the spore counts by ≥ 4.5 log units, while the other treatments had reductions, if at all, by < 1 log. Heating at 60 or 80°C before UV-C exposure did not affect spore reduction. When C. estertheticum spores were co-cultured with P. poae, Leuconostoc gelidum or Leu. gelidum and Latilactobacillus sakei in biofilm reactors at 10°C for up to 96 h, recovery of spores from coupons was not affected by incubation time or companion cultures. The companion cultures all developed biofilms. Treatments with BioDestroy or UV-C reduced viable spore counts in biofilms to mostly below the detection level. Interestingly, P. poae and Lat. sakei may sensitize spores to subsequent treatment. Genome analysis revealed genes encoding biosynthetic gene clusters in these two strains, in particular bacteriocins.Copyright © 2026 Ng, Tran, Wang, Zhang and Yang were federal government employees when the work was conducted. As such, the crown right should be used. Crown copyright @ His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, 2026.
Cholesterol transport plays a pivotal role in regulating development and metabolism in Caenorhabditis elegans, a sterol-auxotrophic organism. Here, we identify the nematode cholesterol-binding protein STARD3 and provide structural and functional evidence for its role in non-vesicular sterol mobilization. Using biophysical and high-resolution structural methods, we show that the START domain (Ce-START) of C. elegans STARD3 binds cholesterol with high affinity and adopts a fold conserved with its human ortholog. Crystal structures of Ce-START in both apo and cholesterol-bound forms reveal key determinants of sterol recognition and conformational changes upon ligand binding. Functional analysis of a C. elegans stard3 knockout strain demonstrates that STARD3 is essential for cholesterol trafficking under sterol-limited conditions and that it genetically interacts with the NPC1/NPC2 pathway to sustain cholesterol mobilization. Collectively, these results establish STARD3 as a crucial cholesterol transporter in C. elegans and underscore the evolutionary conservation of START-domain proteins, reinforcing the utility of C. elegans as a model for studying intracellular cholesterol dynamics.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sepsis and acute kidney injury (AKI) are life-threatening conditions often coexisting as sepsis-associated AKI (S-AKI). However, their shared molecular mechanisms and immune heterogeneity remain unclear. This study aims to identify robust diagnostic biomarkers applicable to both conditions and to elucidate their diverse immune microenvironments using integrated transcriptomic approaches.Transcriptomic datasets for sepsis and AKI were analyzed, with multiple cohorts used for training and external validation. Differential gene expression and WGCNA identified key modules, while LASSO and Random Forest algorithms screened shared hub genes. A diagnostic nomogram was constructed and evaluated using ROC and decision curve analyses. Single-cell RNA sequencing data were further analyzed to determine cellular localization, functional pathways, and intercellular communication.Four hub genes (FBXO21, FLOT1, TMC6, and KLRB1) were identified as robust diagnostic biomarkers for both sepsis and AKI, demonstrating strong predictive performance across validation cohorts. Single-cell analysis revealed that these genes were enriched in specific immune cell populations and injured renal cells, and were closely associated with T-cell activation and immune signaling pathways. Cell-cell communication analysis further inferred distinct ligand-receptor interactions that may underlie immune crosstalk in both conditions.We identified a reliable four-gene diagnostic signature shared by sepsis and AKI and characterized their shared immune heterogeneity and inferred intercellular communication networks. These findings provide potential targets for early diagnosis and therapeutic intervention in sepsis-associated renal injury.Copyright © 2026 Huang, Fei, Huang, Huang and Lu.
Despite the established role of endo-epicardial dissociation in the substrate of persistent atrial fibrillation (PsAF), the underlying mechanisms within the 3D atrial wall that lead to this phenomenon are not fully understood. Using personalized digital twin (DT) technology, we investigated the association between 3D transmurally heterogenous fibrosis architecture and endo-epicardial dissociation in PsAF. LGE-MRI scans from 21 PsAF patients were used to generate bi-atrial DTs. Following virtual induction of reentry using programmed stimulation, a comparative analysis of the electrophysiological and structural properties of reentry-sustaining regions (RRs, n = 91) against controls (non-RRs, n = 73) was performed. RRs exhibited significantly greater endo-epicardial dissociation compared to non-RRs, evidenced by larger differences in median transmembrane potential (60.1 vs. 4.1 mV, P < 0.001) and local activation times (55 vs. 14.9 ms, P < 0.001). Lower dice similarity coefficient (DSC) was observed in RRs compared with non-RRs (median 0.731 (IQR 0.660-0.812) versus 0.880 (IQR 0.642-0.971), respectively; P = 0.0009). In multivariable logistic regression, fibrosis percentage, transmembrane voltage difference, and DSC were independently associated with RR status, whereas LAT difference was not. Our findings reveal that 3D transmurally heterogeneous fibrosis architecture is associated with endo-epicardial electrical dissociation in PsAF, with increased dissociation observed in regions harbouring reentrant circuits. Our findings advance the mechanistic understanding of PsAF arrhythmogenesis and provide a rationale for developing novel mapping and ablation strategies that account for the transmural complexity of the atrial substrate. KEY POINTS: Persistent atrial fibrillation (PsAF) remains a significant clinical challenge, often marked by high rates of post-ablation recurrence. While endo-epicardial dissociation is a known factor in the PsAF substrate, the underlying mechanisms within the 3D atrial wall that lead to this phenomenon remain incompletely understood. In this study, we utilized personalized digital twin technology derived from LGE-MRI scans of 21 patients to investigate the association between transmurally heterogeneous fibrosis and endo-epi electrical dissociation. Our findings reveal that 3D transmurally heterogeneous fibrosis architecture is associated with endo-epicardial electrical dissociation in PsAF. In multivariable analysis, fibrosis percentage, transmembrane voltage difference, and DSC were independently associated with reentrant activity. This work not only advances the mechanistic understanding of PsAF arrhythmogenesis but also suggests that successful clinical ablation strategies must account for the full 3D complexity of the atrial wall to target hidden intramural and epicardial pathways.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Physiology © 2026 The Physiological Society.
Local ablation therapies (LATs), including radiofrequency (RFA) and microwave ablation (MWA), are established for small hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) as standard treatment. External beam radiotherapy (EBRT), including stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) and proton beam therapy (PBT), has emerged as a non-invasive alternative; however, direct comparative evidence remains limited. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis comparing the efficacy and safety of EBRT versus LAT in patients with HCC.PubMed/MEDLINE, Embase, Cochrane Library, and KoreaMed were searched through June 2025 per PRISMA guidelines. Eligible studies included retrospective or prospective comparisons of EBRT (SBRT/PBT) with LAT (RFA/MWA) reporting recurrence or survival. Hazard ratios (HRs) and odds ratios (ORs) were pooled using random-effects models.Twelve studies (2,768) patients were included. Compared with LAT, EBRT was associated with significantly lower local recurrence (OR 0.36, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.25-0.50; P<0.001; I² = 0%) and improved local progression-free survival (HR 0.41, 95% CI 0.34-0.50; P <0.001), regardless of tumor size. Progression-free survival favored EBRT (HR 0.80, 95% CI 0.64-1.00; P = 0.049), whereas overall survival did not differ significantly between modalities (HR 1.24, 95% CI 0.83-1.84; P = 0.291). Severe toxicities (grade ≥3) were comparable between groups for acute (OR 0.78, 95% CI 0.27-2.24) and late events (OR 1.29, 95% CI 0.85-1.95).EBRT was associated with better local control without significant differences in survival or toxicity compared with LAT. These findings support the safety and efficacy of EBRT for local treatment of patients with liver-confined HCC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42525165 is a review article
Lysosomal dysfunction is a prominent feature of neurodegeneration and aging, yet how primary defects in lysosomal trafficking are converted into progressive cellular decline remains poorly understood. Niemann Pick disease type C (NPC), caused by impaired NPC1 dependent cholesterol export, provides a genetically defined model to address this question. Here, we show that NPC1 deficiency activates a lysosome, genome, immune axis linking cholesterol trafficking failure to neurodegeneration and hallmarks of cellular aging. In Npc1 mutant mice, NPC1 loss triggered DNA damage, neuroinflammation, microglial and astrocytic activation, Purkinje neuron degeneration, and motor dysfunction. Consistently, NPC patient-derived fibroblasts exhibited mitochondrial abnormalities and widespread DNA double-strand breaks. Genome-wide DNA break mapping and transcriptomic analyses revealed extensive genomic instability at regulatory regions, including enrichment of DNA breaks at transcription start sites and G quadruplex associated loci, accompanied by widespread transcriptional reprogramming, activation of innate immune pathways, disruption of fibroblast identity, and induction of cellular aging signatures. We further identify Fingolimod, an FDA approved sphingosine - 1 phosphate receptor modulator, as a potent modifier of this disease network. Fingolimod improved lysosomal cholesterol trafficking, increased LAMP1 abundance, attenuated STING associated inflammatory signaling, normalized mitochondrial function, reduced neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative phenotypes in Npc1 mutant mice, and broadly shifted disease-associated transcriptional programs toward a healthier state. Extending these findings beyond NPC, Fingolimod improved age-associated phenotypes in C. elegans and prolonged lifespan in aged male mice. Together, these findings identify genome instability and chronic innate immune activation as major downstream consequences of lysosomal cholesterol trafficking failure and establish Fingolimod as a clinically actionable modulator of lysosomal dysfunction, neurodegeneration, and aging-related decline.
Size-specific dose estimate (SSDE) uses linear dimensions measured on a computed tomographic (CT) image to scale the scanner-reported volumetric computed tomography dose index (CTDIvol) and thereby estimate dose. The objectives of this retrospective observational study were to evaluate whether the American Association of Physicists in Medicine (AAPM) geometric size metrics for abdominal CT, when implemented using canine-specific size measurements, correlate with water-equivalent diameter (Dw) in canine patients and to compare institutional SSDEs with human benchmarks. Abdominal CT scans from 30 dogs across three body weight categories (<10, 10-30, and >30 kg) were analyzed. The relationships between effective diameters calculated using four geometric metrics-dorsoventral dimension (DV), lateral dimension (LAT), the sum of DV and LAT, and the square root of their product-and Dw, which incorporates both size and attenuation, were analyzed using linear regression. The strongest correlation with Dw was observed for the combined DV and LAT metrics (R2 0.94, p < 0.001). The displayed CTDIvol underestimated SSDE by 50%. The 75th percentile of the SSDE for a single-phase, pre-contrast abdominal examination was 21 mGy, two to four times higher than the US human dose reference level. In conclusion, geometric size metrics measured from a single CT image were in close agreement with attenuation-based SSDE (Dw) for canine abdominal CT scans, supporting the feasibility of applying the AAPM SSDE estimation method to canine abdominal CT imaging. These findings demonstrate the importance of incorporating patient size into CT dose estimation and suggest that institutional SSDE values may warrant dose optimization in veterinary abdominal CT practice.© 2026 The Author(s). Veterinary Radiology & Ultrasound published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American College of Veterinary Radiology.
Self-powered electrochemical sensors (SPES) have emerged as an eco-friendly detection technology, but reported SPES face challenges in on-site detection, quantitative sensitivity, and result credibility. To address these issues, a three-in-one SPES was developed that integrates on-site screening, sensitive quantification, and built-in verification functions, thereby realizing efficiency, sensitivity, and reliability. In the on-site screening process, the polyaniline (PANI)-based cathode exhibits a rapid multicolorimetric response (6-s signal response) to cadmium ions (Cd2+), enabling efficient semi-quantitative analysis without complex instrument. In the sensitive quantification process, V2C MXene drives e--h+ separation and enhances the power generation capacity. A linear relationship between the output power and Cd2+ concentration was established in the range between 1.5 nM and 10 μM with the limit of detection (LOD) of 0.5 nM (S/N = 3). During the built-in validation process, K2S2O8 activation enhances the open-circuit voltage in the non-ohmic region, and K2S2O8 transformation reduces ohmic loss (ηohmic) in the ohmic region. This double reaction enables the orthogonal generation and effective separation of two power peaks, establishing an interdependent and verifiable mapping model. In summary, the novel SPES design offers a practical and versatile platform for efficient, sensitive and reliable detection.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Photoimmunotherapy (PIT) combines antibody specificity with light-activated cytotoxicity to enable precise, spatially and temporally confined cell depletion. However, the leading clinical-stage PIT agent, cetuximab-IR700, can induce inflammation, swelling, and edema that may restrict its use to oncology, likely due to activation of unbound conjugates in illuminated tissues and robust on-target tumor necrosis. To overcome these limitations, we introduce vertamax, a benzoporphyrin-based antibody-photosensitizer conjugate platform engineered to remain quenched until enzymatically activated within target cells, enabling more selective PIT. Vertamax-PIT demonstrated versatility across multiple antibody targets, including T cell (CD2, CD5) and tumor (EGFR) antigens. We show that CD5-directed vertamax-PIT selectively depletes T cells from healthy human skin biopsies, and pathogenic T cells from a single-patient biopsy of CTCL. EGFR-targeted vertamax-PIT inhibited tumor growth without detectable off-target toxicity in vivo, distinguishing it from IR700-PIT. These findings establish vertamax as an alternative and potentially safer PIT platform that may be applied in oncology, autoimmunity, and other settings where inflammation must be minimized.Copyright © 2026 Society for Investigative Dermatology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565882 is a review article
Low-molecular-weight organosulfur compounds possess well-defined metal-binding functionalities; however, their direct application as unsupported adsorbents remains insufficiently characterized. Previously reported thioctic-acid-based sorbents have generally employed thioctic acid as an immobilized ligand or as a polymeric component incorporated into supported composite materials, particularly for precious-metal recovery. In the present study, commercially available, unsupported thioctic acid (α-lipoic acid) was directly evaluated, without grafting onto a carrier or incorporation into a composite, for the removal of Cd(ii), Pb(ii), and Cu(ii) from aqueous media. Its adsorption performance was systematically investigated through equilibrium, kinetic, and thermodynamic analyses, supported by physicochemical characterization using SEM-EDX, FTIR spectroscopy, XRD, BET surface-area analysis, and zeta-potential measurements. The equilibrium data were best described by the Langmuir model, indicating predominantly monolayer adsorption at energetically comparable binding sites, while the Freundlich and Temkin models provided complementary information regarding surface heterogeneity and adsorbate-adsorbent interactions. The pseudo-second-order model provided the best description of the kinetic data, consistent with adsorption controlled by site-dependent interactions. Combined FTIR, SEM-EDX, and zeta-potential results supported the involvement of carboxyl/carboxylate and cyclic disulfide functionalities in metal-ion binding through electrostatic attraction and coordination interactions. Thermodynamic analysis indicated that adsorption was spontaneous and exothermic under the investigated conditions. Under optimized conditions, the maximum uptake capacities reached 130, 120, and 100 mg g-1 for Cd(ii), Pb(ii), and Cu(ii), respectively. The adsorbent retained more than 89% removal efficiency after five consecutive adsorption-desorption cycles, demonstrating satisfactory regeneration performance and operational stability. Application to real industrial wastewater resulted in removal efficiencies of 92%, 75%, and 70% for Cd(ii), Pb(ii), and Cu(ii), respectively. Accordingly, the principal contribution of this work is the systematic establishment of the intrinsic adsorption behaviour, regeneration potential, and real-wastewater applicability of unsupported thioctic acid toward three environmentally relevant divalent metal ions.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common lung cancer subtype and a leading cause of cancer-related mortality due to asymptomatic early stages and poor 5-year survival, and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) play a pivotal but poorly defined role in NSCLC progression and prognosis within the tumor microenvironment (TME).We analyzed single-cell RNA sequencing data from GEO (GSE148466), NSCLC-related data from TCGA, and gene expression data from GEO (GSE50081). A 9-gene TIL-related risk score model (HLA-DRA, NPC2, PRPF38B, PABPC1, ENO1, ANXA2, LGALS1, S100A10, SRGN) was constructed using LASSO regression, with its prognostic value assessed via Kaplan-Meier and ROC analyses and external validation. Immune infiltration and regulatory factors were analyzed using TISIDB, pathway associations via GSVA and GSEA, and functional roles of key genes (HLA-DRA, NPC2, PRPF38 B) validated using RT-qPCR, Western blotting, and co-culture assays.TILs were abundant in both smoking and non-smoking NSCLC samples. The 9-gene risk model effectively stratified patients by survival, with high-risk patients showing poorer outcomes and enriched tumor-promoting immune features and pathways. High-risk scores were associated with increased M0 macrophages, activated NK cells, and elevated immune checkpoints. Overexpression of HLA-DRA, NPC2, and PRPF38 B inhibited NSCLC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, while enhancing apoptosis and suppressing M2 macrophage polarization.This study establishes a TIL-based prognostic risk model for NSCLC and identifies HLA-DRA, NPC2, and PRPF38 B as potential immune-regulatory therapeutic targets with tumor-suppressive functions, providing new insights for NSCLC precision immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Su, Wu, He, Zhou and Zhou.
Sepsis frequently induces sepsis-associated encephalopathy (SAE), which lacks targeted therapies and often results in persistent neurobehavioral deficits. Here, we developed a translational pipeline integrating target discovery, small-molecule screening, formulation engineering, targeted delivery, and in vivo mechanistic validation to establish a microglial neuroinflammation-centered SAE intervention. Integrative transcriptomic analysis of septic patient brain tissue (GSE135838), combined with weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), identified Annexin A2 (ANXA2) as a microglia-associated candidate linked to SAE. In cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) mice, Anxa2 was markedly upregulated in the hippocampus and enriched in microglia. Mechanistically, small interfering RNA (siRNA)-mediated Anxa2 silencing in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated BV2 and primary microglia inhibited nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) activation, reduced M1-like polarization and cytokine release, and alleviated neuronal apoptosis in co-culture. Screening of the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology Database (TCMSP) combined with high-throughput surface plasmon resonance imaging (SPRi) identified evodiamine as a high-affinity ANXA2 binder, further supported by molecular dynamics simulations, drug-likeness assessment, and absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, and toxicity (ADMET) profiling. To improve efficacy, enhance blood-brain barrier (BBB) penetration, and reduce potential cardiotoxicity, we engineered an Angiopep-2/phosphatidylserine dual-modified evodiamine-loaded liposome (L-A-P@E). In SAE mice, L-A-P@E improved anxiety-like behavior and cognition, attenuated hippocampal neuroinflammation and neuronal apoptosis, and suppressed microglial ANXA2/NF-κB signaling without detectable systemic immunogenicity. Knockdown-rescue assays using a triple-mutant Anxa2 construct and AAV-mediated hippocampal Anxa2 overexpression confirmed that evodiamine's therapeutic effects depended on the ANXA2-binding pocket and ANXA2/NF-κB signaling. These findings identify microglial ANXA2/NF-κB as a druggable SAE target and support targeted nanodelivery for mechanism-based therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
We present the case of a 64-year-old patient with a previous history of atopic dermatitis and vitiligo, who presented to the dermatology clinic with persistent "bumps" on his face that appeared following treatment with upadacitinib. Examination of the skin revealed multiple skin-colored to erythematous folliculocentric papules located on the temples, lateral canthi, and eyelids. A punch biopsy demonstrated a folliculocentric process; a central follicle exhibited a robust necrotizing granulomatous infiltrate associated with hair follicle destruction. The base of the follicle displayed follicular mucinosis and a lymphocytic infiltrate with an increased CD4:CD8 ratio of 8:1, retention of CD2 and CD5, and diminished CD7 expression. Subsequent PCR analysis showed no evidence of monoclonal T-cell receptor gene rearrangement. Based on the clinical impression, the histopathological features, and ancillary test results, a diagnosis of lupus miliaris disseminatus faciei with follicular mucinosis in the context of Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor therapy was established. Although acneiform eruptions ("JAK-ne") are known side effects of JAK inhibitor therapy, to the authors' knowledge, this novel case report is the first to describe patterns of lupus miliaris disseminatus faciei and follicular mucinosis within the spectrum of inflammatory papular facial eruptions associated with JAK inhibitor therapy.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Recently, lead (Pb2+) has been detected in various food samples, including vegetables, leaves, meat, and fish. It is challenging to detect Pb2+ in leaves using analytical methods, such as electrochemical sensing techniques. In this research, the newly synthesized composite material of SBA/MWCNTs/GE was used as a modified electrode to ascertain the heavy metal ion (Pb2+) present in dwarf copperleaf and Spinacia oleracea samples in aqueous medium. The specificity of GE contributes to its reproducibility. The surface of MWCNTs provides stability and enhances the current of Pb2+. Meanwhile, the SBA ligand (-OH, -C[double bond, length as m-dash]N-) coordinates with a metal ion by the preconcentration method. Preconcentration of Pb2+-SBA/MWCNTs/GE was observed in oxidation and reduction peaks of Pb2+ measured by cyclic voltammetry (CV). The morphology of Pb2+-SBA/MWCNTs and Pb2+-MWCNTs electrodes was analyzed by scanning electron microscope (SEM). The oxidation peaks of Pb2+ were investigated by square-wave anodic stripping voltammetry (SWASV). Using SWASV, the effect of pH, supporting electrolyte, and preconcentration time was examined. The limits of detection (LODs) range from 1 ng L-1 for Pb2+ ions. The stripping peak currents of Pb2+ were observed as minimal changes of ±5% in the presence (I i) and absence (I 0) of various interfering metal ions (Cd2+, Co2+, Fe2+, and Sn2+). The composite material showed good recoveries of 100.1-102.3% by SWASV for dwarf copperleaf and Spinacia oleracea samples. The accuracy of the SWASV method was further validated by comparison with atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS).This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Heavy metal pollution (HMP) threatens soil ecosystems and plant health. This study integrated 16S rRNA sequencing, network analysis, environmental mapping, and bacterial isolation to investigate how distinct ecological niches of Casuarina equisetifolia modulate microbial communities under metal stress. Results revealed a spatial pollution gradient, with Pb²⁺, Zn²⁺, and Cd²⁺ decreasing with distance from the mine, while As⁵⁺, Cr³ ⁺, and Ni²⁺ remained near background levels but displayed significant niche-dependent enrichment, especially for Cr³ ⁺, and Ni²⁺ in rhizosphere soil under medium and high pollution. Niche was the primary driver of microbial divergence, with only 0.56% of OTUs shared between the soil and root compartments. Rhizosphere soils harbored more unique OTUs and higher α-diversity than non-rhizosphere soils. Root endosphere and rhizosphere soil communities were consistently dominated by Actinobacteria across all pollution levels, whereas non-rhizosphere soil communities shifted from Proteobacteria (low pollution) to Actinobacteria (medium) and Chloroflexi (high). LEfSe identified niche-specific biomarkers from the phylum to genus levels, with high-pollution roots harboring the most diverse indicators. Heavy metals and soil properties (pH, CEC, and SOM) collectively shaped community assembly, with distinct drivers per niche: CEC and Enterobacter in non-rhizosphere soil, pH and Acidobacteriales in rhizosphere soil, and Zn as the central hub in the root endosphere network. Isolation yielded 63 metal-tolerant strains across eight genera, predominantly Bacillus cereus sensu lato group, whose niche origin shifted from the rhizosphere (low pollution) to the non-rhizosphere (medium) to the roots (high pollution), suggesting pollution-associated enrichment. These findings reveal niche-specific community assembly and pollution-driven enrichment of metal-tolerant Bacillus cereus s.l. in the root endosphere.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
A 60-day feeding trial evaluated meals derived from discarded mushroom biomass, including stems and nonmarketable mushrooms, generated during commercial cultivation and processing of Agaricus bisporus (AB) and Pleurotus ostreatus (PO) as lower-impact alternatives to soybean meal (SBM) in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss, BWi: 22.1 ± 0.3 g) diets. Five isoproteic (47%) and isolipidic (23%) diets were tested: a control diet and four diets replacing 25%-50% of SBM with AB or PO meals (AB25, AB50, PO25, PO50). Fish fed the AB25 diet showed growth performance, feed intake (FI), and nutrient utilization comparable to the control (p > 0.05), whereas AB50 reduced growth (p < 0.05) without affecting FI or nutrient utilization (p > 0.05). In contrast, PO inclusion caused a progressive decline in these parameters, more pronounced at PO50, accompanied by increased hepatosomatic index (HSI) and reduced perivisceral fat index (PFI) (p < 0.05). Apparent protein digestibility decreased in the AB50 diet (p < 0.05). In PO-fed fish, digestive enzyme activities reflected adaptive responses to reduced FI, including lower pepsin (PEP) and higher total alkaline proteases (TAPs), trypsin (TRY), lipase (LIP), aminopeptidase-N (APN), and maltase (MAL) activities. Hematological and plasma markers remained within normal ranges, and liver histological organization was similar among treatments (p > 0.05). Hepatic glutathione reductase (GR) activity increased in PO diets (p < 0.05), whereas AB diets remained comparable to the control group (p > 0.05). Overall, mushroom by-product meals were physiologically safe for O. mykiss, while AB meal emerged as a promising circular alternative to SBM, supporting up to 25% replacement without compromising growth performance, feed efficiency, or nutrient utilization.Copyright © 2026 Carl John Saromines et al. Aquaculture Nutrition published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560011 is a review article
Cigarette smoke (CS) exposure is a significant environmental trigger for childhood asthma. Although S100 calcium-binding protein A10 (S100A10) is upregulated in asthma patients, its regulatory mechanism in CS-associated asthma remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate how insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 3 (IGF2BP3) influences S100A10 expression via the N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification pathway and to investigate the role of the IGF2BP3/S100A10 axis in CS-exposed childhood asthma. A total of 120 asthmatic children were enrolled, with 120 healthy children selected as controls. Serum levels of S100A10 and IGF2BP3 were measured. A murine model of asthma was established using ovalbumin (OVA) induction combined with CS exposure. Lentivirus-mediated overexpression or knockdown of IGF2BP3 or S100A10 was performed to evaluate lung function, inflammatory infiltration, immune cell proportions, and immunoglobulin E (IgE) levels. Airway epithelial cells (AECs) were isolated and treated with cigarette smoke extract (CSE) and OVA to assess apoptosis and inflammatory cytokine levels. RNA immunoprecipitation, m6A methylated RNA immunoprecipitation, and crosslinking immunoprecipitation (CLIP) were conducted to validate the regulatory mechanism between IGF2BP3 and S100A10. The expression of S100A10 and IGF2BP3 was elevated in asthmatic children and OVA-induced asthmatic mice. In OVA-induced asthmatic mice, CS exacerbated OVA-induced asthma phenotypes, including increased lung resistance, enhanced inflammatory infiltration, elevated T helper 2 (Th2) and T helper 17 (Th17) cell proportions, and raised IgE levels. Knockdown of S100A10 or IGF2BP3 ameliorated these pathological changes, while overexpression of S100A10 reversed the protective effects of IGF2BP3 knockdown. Mechanistically, IGF2BP3 bound to m6A modification sites on S100A10 mRNA and enhanced its stability. CSE and OVA promoted IGF2BP3 expression, thereby increasing S100A10 mRNA stability, leading to enhanced epithelial apoptosis and release of inflammatory factors (interleukin-1 beta, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha). CS exposure aggravates childhood asthma by promoting IGF2BP3 expression and enhancing m6A-dependent stabilization of S100A10 mRNA. Targeting the IGF2BP3/S100A10 axis may provide a novel therapeutic strategy for CS-associated asthma.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The purpose of this study was to investigate cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) and polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy (PCV) via single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), then focusing on caveolae-resident proteins based on identified negatively enriched caveolae via Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA).Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients with nAMD/PCV (n = 10) and healthy controls (n = 9) were collected. A total of 22,593 high-quality monocytes were analyzed for differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and GSEA. The key finding of negatively enriched caveola was recapitulated by in vitro mRNA transfections in THP-1 monocytes and human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), followed by validation using qPCR. Functional assays and cytokine profiling were also performed.A total of 122 significant pathways was identified from WikiPathways, Reactome, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and Gene Ontology. GSEA revealed significant negative enrichment of caveola in classical monocytes of PCV (NES = -1.769, P = 0.001, q = 0.026). Cytokine/chemokine profiling revealed that Caveolin (CAV)1/2-overexpressing monocytes secreted markedly higher levels of several proinflammatory mediators, including IL-1β, IL-2, IL-8, IL-17, TNF-α, PDGF-BB, and MIP-1α/β. CAV1 or CAV2 overexpression in THP-1 cells increased monocyte adhesion but inhibited transendothelial migration. In HUVECs, their overexpression induced moderate cytokine profiles, including downregulation of RANTES (CCL5), IL-10, and VEGF, and upregulation of IL-6 and MIP-1α. CAV1/2 overexpression also significantly inhibited tube formation, whereas knockdown of CAV1 or CAV2 enhanced tube formation.Caveolins appear to contribute to the pathogenesis of nAMD and PCV as modulators of inflammation and vascular function. Enhanced CAV1/2 expression in endothelial cells attenuates angiogenic activity, indicating a potential therapeutic strategy.
Osteoarthritis (OA) lacks approved disease-modifying therapies. Here, by integrating quantitative proteomics with reanalysis of public single-cell RNA sequencing data from human articular cartilage, we identify thymidine kinase 1 (TK1) as a pathogenic regulator linking inflammatory stress to metabolic rewiring and matrix breakdown. TK1 is markedly upregulated in OA chondrocytes. Mechanistically, IL-1β enhances S-palmitoylation of TK1 at Cys153, which promotes USP9X-dependent deubiquitination and prevents proteasomal degradation, leading to TK1 accumulation. Stabilized TK1 acts as a scaffold to potentiate JNK signaling, increase PRMT1 and PFKFB3 expression, drive excessive glycolysis, and accelerate extracellular matrix catabolism. Conversely, the depalmitoylase PPT1 destabilizes TK1 and restrains glycolytic activation. Based on this mechanism, we developed a cell-penetrating interfering peptide, Depalm-WT, which disrupts the TK1-JNK interaction, promotes TK1 depalmitoylation and degradation, and suppresses downstream catabolic responses. In preclinical OA models, Depalm-WT attenuated cartilage degeneration and disease progression. These findings define a palmitoylation-stabilized TK1-JNK-glycolysis axis in OA and support targeted TK1 destabilization as a potential therapeutic strategy.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42538876 is a review article
Childhood absence epilepsy (CAE) is a common genetic epilepsy with a frequently complex polygenic etiology, for which a genetically tractable animal model is lacking. Current anti-seizure medications fail to address the significant neurocognitive and social comorbidities of CAE, highlighting a critical unmet need for comprehensive therapies and a better understanding of the underlying mechanisms. To address this, we developed a digenic mouse model (Cacng2stargazer/+;Cacna1a+/-, hereafter DiGstg+Ca1A) that mimics human polygenicity. The double mutant mice exhibit both absence seizures and altered social novelty preference. We found that ethosuximide, a first-line anti-CAE medication targeting thalamic low-threshold T-type calcium currents, suppressed seizures in DiGstg+Ca1A mice but failed to rescue their social deficit. Similarly, deletion of Cacna1g, which encodes the T-type Ca2+ channel CaV3.1, prevented seizure generation but did not ameliorate the social deficit. These findings reveal a dissociation between the T-type current that mediates seizures and the mechanism underlying the social deficits. We further demonstrate that in Cacng2stargazer/+ mice, selective deletion of one copy of Cacna1a in stargazin-enriched parvalbumin (PV) interneurons induced absence seizures and impaired social behavior. Remarkably, chemogenetic activation of cortical and thalamic PV interneurons using DREADDs not only suppressed seizures but also rescued the impaired social behavior. Together, our results suggest that selective modulation of PV interneuron activity in polygenic absence epilepsy could serve as a promising therapeutic strategy to address both absence seizures, and the often treatment-resistant neurocognitive comorbidities observed in CAE.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42524518 is a review article
Epilepsy, characterized by recurrent seizures, is associated with dysregu-lated Fatty Acid (FA) metabolism and metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) signaling. However, the contribution of FA metabolism-related molecules (FAMs) to these pathological pro-cesses remains poorly characterized.Integrated bioinformatics was conducted to identify epilepsy-associated FAMs. Next, machine learning algorithms identified midline 1 interacting protein 1 (MID1IP1) and S100 calcium-binding protein A10 (S100A10) as key targets. These findings were validated through immune cell correlation analysis, in vitro seizure models (using magnesium-free cultured neurons), in vivo seizure induction (using pentylenetetrazol), and network pharmacology-based drug screening.MID1IP1 expression showed significant negative correlations with markers of adaptive immune cells but positive correlations with markers of innate immune populations. S100A10 exhib-ited distinct yet complementary immune-interaction patterns. MID1IP1/S100A10 upregulation was associated with increased mGluR5 expression and neuronal hyperexcitability. Genetic inhibition of this pathway attenuated seizure activity. Benfotiamine (BFT) improved neuronal survival but demonstrated limited anticonvulsant effects. Phenytoin (PHT) effectively controlled seizures but in-duced neuronal toxicity at higher doses. The combination of BFT and PHT further enhanced neuro-protection, reduced seizure severity, and potently downregulated the MID1IP1/S100A10/mGluR5 pathway compared with either agent alone.These findings identify the MID1IP1/S100A10-mGluR5 axis as a critical mediator of metabolic-immune crosstalk in seizure pathogenesis. The complementary targeting of this pathway by BFT and PHT offers a promising strategy to enhance antiseizure efficacy while mitigating PHT-induced neurotoxicity, warranting further investigation in drug-resistant epilepsy models.The MID1IP1/S100A10-mGluR5 axis drives seizure pathogenesis through metabolic-immune crosstalk. BFT and PHT target complementary nodes of this pathway, demonstrating enhanced efficacy in preclinical models.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Spontaneous calcium (Ca2+) waves play a critical role as internal stimuli in the early developing auditory system before the onset of sensory experiences. However, neither the spatiotemporal control of spontaneous Ca2+ waves nor their impacts on auditory development are well understood. Here we report that a lateral array of inner supporting cells (ISCs) beneath the inner hair cells displays a spontaneous ultra-long, ultra-fast, transient Ca2+ flash, termed "Ca2+ lightning", which triggers a series of simultaneous bursts of Ca2+ waves in the whole cochlea, before the ear canal opening. The Ca2+ lightning margins the cochlear ISCs at different developmental stages that correspondingly exhibit different Ca2+ activities. Triggered by an ATP-induced high-level Ca2+ wave, the Ca2+ lightning rapidly propagates laterally into neighboring ISCs through the intricate interplay of the T-type Ca2+ channel, Anoctamin 1 (Ano1) Ca2+-activated Cl- channel and Connexin 26 (Cx26). The genetic deletion of Cav3.2, Ano1, or Cx26 abrogates Ca2+ lightning flashes and dysregulates cell development and functions in peripheral cochleae. We propose that cochlear Ca2+ lightning flashes orderly with Ca2+ waves together orchestrate the spatiotemporal maturation processes of the peripheral auditory system before the onset of hearing.© 2026 The Author(s). Exploration published by Henan University and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Influenza A virus (IAV) remains a major global health threat due to its high mutation rate and the emergence of antiviral resistance. Targeting host factors provides an alternative therapeutic strategy to overcome these challenges. Previous studies have shown that the L-type calcium channel Cav1.2 was implicated in viral infections. In this study, we aimed to clarify the mechanism by which Cav1.2 acts as a critical host factor mediating IAV infection, using the dihydropyridine-type calcium channel blocker nisoldipine. Nisoldipine showed notable antiviral activity in both in vitro and in vivo models. Mechanistically, nisoldipine inhibited IAV internalization by targeting Cav1.2, thereby suppressing calcium-dependent activation of the Ras-PI3K-AKT, RhoA-ROCK, and JNK pathways associated with viral internalization. Moreover, nisoldipine modulated the unfolded protein response (UPR) in host cells by promoting adaptive XBP1 splicing and contributed to the maintenance of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) homeostasis during IAV infection. Collectively, these observations support a sequential cascade model: Cav1.2 inhibition restrains viral entry and indirectly mitigates virus-triggered ER stress. Furthermore, nisoldipine exhibits broad-spectrum in vitro antiviral activity against multiple enveloped RNA and DNA viruses, including human coronavirus OC43 (HCoV-OC43), respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), Zika virus (ZIKV), Dengue virus Type 2 (DENV2), and Herpes Simplex Virus Type 1/2 (HSV-1/2). This study clarifies the mechanistic involvement of Cav1.2 in IAV infection and further identifies it as a promising broad-spectrum antiviral target with potential applications in preventing and treating influenza, human coronavirus infections, and other emerging viral diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Metastasis remains a leading cause of mortality in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) patients, underscoring the urgent need to elucidate the molecular mechanisms driving disease progression. In this study, we delineated that ZBED2, a zinc finger protein, correlates with inferior survival outcomes and metastasis in ESCC patients. ZBED2 formed phase-separated nuclear condensates that functionally promote tumor metastasis, and integrin-linked kinase (ILK) was pinpointed as a critical downstream effector in mediating the pro-metastatic function of ZBED2. Mechanistically, ZBED2 enhanced the transcription of HSP90AA1, promoted the physical interaction between HSP90AA1 and ILK, and consequently stabilized ILK by suppressing its ubiquitination. Subsequently, ILK promoted PD-L1 transcription and CD8+ T cell exhaustion, thereby creating an immunosuppressive microenvironment that facilitates cancer metastasis. Collectively, these findings establish the pivotal role of ZBED2 in driving ESCC metastasis and immune evasion, thereby validating it as a promising therapeutic target for this aggressive malignancy.
Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) are rare tissue-resident lymphocytes that functionally mirror cells of CD4+ T helper lineage but lack antigen receptors. Type 3 ILCs (ILC3s) are enriched at barrier sites, regulating inflammation and promoting tissue integrity. Here we profile the promoter-anchored chromosomal contacts of primary human ILC3s using low-input, high-resolution targeted chromosome conformation capture and compare them with those in CD4+ T cells. We use these data to link Crohn's disease genome-wide association study variants with target genes, implicating both known and unanticipated candidates, including CLN3, a causal gene for Batten disease. We show that Cln3 overexpression in a mouse ILC3-like cell line alters stimulation-induced transcriptional programs and cytokine secretion. Extending our approach to five additional immune genome-wide association study traits reveals enrichment for regulators of ILC3 activation. Our work develops methods, maps long-range gene regulation in ILC3s, and prioritizes immune disease risk genes with roles in this clinically relevant immune cell type.© 2026. The Author(s).
Ischemic stroke is a leading cause of mortality and disability worldwide, and disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) plays a critical role in its pathogenesis. Nitric oxide has been reported to exert neuroprotective effects, but its therapeutic application remains limited. This study aimed to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of a nitric oxide-releasing butylphthalide derivative and to elucidate its underlying mechanisms, particularly in relation to BBB preservation. We investigated compound 10 exhibited potent neuroprotective activity with favorable safety and BBB permeability. In a rat middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) model, compound 10 significantly reduced infarct volume and alleviated histopathological damage. Mechanistically, compound 10 suppressed neuroinflammation and oxidative stress, as evidenced by reduced pro-inflammatory cytokine levels, inhibition of microglial activation, and restoration of antioxidant capacity. Notably, compound 10 effectively preserved BBB integrity, as demonstrated by decreased Evans blue extravasation and upregulation of tight junction proteins. Further investigation revealed that these protective effects were mediated through activation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) signaling, leading to increased Cav-1 expression and suppression of MMP-9-dependent BBB disruption. Pharmacological inhibition of eNOS abolished these effects, confirming the critical role of the eNOS/Cav-1/MMP-9 axis. This study identifies compound 10 as a promising multifunctional neuroprotective agent and highlights NO-mediated BBB protection as a viable therapeutic strategy for ischemic stroke.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
Voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs) regulate differentiation, function, and survival of excitable cells, and pathogenic variants cause diverse disorders. Most known disease-associated VGCC mutations affect well-characterized regions controlling voltage-dependent gating and channel kinetics, while many residues remain functionally unannotated. We developed an evolutionary model to predict the pathogenic potential of residues in the pore-forming Cav1.3 subunit, previously validated with de novo gain-of-function variants linked to neurodevelopmental diseases. Here we show that the model recapitulates established functional regions and prospectively identifies functional sites at single-amino acid resolution. Electrophysiological analyses of five predicted variants across multiple channel domains confirmed functional alterations. The approach also captures loss-of-function variants typically pathogenic only in the homozygous state, establishing a predictive framework for identifying and functionally characterizing pathogenic variants in Cav1.3 and related ion channels.
Synaptic dysfunction and neurite remodeling are early features of many inherited retinal diseases, but whether synaptic function can be restored after circuit remodeling remains unclear. We evaluated the therapeutic potential of adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated α2δ4 gene supplementation in a mouse model of CACNA2D4-associated retinal synaptopathy.AAV8-GRK1-α2δ4 was delivered by subretinal injection to α2δ4 knockout mice at neonatal, young adult, or middle-aged adult stages. Retinal function was assessed by electroretinography. Synaptic organization and circuit remodeling were evaluated by immunohistochemistry.AAV-mediated α2δ4 expression restored synaptic localization of Cav1.4, ELFN proteins, and mGluR6 at all treatment ages. However, circuit structure and functional rescue were age- and circuit-dependent. Neonatal treatment restored rod and cone transmission and prevented photoreceptor terminal retraction and bipolar cell dendritic sprouting. Rescue in young adults improved rod and cone circuit function but did not reverse neurite remodeling. Rescue in middle-aged mice restored cone but not rod transmission. Notably, neonatal treatment produced the highest proportion of synapses within synaptic layer, whereas adult treatment generated increasing ectopic synapses in nuclear layer.Photoreceptor synaptic assembly remains plastic in remodeled retinas and can be restored by α2δ4 supplementation. However, rescue efficacy is influenced by age and circuits with rod circuits exhibiting a narrower therapeutic window. Synaptic molecular reassembly can occur without neurite restoration. These findings establish α2δ4 gene therapy as a promising treatment for CACNA2D4-associated retinal synaptopathy and reveal distinct intervention windows for synaptic assembly, neurite remodeling, and rod versus cone circuit recovery.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42530274 is a review article
The cell wall integrity (CWI) pathway is triggered by plasma membrane-localized receptors in plant cells and serves to orchestrate responses to cell wall damage by initiating compensatory changes under stressful environments. The essential role of CWI maintenance as part of plants' interactions with pests or pathogens and during growth is well known. Nevertheless, CWI pathways remain to be fully characterized. Here, we show that altered Integrin-Linked Kinase 1 (ILK1) expression causes widespread defects in the transcriptional program activated by the bacterial elicitor flg22, primarily in genes associated with cell wall integrity and immunity. These transcriptional deficiencies are recapitulated in mutant lines with altered ILK4 or ILK5 expression. Analysis of molecular and cellular defenses in ilk mutants revealed reduced callose accumulation in leaves treated with bacterial (elf18) and plant (pep1) elicitors and increased pathogen susceptibility. Histochemical analysis of cell-wall-associated staining across diverse cells and organs of ilk mutants revealed modified lignin-associated patterns in the root xylem and altered calcofluor staining patterns in the seed coat. All ilk mutants exhibited altered root morphology due to mechano-touch and high-NaCl stress. Based on these results, we propose that ILKs contribute to pathways connecting elicitor-triggered immune signaling with cell-wall-associated stress responses and that ILK-related defense functions may extend to the cotton root-nematode interaction, while the mechanism remains to be elucidated.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Ameloblastoma (AM) is a jaw tumor characterized by local invasiveness and a high recurrence rate. Integrin-linked Kinase (ILK) is an important signaling effector proposed as a promising target for cancer therapy. However, its specific role in AM remains poorly understood. This study aimed to investigate the role of ILK in the biological behavior of AM.ILK expression in AM was examined by Immunohistochemistry (IHC). The GSE132472 dataset from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database was used to analyze microarray data from AM patient tissues. Gene sets and pathways associated with ILK, as well as differentially expressed genes enriched in AM, were identified. The effects of the ILK inhibitor Cpd22 on AM cell proliferation, adhesion, and migration were assessed.AM tissues exhibited elevated ILK and integrin β1 expression and decreased E-cadherin expression, along with a trend towards the upregulation of ILK at the transcriptional level. Gene sets directly or indirectly related to ILK, including EMT, Extracellular Matrix (ECM) organization, integrin signaling, and focal adhesion, were closely associated with AM, while the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway was the most significantly upregulated in AM. Differentially expressed genes enriched in these pathways were involved in cell proliferation, adhesion, migration, and cytoskeletal regulation. In vitro experiments showed that Cpd22 significantly inhibited the adhesion and migration of AM cells.The study's findings reveal an inverse correlation between ILK and Ecadherin expression intensity in AM, consistent with observations in other malignancies. ILK may contribute to AM pathogenesis through coordinated interactions with focal adhesions, integrins, and the ECM. It is also involved in AM cell adhesion and migration without affecting proliferation and may also participate in Akt phosphorylation and cytoskeletal regulation in AM cells.The study's findings indicate that ILK plays a role in modulating the biological behavior of AM.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Progressive encephalopathy with brain edema and/or leukoencephalopathy-1 (PEBEL1) is a rare neurodegenerative disorder caused by pathogenic variants in NAXE gene. Movement disorders are among the clinical features of PEBEL1; however, no case presenting with paroxysmal exercise-induced dyskinesia (PED) has been reported. We reported the case of a 14-year-old girl who presented with PED episodes. Six months after the onset of episodes, she developed encephalopathy and focal status epilepticus. Exome sequencing analysis identified a homozygous pathogenic variant in NAXE gene, and she was diagnosed with PEBEL1. She was started on mitochondrial cocktail and multiple antiseizure medications; however, no response was observed. With the ketogenic diet (KD), seizure control was achieved and improvement in cognitive functions was observed. PED is a clinical feature not previously reported in PEBEL1 cases, and our case expands the phenotypic spectrum of this disorder. Additionally, our case highlights that KD may be a treatment option in PEBEL1.
To characterize the genotypic and phenotypic spectrum of children with genetically confirmed hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP) at a tertiary care center in Northern India.This prospective case series included patients with genetically confirmed (whole exome sequencing or clinical exome sequencing) HSP attending the Medical Genetics Clinic of a tertiary care center in Northern India between 2018 and 2023. Neurological and radiological assessments were also conducted.A total of 21 patients from 16 families were included. The median (q1, q3) age of onset of symptoms was 5 (1.5, 8.5) years, and the median (q1, q3) age of diagnosis was 8 (5, 13.5) years. The most common features at diagnosis were toe walking with progressive spasticity of lower limbs. Genetic testing identified 18 variants across eight different genes, including six pathogenic variants, 10 likely pathogenic variants, and two variants of uncertain significance (VUS). Thirteen families had autosomal recessive (AR) HSP, two had autosomal dominant (AD) HSP, and one had X-linked HSP. The most frequently identified subtype was SPG35 (spastic paraplegia type 35), observed in six families, followed by SPG11 in three families and SPG52 in two families. There was one family each with SPG18B, SPG15, CSPSD (cataracts, spastic paraplegia, and speech delay), SPG4, and SPG2.Hereditary spastic paraplegia exhibits genotypic and phenotypic heterogeneity with a predominance of AR inheritance. Five novel variants and some recurrent variants, suggesting potential founder effects, were noted. HSP should be suspected in cases with slowly progressive spasticity in lower limbs, even without a family history, which may mimic cerebral palsy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Indian Academy of Pediatrics.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42482076 is a review article
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) share overlapping pathological mechanisms characterized by neuroinflammation and metabolic dysfunction, yet the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. In this study, we aimed to investigate the potential involvement of Abca7 in the microglial responses linking AD and T2DM. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data from the hippocampi of db/db and db/m mice were analyzed to characterize cellular heterogeneity. To validate the bioinformatic findings, an AD mouse model was established by a single intracerebroventricular injection of Aβ1-42. Behavioral performances were observed, and the protein expression of Abca7 and typical neuropathological features of AD were detected. In parallel, in vitro studies were conducted using BV2 microglial cells exposed to Aβ1-42 following Abca7 knockdown. The scRNA-seq analysis revealed significant alterations in endothelial cells, microglia, and oligodendrocytes in db/db mice. Microglia emerged as central regulators of neuroinflammatory responses, with Abca7 identified as a hub gene linked to both T2DM and AD pathology. Consistently, the expression of Abca7 in the hippocampus of AD mice was markedly elevated and positively correlated with the cognitive impairments and Aβ/Tau pathology. Moreover, the knockdown of Abca7 could protect BV2 cells against Aβ-induced injuries and hyperactivation which could be partly ascribed to the suppression of NF-κB signaling and oxidative stress. Overall, these results suggest Abca7 may play a linking role in the microglial response between T2DM and AD, which is partly supported by in vivo and in vitro results of its effect on the hyperactivation of microglia in AD-like pathologies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD) and Lewy body dementia (LBD) overlap clinically, pathologically and genetically, complicating interpretation of cross-disorder genome-wide association study (GWAS) signals.We analysed 322,963 UK Biobank participants with bidirectional time-varying Cox models, one-year and two-year lag analyses, and competing-risk sensitivity models to quantify AD-PD clinical co-occurrence. We then analysed European-ancestry AD, PD and LBD GWAS summary statistics using linkage disequilibrium score regression (LDSC), GCTA-mtCOJO/GSMR, MAGMA, stratified LDSC, brain eQTL/mQTL SMR with HEIDI filtering, and Bayesian colocalization for selected methylation probes. Conditional loci were compared with original GWAS loci to separate shared liability from retained disorder-predominant associations.PD was associated with subsequent AD (fully adjusted HR 2.27, 95% CI 1.94-2.65; P = 6.40E-25), and AD was associated with subsequent PD (HR 3.14, 95% CI 2.56-3.85; P = 2.10E-28). Lag and competing-risk sensitivity analyses remained concordant. LDSC estimated positive genetic correlations for AD-PD (rg = 0.20; P = 0.0086) and PD-LBD (rg = 0.61; P = 0.0005). Conditioning reduced genome-wide significant loci from 14 to 9 for AD, from 24 to 21 for PD and from 5 to 2 for LBD. Retained loci included AD signals near CR1, BIN1, CLU, SPI1, MS4A, PICALM, ABCA7 and APOE; PD signals near GBA, NUCKS1, TMEM163, STK39, GAK/TMEM175, BST1, SNCA, LRRK2, MAPT and RIT2; and LBD signals near SNCA/MMRN1 and APOE. MAGMA and S-LDSC highlighted amyloid, lipid, immune, synaptic-vesicle and brain-tissue enrichment patterns. Brain QTL analyses prioritized retained eQTL and mQTL signals, and colocalization supported shared PD-GWAS/mQTL signals at HLA-DRB5, ARHGAP27, CRHR1, MAPT and KANSL1.AD and PD show bidirectional clinical co-occurrence, whereas conditional genetic analyses retain a smaller set of disease-predominant loci and regulatory signals across AD, PD and LBD. These findings refine cross-disorder interpretation and nominate loci for independent genetic and functional validation.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Zhang, Qiu and Hu.
Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), a major cause of early-onset dementia, includes a heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative disorders with a strong genetic component. Mutations in MAPT, GRN, and C9orf72 are found in about 40% of patients with the behavioral variant (bvFTD). More recently, rarer pathogenic variants have been identified in other genes, such as ABCA7, initially linked to Alzheimer's disease but increasingly implicated in other neurodegenerative conditions. Here we describe a specific variant which has not previously been reported in the literature.We report the case of a 42-year-old woman who presented with progressive behavioral changes and executive dysfunction, consistent with a bvFTD. A whole-exome sequencing was conducted in a family trio, revealing a heterozygous nonsense variant in the ABCA7 gene (c.5260C>T, p.Arg1754*).This case highlights support the hypothesis of an ABCA7 loss-of-function associated with early-onset bvFTD. It contributes to expand the genetic spectrum of frontotemporal dementia and underscores the importance of broad genetic testing.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is a prevalent urological malignancy in men, with bone metastasis occurring in the majority of patients, often leading to poor clinical outcomes. Despite its clinical significance, reliable prognostic biomarkers for metastatic PCa remain limited. Immunogenic cell death (ICD), a regulated form of cell death, has emerged as a key modulator of the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) and a potential determinant of the immunotherapy response. However, the functional role of ICD in PCa progression, particularly in bone metastasis, remains poorly understood. This study aimed to elucidate the prognostic implications of ICD in PCa and develop an ICD-correlated signature (ICDCS) model to improve risk stratification and therapeutic decision-making.We developed the ICDCS model by integrating multi-omics data, including single-cell transcriptomics, and leveraging computational approaches, such as AddModuleScore, WGCNA, ssGSEA, and 10 machine-learning algorithms (with 98 combinations). Its diagnostic and prognostic performances were rigorously assessed in the training cohort and two independent validation sets, offering a clinically applicable tool for outcome prediction. To gain deeper insights into prognostic features, we performed functional enrichment, immune infiltration, and immunotherapy response analyses. Additionally, we evaluated differential responses to immunotherapy across risk subgroups and identified potential personalized therapeutics. Finally, the vitro experiment validation of the key genes further strengthened the reliability of our findings.By integrating single-cell and bulk transcriptomic datasets, we identified 49 ICD-related genes, including nine linked to disease-free survival. By using genes common to both the training and validation sets, the final 8 key genes (MBNL1, IRAK3, CD59, LPP, TACC1, PRNP, CDC42EP3, and MYADM) were incorporated into 98 machine-learning computational frameworks for constructing ICDCS, and the Enet [α = 0.3] algorithm was finally chosen to build the model. In vitro validation confirmed the reduced expression of all eight genes in PCa cells, which was consistent with their putative protective roles. The ICDCS model exhibited robust prognostic accuracy for both the clinical outcomes and pathological features. Risk stratification based on ICDCS scores revealed distinct biological pathways, mutational profiles, and TIME characteristics between subgroups. Notably, patients in the high-risk subgroup showed an enhanced responsiveness to immunotherapy.In this study, we developed an ICDCS for PCa bone metastases. This model provides a valuable tool for characterizing TIME in metastatic PCa and demonstrates significant clinical utility for prognostic assessment and prediction of immunotherapy response.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) shows substantial clinical heterogeneity often caused by genetic variants contributing to both familial and early-onset forms. However, the genetic landscape of AD in the diverse Indian population remains further characterised. To identify probable pathogenic variants associated with AD, representing individuals from Eastern India and to assess their potential structural effects using molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. Whole-exome sequencing was performed in 29 radiologically confirmed AD patients. Variants identified were screened using standard in silico prediction tools and categorised according to their involvement in amyloid precursor protein (APP)-related and non-APP pathways. Molecular dynamics simulations of filtered variants in PSEN1, SORL1, and ABCA7 genes were conducted using GROMACS 2024 to assess conformational stability, flexibility (RMSD, RMSF), compactness (Rg), and solvent accessibility (SASA). Thirty-six variants across 18 genes were identified, including five pathogenic variants and 31 variants of uncertain significance. Frequently affected genes included ABCA7 (8 variants), SORL1 (3 variants), PSEN1 (two novel variants), and APP (London mutation, Val717Ile). Most patients (83.3%) had a positive family history, with a mean age at onset of 54.17 ± 11.74 years, presenting with typical AD, posterior cortical atrophy, or frontal variants. MD simulations revealed increased rigidity, altered electrostatic interactions, and disrupted ATP-binding dynamics in mutant proteins compared with wild type. This study identifies novel and known AD-associated variants in an Indian cohort and demonstrates their potential structural impact. Integrating genetic and structural analyses provides valuable insights into AD pathogenesis in underrepresented populations.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Mitochondrial dysfunction and chromatin dysregulation are interconnected contributors to neuronal vulnerability in Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet the molecular mechanisms linking these processes remain poorly understood. CHCHD10, a mitochondrial intermembrane space protein, has been implicated in neurodegenerative disorders, but its role in AD has not been defined. Here, we identify CHCHD10 as a previously unrecognized modulator of neuronal epigenomic stability in AD. Using direct fibroblast-to-neuron reprogramming, which preserves patient-specific epigenetic signatures, we show that AD neurons recapitulate genome-wide hypomethylation patterns observed in postmortem AD cortex. CHCHD10 expression is significantly reduced in AD neurons and across multiple human brain datasets, including single-cell and bulk RNA sequencing, proteomics, and human cortical tissue analyses. Restoration of CHCHD10 in AD neurons reduces amyloid-β and insoluble tau accumulation while reversing AD-associated differentially methylated regions across CpG islands, promoters, and regulatory elements. CHCHD10-responsive methylation changes overlap with those observed in human AD brain regions and colocalize with significant AD loci and cortex-specific eQTL loci, including MAPT and ABCA7. Finally, we identify KATNAL2 as a CHCHD10-responsive effector whose loss enhances tau phosphorylation and seeding, whereas its restoration mitigates tau pathology. Together, these findings support a CHCHD10-associated neuroprotective pathway linking mitochondrial dysfunction, epigenomic instability, and tau pathology in AD.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Some domestic sheep have distinct low (LK) or high intracellular potassium (HK) erythrocytes with demonstrated differences in potassium chloride co-transport. Erythrocyte potassium concentration is inherited as a single locus trait, although responsible genetic variant(s) have not been identified. Herein, genome-wide association identified a large, artiodactyl-specific tandem duplication of the MYADM gene family locus as highly associated (P = 1.1 × 10- 63) with erythrocyte intracellular potassium concentration. The full tandemly expanded MYADMF locus included 37 genes in sheep, 33 genes in goats, 52 genes in cattle, and 15 genes in domestic swine, but no comparable tandemly expanded locus in horses. Fine mapping in an expanded sheep population showed maximal association with erythrocyte potassium (P < 10- 99) for MYADMF15A1, MYADMF1G1, MYADMF1H1, MYADMF3A1, MYADMF1B3, and MYADMF13C1. Prior data showed higher potassium chloride co-transport in sheep LK than HK erythrocytes, and the present data, for the first time, implicate one or more MYADMF genes in the regulation of potassium chloride co-transport. Since there are many fewer MYADM genes in humans, we hypothesized that a simpler interaction might exist with the gene family namesake MYADM, which has been linked to human hypertension in multiple studies. Alphafold3 protein models suggest MYADM interacts directly with KCC3 to stabilize its N-terminal regulatory peptide in the inhibitory position. While the complexity of the MYADMF expanded repeat locus makes it more difficult to draw conclusions about causation, it is possible that divergent alleles such as MYADMF1G1 and MYADMF1B3, or possibly MYADMF15A1, cause the low potassium phenotype through interaction with KCC3 and effects on the N-terminal regulatory peptide. Cumulatively, these data identify an expanded MYADMF locus as the major controller of sheep erythrocyte potassium concentration and suggest direct interaction of MYADM proteins with KCC transporters may regulate their function in diverse contexts. Additional work is needed to confirm structural predictions and explore functional implications.© 2026. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
The immune checkpoint receptor T cell immunoreceptor with Ig and ITIM domains (TIGIT) can signal via cytoplasmic motifs to regulate T cell function. The signaling molecules that mediate inhibitory TIGIT signaling and its regulation in T cells remain poorly defined. Here, proximity proteomics is employed to define TIGIT-proximal proteins upon CD155 engagement, identifying several that are ligation-specific, including those involved in signaling (Grb2 and SOS1), cytoskeletal regulation (CD2AP and SdcBP), and endocytosis (IST1 and SNX3). Through crosslinking followed by immunoprecipitation, we show that TIGIT and CD2AP directly interact, representing a novel association. A TIGIT mutant (Y225A/Y231A) incapable of inhibitory signaling prevents recruitment of these proteins. Strikingly, T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation is essential for TIGIT to engage with these pathways. Mechanistically, phosphorylation of TIGIT requires both CD155 ligation and TCR activation, resulting in its signaling and internalization. TCR activation-dependent TIGIT signaling establishes a regulatory mechanism that limits checkpoint control to when functionally required.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42529891 is a review article
Vacuolar protein sorting 4B (VPS4B) is part of the endosomal sorting complex required for the transport (ESCRT) machinery and is essential for autophagosome completion. Vps4b mutation might reduce the ability of dental follicle cells to differentiate during the mineralization process. However, the role of VPS4B in osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation from mesenchymal stem/progenitor cells remains to be explored. In the present study, we observed a substantial presence of VPS4B in bone, as well as an increase in its expression levels during the osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation of mesenchymal progenitor cells. Functional experiments revealed that VPS4B facilitated the differentiation of both osteoblasts and adipocytes. Further mechanistic investigations revealed that VPS4B was involved in autophagy in mesenchymal progenitor cells and the positive influence of VPS4B on osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation was mitigated in the context of autophagy inhibition, indicating that the pro-osteogenic and pro-adipogenic effects of VPS4B are dependent on the autophagy signaling pathway. Our research suggests that sustaining VPS4B expression at an optimal level may be advantageous for the maintenance of bone and fat homeostasis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive subtype with limited treatment options and poor prognosis. Understanding the underlying molecular mechanisms, particularly immune-related gene networks, is critical for identifying novel therapeutic targets.This study aimed to identify immune-related hub genes involved in TNBC progression by integrating microarray and RNA sequencing data.We integrated microarray and RNA sequencing datasets from five Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) studies (GSE36295, GSE37751, GSE61724, GSE38959, and GSE58135) to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks were constructed using the STRING database. Key modules and hub genes were identified through network analysis. Functional enrichment was performed to elucidate biological pathways, while immune infiltration analysis assessed associations with the tumor microenvironment. Drug-gene interaction databases were queried for FDA-approved compounds targeting hub genes.The PPI network revealed 179 nodes and 781 edges, indicating high connectivity. Module analysis highlighted a significant cluster with the identified key genes such as CDK1, BUB1B, CCNA2, BUB1, CCNB1, KIF20A, CENPF, TOP2A, KIF11 and MELK validated at both mRNA and protein levels. Functional enrichment revealed pathways related to cell cycle control, chromosome segregation, and kinase activity. Immune infiltration analysis indicated involvement of B cells, macrophages, and neutrophils in the TNBC microenvironment. Drug-gene mapping revealed a lack of FDA-approved drugs targeting certain key hub genes.This integrative study identified key immune-related hub genes driving TNBC progression, with KIF20A emerging as a promising yet underexplored target. Drug repurposing strategies focusing on KIF20A and other identified hub genes may accelerate the development of effective treatments, offering valuable insights for future therapeutic and prognostic evaluations in TNBC.© the Author(s).
Renal ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) is a major complication following nephron-sparing surgery, with limited preventive strategies. Annexin A2 (ANXA2) is upregulated after renal IRI, but its functional role and therapeutic potential remain unclear.Utilizing ANXA2 knockout (KO) and wild-type mice subjected to renal IRI, we assessed injury, fibrosis, and cell death pathways. In vitro studies employed mouse renal tubular epithelial cells (TECs) with ANXA2 or charged multivesicular body protein (CHMP) 2A knockdown or overexpression. Molecular mechanisms were investigated via co-immunoprecipitation, mass spectrometry, and immunofluorescence. The Kidney-Targeting Peptide (KTP)-conjugated, ANXA2-loaded lipid nanoparticle (KTP-LNP@ANXA2) was synthesized and characterized. Its efficacy was evaluated in vitro and in a mouse renal IRI model.ANXA2 was significantly upregulated post-IRI, predominantly in the renal medulla. KO mice exhibited exacerbated medullary injury, increased fibrosis, and enhanced necroptosis, as indicated by elevated phosphorylated MLKL (p‑MLKL) levels and severe apical membrane disruption, whereas no genotype‑dependent differences were detected in the selected markers of apoptosis, pyroptosis, or ferroptosis at 24 h. ANXA2 deficiency amplified the inflammatory response, increasing neutrophil infiltration through the upregulation of C-X-C motif chemokine ligand (CXCL) 1 and CXCL2. Mechanistically, ANXA2 associated with CHMP2A, a component of the endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT)-III membrane repair complex, following IRI, promoting ESCRT-III assembly at the apical membrane to counteract necroptosis. Knocking down CHMP2A abolished the protective effect of ANXA2. The engineered KTP-LNP@ANXA2 demonstrated excellent stability, biocompatibility, and enhanced uptake by renal TECs. Pre-treatment with KTP-LNP@ANXA2 in mice effectively delivered ANXA2 to the kidneys, attenuated IRI severity, reduced necroptosis and inflammation, and diminished neutrophil recruitment.ANXA2 confers protection against renal IRI by interacting with CHMP2A to facilitate ESCRT-III-mediated inhibition of TEC necroptosis, thereby attenuating subsequent inflammation. Enhancement of renal ANXA2 levels via engineered LNPs represents a novel and promising therapeutic strategy for preventing renal IRI.© 2026. The Author(s).
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) remains refractory to current treatment modalities. Differentiation-based approaches, which force cancer stem/progenitor cells to exit the cell cycle and adopt terminal fates, offer an alternative therapeutic strategy. Cell fate regulators operating during stem/progenitor cell divisions integrate proliferative and anti-proliferative cues and represent particularly attractive points of intervention. Here, we investigated the therapeutic potential of targeting mitotic kinesin KIF20A in GBM stem/progenitor cells. KIF20A is a crucial component of cytokinetic machinery and cooperates with a network of cell fate regulators to balance proliferative and differentiative divisions in neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs). Using complementary in vitro and in vivo models, including 2D cultures, 3D organoids, and intracranial xenografts, we show that inhibition of KIF20A drives cell cycle exit and induces a postmitotic/differentiated state in GBM stem/progenitor cells, resulting in a marked suppression of proliferation. Together, these findings establish KIF20A as a key vulnerability in GBM and a promising target for differentiation-based intervention.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chromosome mis-segregation events that remain unresolved during cytokinesis threaten genome stability. Persistent ultrafine DNA bridges engage the Aurora B-dependent abscission checkpoint (termed NoCut), which delays abscission by phosphorylating components of the ESCRT complex. Here we show that NoCut surveillance repurposes human ESCRT-III, the membrane-remodeling complex that seals the reforming nuclear envelope in anaphase. In response to persistent ultrafine DNA bridges, ESCRT-III transfers from the reforming nuclear envelope to the mis-segregated DNA bridge and ESCRT-III complexes protect the DNA from damage, as evidenced by increased DNA damage upon CHMP1B depletion. Complementary in vitro assembly reactions show that the human ESCRT-III proteins CHMP1B and IST1 can copolymerize into double-stranded filaments that encase double-stranded DNA and nucleosomes and prevent nuclease digestion and cGAS recognition, demonstrating that ESCRT-III complexes can directly bind and protect DNA. Lastly, cells expressing a DNA-binding mutant of CHMP1B exhibit cytokinesis failure and binucleation when ultrafine DNA bridges persist, revealing a mechanism of safeguarding genome stability.© 2026. The Author(s).
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a primary microvascular complication of diabetes. Its pathogenesis is associated with chronic inflammation and immune responses. While tolerogenic dendritic cells (tolDCs) are critical for suppressing excessive inflammation and maintaining immune homeostasis, their function in DR is not well characterized.To identify biomarkers associated with tolDCs in DR and to explore their mechanisms.Biomarkers were identified from public databases using differential analysis, machine learning (LASSO regression analysis and Random Forest analysis), and expression validation. Their mechanisms were then explored through enrichment analysis and immune infiltration, and ultimately validated by reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) on clinical blood samples.A total of 2096 differentially expressed genes (DEGs)1 were identified between DR and control groups. By intersecting with 6267 tolDCs-related genes, 51 key candidates were selected. Machine learning and expression validation further pinpointed two biomarkers: transcription factor EC (TFEC) and chromatin modifying protein 2 A (CHMP2A). Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) showed significant enrichment of TFEC in 994 pathways and CHMP2A in 748, with co-enriched pathways including apoptosis, VEGFA-VEGFR2 signaling, and VEGF signaling. Analysis identified eight altered immune cell types; TFEC correlated strongest with activated NK cells (cor = - 0.49, p < 0.001), while CHMP2A correlated with resting mast cells (cor = 0.49, p < 0.001). RT-qPCR confirmed TFEC upregulation and CHMP2A downregulation in DR, validating the bioinformatic results.TFEC and CHMP2A are potential biomarkers involved in DR pathogenesis via tolDCs.© The Author(s) 2026.
N6-methyladenosine (m6A), the most abundant internal modification in eukaryotic mRNAs, plays crucial regulatory roles in carcinogenesis through post-transcriptional regulation of mRNA metabolism. Although emerging evidence highlights its significance in tumor biology, the epigenetic mechanism underlying gallbladder carcinoma (GBC) progression remains poorly characterized. In the present study, KIAA1429, a key component of the m6A methyltransferase complex, was significantly upregulated in GBC and correlated with aggressive tumor characteristics and poor patient survival. Functionally, KIAA1429 knockdown substantially impaired cellular proliferation, migration, and invasion in vitro and suppressed xenograft tumor growth in vivo. Conversely, KIAA1429 overexpression promoted malignant phenotypes in GBC. Mechanistically, an integrated analysis of MeRIP-seq and GEO data identified KIF20A as a downstream effector of KIAA1429. Further experiments demonstrated that KIAA1429 upregulates KIF20A expression. Overexpression of KIF20A partially restored the proliferation and invasion abilities of GBC cells curtailed by KIAA1429 knockdown. Taken together, our work uncovers a critical function for KIAA1429 in driving GBC progression and reveals novel mechanistic insights into m6A methylation in gallbladder carcinogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Although cGAS-STING immunotherapy holds immense potential, its efficacy is severely compromised by pathway evasion. To overcome this, we engineered a core-shell bilayer nanobomb (M/ZIF/MnO2@DBCO) via a template-assisted approach, integrating MSC1094308 into ZIF-8 cores followed by MnO2 shell deposition and DBCO functionalization. In a simulated tumor microenvironment, ZIF-8 loading accelerated Mn2+ release from MnO2, increasing the cumulative release by nearly 30% within 8 h compared to pristine MnO2. Cellular assays demonstrated rapid bio-orthogonal targeting of azide-modified tumors, achieving lysosomal escape within 6 h postuptake. Subsequently, MnO2-mediated glutathione (GSH) depletion and hydroxyl radical (·OH) generation, combined with Zn2+ induced mitochondrial oxidative stress, produced cytotoxic reactive oxygen species (ROS) that triggered immunogenic cell death. Furthermore, Mn2+, Zn2+, and dsDNA released from damaged mitochondria cooperatively activated the cGAS-STING pathway. Concurrently, MSC1094308 inhibited ESCRT-mediated negative regulation, as evidenced by a ∼0.2 decrease in the p-STING/VPS4B-RFP colocalization coefficient, confirming the blockade of cGAS-STING evasion. In vivo studies revealed that the nanoplatform profoundly stimulated antitumor immunity, increasing tumor-infiltrating cytotoxic T lymphocytes approximately 8-fold versus untreated controls after 21 days. This work establishes an integrated strategy harnessing Zn2+/Mn2+ synergy, nanobomb reactivity, and ESCRT inhibition to circumvent cGAS-STING evasion, offering a promising paradigm for cancer immunotherapy.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42527167
HIV-1 release from infected cells requires coordinated action of the viral Gag protein and the host endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRT) machinery. How innate immunity regulates ESCRT function to limit viral egress remains unclear. Here, we show that MITD1, a cell type-specific interferon-stimulated gene, is a potent inhibitor of ESCRT-dependent HIV-1 budding. MITD1 engages ESCRT-III subunits CHMP1B and CHMP4B, driving their incorporation into aggregates and impairing ESCRT-III assembly during HIV-1 budding. This disrupts the final steps of virion release, causing an accumulation of immature particles at the plasma membrane. MITD1 overexpression reduces HIV-1 release from cell lines, primary peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), and human microglia, while sparing the release of ESCRT-independent viruses. These findings establish MITD1 as an interferon-stimulated restriction factor that limits HIV-1 egress by perturbing ESCRT-III assembly.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Eukaryotic chromosomes occupy ordered configurations within the nucleus, an organization that must be re-established in daughter cells as the nuclear envelope reforms at the end of mitosis. The conserved enzyme VPS4 and ESCRT-III proteins mediate nuclear envelope reformation, yet their role in post-mitotic centromere positioning remains unclear. Here, we develop a chemical genetics approach to analyze the role of VPS4 in human cells. VPS4 inhibition prevents the clearance of CHMP7 from centromeres, which remain constrained in ring-like configurations established during mitosis. Without VPS4 activity, CHMP7, but not other ESCRT-III proteins, forms nuclear foci, nuclear envelope protein distribution is altered and inner nuclear membrane invaginations appear. Following these defects, DNA damage is observed in the vicinity of centromeres. Depletion of CHMP7, but not CHMP4B, suppresses this damage. We propose that VPS4-mediated turnover of CHMP7 releases centromeres from transient nuclear envelope contacts, ensuring their proper positioning after mitosis and maintaining genome integrity.
Background: Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a heterogeneous disease, and improved biomarkers are needed to support prognostic assessment. This study aimed to characterize hub genes in CRC and evaluate whether a gene signature provides biologically meaningful and prognostic information in clinical-genomic models. Methods: We integrated three GEO microarray datasets (GSE110223, GSE110224, and GSE23878) to identify common differentially expressed genes using adjusted p<0.05 and ∣log2FC∣>1. Hub genes and protein expression were identified through protein-protein interaction network analysis using maximal clique centrality and Human Protein Atlas, respectively. Prognostic relevance was evaluated in TCGA-COAD/READ using Kaplan-Meier analysis, multivariable Cox regression, Cox-derived prognostic indices, time-dependent ROC analysis, and regression-based machine learning for internal robustness. Principal component analysis (PCA) was used to derive a standardized PC1-based score from the 10-hub gene signature. Results: A ten-gene mitotic hub signature (TPX2, UBE2C, AURKA, NEK2, PRC1, CCNB1, CDK1, CEP55, FOXM1, and RRM2) was consistently upregulated across the three datasets and enriched for cell-cycle and mitotic pathways. Protein-level and survival analyses supported the biological relevance of several hub genes. In TCGA-COAD/READ, the signature showed limited standalone prognostic value and did not retain independent significance after adjustment for clinical variables, although it contributed modestly in integrated clinical-genomic models. PCA showed a one-dimensional signature, with PC1 capturing the dominant shared expression pattern. Gradient Boosting Regressor (R2 = 0.8035, MSE = 0.0473) supported the internal robustness of the DEG-based expression pattern. Conclusions: The ten-gene mitotic hub signature represents a coherent CRC-related proliferative program with limited value as an isolated prognostic marker, but it may still be useful as part of integrated risk models that require external validation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42486440 is a review article
Background: Cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) is a key membrane-anchored drug-metabolizing enzyme. Its expression and purification in heterologous systems are severely hindered by low yield and detergent-induced structural inactivation. Although extracellular vesicles (EVs) provide an ideal natural lipid bilayer environment to stabilize membrane proteins, targeted loading remains challenging. The ESCRT and ALIX-binding region (EABR) of CEP55 can efficiently recruit core components of the endosomal sorting complex (ESCRT) to mediate membrane fission. Objectives: This study used the EABR motif to drive the targeted vesicular secretion of CYP3A4, thereby establishing a novel membrane protein engineering platform. Methods and Results: EABR was fused with fluorescent protein, confirming its specific mediation of vesicular secretion. Recombinant plasmids of EABR/CYP3A4 and its reverse mutant (R-EABR) were transfected into HEK293T cells. Western blot and midazolam-based metabolic assays showed that forward EABR significantly enhanced CYP3A4 expression and EV secretion, while R-EABR lost exocytosis function. EVs isolated by ultracentrifugation verified EABR's role in recruiting ESCRT and improving CYP3A4 activity. Conclusions: Forward CEP55-EABR specifically and efficiently drives vesicular encapsulation of CYP3A4, enhancing its expression and secretion. This ESCRT-mediated strategy avoids destructive purification, provides a stable lipid-rich bioreactor for CYP3A4, and has great translational potential in high-throughput in vitro drug metabolism and screening platforms.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42299353 is a review article
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the most lethal subtype of lung cancer, and its occurrence and progression are closely correlated with immune escape. CEP55 is upregulated in a variety of malignancies and participates in tumor progression, yet its specific role in the immune regulation of LUAD remains poorly defined. Due to the unclear mechanism of immune escape, the therapeutic efficacy of immunotherapy for LUAD is still unsatisfactory. Therefore, it is essential to further elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms and identify novel therapeutic targets. This study aims to explore the biological function of CEP55 in LUAD immune escape, as well as to clarify its upstream regulatory mechanism and downstream signaling pathways. CEP55 expression in LUAD tissues was assessed utilizing data from TCGA-LUAD and validated in cells. Bioinformatics approaches were employed to explore CEP55-enriched signaling pathways and their link to CD8⁺ T cell infiltration. A CD8⁺ T-tumor cell co-cultured model was established, and LDH release, ELISA, and CFSE staining were utilized to assess CD8⁺ T cell cytotoxicity and proliferation. To uncover the role of CEP55 in LUAD cell behavior, we employed CCK-8, EdU labeling, Transwell assays, and flow cytometry to systematically evaluate its effects on proliferation, migration, invasion, and apoptosis. Western blotting was performed to measure key signaling pathway proteins expression level. Potential upstream regulators of CEP55 m6A modification were identified through database mining, followed by validation using RIP, MeRIP-qPCR, and WB. CEP55 was highly expressed in LUAD and inversely associated with CD8⁺ T cell infiltration. Knockdown of CEP55 in LUAD enhanced tumor-killing activity of CD8⁺ T cells in a co-culture system and significantly suppressed LUAD cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and anti-apoptotic capacity. CEP55 was positively correlated with WTAP in LUAD. WTAP stabilized CEP55 mRNA expression via m6A modification, while CEP55 activated the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway, upregulating PD-L1. This led to CD8⁺ T cell exhaustion and promoted tumor immune evasion. This study reveals a critical mechanism whereby WTAP upregulates CEP55 expression via m⁶A modification, thereby activating the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway, inhibiting the anti-tumor activity of CD8⁺ T cells, and ultimately facilitating LUAD progression. These findings indicate that CEP55 serves as a promising therapeutic target for LUAD immunotherapy, providing novel theoretical evidence to improve the efficacy of immune treatment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
WNT2B is canonically characterized as a secreted WNT-family ligand, which is transported to the extracellular space via the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi pathway and binds to cell surface FZDs (frizzled class receptors) to trigger downstream signaling cascades. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized non-secretory intracellular function of WNT2B in impairing endosomal trafficking to inhibit macroautophagy/autophagy, as well as a non-canonical LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion mechanism for WNT2B. Specifically, the non-secretory intracellular pool of WNT2B via its conserved middle domain (MD) binds to the spectrin repeat domain (SRD) of WASHC5, competitively displacing WASHC1 and thereby disrupting WASH complex assembly and inhibiting WASHC1-mediated actin polymerization on early endosomes. This disruption impairs endosomal cargo trafficking, including the core autophagy protein ATG9A, leading to defective autophagy initiation and subsequent accumulation of pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic factors in fibroblasts. We validated this mechanism in vivo using a TNBS-induced mouse model of chronic colitis. Fibroblast-specific wnt2b deletion restores autophagy, reduces pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion, and ameliorates intestinal fibrosis. Consistently, in Crohn disease (CD) patient tissues, elevated WNT2B in fibrotic regions negatively correlates with autophagy activity, and positively correlates with pro-fibrotic phenotypes, and clinical disease severity. Moreover, we identify a novel LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion pathway for WNT2B, which is distinct from the conventional ER-to-Golgi-dependent protein secretion. Collectively, our study delineates a novel non-canonical WNT2B-WASH complex-ATG9A regulatory axis through which WNT2B impairs endosomal trafficking and disrupts autophagy, ultimately amplifying inflammation and fibrosis. This study suggests that WNT2B may serve as a promising therapeutic target for CD and autophagy-associated fibrotic disorders.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACTA2: actin alpha 2, smooth muscle; ARPC2: actin related protein 2/3 complex subunit 2; ATG: autophagy related; CCN3: cellular communication network factor 3; CD: Crohn disease; CK666: 2-fluoro-N-[2-(2-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl)ethyl]benzamide; COL1A1: collagen type I alpha 1 chain; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CTNNB1: catenin beta 1; DBcAMP: dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate; DPT: dermatopontin; EEA1: early endosome antigen 1; EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; EV: extracellular vesicle; FRAP: fluorescence recovery after photobleaching; FL: full length; FZD: frizzled class receptor; GST: glutathione S-transferase; HIF: human intestinal fibroblast; HMGB1: high mobility group box 1; IKBKB: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta; IL6: interleukin 6; LDELS: LC3-dependent EV loading and secretion; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MD: middle domain; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MVB: multivesicular body; NFKB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA: NFKB inhibitor alpha; PDCD6IP: programmed cell death 6 interacting protein; PLA: proximity ligation assay; RELA/p65: RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; SAFB: scaffold attachment factor B; SES-CD: Simple Endoscopic Score for Crohn disease; SIM: super-resolution structured illumination microscopy; SMAD3: SMAD family member 3; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SRD: spectrin repeat domain; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFRC: transferrin receptor; TGFB1: transforming growth factor beta 1; TGOLN2: trans-golgi network protein 2; TNBS: 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; VCA: Verprolin homology, Central and Acidic; WASHC: WASH complex subunit; WLS: Wnt ligand secretion mediator; WCL: whole cell lysates; WNT: Wnt family member; WT, wild type.
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) is a degenerative disease characterized by degradation of the extracellular matrix (ECM) in the nucleus pulposus, disruption of the fibrous ring structure, and imbalance of the inflammatory microenvironment. It is the main cause of chronic low back pain. Its pathogenesis is closely related to cellular aging and immune inflammation. Aging nucleus pulposus cells release pro-inflammatory factors such as IL-6 and TNF-α through the secretion of senescence associated secretory phenotype (SASP), recruiting M1 macrophages to infiltrate and forming a vicious cycle of "aging inflammation matrix destruction." This study systematically analyzed the molecular mechanism by which kaempferol improves IVDD through multi-target regulation by integrating bioinformatics analysis, animal experiments, and cell models. Bioinformatics screening revealed significant abnormal expression of genes such as AURKB, CCNB1, AXL, NEK6, and PTK2 in IVDD degenerated tissues. Downregulation of CCNB1 induced G2/M phase arrest by inhibiting CDK1 activity, while activation of GSK3B inhibited the Wnt signaling pathway by phosphorylating β-catenin, exacerbating ECM catabolism. Proteomics further confirms that the NOX4 mediated ROS-p38 MAPK pathway promotes cell apoptosis and SASP secretion. Immune infiltration analysis showed that M1 macrophages were significantly enriched in degenerated intervertebral discs, and their secreted IL-6 and TNF-α amplified the inflammatory cascade by activating the NF-κ B pathway. Animal experiments have shown that intervention with kaempferol can partially restore the intervertebral disc height index (DHI), downregulate the levels of IL‑1β and TNF‑α, upregulate the expression of CCNB1 and AURKB (which were downregulated in the IVDD model), thereby alleviating G2/M phase arrest and promoting cell cycle progression, inhibit AXL and PTK2, and reduce macrophage infiltration. Mechanistically, kaempferol inhibits NOX4 activity by clearing ROS, blocking the vicious cycle of oxidative stress‑inflammation; by regulating the NEK6/NF‑κB axis, the expression of MMP‑3 and ADAMTS‑4 is reduced, delaying ECM degradation; and improve the immune microenvironment by promoting macrophage polarization towards the M2 phenotype. In addition, kaempferol can reverse the metabolic imbalance mediated by GSK3B. This study reveals for the first time that kaempferol upregulates core gene networks such as AURKB and CCNB1 while suppressing AXL through the "anti‑inflammatory anti‑aging" dual pathway, thereby breaking the "aging‑immunity" crosstalk and restoring cell cycle homeostasis, providing a new strategy for natural compound intervention in IVDD treatment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42490878 is a review article
A new cytosporin derivative, cytoeutypellane D, was isolated from a culture extract of the Arctic-derived fungus Eutypella sp. D-1. Its structure was determined based on a detailed nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopic interpretation, a mass spectrometry data analysis, and a literature review. Zebrafish were used in in vivo experiments to discover that the isolated compound significantly promoted angiogenesis in a dose-dependent manner. Further studies regarding the underlying mechanisms revealed that it may target the VEGF/VEGFR2 signaling pathway and rescue abnormal expressions of the cdk1, aurkb, topbp1, and brca2 genes to improve vascular endothelial cell proliferation and migration in zebrafish. In summary, our findings suggested that this novel compound isolated from the fungus Eutypella sp. D-1 might be used as a promising molecule for vascular injury disease treatment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Lung cancer (LC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related death globally. The methyltransferase METTL3, a core writer of RNA N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification, is a key regulator in cancer. However, its systematic regulatory network, particularly in contexts where it exerts tumor-suppressive functions, remains to be fully elucidated. In this study, we aimed to systematically investigate the transcriptomic and epitranscriptomic remodeling induced by METTL3 overexpression in A549 lung cancer cells to uncover its potential tumor-suppressive mechanisms.Bioinformatics analysis of public databases was performed to evaluate METTL3 expression and prognostic significance in LC. Cell biology assays were conducted to assess phenotypic changes (proliferation, migration/invasion apoptosis) induced by METTL3 overexpression (METTL3-OE). RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed for METTL3-OE and negative control (NC) A549 cells. Publicly available methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (MeRIP-seq) datasets of LC cell line and tissues (GSE117299, GSE76367) were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Bioinformatics analysis was performed to identify m6A-modified targets and infer their potential function. Key differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and alternative splicing events (ASEs) were validated by reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR).Analysis of public databases indicated that METTL3 was downregulated in LC tissues and its higher expression correlated with better patient prognosis. Functionally, METTL3 overexpression in A549 cells inhibited proliferation, migration, and invasion, while promoting apoptosis (P<0.05). RNA-seq identified 240 DEGs (227 up-/13 down-regulated). Upregulated DEGs were significantly enriched in antiviral response and antigen presentation pathways. METTL3-OE also altered 1,305 ASEs, with affected genes enriched in cell migration and apoptosis. Integrated analysis identified 22 genes (e.g., HLA-A/B/C, MYD88) that were upregulated by METTL3 overexpression and have been reported to harbor m6A modifications reported in LC tissues and A549 cells. Furthermore, analysis revealed an overlap of 222 genes between those undergoing METTL3-regulated splicing changes and genes documented as m6A-modified in the same LC datasets. RT-qPCR confirmed the upregulation of the immune-related genes (MYD88, HLA-A/B/C, IFIT1, IFIT3, OAS1, ISG20) and the altered splicing of NCOR2 and SIRT7 and AURKB (P<0.05).Our study demonstrates that METTL3 overexpression exerts tumor-suppressive effects in A549 cells and suggests that METTL3 may be involved in a multi-layered transcriptional and post-transcriptional response. This response includes the upregulation of immune-related genes-many of which are known m6A targets in LC-and the modulation of splicing in genes controlling cell fate, collectively contributing to the suppression of malignant phenotypes.© AME Publishing Company.
Sepsis is a systemic inflammatory response caused by a variety of causes, which is characterized by high morbidity and mortality. Our work aimed to screen the candidate genes of sepsis and evaluate their diagnostic value using bioinformatics tools.Multiple GEO datasets were integrated. GSE9960 and GSE28750 were merged as the training set, with other datasets used as validation sets for immune infiltration, prognosis, ROC analysis, subtype analysis, and single-cell analysis. Sepsis-associated genes were identified via weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis. Functional enrichment was explored using GSVA and GSEA. Diagnostic potential was evaluated by ROC curves. Correlation between gene expression and immune cells was analyzed by Pearson correlation, and gene expression was validated by qRT-PCR.WGCNA identified 1,463 sepsis-associated genes, which were enriched in biosynthesis/metabolism and immune-related signaling pathways. Five hub genes (CDK1, CCNB1, CCNA2, AURKB and BUB1) were screened via PPI network, all highly expressed in sepsis. Higher AURKB or BUB1 expression correlated with shorter overall survival. scRNA-seq revealed broad expression of these genes in pediatric immune cells (B cells, monocytes, T cells), but restricted to T cells in adult samples. A logistic regression model combining the five genes showed preliminary discriminative potential for distinguishing sepsis from healthy controls in the training set (AUC = 0.747) and an independent validation cohort (GSE65682, AUC = 0.799). In exploratory analyses, the model also demonstrated potential for differentiating septic shock from cardiogenic shock (AUC = 0.743) and from non-septic shock (AUC = 0.766). These genes exhibited significant correlations with immune cell infiltration in sepsis.In this study, we identified five sepsis-associated genes (CDK1, CCNB1, CCNA2, AURKB, BUB1). A logistic regression model based on these five genes demonstrated improved and consistent diagnostic performance for sepsis, and these genes also correlated with immune cell infiltration in sepsis. However, as the current results are correlational and do not establish a causal role, they should be interpreted as hypothesis-generating rather than conclusive, warranting further validation in independent prospective cohorts.Copyright © 2026 Fu, Yang, Lv, Zhang, Wang, Cai and Zhang.
To explore the mechanism of Bushen Yijing Formula (BSYJF) in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) through an integrated approach combining transcriptomics, network pharmacology, and molecular docking.Twelve specific pathogen-free male C57BL/6 mice, aged 6 months, were used in this study. Among them, four wild-type mice served as the normal control group, and eight amyloid precursor protein (APP)/presenilin 1 (PS1) double-transgenic mice were randomly divided into a model control group and a BSYJF group, with four mice in each group. Mice in the BSYJF group were orally administered 8.56 mL/kg BSYJF by gavage once daily, while those in the model control and normal control groups received an equal volume of normal saline by gavage. All treatments were continued for 12 consecutive weeks. Cognitive function and hippocampal amyloid β-protein (Aβ) deposition were assessed using behavioral tests and immunohisto-chemistry. Mouse brain tissue samples were subjected to transcriptomic sequencing to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Functional enrichment analyses were performed using Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA). In parallel, active compounds of BSYJF were screened via the TCMSP and PubChem databases, and AD-related targets were retrieved from GeneCards and other disease databases. Core targets were identified by intersecting these targets with transcriptomic DEGs. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations were employed to evaluate binding affinity between active compounds and core targets, and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) was used to validate expression changes of core target genes.BSYJF treatment improved cognitive function and reduced hippocampal Aβ deposition in APP/PS1 mice. Transcriptomic analysis revealed 73 DEGs between the model and BSYJF groups. GO analysis identified enrichment in 281 biological processes, 104 cellular components, and 120 molecular functions. KEGG analysis highlighted 110 pathways, and GSEA supplemented 322 enriched gene sets, many related to the immune system, neurodegenerative diseases, and signaling pathways such as Th17 cell differentiation and NF-κB. Integrated analysis with network pharmacology prioritized 10 core targets. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations indicated strong structural stability and binding affinity of BSYJF bioactive constituents to these core targets. qPCR results confirmed that BSYJF down-regulated the expression of Aurkb, Nr1i3, and Ttk, while upregulating Apob and Ces1d, consistent with the transcriptomic findings.BSYJF may regulate immune-inflammatory responses and alleviate neuronal damage through a multi-component, multi-target, and multi-pathway approach, thereby improving cognitive function in AD model mice.
Genomic complexity and small case numbers make statistically robust assessment of mutational patterns in osteosarcoma difficult. The authors analyzed a large cohort of targeted next-generation sequencing data from osteosarcoma cases from young patients submitted for clinical testing to Foundation Medicine.The osteosarcoma cohort included 653 patients: 109 pediatric (males, <13 years old; females, <12 years old), 246 adolescent (males, 13-17 years old; females, 12-17 years old), and 298 young adult (males and females, 18-40 years old). Sequencing from osteosarcoma cases was compared to a pan-cancer cohort comprising 37,947 patients ≤40 years old.Genes commonly altered and significantly enriched (p < .0001) for alterations in osteosarcoma compared to other cancers were TP53 (55%), RB1 (22%), GID4 (26%), MYC (17%), and CCND3 (16%). Less commonly altered genes also significantly enriched (p < .0001) for alterations in osteosarcoma included AURKB (odds ratio [OR], 28.0), NCOR1 (OR, 8.2), and BCL2L2 (OR, 8.9). Fisher exact tests demonstrated mutual exclusivity between MDM2 amplification and TP53 inactivation and between RB1 inactivation and CDK4 amplification or CDKN2A/B deletion. Chi-square tests and binomial regression revealed statistically significant differences in genomic events by age, including frequent amplification of CDK4 and MDM2 in young adults and MYC, CCND3, and CCNE1 in pediatric and adolescent cases.Novel findings from this statistically rigorous analysis of a large patient population include: identifying genes of interest in osteosarcoma that are more often altered when compared to other cancers; identifying MYC and CCND3 amplification as significantly more prevalent in osteosarcoma diagnosed in childhood; and proving mutual exclusivity and co-occurrence with statistical robustness.© 2026 American Cancer Society.
Reprogramming of branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) metabolism is a metabolic hallmark of cancer that fuels tumor progression. However, a comprehensive understanding of its pan-cancer heterogeneity and its crosstalk with the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) remains elusive.We performed an integrated multi-omics analysis of 33 cancer types from TCGA. Eighteen core BCAA metabolic genes were curated. Their genetic alterations, transcriptional regulation, and heterogeneous expression patterns across cellular subpopulations were systematically characterized using bulk, single-cell RNA-seq, and epigenomic data. A BCAA activity score was quantified via ssGSEA. Cancer-specific prognostic models were constructed using a rigorous penalty-optimized LASSO-Cox regression framework coupled with cross-validation strategy to effectively minimize overfitting.Comprehensive landscape analysis revealed extensive heterogeneity in the expression and regulation of BCAA metabolic genes between tumors and normal tissues across multiple cancer types. At single-cell resolution, these genes displayed distinct cell-type-specific expression profiles within epithelial, myeloid, and T cell lineages, strictly dependent on tissue context (normal, adjacent, or tumor). High BCAA scores were fundamentally associated with the inhibition of epithelial-mesenchymal transition and apoptosis. Notably, the high BCAA phenotype strongly correlated with an immunosuppressive TIME, marked by M2 macrophage enrichment, restricted CD8 + T cell infiltration, and elevated expression of key immune checkpoints (e.g., PDCD1, CTLA4, LAG3). Based on these core genes, robust cancer-specific prognostic signatures were developed and validated for 23 malignancies. Patients stratified into the high-risk group exhibited enhanced genomic instability, augmented proliferative signaling, and inferior clinical outcomes following immunotherapy. Furthermore, 13 potential therapeutic targets (including AURKB and PLK1) were prioritized, alongside the prediction of therapeutic agents with highly specific sensitivity profiles.This study successfully maps the pan-cancer landscape of BCAA metabolic heterogeneity, highlighting its instrumental role in remodeling the TIME and promoting tumor progression. The validated BCAA-derived prognostic signature represents a reliable biomarker for patient risk stratification and the rational guidance of immunotherapeutic interventions. Collectively, these insights into the intersection of metabolic reprogramming and microenvironmental immunity offer a conceptual framework for developing innovative, metabolism-targeted immunotherapeutic paradigms.© 2026. The Author(s).
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and psychiatric disorders exhibit complex comorbid patterns, with anxiety and depressive disorders being significantly more prevalent in IBD patients compared to the general population. These comorbidities may differ between Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), suggesting heterogeneous but potentially shared genetic mechanisms mediated through the gut-brain axis (GBA).To systematically investigate global and local genetic correlations between IBD and eight psychiatric disorders and to identify shared pathogenic mechanisms underlying these comorbidities.Using publicly available large-scale GWAS summary statistics, including a meta-analysis of 486,601 individuals for IBD and large international consortia datasets for eight psychiatric disorders, we conducted global genetic correlation analysis to quantify overall genetic overlap, local genetic correlation analysis to identify region-specific associations, summary data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) to evaluate putative causal gene-trait relationships, and multi-trait analysis of GWAS (MTAG) to detect pleiotropic variants.Significant global genetic correlations were observed between IBD and ADHD (rho = 4.79 × 10- 3, p = 3.07 × 10- 5), anxiety disorder (rho = 1.89 × 10- 2, p = 8.02 × 10- 11), ASD (rho = 6.65 × 10- 3, p = 7.24 × 10- 4), OCD (rho = 7.84 × 10- 3, p = 1.32 × 10- 3), and PTSD (rho = 2.19 × 10- 2, p = 1.16 × 10- 19). Local genetic correlation analysis identified 274 significant regions (Bonferroni-corrected), with loci 464 (chr3: 47.6-50.4 Mb) and 960 (chr6: 31.3-31.4 Mb) showing consistent cross-trait associations. MTAG identified 1,125 independent pleiotropic loci, while SMR and MAGMA integration prioritized 21 key pleiotropic genes, including NOD2, IL10, and AURKB. Enrichment analyses highlighted immune-related and neurobiological pathways, including JAK-STAT signaling, FoxO signaling, oxidative stress response, and GABAergic synapse pathways.Our findings provide multi-layered genetic evidence supporting a structured and locus-specific shared genetic architecture between IBD and several psychiatric disorders. The identification of key genes and pathways, particularly NOD2 and immune-synaptic signaling cascades, offers potential molecular targets for understanding and managing comorbid disease within the GBA framework.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cytokinesis requires tightly coordinated membrane trafficking and cytoskeletal remodelling to ensure accurate physical separation of daughter cells. Rab11a, a recycling endosome-associated small GTPase, and KIF13A, a kinesin-3 family microtubule motor protein, have each been implicated in late mitotic events. However, the mechanistic relationship between Rab11a-mediated endosomal trafficking and KIF13A-driven transport during abscission remains insufficiently defined. This study aimed to elucidate the spatial and functional interplay between Rab11a and KIF13A during cytokinesis and to determine the consequences of disrupting this axis on mitotic progression and genomic stability. Rab11a and KIF13A were depleted in HeLa cells using shRNA- and siRNA-mediated knockdown strategies. Subcellular localisation and colocalisation at the intercellular bridge were examined by immunofluorescence microscopy and quantified using Pearson's correlation coefficient. Functional outcomes were assessed through multinucleation, micronuclei formation, telophase accumulation, and LAP2-positive chromatin bridge assays. Mitotic timing from nuclear envelope breakdown to abscission was quantified by live-cell spinning-disk confocal microscopy. Rab11a and KIF13A exhibited pronounced colocalisation at the ICB during cytokinesis. Depletion of either protein reduced its spatial association with the other. It resulted in marked cytokinetic defects, including increased multinucleation, micronuclei formation, telophase delay, and elevated chromatin bridge frequency. Live-cell imaging demonstrated a significant prolongation of the cytokinesis-to-abscission interval, accompanied by an extended overall mitotic M-phase. Mechanistically, loss of Rab11a or KIF13A impaired CHMP4B recruitment to the ICB, reduced PI3P accumulation, and enhanced Aurora B signalling, consistent with activation of the abscission checkpoint. These findings establish the Rab11a-KIF13A axis as a critical regulator of late mitosis, integrating endosomal trafficking with ESCRT-III-dependent abscission. Disruption of this pathway compromises abscission accuracy and promotes genomic instability, highlighting its essential role in maintaining mitotic integrity and its potential relevance in tumorigenesis. Continued exploration of the KIF13A-Rab11 interaction will yield a deeper understanding of mitotic progression and cellular organisation.Copyright © 2026 Gibieža et al.
Pyroptosis is an inflammatory form of regulated cell death driven by gasdermin-mediated membrane pore formation. Although gasdermin D (GSDMD) pores are widely regarded as the executioners of pyroptosis, recent studies demonstrate that pore formation is not necessarily lethal because cells can actively repair membrane damage through the Endosomal Sorting Complex Required for Transport (ESCRT) machinery. The molecular mechanism that converts reversible GSDMD pore formation into irreversible membrane rupture and cell death remains unknown. Here, we identify a calcium-calpain-ALIX signaling axis that mechanistically links GSDMD pore formation to catastrophic membrane damage. Using primary macrophages, THP-1 monocytes, and HCT-116 epithelial cells, we show that depletion of the ESCRT adaptor ALG-2-interacting protein X (ALIX) abolishes membrane repair, promotes GSDMD accumulation, and markedly increases susceptibility to pyroptotic death. We further demonstrate that GSDMD pores trigger calcium influx, which induces proteolytic cleavage of ALIX. Preventing calcium influx or chelating intracellular calcium blocks ALIX cleavage, reduces GSDMD accumulation, and markedly improves cell survival. Mechanistically, we identify calpains as the calcium-dependent proteases responsible for ALIX cleavage and establish ALIX as a previously unrecognized calpain substrate. Pharmacologic inhibition or genetic depletion of calpains significantly reduces membrane permeabilization and pyroptotic cell death. Mapping of calpain cleavage sites localizes the major cleavage site within the ALIX V-domain. Importantly, calpain-mediated cleavage disrupts ALIX interaction with the ESCRT-III component CHMP4B, thereby preventing ESCRT assembly and membrane repair. In contrast, calcium depletion or calpain knock down restores CHMP4B recruitment and ESCRT activation Collectively, these findings reveal the first mechanistic pathway linking reversible membrane GSDMD pore formation to irreversible membrane rupture. We propose that GSDMD pore-induced Ca2+ influx activates calpains, disables ALIX-dependent ESCRT repair, and drives the transition from repairable membrane injury to terminal pyroptotic lysis. This pathway represents a potential therapeutic target for inflammatory diseases driven by excessive pyroptosis.
Mosquito-borne orthoflavivirus, such as Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV), Dengue virus (DENV), and Zika virus (ZIKV), pose a serious global health threat. As obligate intracellular parasites, they often hijack the host ubiquitin system to modify their own proteins, thereby regulating the viral life cycle, host adaptation, transmission, and pathogenesis. Despite its critical roles, the precise molecular mechanisms and functional significance of viral protein ubiquitination in orthoflavivirus infection remain incompletely understood. Here, we identify JEV prM as a novel target for host-specific ubiquitination, which occurs exclusively in vertebrate hosts but not in mosquitoes. Ubiquitin conjugation at the evolutionarily conserved lysine residues (K107/108/116) in multiple mosquito-borne orthoflaviviruses (USUV, MVEV, and WNV) confers differential adaptation between vertebrate hosts and mosquito vectors. Mechanistically, prM ubiquitination serves as a recruitment signal for the ESCRT-I subunit TSG101, an early-acting component of the ESCRT machinery, which in turn serves as an adaptor to recruit downstream ESCRT components (VPS28, CHMP2A, and CHMP4B), thereby driving viral particle budding. These findings elucidate a novel mechanism by which viral protein ubiquitination regulates JEV infection and host adaptation, and provide important insights into the adaptive evolution of orthoflaviviruses across different hosts and vectors.Copyright: © 2026 Li et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Ferroptosis resistance is a major challenge in cancer therapy, contributing to poor prognosis and unsatisfactory treatment outcomes. Thus, identifying key regulators of ferroptosis is essential for developing strategies to overcome this limitation. Mixed lineage kinase domain-like protein (MLKL) is well established as the executioner of necroptosis, but emerging evidence suggests broader functions beyond necroptosis. A previous study demonstrated that MLKL regulates ferroptosis in an acute kidney injury model. However, its role in ferroptosis regulation in cancer remains largely unexplored.Bioinformatics analyses revealed that MLKL expression positively correlates with glutathione metabolism-related genes in colorectal cancer (CRC) patients and with reduced sensitivity to GPX4 inhibitors across pan-cancer cell lines. Functional studies demonstrated that MLKL depletion sensitizes not only CRC cells but also multiple cancer cell types to ferroptosis induced by GPX4 inhibitors. Mechanistically, MLKL-deficient CRC cells exhibited reduced intracellular glutathione levels and dysregulation of the NRF2/KEAP1/SLC7A11 antioxidant axis. However, KEAP1 knockdown in MLKL-depleted cells partially reduced ferroptosis sensitivity, indicating that additional mechanisms are involved. Proteomic analysis identified CHMP5, a component of the ESCRT-III membrane repair machinery, as a key downstream effector associated with MLKL. MLKL depletion suppressed CHMP5 expression and impaired its translocation to the plasma membrane during ferroptosis induction. Consistent with defective membrane repair, MLKL-knockdown CRC cells exhibited increased HMGB1 release following GPX4 inhibitor treatment, indicating enhanced membrane damage. Notably, CHMP5 overexpression reduced ferroptosis in MLKL-knockdown cells, highlighting that MLKL regulates ferroptosis susceptibility in part through CHMP5-dependent ESCRT-III signaling.This study reveals a previously unrecognized role for MLKL in ferroptosis regulation through coordinating NRF2/KEAP1/SLC7A11-mediated glutathione metabolism and ESCRT-III-dependent membrane repair. These findings identify MLKL as a potential regulator of ferroptosis resistance and warrant further studies to evaluate the therapeutic relevance of MLKL-targeting strategies in colorectal cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Different inositol phospholipids (PIPs) distribute to distinct subcellular organelles, creating an addressing system that dictates the sites of action of PIP-binding proteins, including components of the Endosomal Sorting Complexes Required for Transport (ESCRT). The ESCRT machinery is recruited to remodel many different cellular membranes through combinatorial binding interactions made by the early-acting ESCRT-I and ESCRT-II complexes with PIPs, ubiquitin modifications, and membrane-specific adaptors. Membrane remodeling, constriction, and fission are then mediated by membrane-associated filaments formed by subunits of the late-acting ESCRT-III complexes, together with their associated VPS4 AAA ATPases. Here, we describe two different classes of helical ESCRT-III filaments that can surround and tubulate membranes containing PIP2 lipids. Cryo-EM reconstructions revealed that protofilaments comprising closed IST1 subunits formed 8-stranded nanotubes that encase membrane monolayers. The nanotube coordinates exposed PI(4,5)P2 or PI(3,5)P2 headgroups within a basic pocket formed at the junction of three IST1 subunits, and our structures reveal how the pocket can accommodate either PIP2 isomer with minimal adjustment. In contrast, protofilaments comprising open CHMP1A subunits formed one start helices that encase membrane bilayers and bind exposed PI(4,5)P2 headgroups across a basic surface that spans adjacent subunits of the CHMP1A protofilament. These two different structures extend the known plasticity of ESCRT-III polymers, reveal how PIP2 lipids can promote ESCRT-III filament assembly and membrane remodeling, and define the molecular contacts that underlie specific ESCRT-III/PIP2 interactions.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is one of the most severe malignant tumors. Phosphoinositides metabolism (PIM) plays an important role in maintaining the normal life activities of the organism and regulating tumor development. This study aimed to comprehensively investigate the association between LUAD and PIM. Data on LUAD and PIM-related genes (PIM-RGs) were sourced from public databases. Differential expression, univariate Cox regression analyses, and machine learning were conducted to identify prognostic genes. A risk model was subsequently developed, and LUAD patients were categorized into a high-risk group (HRG) and a low-risk group (LRG). Independent prognostic factors for LUAD were identified, and a nomogram was constructed. Functional enrichment, tumor microenvironment, mutations, and drug sensitivity analyses were also conducted to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying LUAD. Additionally, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data analysis was employed to identify key cells and clarify the dynamics of prognostic genes' expression. Ultimately, prognostic gene expression was investigated in clinical samples. MTMR7, GDPD1, MTMR4, and MTMR10 were recognized as prognostic genes. The risk model and nomogram (incorporating risk score and Stage) had good predictive performance. Notably, LUAD's malignant progression might be closely associated with biological processes including cellular protein synthesis, abnormal activation of neuroactive ligand-receptor interactions, and anti-tumor immune responses. Additionally, there was a general positive correlation between the differentially infiltrated immune cells of HRG and LRG. Moreover, TP53 and TTN had relatively high mutation frequencies in both HRG and LRG, and 142 drugs exhibited differential sensitivity between the 2 groups. Interestingly, epithelial cells were identified as LUAD's key cell type, with prognostic gene expression showing dynamic changes as these cells differentiated. Consistently, compared with the control group, GDPD1 and MTMR4 were upregulated, MTMR10 was downregulated, and MTMR7 showed no statistical difference but a certain upward trend in the LUAD group. This study identified 4 prognostic genes and constructed an effective risk model, providing a new perspective on the treatment of LUAD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Loss of Y chromosome (LOY) is the most commonly occurring somatic event in elderly males, and is associated with poor outcomes in most cancers. However, LOY is shown to be associated with improved survival in papillary renal cell carcinoma(pRCC). The study was designed to analyze the possible molecular mechanism behind this paradoxical event. For this purpose, the transcriptomics dataset of 214 male pRCC patients were retrieved from the TCGA database and the LOY score was calculated based on the expression of the 14 Y chromosome gene set. The LOY score was used to stratify the samples into two groups called Y_high (normal expression of Y chromosome) and Y_low (loss of Y chromosome) by the custom ssGSEA function. LOY-associated transcriptional reprogramming is further elucidated by analyzing differential gene expression analysis, functional enrichment analysis, and tumor immune microenvironment analysis, revealing the enrichment of structural and developmental pathways alongside the downregulation of immunosuppressive mechanisms in Y_low tumors. Leveraging these LOY-associated transcriptional changes, a three-gene prognostic signature (WASF1, MTHFD2, CHMP1A) was derived through LASSO-penalized Cox regression followed by two-step bootstrap stability and multivariate significance filtering, and validated through bootstrap bias correction, time-dependent ROC analysis, calibration curve analysis, and multivariate Cox regression adjusting for age, pathological stage, and metastasis status. Furthermore, single cell transcriptomics analysis and DNA methylation analysis reveals the mosaic nature of the LOY and localized the prognostic gene expression within myeloid cell populations. We conclude that LOY may have less aggressive tumor profile in pRCC, and may provide clinically relevant biomarkers.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Cytotoxic lymphocytes use perforin to form plasma membrane (PM) pores in tumor cells, thereby enabling granzyme-mediated cell death. However, whether and how tumor metabolism enables PM repair to evade immunity is unclear. In this study, using a functional screen targeting 111 metabolic enzymes, we identified hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA synthase 1 (HMGCS1) as critical for repairing perforin-induced PM damage. HMGCS1 promotes PM repair by initiating de novo cholesterol synthesis, enhancing tumor cell resistance to lymphocyte-mediated killing and impairing the efficacy of NK, CAR-T, and anti-PD-1-based immunotherapies. Beyond its structural role, cholesterol directly binds charged multivesicular body protein 4b (CHMP4B) to enhance its PM localization, facilitating PM repair. Furthermore, oncogenic activation, cytokine, and hypoxia induce c-Jun activation, up-regulating HMGCS1 expression. In lung cancer patients, elevated c-Jun activation, HMGCS1 expression, cholesterol content and PM CHMP4B correlate with reduced anti-PD-1 immunotherapy efficacy. Our findings reveal a tumor immune evasion mechanism wherein HMGCS1 drives cholesterol-dependent PM repair by activating the cholesterol synthesis. Targeting HMGCS1 enhances the effectiveness of immunotherapies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly lethal malignancy with limited treatment options. Charged multivesicular body protein 3 (CHMP3), a core component of ESCRT-III, is involved in membrane remodeling. However, its clinical and biological relevance in PDAC remained unclear. This study evaluated the prognostic association and functional relevance of CHMP3 in PDAC.CHMP3 expression and clinical outcomes were analyzed using TCGA and CPTAC3 datasets. Protein expression was assessed by immunohistochemistry in a retrospective cohort of resected PDAC. Additional prognostic information was evaluated using concordance indices. Functional analyses were performed using siRNA-mediated CHMP3 knockdown in MIAPaCa-2 and PANC-1 cells. Single-cell RNA sequencing data assessed cell type-specific expression.CHMP3 expression was elevated in PDAC and associated with worse overall and disease-free survival in the TCGA and IHC cohorts. In the immunohistochemical cohort, higher CHMP3 expression was associated with poorer outcomes and modestly improved clinicopathologic prediction models. However, CHMP3-high status was substantially imbalanced with nonreceipt of adjuvant chemotherapy, limiting separation of CHMP3-related prognostic effects from treatment-related confounding. In vitro, CHMP3 knockdown suppressed cell proliferation, colony formation, and migration, and increased gemcitabine sensitivity. Single-cell RNA-seq showed CHMP3 enrichment in tumor epithelial and stromal/CAF populations relative to immune cells.CHMP3 expression is associated with poor outcomes in PDAC and may provide modest additional prognostic information when combined with conventional factors, although residual confounding by adjuvant therapy cannot be excluded. These findings support the biological relevance of CHMP3 and suggest that CHMP3 may represent a prognosis-associated marker requiring external validation.© 2026. Society of Surgical Oncology.
Mitochondrial dynamics is a key regulator of cellular homeostasis, orchestrating metabolic reprogramming that fuels tumor progression and treatment resistance. In multiple myeloma (MM), however, the functional relevance of mitochondrial remodeling has not been fully defined. Using ultrastructural analyses, we reveal that MM cells display a highly fragmented mitochondrial network, a phenotype further exacerbated in both cell lines and primary MM cells resistant to proteasome inhibitors. Transcriptomic profiling across multiple patient-derived datasets consistently demonstrated upregulation of DNM1L gene, which encodes the mitochondrial fission GTPase DRP1, particularly in relapsed and refractory MM, and revealed a significant association with inferior overall survival. Disrupting mitochondrial fission, either through genetic targeting of DNM1L or pharmacologic inhibition of DRP1 with the selective small molecule inhibitor Drpitor1a, resulted in pronounced mitochondrial dysfunction, impaired oxidative phosphorylation, and potent anti-myeloma activity in vitro, culminating in a hybrid cell death program with a predominant apoptotic component accompanied by ferroptotic features. These effects were recapitulated in vivo in a bortezomib-resistant xenograft model, where either DNM1L depletion or DRP1 inhibition produced similar outcomes. Mechanistically, the transcription factor c-MYC upregulated DNM1L expression, and DRP1-dependent mitochondrial fragmentation sustained MYC-driven oxidative metabolism and lipid synthesis. Altogether, these findings establish aberrant mitochondrial fission as a pathogenic hallmark of MM and highlight DRP1 inhibition as a promising therapeutic approach, especially for relapsed or refractory disease.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) is a predominant contributor to low back pain, characterized by nucleus pulposus cell (NPC) senescence, extracellular matrix (ECM) metabolic dysfunction, and chronic inflammation. Excessive mitochondrial fission contributes to IVDD, yet the underlying regulatory mechanisms remain unclear. Herein, we identified ETS proto-oncogene 1 (ETS1) as a critical regulator of mitochondrial fission in human NPCs. ETS1 was upregulated in severe human IVDD and correlated with disc degeneration severity and NPC senescence. Mechanistically, inflammatory cytokines induced ETS1 upregulation, which directly bound to the dynamin 1-like (DNM1L, encoding DRP1) promoter and activated its transcription. Increased DRP1 triggered excessive mitochondrial fission, leading to reactive oxygen species accumulation, NPC senescence, and ECM catabolism. Inhibition of ETS1 via AAV5-mediated RNA interference or targeting DRP1 with CRISPR/dCas9-KRAB system or Mdivi-1 alleviated mitochondrial dysfunction, cellular senescence, ECM degradation, and attenuated IVDD progression. Collectively, our findings revealed the ETS1/DRP1 axis as a novel pathogenic mechanism and a potential therapeutic target in IVDD.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cerebellar hypoplasia, impaired intellectual development, congenital microcephaly, dystonia, anemia, and growth retardation (CIMDAG) syndrome is caused by variants in VPS4A. We report a 5-year-old Nepalese boy with classical CIMDAG features, including developmental delay, microcephaly, dystonia, cataracts, dyserythropoietic anemia, and growth retardation. Magnetic resonance imaging showed mild cerebellar atrophy. Trio exome sequencing identified a homozygous VPS4A variant (c.863G>A; p.Arg288Gln), predicted to be deleterious. Structural analyses revealed disruption of a conserved Arginine-288 residue within the ATPases associated with diverse cellular activities domain, leading to loss of stability and increased disorder. The VPS4A-p.Arg288Gln variant showed enhanced aggregation and reduced interaction with LC3B (microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta), impairing its localization to lipid droplets. Proband fibroblasts exhibited increased lipid accumulation, elevated free fatty acids, and higher reactive oxygen species levels, indicative of lipotoxic stress. Together, these findings demonstrate that a novel pathogenic VPS4A variant drives structural destabilization and lipotoxicity, providing mechanistic insight into lipid homeostasis perturbations in CIMDAG syndrome.Copyright © 2026 National Lipid Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) is the causative agent of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL) and the neuroinflammatory disease, HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP). The HTLV-1 Tax regulatory protein plays a critical role in HTLV-1 persistence and pathogenesis; however, the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here we show that Tax dynamically regulates mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) and membrane potential to trigger mitochondrial dysfunction. Tax is recruited to damaged mitochondria through its interaction with the IKK regulatory subunit IKBKG/NEMO and directly engages the ubiquitin-dependent PINK1-PRKN/parkin pathway to induce mitophagy. Tax also recruits autophagy receptors CALCOCO2/NDP52 and SQSTM1/p62 to damaged mitochondria to induce mitophagy. Furthermore, Tax requires PRKN to limit the extent of CGAS-STING1 activation and suppress type I interferon (IFN) induction. HTLV-1-transformed T-cell lines and PBMCs from HAM/TSP patients exhibit hallmarks of chronic mitophagy, and inhibition of PRKN in HTLV-1-transformed cell lines downregulates p19 Gag expression and induces cell death. Collectively, our findings suggest that Tax manipulation of the PINK1-PRKN mitophagy pathway represents a new HTLV-1 immune evasion strategy important for maintaining viral gene expression and cell survival.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ACTB: actin beta; ATLL: adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BECN1: beclin 1; CALCOCO2: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CCCP: carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; DOX: doxycycline; GFP: green fluorescent protein; DNM1L/DRP1: dynamin 1 like; HAM/TSP: HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis; HSPD1/HSP60: heat shock protein family D (Hsp60) member 1; HTLV-1: Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1; IFN: interferon; IkB: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B; IKBKG/NEMO: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase regulatory subunit gamma; IKK: IkB kinase; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; KO: knockout; LAMP2: lysosome associated membrane protein 2; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MT-CO2: mitochondrially encoded cytochrome c oxidase II; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA; mtROS: mitochondrial reactive oxygen species; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NBR1: NBR1 autophagy cargo receptor; NFKB: nuclear factor kappa B; OPTN: optineurin; PBMCs: peripheral blood mononuclear cells; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; qRT-PCR: quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction; RFP: red fluorescence protein; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SAR: selective autophagy receptor; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TAX1BP1: Tax1 binding protein 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TMRM: tetramethylrhodamine methyl ester; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; Ub: ubiquitin; VCL: vinculin; WT: wild-type.
Qi Huang Granules (QHG), a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) formulation, have been applied clinically for over two decades to treat dry age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and associated fundus lesions. Although its retinoprotective effects have been documented, the associated underlying mechanisms are largely unexplored. The present work focused on investigating the therapeutic efficacy of QHG in sodium iodate (NaIO₃)-induced retinal damage, with a particular focus on how the formula regulated the interaction between inflammatory responses and imbalances in mitochondrial dynamics. UPLC-HRMS, network pharmacology, and molecular docking analyses were integrated for identifying mitochondria-associated bioactive constituents and potential targets of QHG. In the experimental model, retinal injury was induced in rats through tail vein injection of NaIO3. Retinal morphological and ultrastructural changes were assessed by HE staining and transmission electron microscopy. To assess mitochondrial function, mitochondrial membrane potential, mtROS levels, and mtDNA integrity were measured. Additionally, ELISA was performed to quantify IL-1β and IL-18 levels. Key marker levels, including p-DRP1, DRP1, OPA1, MFN2, and NLRP3, were determined by Western blotting, IHC, and qRT-PCR. DNM1L (encoding DRP1) and MFN2 were identified as the primary targets of QHG through UPLC-HRMS and computational analyses. In vivo experimental results showed that treatment with QHG alleviated morphological alterations and ultrastructural damage to the retina and mitochondria in model rats. Furthermore, QHG treatment increased mitochondrial membrane potential, reduced mtROS levels, mitigated mtDNA damage, and reduced IL-1β and IL-18 contents. Mechanistically, QHG downregulated p-DRP1, DRP1, and NLRP3, while upregulating MFN2 and OPA1. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that QHG can ameliorate retinal morphology and ultrastructural damage in mitochondria, such as cellular mitochondria, improve mitochondrial function, and attenuate retinal inflammation, thereby exerting a protective effect against NaIO₃-induced retinal injury. The underlying mechanism may involve the mitochondrial dynamics-NLRP3 pathway.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Fission is essential for proper mitochondrial function and for cellular homeostasis. Dysfunction in mitochondrial fission is associated with several neurological disorders, including the rare and lethal encephalopathy EMPF1, which is caused by de novo heterozygous DNM1L variants. DNM1L encodes the mitochondrial fission mechanoenzyme DRP1, which can intrinsically self-assemble and induce membrane scission. Wild-type DRP1 puncta that appear throughout the cytoplasm are thought to be pre-scission complexes of well-ordered oligomeric assemblies. Immunofluorescence imaging of patient-derived EMPF1 fibroblasts carrying assembly-deficient DNM1L variants reveals elongated mitochondrial networks consistent with impaired fission. Despite this loss-of-function phenotype, these cells retain essentially wild-type numbers of DRP1 puncta. We confirmed the previously reported inability of purified pathogenic DRP1 variants p.Gly363Asp and p.Gly401Ser to assemble under conditions in which WT DRP1 forms helical polymers. Under macromolecular crowding conditions, however, both wild-type and mutant DRP1 access condensed states whose formation depends on protein concentration and solution conditions. Acute treatment of EMPF1 fibroblasts with 1,6-hexanediol preferentially alters DRP1 puncta fluorescence intensity and distribution in mutant cells relative to wild type, indicating genotype-dependent differences in puncta material properties. Together, these findings support a model in which DRP1 puncta occupy a continuum of condensed states, only a subset of which mature into fission-competent assemblies, revealing biomolecular condensation as a previously unrecognized layer of DRP1 regulation. Biasing DRP1 along this continuum may provide a mechanistic basis for impaired fission in EMPF1 and suggest opportunities to restore productive assembly in select pathogenic contexts.DRP1 puncta associated with mitochondrial fission are thought to be well-ordered oligomeric assemblies that precede membrane scission. Yet their dynamic behavior within cells has remained difficult to reconcile as well-ordered assembly. Under prevailing models, cells bearing pathogenic DNM1L variants impaired in assembly would be expected to lack puncta, but we show these cells retain wild-type puncta levels. We demonstrate that both wild-type and pathogenic mutant DRP1 populate multiple condensed states in vitro , and that disease variants are biased toward more fluid, chemically sensitive assemblies. These findings identify biomolecular condensation as a regulatory layer of DRP1 organization and suggest that shifting DRP1 along this assembly continuum may restore productive fission in select pathogenic contexts.
Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) is upregulated in lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) tissues, cell lines, and tumor-conditioned media. Functional studies using LUSC cell lines (H1703, H520) demonstrate that FGF21 promotes cancer cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and tumor sphere formation in vitro. This pro-tumorigenic effect was validated in vivo through xenograft models, where intra-tumoral FGF21 administration accelerated tumor growth. Mechanistically, FGF21 activates calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), which phosphorylates dynamin-related protein 1 (DRP1, encoded by DNM1L) at Ser616. Phosphorylated DRP1 translocates to mitochondria, inducing mitochondrial fission. Metabolic analyses revealed that FGF21 remodels cellular energetics in a cell type-specific manner, enhancing glycolysis in H520 cells and oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) in H1703 cells, consistent with their inherent predominant metabolic states. Knockdown of DRP1 or pharmacological inhibition of CaMKII (KN93) abolished FGF21-driven mitochondrial fission, metabolic reprogramming, and tumor-promoting effects. Collectively, FGF21 acts as a tumor-promoting factor in LUSC by activating the CaMKII/DRP1-Ser616 axis to induce pathological mitochondrial fission and metabolic reprogramming, identifying this pathway as a potential therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a heterogeneous neurodegenerative disorder linked to specific genetic mutations, including those in the CHMP2B gene, which encodes a component of the ESCRT-III complex involved in endosomal trafficking and autophagy. Here, we report a 62-year-old woman presenting with apathy, hyperorality, and language impairment, harbouring a novel heterozygous c.440 A > G CHMP2B variant of uncertain significance, causing D147G substitution. Neuropsychological evaluation revealed severe apathy, whereas MRI and 18FDG-PET were consistent with an early left prefrontal impairment. The D147G substitution is located in proximity to the D148Y mutation, previously associated with semantic variant primary progressive aphasia, suggesting it may similarly disrupt protein conformation or stability. Our findings raise the possibility that this variant may be relevant in the context of an FTD-like phenotype. This case highlights the importance of investigating missense variants to further elucidate the pathogenic mechanisms of ESCRT-III dysfunction in neurodegeneration.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Belgian Neurological Society.
DNM1L-related disorders are rare mitochondrial diseases characterized by defective fission dynamics, often presenting with severe neurological manifestations. Current diagnostic and prognostic challenges stem from incomplete knowledge of domain-specific genotype-phenotype correlations and limited clinical data. We report a novel GTPase effector domain (GED) variant (p.Val687del) and conduct a systematic analysis of 80 reported DNM1L cases with variants in the GTPase, Middle, or GED domains. Clinical, genetic, and survival data were extracted and analyzed to evaluate associations between mutation localization and clinical outcomes. Statistical comparisons of phenotypic severity, survival, and hotspot prevalence were performed. Functional validation of the novel variant was performed through in vitro overexpression, Western blot, immunofluorescence, and transmission electron microscopy. A novel GED deletion (p.Val687del) associated with peripheral neuropathy was identified, expanding the mutational spectrum. In vitro functional studies confirmed that this variant impairs DRP1 mitochondrial localization and induces severe ultrastructural damage, including fragmentation, swelling, and vacuolation. The preserved protein expression level excludes haploinsufficiency, consistent with a dominant-negative mechanism. Within the total cohort of 81 patients (including our case), de novo variants were predominant (74.1%), with R403C representing a major mutational hotspot (28.4%). Middle domain mutations conferred the most severe prognosis, manifesting high frequencies of developmental delay (90.7%), epilepsy (83.7%), abnormal muscle tone (67.4%), abnormal EEG findings (74.4%), and cerebral atrophy (73.2%). In contrast, GTPase domain mutations primarily affected sensory pathways, with optic atrophy (57.6%) and peripheral neuropathy (27.3%) as hallmark features. Carriers of the R403C variant exhibited a 3.9-year delay in disease onset compared to non-carriers. This study establishes that mutation location in DNM1L dictates clinical severity, with Middle domain variants defining a severe encephalopathic subtype, while GTPase domain mutations predominantly target sensory pathways, leading to optic atrophy and peripheral neuropathy. These findings provide a framework for precision prognostication and targeted therapeutic strategies in DNM1L-related disorders.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
This study aimed to evaluate the modifying effects and joint associations of handgrip strength (HGS) and bone mineral density (BMD) with all-cause mortality, with an exploratory analysis of cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality. A primary analysis cohort ( n = 11150) and a replication cohort ( n = 5952) were included. Cox proportional hazards regression, restricted cubic spline analysis, and interaction analysis were used to examine the associations of BMD with mortality across relative HGS groups. Relative HGS was defined as absolute HGS divided by body weight. The joint effects of BMD-HGS combinations were assessed. During a median follow-up of 9.75 and 6.59 years, the primary analysis and replication cohorts recorded 1345 and 352 all-cause deaths, respectively. In the primary analysis cohort, low BMD was associated with an increased all-cause mortality risk in both the low and high relative HGS groups (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.26, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.04-1.52 and HR = 1.42, 95% CI: 1.16-1.74, respectively), with consistent findings in the replication cohort. No significant interaction was found between relative HGS and BMD ( P > 0.05). Participants with low BMD and low relative HGS had a 59%-62% higher risk of all-cause mortality than those with high BMD and high relative HGS in both cohorts, and the estimated PAR% for this combined exposure was 10.8%-13.1%. Results for CVD mortality were inconsistent across cohorts. In conclusion, low BMD with low handgrip strength is consistently associated with increased all-cause mortality, suggesting combined screening may benefit high-risk individuals.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) can impair respiratory, muscle, and functional capacity. This randomized controlled trial investigated the effects of fundamental and functional inspiratory muscle training (IMT) delivered via telerehabilitation in patients with non-dialysis CKD.Sixty patients were randomized to fundamental IMT, functional IMT, or control groups. Thirty-eight participants completed the study and were analyzed: fundamental IMT (n = 13), functional IMT (n = 13), and control (n = 12). Maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP) and maximal expiratory pressure (MEP), strength index (S-Index), peak inspiratory flow (PIF), respiratory muscle endurance, diaphragmatic thickness and mobility, quadriceps muscle strength (QMS) and hand grip strength (HGS), trunk muscle endurance (partial sit-ups, prone, side, and pelvic bridge tests) and 6-minute walk test (6MWT) were assessed before and after 10 weeks.Compared with the control group, both intervention groups showed significant increases in MIP, MEP, S-Index, PIF, diaphragmatic mobility, QMS, HGS, trunk muscle endurance, and 6MWT distance (p < 0.05). Functional IMT resulted in greater improvements than fundamental IMT in respiratory muscle endurance, peripheral muscle strength, and trunk muscle function. Although 6MWT distance increased numerically more in the functional IMT group, the difference between the two IMT groups was not statistically significant (p > 0.05).Functional IMT delivered via telerehabilitation may provide additional benefits over fundamental IMT for inspiratory muscle endurance and musculoskeletal function in patients with non-dialysis CKD. Both IMT modalities improved functional capacity compared with control. These findings support the potential integration of functional IMT into telerehabilitation-based rehabilitation programs for CKD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Current understanding of mercury sulfide nanoparticles (HgS NPs) fails to adequately capture their long-term effects in soil-rice systems, particularly the dynamic interplay between NPs, rice plants, and soil microbes under field-relevant conditions. In this study, single-particle inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (spICP-MS) delineated a soil-to-grain mercury pathway mediated by HgS NPs at environmentally realistic concentrations (108-109 NPs g-1). Across the 111-day rice growth cycle, HgS NPs functioned as both vectors for plant uptake and key precursors for methylmercury (MeHg) formation, thereby defining grain mercury risk. Mercury-containing NPs detected in roots can be translocated to grains, with the filling stage as the critical window. Soil methylation displayed marked temporal dynamics (MeHg: 0.1-25.1 μg kg-1), governed by Hg bioavailability (glutathione-leachable mercury) and methylator abundance (hgcA gene copy number). Notably, exposure produced opposing yield outcomes: grain weight increased by 47 ± 20% at 108 NPs g-1 but decreased by 23 ± 12% at 109 NPs g-1, while total mercury accumulated to 27.1-147.9 ng g-1 in brown rice at both doses, underscoring concurrent threats to yield and food safety. This refined understanding advocates for an integrated mitigation approach: growth-stage management to block filling-phase translocation into grains, combined with targeted soil interventions to inhibit MeHg formation, thereby mitigating dietary mercury exposure from rice.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Lignocellulosic biomass is a renewable carbon source with strong potential to partially replace fossil resources. However, its valorization into high-value products remains constrained by technical, economic, and environmental challenges. Fractionation is therefore a critical step in biorefinery design to enable efficient utilization of cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin. This study developed a sequential hydrothermal (HT)-Organosolv fractionation process of rice straw. The strategy produces fermentable sugars, xylooligosaccharides (XOS) and lignin co-products for industrial applications. Under optimized conditions, the process achieved an XOS production of 18.82 g/L, and a fermentable sugar yield of 618.6 g/kg biomass, with an enzymatic hydrolysis efficiency of 94.2%. Simultaneously, the organosolv step facilitated effective lignin recovery. The extracted lignin retained its characteristic aromatic structure (H/G/S units), highlighting its potential as a bioactive co-product for further valorization. The process demonstrated an energy efficiency of 724.3 g fermentable sugars per kWh, while E-factor was in a range of 0.09-0.12. In addition, a techno-economic assessment was conducted for multiple product pathways, including lactic acid, xylooligosaccharides, and organosolv lignin. Overall, the integration of HT and organosolv pretreatments improve sugar yield, enables lignin recovery, reduce energy demand, and minimize waste, offering a promising approach for sustainable lignocellulosic biorefineries.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Sarcopenia, the age-related decline in muscle mass and strength is a growing challenge for older adults. This study investigates whether meeting the WHO physical activity guidelines (150-300 min/week of moderate or 75 min/week of vigorous exercise) with higher protein intake, based on the RDA, is associated with appendicular lean soft tissue index (ALSTI) and handgrip strength (HGS) in adults living in the United States aged 40-59 years. Data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2007-2020 included 2540 adults aged ≥40 years. Physical activity (moderate/vigorous) was self-reported, while higher protein intake was assessed via two 24-hour recalls (>0.8 g/kg/bodyweight). Linear regressions, adjusted for age, sex, BMI, race, education, comorbidities, and energy-adjusted protein intake were used to assess associations with ALSTI and HGS. In fully adjusted models, vigorous activity with higher protein intake (47.1 ± 5.6 years) was associated with ALSTI only after adjustments for age, sex, BMI, race, education (β = 0.37, SE 0.17, p = 0.047; mean baseline: 8.56 ± 1.67 kg/m2). No associations were found in the fully adjusted model for ALSTI (p = 0.31), and across all models for HGS (mean baseline: 43.6 ± 10.1 kg). Moderate activity with higher protein intake was not associated with HGS or ALSTI across adjusted models. Meeting vigorous or moderate-intensity activity guidelines with higher than the RDA protein intake was not associated with ALSTI or HGS in middle-aged US adults.© The Author(s) 2026.
The efficient conversion of CO2 into value-added C3 chemicals is highly desirable yet remains challenging due to the complex multi-electron transfer and C-C coupling processes involved. In particular, acetone is an industrially important solvent and chemical feedstock, and its direct synthesis from CO2 via photocatalysis represents a sustainable alternative to fossil-based routes. Herein, we report chiral CuO/HgS heterojunction photocatalysts for additive-free photocatalytic CO2 reduction to acetone. Chiral CuO and HgS were synthesized using chiral molecules as symmetry-directing agents and subsequently assembled into heterojunctions with controlled handedness combinations. Structural and spectroscopic analyses confirm the successful construction of chiral interfaces. Photocatalytic tests reveal that the heterojunction catalysts exhibit significantly enhanced CO2 conversion efficiency and acetone selectivity compared to single components. The optimized system delivers improved charge separation efficiency, increased photocurrent response, and prolonged carrier lifetimes. This work demonstrates an effective heterojunction design strategy for promoting C3 product formation from CO2 and provides a sustainable approach for green acetone synthesis.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Subtotal esophagectomy with retrosternal gastric tube reconstruction alters upper gastrointestinal anatomy and can create two obstacles to endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP): displacement and rotation of the pylorus and proximal duodenum, which impede side-viewing duodenoscopy, and ampullary carcinoma, which may obscure the bile duct orifice and prevent selective cannulation. When endoscopic drainage fails, endoscopic ultrasound-guided hepaticogastrostomy (EUS-HGS) offers an alternative route for internal biliary decompression. Reports of EUS-HGS performed from within a retrosternal gastric tube conduit are limited. A 79-year-old woman with prior subtotal esophagectomy and retrosternal gastric tube reconstruction presented with acute cholangitis and obstructive jaundice caused by ampullary adenocarcinoma. ERCP was abandoned because tumor infiltration obscured the bile duct orifice. EUS-HGS was performed on the same day through the gastric conduit. A 19-gauge puncture and a double-guidewire technique enabled placement of a 7-Fr, 14-cm plastic stent without adverse events. Cholangitis resolved, diet was resumed four days later, and the stent remained patent at 57 days. Histology confirmed adenocarcinoma. EUS-HGS via a retrosternal gastric tube conduit was feasible and achieved internal biliary drainage in a patient with complex post-esophagectomy anatomy and failed ERCP.Copyright © 2026, Takahashi et al.
An-Gong-Niu-Huang Wan (AGNHW) is a traditional Chinese medicine preparation containing cinnabar (HgS). However, its clinical use has been controversial due to concerns regarding mercury nephrotoxicity. To evaluate the renal toxicity, mice were administered AGNHW, cinnabar, methylmercury (MeHg), and mercuric chloride (HgCl₂) for 28 days. Blood biochemistry, histopathology, and the expression of nephrotoxicity-sensitive genes were assessed. To assess the health risks associated with AGNHW, we established an innovative Physiologically Based Extraction Test (IPBET) /small intestinal organ-on-a-chip model for the first time to simulate gastrointestinal digestion and absorption of mercury from AGNHW. This organ-on-a-chip model with HPLC-ICP-MS enabled the first determination of bioavailable mercury species in AGNHW. Urinary creatinine (UCr), total protein (TP), kidney injury molecule-1 (Kim-1), α1-microglobulin (a1-MG), N-cadherin levels, and histological findings in the MeHg and HgCl₂ groups showed significant differences compared to the control, cinnabar, and AGNHW groups. The expression of F4/80, CD11b, and MMP7 was markedly altered in the MeHg group. Our organ-on-a-chip model revealed that bioavailable MeHg in the MeHg group was 298-fold and 27-fold higher compared to the control and AGNHW groups. Our refined risk assessment indicated that, when adjusted by bioavailability and speciation, the health risks associated with mercury exposure from AGNHW consumption were acceptable. Collectively, considering bioavailability and mercury species, our IPBET/small intestinal organ-on-a-chip provides a novel approach for assessing cinnabar exposure risks in AGNHW. Our study provides a scientific basis that AGNHW and cinnabar are much less nephrotoxic than HgCl2 and MeHg, and does not pose a significant threat to human health clinically.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
To address the limited tissue specificity of extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived from blood and other body fluids, this study isolated small EVs (sEVs) from the tissue interstitial fluid (TIF) of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and adjacent tissues. The expression profiles of non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) were analyzed to identify more specific diagnostic biomarkers.An optimized protocol for TIF-sEV extraction was established, which combined enzymatic digestion (Collagenase D and DNase I) with differential and ultracentrifugation. The isolated sEVs were characterized using nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and western blotting (WB). The expression of 33 candidate ncRNAs (11 lncRNAs from TCGA-LIHC and 22 miRNAs from TCGA-LIHC and GSE302990) in TIF-sEVs was analyzed by qRT-PCR and integrated with clinical parameters via LASSO regression.The optimal extraction conditions were determined to be digestion with Collagenase D (2 mg/mL) and DNase I (40 U/mL) for 30 minutes. The obtained EVs exhibited typical morphology, a particle size below 200 nm, and expressed canonical EV marker proteins (ALIX, CD63) as well as the hepatocyte-specific membrane protein ASGPR. qRT-PCR analysis revealed specific enrichment of six lncRNAs (e.g., AL031985, TMCC1-AS1) and eleven miRNAs (e.g., miR-1224-5p, miR-483-5p) in TIF-sEVs. LASSO regression applied to all 33 candidate ncRNAs and clinical parameters identified a combined diagnostic signature comprising ALB, PLT, DBIL, lncRNA GAS5, and miR-194-5p, which achieved an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.960.This study establishes an efficient and stable system for the isolation and characterization of TIF-sEVs from liver tissue. Furthermore, it identifies multiple non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) that are enriched in TIF-sEVs, thereby providing potential novel diagnostic biomarkers for the differential diagnosis and prognosis evaluation of HCC.Copyright: © 2026 Liu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Background Muscle strength is a key factor determining metabolic health, physical performance, and morbidity. Although body mass index (BMI) is used widely to assess obesity, it does not assess body composition adequately. Percentage body fat (PBF) could provide a better estimate of adiposity and its association with muscle strength, particularly in Asian populations with higher body fat at lower BMI levels. We aimed to evaluate the associations of BMI and PBF with HGS and lower limb muscle strength among North Indian adults and to compare the independent associations of BMI and PBF with HGS. Methodology This cross-sectional study included 1,513 apparently healthy adults aged 18 to 60 years. Anthropometric measurements, BMI, and PBF were measured using bioelectrical impedance analysis. HGS was measured using a Jamar hydraulic dynamometer, and lower limb muscle strength was tested using a handheld dynamometer. Correlation and multiple regression analyses were performed to assess the association of BMI and PBF with muscle strength. Results The average age of the participants was 38.25 ± 9.76 years, and 54.5% were males. PBF showed a significant inverse association with HGS for both hands. For the right HGS, the regression coefficient B was -0.619 with an R² of 0.331, while for the left HGS, B was -0.594 with an R² of 0.336 (p < 0.001 for both). However, BMI showed a comparatively weaker association with HGS, explaining less than 2% of the variation. Higher BMI was significantly associated with greater lower limb muscle strength (p < 0.001), while no significant association was found between BMI categories and HGS. Multivariable regression analysis further showed that PBF remained independently associated with HGS (p-value < 0.001 for both hands). Conclusions According to our study, PBF demonstrated a stronger association with muscle strength than BMI. These findings show that relying on BMI alone is insufficient and suggest including body composition assessment to identify individuals at risk of reduced muscle strength and related health complications.Copyright © 2026, Baitha et al.
Chronic itch is a major burden, impacting the quality of life for one in four adults, and is closely associated with increased levels of anxiety, depression, and suicide. Despite its widespread burden, the precise mechanisms driving and sustaining chronic itch remain poorly understood. Non-histaminergic itch transmission in the spinal cord relies on the synaptic vesicle (SV) release of gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) and the subsequent binding to the Gastrin-Releasing Peptide Receptor (GRPR). While SV exocytosis facilitates neurotransmitter release, such as GRP, SV endocytosis, mediated by key proteins including clathrin, adaptor associated kinase 1 (AAK1), and Dynamin (Dnm) are essential for retrieving and recycling SV from the presynaptic membrane to maintain signaling. Building upon evidence that AAK1- and Dnm-mediated endocytosis are viable targets to reverse pain, we characterized the role of these endocytic mediators in the regulation of synaptic transmission in itch pathways.We localized mRNA encoding AAK1, Dnm1 and Dnm3 within GRP positive neurons of the mouse dorsal root ganglia (DRG). Genetic and pharmacological disruption of AAK1, Dnm1 and Dnm3 were used to evaluate scratching behavior, locomotor activity, and anxiety-like behaviors. Finally, we assessed the impacts of these treatments on GRP release.Genetic and pharmacological disruption of AAK1 significantly reduced scratching behavior compared to control groups. This anti-pruritic effect correlated with confirmed Aak1 mRNA knockdown in both the DRG and spinal cord. Similarly, siRNA mediated knockdown of Dnm1 and Dnm3 in the DRGs also reduced scratching behavior. Crucially, these treatments decreased GRP release without altering locomotor activity or anxiety-like behaviors.Together, these findings suggest that the disruption of SV recycling reduces itch related signaling and behavior without affecting normal motor functions, providing a new approach for chronic pruritus.Copyright © 2026 Ferreira, Tonello, Duran, Trevett and Jensen.
Endocytosis replenishes synaptic vesicle (SV) pools that are required for persistent transmission of chronic pain signals within nociceptive spinal circuits. The nociceptor-specific contribution of SV endocytosis to pain and the therapeutic potential of endocytosis inhibitors are unclear. We identified SV endocytosis in nociceptors as a critical driver of ongoing pain and developed a gene-based strategy to target this mechanism. Nociceptor-specific adeno-associated virus-mediated knockdown of adaptor-associated kinase 1 (AAK1) or dynamin 1 (Dnm1) in dorsal root ganglia Nav1.8-positive neurons inhibited postoperative and neuropathic hypersensitivity without affecting baseline mechanical or thermal sensitivity, locomotion or spontaneous behavior. Electrophysiological recordings from spinal neurons combined with optogenetic activation of nociceptor afferents showed that AAK1 or Dnm1 downregulation blocked the sustained synaptic transmission between nociceptors and dorsal horn neurons by disrupting SV recycling and reducing neurotransmitter release probability. Lipid nanoparticle (LNP)-encapsulated CRISPR/dCas9-repressor mRNA constructs (dCas9-R) were engineered to achieve sustained and reversible transcriptional and epigenetic repression of Aak1 or Dnm1 following intrathecal delivery. LNP-mediated gene modulation produced sustained downregulation of Aak1 or Dnm1 mRNA in sensory neurons and resulted in robust and long-lasting analgesia in preclinical models of postoperative, inflammatory, neuropathic and osteoarthritis pain without impairing acute nociception or locomotor activity. Mechanistically, targeting endocytic machinery disrupted SV recycling at nociceptor terminals, thereby reducing excitatory neurotransmission within spinal pain circuits. Together, these findings establish presynaptic endocytic regulation as a convergent mechanism underlying chronic pain and demonstrate the translational potential of LNP-delivered CRISPR/dCas9-R as a durable, non-opioid pain therapy that surmounts inherent redundancy of pain signaling mechanisms.Synaptic vesicle endocytosis in nociceptors is a critical mechanism driving ongoing pain and targeting this process with intrathecal LNP-delivered CRISPR/dCas9-mediated gene repression produces durable, non-opioid analgesia across multiple chronic pain models.
Trigeminal neuropathic pain (TNP) is a chronic pain disorder with incompletely understood molecular mechanisms. Alternative splicing (AS), a key post-transcriptional regulatory process, has emerged as an important modulator of neuronal excitability and synaptic plasticity. However, the temporal dynamics of AS in the trigeminal ganglion (TG) during TNP progression remain poorly defined.Poly(A)-enriched RNA sequencing was performed on TG tissues from a partial infraorbital nerve transection (pIONT) mouse model at day 3 and day 10 after surgery, representing the onset and maintenance phases of TNP, respectively. TG tissues from ten mice under the same condition were pooled to generate one biological sample, and two pooled biological replicates were analyzed for each condition at each time point. ASGs and RBP genes harboring differential AS events were identified from RNA-seq-based analyses, DEPs were identified by TMT-based quantitative proteomic analysis, and their cellular distribution was further characterized by single-cell RNA-seq-based cell-type mapping.Exon skipping (SE) was the predominant AS event at both time points and increased markedly at day 10, indicating greater splicing complexity during the maintenance phase. ASGs at day 10 were enriched in pathways related to synaptic remodeling, neuronal signaling, and MAPK signaling. SE events showed notable clustering on chromosomes 4 and 7. Integrative analyses identified several pain-related candidates, including ASGs such as Trpv1 and Dlg3 and DEPs such as DNM1 and GAL, that were potentially associated with synaptic transmission and neuronal excitability. These RBP-associated AS changes further suggested a role for post-transcriptional regulatory networks in stage-specific splicing alterations during TNP.These findings reveal dynamic and stage-specific AS changes in the TG during TNP progression, with more prominent splicing alterations during the maintenance phase. Our results support an association between AS, synaptic remodeling, and pain-related molecular pathways, and provide a transcriptomic, proteomic, and cell-type-resolved framework for future studies of splicing regulation in trigeminal neuropathic pain.© 2026 Xu et al.
Systematic analysis of copy number variants (CNVs) in large datasets is challenging, and there are limited studies of homozygous copy number losses in rare disease exomes. Here, we leveraged the genomic uniqueness and relative under-representation of the Indian population in the current public genomic databases and identified 42,386 possible homozygous losses (median 20 per individual) in a heterogeneous cohort of 2021 individuals with suspected Mendelian disorders, who had undergone exome sequencing using 12 different capture kits in a resource-limited setting. Employing a genomic position loss-count-based approach, we filtered 1224 rare homozygous loss calls in 718 individuals (median 1 per individual) for further analysis, thus significantly reducing the analysis burden. Clinical correlation and validation of these rare calls enabled 10 new diagnoses in 240 unsolved individuals. This led to a two-fold increase in diagnosis owing to homozygous deletions. Further analysis of the data and identification of additional affected individuals through collaboration led to identification of biallelic FILIP1 and FAM177A1 variants as causes of a syndromic arthrogryposis and a neuromuscular disorder respectively. Both conditions were recently reported as ultra-rare recessive disorders, thus validating our approach. We also show that biallelic loss-of-function TFCP2L1 variants cause chronic kidney disease and VPS36 variants cause a severe recessive neurodevelopmental disorder characterised by microcephaly, motor delay, agenesis of the corpus callosum, cerebellar atrophy, seizures, hypotonia, spasticity and early death. Overall, these results demonstrate a scalable approach to screen homozygous losses for improving diagnostic yield and discovering disease-genes in large exome cohorts.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to European Society of Human Genetics.
DNM1 encephalopathy is a rare autosomal dominant genetic condition characterized by a range of neurological and developmental manifestations. The typical phenotype is severe, including profound intellectual disability, treatment-resistant epilepsy, ataxia, and structural brain abnormalities. However, milder presentations have increasingly been reported, suggesting that the full phenotypic spectrum remains incompletely defined. We describe the case of a female patient who presents only with well-controlled epilepsy and mild dysmorphic features. Trio exome sequencing identified a de novo likely pathogenic variant in the GTPase domain of DNM1, supporting the diagnosis of DNM1 encephalopathy. Historically, disease-causing variants in the GTPase domain were thought to confer a more severe presentation. However, our patient demonstrates a more attenuated phenotype than previously reported cases, including those viewed as mild, which have consistently included some degree of developmental impairment. This supports an expanded and more variable phenotypic spectrum of DNM1 encephalopathy than previously recognized. This additionally complicates domain-based prognostication; though further cases will aid in elucidating genotype-phenotype correlation.© 2026 The Author(s). American Journal of Medical Genetics Part A published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Disruption of lysosomal homeostasis and accumulation of dysfunctional mitochondria contribute to degenerative pathologies, including age-related macular degeneration. Here, how inhibition of autophagic lysosome reformation (ALR) alters lysosomal dynamics, mitophagy, and downstream stress signaling in retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells was investigated, and whether these changes are pharmacologically reversible was determined. In ARPE-19 cells, ALR inhibition by nocodazole or siRNA-mediated depletion of kinesin-1 (UKHC) and dynamin-2 (DNM2) induced enlarged lysosomes with reduced degradative capacity, impaired mitophagic turnover, and accumulation of dysfunctional mitochondria. ALR blockade increased reactive oxygen species and cytosolic Ca2+, promoted activation and mitochondrial translocation of protein kinase C, and triggered phosphorylation of glycogen synthase kinase-3β with subsequent stabilization of Snail family transcriptional repressor 1 (SNAIL/SNAI1), consistent with epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. Metformin restored lysosomal homeostasis by activating AMP-activated protein kinase and enhancing transcription factor EB-dependent lysosome biogenesis, thereby improving autophagic flux, limiting reactive oxygen species/Ca2+ accumulation, suppressing protein kinase C activation, and attenuating epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition-associated marker changes. In a sodium iodate-induced oxidative injury model, metformin preserved RPE microtubule architecture and reduced lysosomal and mitochondrial abnormalities. Although these findings rely on a prolonged monolayer culture system and an acute injury model, they support a protective role for AMP-activated protein kinase-transcription factor EB-driven lysosome restoration in RPE stress resilience and suggest lysosome-directed repurposing potential for metformin in degenerative retinal disease.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
During frozen dough production, transportation, and processing, temperature fluctuations expose yeast to freeze-thaw (FT) stress, causing yeast cellular damage. This study investigated the effects of FT cycles on mitochondrial structure and function in yeast under different fermentation processes. As FT cycles increased, cell mortality, mitochondrial membrane potential, and superoxide anion (O2.-) generation rate significantly increased, with the highest values observed in the FT6 group. Cytochrome c content and cytochrome c oxidase activity varied among groups, while isocitrate dehydrogenase activity was highest in FT-0. Acetyl-CoA synthetase activity increased with FT cycles, and α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase activity was higher in FT6 than in FT3. Gene expression of ACS1 and KGD increased with cycles, whereas YNO1, AGT32, and MDM34 were lower in FT3 than in FT0 and FT6. Compared with the control, expression of IDH2, CYC7, NDI1, AIF1, DNM1, AGT11, AGT8, and MDM12 was upregulated under FT stress. Collectively, FT stress induces yeast cell death and impairs mitochondrial function by modulating key enzyme activities, promoting O2.- production, altering membrane potential, and upregulating genes involved in mitochondrial division and autophagy.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to examine the protective effects of kaempferol on the in vitro maturation (IVM) of bovine oocytes and their subsequent embryonic development, and to investigate the underlying mechanisms. Bovine oocytes were cultured with kaempferol at concentrations of 0, 0.01, 0.1, and 1 μM. Of the tested concentrations, the 0.1 μM kaempferol group consistently yielded the highest numerical rates of first polar body extrusion, cleavage, and blastocyst formation, although no statistically significant differences were detected among groups. Based on these preliminary screening experiments, only the optimal concentration (0.1 μM) was used in subsequent mechanistic assays. Further analyses demonstrated that 0.1 μM kaempferol significantly reduced oocyte apoptosis and intracellular reactive oxygen species levels. Meanwhile, it increased the glutathione content, adenosine triphosphate levels, and mitochondrial membrane potential of oocytes (P < 0.05). Gene expression analysis confirmed that 0.1 μM kaempferol upregulated antioxidant-related genes (SOD3, SIRT2), mitochondrial dynamics-associated genes (DNM1, MFN2), and the anti-apoptotic gene BCL-2, while downregulating the pro-apoptotic gene BAX (P < 0.05). Collectively, these results indicate that 0.1 μM kaempferol effectively alleviates oxidative stress and improves mitochondrial function in bovine oocytes, thereby showing potential to enhance oocyte quality. Although the improvements in developmental rates did not reach statistical significance under the current experimental conditions, the consistent numerical superiority of the 0.1 μM treatment, together with the robust molecular evidence, supports its further investigation as a promising supplement in oocyte IVM systems.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42201138 is a review article
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder. Exercise can delay the onset of AD and improve cognitive dysfunction, but its underlying mechanism still needs further exploration. In this study, 6-month-old transgenic mice underwent a 12-week treadmill exercise intervention. The water maze experiment demonstrated that the learning and memory abilities of AD-exercise (ADE) mice were significantly superior to those of the wild-type mice. The proteomics analysis identified several proteins that were significantly upregulated or downregulated after treadmill exercise, such as SYT1, SLC25A5, and DLST in the hippocampal tissue; OPA1, NSF, DLG2, and DNM1 in the cortical tissue; and APP, APOE, MAP2, MAPT, SYP, SYN1/2, and DYNC1H1 in the cerebellar tissue. The functional enrichment analysis suggested that mitochondrial dysfunction, synaptic vesicle transport, and amyloid fibril formation in AD mice tend to recover to levels similar to those of wild-type mice. At the same time, the processes of exercise-induced axon guidance, protein stabilization, and negative regulation of apoptosis were enhanced more effectively than in wild-type animals. These results will help us understand how exercise improves cognition in AD mice.
BackgroundThe SLC25A46 gene encodes a mitochondrial carrier protein previously implicated in neuropathy and optic atrophy. Biallelic variants in SLC25A46 have been described in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) with optic atrophy, but the evidence supporting a role in PD remains limited.ObjectiveTo assess whether SLC25A46 variants contribute to PD, REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD), or dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB).MethodsWe examined common variants using four representative PD genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and an RBD GWAS and applied summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) to evaluate whether genetically regulated expression of SLC25A46 shows a causal association with the risk of PD or RBD. Rare variant analyses were conducted in four cohorts of European descent: Accelerating Medicines Partnership: Parkinson's Disease (AMP-PD) PD (3,051 PD, 3,667 controls), UK Biobank (3,267 PD, 14,939 proxy, 54,800 controls), RBD (1,376 RBD, 2,580 controls), and AMP-PD DLB (2,605 DLB, 1,894 controls). Optimal sequence kernel association test (SKAT-O) and meta-analysis were used to assess rare variants.ResultsNo associations were observed between SLC25A46 variants and PD, RBD, or DLB. SMR analyses revealed no evidence supporting a causal relationship between SLC25A46 expression and PD or RBD risk. Rare variant burden analyses did not identify significant associations after multiple-testing correction across cohorts or meta-analyses.ConclusionSLC25A46 variants showed no evidence of association, suggesting the gene does not play a major role in PD, RBD, or DLB risk.
Primary mitochondrial diseases (PMD) have limited disease-modifying therapies, currently applicable to only 3 of over 400 discrete gene disorders. Cycloheximide (CHX) is a global cytosolic translation inhibitor we previously reported to rescue PMD preclinical models, although its toxicity precluded clinical development. To identify specific mediators underlying CHX treatment benefit in PMD, SOMAscan-based proteomics was performed in complex I deficient and genetic disease fibroblast cell line models grown in galactose. Thrombopoietin (THPO) and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 5 (IGFBP5) were the only two differentially regulated proteins, together with ERK/MAPK pathway dysregulation, identified upon CHX treatment in PMD versus healthy control cells. THPO inhibition by siRNA or pharmacologic approaches rescued stress-induced viability loss in patient fibroblasts having diverse PMD gene etiologies, and significantly improved mitochondrial stress, linear growth, and neuromuscular function in a classical ndufs2 -/- C. elegans model. IGFBP5 overexpression by lentiviral or mRNA approaches rescued cell viability across distinct PMD gene etiologies, as did IGF1 pharmacologic inhibition across both PMD mutant and C. elegans models. MAPK pharmacologic inhibition rescued multiple distinct complex I disease cells' survival, as well as mitochondrial stress in SLC25A46 -/- C. elegans . Combination therapies targeting multiple of these glucose signaling pathway proteins, together with glucose and N-acetylcysteine, yielded superior therapeutic benefit in complex I disease cell and C. elegans models. Additionally, single or combined pharmacologic inhibition of THPO or IGF1 significantly enhanced primary and metastatic osteosarcoma cell death. Collectively, targeted small molecule and genetic modulation of THPO, IGF1, or MAPK recapitulated the significant therapeutic benefit of CHX in PMD, while avoiding global translation inhibition. These novel PMD therapies likely confer benefit by attenuating MAPK-driven autophagy and potentially promoting noncanonical glucose uptake, improving cellular energy balance. Overall, these glucose signaling cellular pathway targets hold broad therapeutic promise for PMD patients, warranting further clinical research development.
Synovitis, a core pathological feature of knee osteoarthritis (KOA), drives pain and disease progression via sustained inflammation and disrupted tissue homeostasis. Electroacupuncture (EA) shows clinical benefits in KOA management, yet its specific molecular mechanisms against synovitis remain incompletely defined. The Protein S-Tyro3, Axl, MerTK (TAM) pathway-particularly Axl/MerTK and downstream Rac1-constitutes a key efferocytosis-related and inflammation-resolving signaling axis. We hypothesized that EA alleviates KOA synovitis and is associated with restoration of this dysregulated pathway.Male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to Control, KOA (anterior cruciate ligament transection, ACLT), and KOA-EA groups. After 1 month of model induction, the KOA-EA group received EA at GB34, SP10, ST36, and KI3 (30 min/day, 5 days/week for 12 weeks; sparse-dense waves: 3/15 Hz, 1 mA). We assessed cartilage histopathology (Mankin's/OARSI scores), synovitis (Krenn score), synovial apoptosis (TUNEL, Cleaved Caspase-3/F4/80 co-staining), serum cytokines (IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-10, TGF-β1 via ELISA), and MMP13 expression (IHC). qRT-PCR was used to measure Pros1, Axl, Mertk, and Rac1 mRNA expression in synovium, while Western blot was used to measure Protein S, Axl, MerTK, and Rac1 protein expression; MMP13 in cartilage was assessed by both methods.ACLT successfully induced KOA, with severe cartilage degradation, synovial inflammation, elevated pro-inflammatory cytokines, and increased synovial apoptosis. EA significantly ameliorated cartilage damage (reduced Mankin's/OARSI scores, P < 0.01), decreased MMP13 expression (P < 0.05), attenuated synovitis (lower Krenn score, P < 0.01), reduced synovial apoptosis (P < 0.001), and shifted the cytokine profile toward an anti-inflammatory pattern (reduced IL-1β/TNF-α and increased IL-10/TGF-β1, P < 0.05). EA was also associated with reversal of the KOA-induced downregulation of Protein S-TAM-Rac1 axis-related molecules, with significantly increased synovial mRNA expression and partial restoration of protein expression.EA showed anti-inflammatory and chondroprotective effects in this KOA model and was associated with changes in synovial Protein S-TAM (Axl/MerTK)-Rac1 axis-related molecules, with stronger evidence at the mRNA level than at the protein level. These molecular changes may be related to apoptotic cell clearance-related processes and inflammation resolution.Copyright © 2026 Li, Jia, Tang, Wen, Huang, Yin, Xiao, Qu and Zhou.
SLC25A46 is a mitochondrial intermembrane bridging protein reported to play a crucial role in mitochondrial network maintenance, yet its functional roles in human cancer metabolic rewiring and disease progression remain unexplored, including ovarian cancer (OC). Here, we revealed that SLC25A46 is markedly upregulated in OC and associated with poor patient outcomes. Functionally, SLC25A46 promoted OC growth by facilitating cell proliferation and ferroptosis evasion. Mechanistically, SLC25A46 promotes cell proliferation and ferroptosis evasion of OC cells by activating fatty acid oxidation-mediated ATP and NADPH production via protecting carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase (CACT) from MARCHF5-mediated ubiquitin-degradation. Notably, knockdown of SLC25A46 significantly increased the sensitivity of OC cells to ferroptosis and enhanced their cytotoxic response to carboplatin. Additionally, we found that PBX1 directly binds and transactivates the SLC25A46 promoter. Overall, our results highlight the critical role of SLC25A46/MARCHF5/CACT axis in facilitating cell proliferation and ferroptosis evasion in OC cells via activating fatty acid oxidation-mediated ATP and NADPH production. These findings suggest that targeting SLC25A46 represents a rational strategy to improve treatment outcomes in OC patients.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Pectoralis minor syndrome (PMS) may produce scapulothoracic abnormal motion (STAM) and associated neurogenic thoracic outlet syndrome (nTOS) which are underrecognized causes of shoulder dysfunction. Etiologies of these conditions have been attributed to congenital shortening or abnormal anatomy, acquired shortening and fibrosis, or muscular hyperactivity of the pectoralis minor (PMi). Our hypothesis is that arthroscopic PMi release for PMS and nTOS is safe and effective. Our secondary hypothesis is that anomalous PMi insertional anatomy is higher in this patient cohort.A retrospective chart review was performed of patients receiving arthroscopic pectoralis minor release for diagnoses of PMS and nTOS performed between 2021 and 2024 at a single institution by three surgeons. Patient demographics and pre-and post-surgical patient reported outcome measures (PROMs) were collected. Intra-operative arthroscopic evaluation of the PMi anatomy and surrounding structures including subclavius was recorded.Two hundred and seventy-three patients receiving arthroscopic pectoralis minor release for PMS and nTOS were included for analysis. One hundred sixty-four patients (60.1%) additionally received an arthroscopic brachial plexus neurolysis for a diagnosis of nTOS associated with PMS. The average patient age was 40.9 (±15.1) years with 9.4 months (±10.5) follow up. Subjective shoulder value (SSV) (p<0.001), visual analog scale (VAS) pain (p=<0.001), PROMIS Short Form Score Physical component (p=0.03), and quick disabilities arm, shoulder, and hand (qDASH) (p=0.007) significantly improved postoperatively. Postoperative forward elevation (p=0.002) significantly improved. There were 12 complications reported (4.4%). The incidence of anomalous PMi insertion was 15.4%, similar to prior anatomic studies. Additional variable anatomy included PMi insertion to the conjoint tendon (14.6%) and fascial extensions of the subclavius (17.6%).Arthroscopic pectoralis minor and associated brachial plexus neurolysis is an effective treatment for PMS and nTOS, providing improved PROMs with a limited complication profile. The incidence of anomalous PMi insertional anatomy is similar in these patients to the general population, implicating muscle hyperactivity as a cause of PMS.Level IV; Case Series; Treatment Study.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Accurate global solar radiation (GSR) forecasting is vital for smart grids and resilient energy systems. However, the nonlinear and non-stationary nature of meteorological drivers challenges conventional approaches. This study proposes a lightweight, explainable hybrid deep learning architecture, CNN-BiLSTM-STAM, which integrates convolutional layers for inter-feature pattern extraction, bidirectional long short-term memory (BiLSTM) networks for temporal dependency learning, and a softmax temperature attention mechanism (STAM) with a learnable temperature to adaptively sharpen or smooth attention over time under varying weather conditions. The model is trained and evaluated using an hourly multivariate meteorological dataset collected at Alparslan Türkeş Science and Technology University in Sarıçam, Adana, Türkiye. Results show that CNN-BiLSTM-STAM outperforms classical machine-learning models, baseline deep networks, and recent attention-based variants for short and mid-term GSR forecasting, achieving RMSE = 66.62 W/m[Formula: see text], MAE = 43.29 W/m[Formula: see text], [Formula: see text] = 0.9381, and Pearson r = 0.9715. Additional validation on two independent public meteorological datasets, with the same architecture trained and evaluated separately on each dataset, yielded [Formula: see text] values of 0.9188 and 0.9537 and Pearson correlation coefficients of 0.9597 and 0.9768, supporting the external reproducibility of the proposed framework. To support operational trust, Shapley additive explanations (SHAP) are used to quantify feature importance and provide interpretable insights into seasonal and short-term atmospheric influences. With a compact footprint and strong predictive accuracy, the proposed framework supports deployable GSR forecasting for PV operation and scheduling, real-time energy management, and IoT-enabled monitoring systems.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42429079 is a review article
Antibodies are known to prevent infection by binding to pathogens extracellularly and blocking their entry into cells. What is less well known is that a proportion of pathogens, called the persistent fraction, still succeed in entering cells despite the antibodies bound to their surface. Fortunately, all mammalian cells express a dedicated cytosolic antibody receptor called TRIM21 that intercepts these incoming antibody-bound pathogens as soon as they enter the cytosol. Once it has detected an infection event, TRIM21 uses its E3 ubiquitin ligase activity to target pathogens for degradation. Our early work showed that TRIM21-mediated neutralization was both a fast and efficient process, capable of causing the degradation of incoming viral particles within hours. What was less clear was how TRIM21 achieves this degradation. In a recent study, we reveal that TRIM21 mediates a system of selective autophagy to direct incoming pathogens into the lysosome.Abbreviations: TRIM21:Tripartite-motif containing protein 21; VCP: Valosin-Containing Protein. CRISPR: Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats; FACS: fluorescence activated cell sorting; GFP: green fluorescent protein; LC3: Microtubule-associated Protein 1 Light Chain 3; TBK1: TANK-binding kinase 1; FIP200: FAK family kinase-interacting protein of 200 kDa; ULK1: Unc-51-like autophagy activating kinase 1; PI3K: Phosphoinositide 3-Kinase; ATG: autophagy-related gene; TMEM41B: transmembrane protein 41B; VPS37A: Vacuolar Protein Sorting-Associated Protein 37A; RBSN: Rabenosyn-5; EPG5: Ectopic P-Granules 5 Autophagy Tethering Factor; NDP52: Nuclear Dot Protein 52; ADX: antibody-dependent xenophagy; p62/SQSTM1: Protein 62/ Sequestosome 1; LPS: Lipopolysaccharide.
VPS37A, a subunit of ESCRT-I involved in endosomal sorting and autophagy, is frequently downregulated in diverse human cancers. In this study, we showed that VPS37A downregulation, as part of a large chromosome 8p deletion, arises early during tumorigenesis and persists throughout tumor progression. Integrative analysis of VPS37A gene copy number and CRISPR dependency revealed that VPS37A deficiency creates a synthetic lethal dependency on the MAP3K7-NF-κB-CFLAR axis, and targeting this axis triggered CASP8-mediated apoptosis and suppressed tumor growth. This synthetic vulnerability depends on ATG8ylated membranes, which serve as a platform for CASP8 activation upon inhibition of phagophore closure, and can be triggered without disrupting receptor sorting. Consistently, despite frequent co-deletion of VPS37A and the death receptors TNFRSF10A/B, inhibition of the MAP3K7-NF-κB-CFLAR axis selectively induced apoptosis in spheroid tumors with 8p deletion. These results uncover a selective vulnerability in cancer cells harboring VPS37A/8p loss, providing a mechanistic rationale for targeted therapeutic intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive subtype associated with high metastatic potential and poor outcomes, with lung metastasis representing one of the most frequent and life-threatening events. However, the mechanism how cellular plasticity and reprogramming that enable TNBC cells to colonize in the lung remain incompletely understood. Here, we integrated single-cell RNA sequencing and spatial transcriptomics on paired MMTV-PyMT primary mammary tumors and lung metastatic tumors, complemented by functional assays in 4T1 mouse models, to delineate the cellular heterogeneity and molecular mechanisms driving TNBC lung metastasis. We identified three metastasis-associated subtypes-C12-Cd, Cdh5-like, and Wfdc12-each enriched in metastatic lesions and exhibiting distinct biological programs. The C12-Cd subcluster was characterized by the upregulation of Exoc4, a vesicle-trafficking regulator associated with a poor prognosis in patients with TNBC. The Cdh5-like cluster displayed a hypoxia-driven vascular phenotype, in which Hif-2α-mediated Cd36 expression promoted vasculogenic mimicry and metastatic colonization. The Wfdc12 cluster secreted Cxcr2 ligands (Cxcl1/2) and Cxcr2 blockade significantly reduced lung metastasis in vivo, underscoring therapeutic potential. Notably, cross-subtypes of lung metastatic TNBC analysis revealed Sftpc upregulation, reflecting organ-adaptive transcriptional reprogramming that may facilitate tumor cell survival in the pulmonary niche. Collectively, our findings provide a comprehensive cellular and molecular atlas of TNBC lung metastasis. We establish Exoc4, the Hif-2α-Cd36 vasculogenic mimicry axis, Cxcrl1/2-Cxcr2 signaling, and Sftpc as critical mediators of metastatic adaptation. These results not only bridge key knowledge gaps in metastatic heterogeneity and organ-specific adaptation but also highlight novel prognostic markers and therapeutic vulnerabilities with translational potential for treating TNBC lung metastasis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Liver fibrosis is a progressive pathological process driven by liver injury, including viral hepatitis and metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH), and can progress to cirrhosis, liver failure, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Hepatocyte-hepatic stellate cell (HSC) crosstalk plays a central role in disease progression, but its regulatory mechanisms remain incompletely understood.This study aimed to define hepatocyte-HSC crosstalk in liver fibrosis mediated by microRNA-149-5p (miR-149-5p) signaling and to explore its potential as a therapeutic target for intervention.Differentially expressed exosomal microRNAs were identified by RNA sequencing of hepatocyte-derived exosomes from fibrotic and control livers. Functional screening using collagen type I alpha 1 chain (COL1A1) reporter assays identified miR-149-5p as an anti-fibrotic candidate. Exosome-mediated intercellular communication was confirmed using co-culture systems and confirmed by tumor susceptibility 101 (TSG101) silencing. Liver fibrosis was induced by bile duct ligation (BDL) and thioacetamide (TAA) in mice. Therapeutic effects were evaluated using AAV-mediated hepatocyte-specific overexpression and miR-149-5p agomir administration.miR-149-5p was selectively enriched in hepatocyte-derived exosomes via a CCUC-based EXOmotif and directly targeted PDGFRB in HSCs, thereby inhibiting HSC activation, proliferation, and collagen deposition without affecting hepatocyte function. During fibrosis progression, PU.1 bound to the miR-149-5p promoter and suppressed its transcription, leading to reduced exosomal miR-149-5p delivery and consequent PDGFRB derepression in HSCs. Both AAV-mediated overexpression and systemic miR-149-5p agomir administration significantly attenuated BDL- and TAA-induced liver fibrosis, as evidenced by reduced collagen deposition, decreased hydroxyproline content, and downregulation of HSC activation markers.The PU.1 (hepatocyte)-miR-149-5p (exosome)-PDGFRB (HSC) axis represents a key regulatory pathway in liver fibrosis, wherein PU.1 represses miR-149-5p transcription in hepatocytes, leading to EXOmotif-dependent reduction of exosomal miR-149-5p delivery and consequent derepression of PDGFRB in HSCs, thereby promoting HSC activation and fibrosis progression. Importantly, miR-149-5p agomir administration offers a promising therapeutic strategy for liver fibrosis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Glutamate-induced excitotoxicity is a major pathological mechanism underlying epilepsy and other neurological disorders and is characterized by disruption of the balance between excitatory glutamatergic and inhibitory GABAergic neurotransmission. Although mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosomes have shown neuroprotective potential, the therapeutic effects and mechanisms of stem cell of the apical papilla-derived exosomes (SCAP-exo) remain largely unexplored. Here, SCAP-derived exosomes were isolated and characterized by the expression of the canonical exosomal markers CD63, CD81, Hsp70, and TSG101, and their neuroprotective effects were evaluated in a glutamate-induced PC12 excitotoxicity model. SCAP-exo significantly improved cell viability (48%-80%), reduced lactate dehydrogenase release, intracellular Ca2⁺ accumulation, and tumor necrosis factor-α secretion, and restored GABA and serotonin (5-HT) levels. Mechanistically, SCAP-exo coordinately enhanced inhibitory GABAergic signaling by upregulating GABA_A receptor α1 subunit and glutamate decarboxylase 65 while suppressing GABA transporter 1, and simultaneously attenuated excitatory glutamatergic signaling through downregulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 1. This coordinated regulation restored excitatory-inhibitory neurotransmitter homeostasis and attenuated downstream inflammatory and calcium-dependent excitotoxic cascades. Collectively, these findings identify SCAP-derived exosomes as a promising cell-free therapeutic strategy for excitotoxicity-related neurological disorders.Copyright © 2026 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background: Colostrum extracellular vesicles (C-EVs) are nanoscale, bioactive vesicles with therapeutic potential. The mechanisms of action include the control of cellular and tissue homeostasis. These make C-EVs a novel means to control inflammatory and cellular dysfunctions. However, a limitation for their broad use is the ease of C-EV isolation and in ensuring their stability. Methods: Standard ultracentrifugation and gradient techniques used for EV recovery were employed, which included ultracentrifugation. Exodus dual-frequency ultrasonic nanofiltration (UNF) was a comparator used to overcome standard limitations by recovering pure vesicles at high concentrations. Both systems were evaluated for their abilities to recover clinical-grade C-EVs with optimal vesicle structural integrity and intact biological functions. Results: This study affirms UNF C-EV recovery by demonstrating intact Alix, CD63, Tsg101, and Flotillin antigens. The EVs maintained an intact bilayer structure with sizes ranging from to 50-200 nm. Functional tests showed preservation of their anti-inflammatory activities by suppression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and the NLRP3 inflammasome, caspase 1, interleukin-1, and 18 and maintaining cellular homeostasis. Processing time, high yield, and functional responses controlled cellular function. Conclusions: These data support the notion that UNF C-EVs can be recovered safely, at high yields, and reproducibly for future clinical applications.
Ferroptosis represents a regulated form of cell death. Currently, the impact of ferroptosis on sepsis-induced acute kidney injury (SAKI) remains unexplored. We examined the effect of 17β-estradiol (E2) on macrophage inflammation and ferroptosis in SAKI. Histological staining of renal sections was conducted in CLP mice. Levels of serum creatinine (Scr) and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) were detected by kits. Levels of TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6 were measured by ELISA. HK-2 cells with different treatments were co-cultured with PMA-induced THP-1 cells (M0 macrophages). CCK-8 and flow cytometry detected cell viability and apoptosis. MDA, GSH and Fe2+ levels were detected by kits. Expressions of HDAC2, HDAC5 and GPX4 were detected by RT-qPCR. Western blot assessed protein levels of HDAC2, GPX4, ACSL4 and exosome markers (CD63, TSG101). Exosomes from HK-2 cells were identified using electron microscope and particle size analysis. The target relationships were confirmed through ChIP and luciferase reporter assays. E2 protected against CLP-induced kidney damage and decreased ferroptosis in SAKI mice. E2 effectively mitigated LPS-induced damage in HK-2 cells and reduced HDAC2 expression. Exosomal HDAC2 from HK-2 cells induced macrophage inflammation and ferroptosis. Exosomal HDAC2 impedes GPX4 expression in macrophages by aiding HDAC2-driven H3K27 deacetylation at GPX4 promoter. Exosomes from HK-2 cells with increased HDAC2 levels overturned renal protective benefits of E2 in septic AKI mice. E2 inhibits LPS-induced macrophage ferroptosis and alleviates sepsis-related renal injury in septic AKI mice via exosomal HDAC2 from tubular epithelial cells-mediated H3K27 deacetylation at the GPX4 promoter, which provides new therapeutic targets for SAKI treatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The persistent threat of emerging and re-emerging viral outbreaks underscores an urgent need for broad-spectrum antivirals (BSAs). A promising strategy involves targeting host factors exploited by different viral families to develop new BSAs with a high barrier to resistance development. The present work focuses on the inhibition of the protein-protein interactions (PPIs) between viral late domains (L-domain) and the TSG101 protein from the host ESCRT pathway, which is exploited by multiple highly pathogenic viruses for their replication and budding, hence representing a crucial yet underexplored therapeutic strategy to inhibit viral replication. Starting from the previously identified hit compound UEV-10, we developed a series of simplified, more druggable quinoline analogues. These derivatives effectively inhibited the TSG101/L-domain interaction at low micromolar concentrations and were active in a series of cell-based assays, including high-content bimolecular complementation, virus-like particle release, and viral growth inhibition of several biosafety level 4 (BSL-4) pathogens (Ebola, Marburg, and Nipah viruses) and non-enveloped enteroviruses (EV-D68). Overall, our findings further support the inhibition of TSG101/L-domain PPIs as an effective and versatile strategy for the development of broad-spectrum antiviral agents with potential applicability across diverse viral families.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) comprises 15% of lung cancers with a capacity for early and distant metastatic development, high proliferative capacity, and poor survival rates. Ionizing radiation and chemotherapy are effective against early-stage SCLC. This sensitivity wanes over time, however, making treatment difficult. Different types of neoplasms have demonstrated the pivotal role of small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) in disease progression. However, the role of sEVs development in SCLC remains unclear. In this study, the impact of sEVs secretion in SCLC cells was investigated using the CRISPR-Cas9 system to target the RAB27A. The effects of sEVs release inhibition on tumour growth and metastasis were evaluated using micro-PET-CT analysis. A reduction in cellular proliferation as a consequence of sEVs release, along with diminished expression of proteins and RNA (CD9, CD63, and Tsg101) implicated in sEVs secretion in silenced SCLC cells (p < 0.001, p < 0.0001) was detected. The suppression of sEVs release exhibited significant adverse effects on tumor development and metastatic dissemination in the in vivo tumor model. The present study suggests that the targeting of RAB27A could be a viable cancer therapy for SCLC. Targeting the exosomal pathway has the potential to enhance treatment efficacy, and SCLC may depend on sEVs secretion.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
Large B-cell lymphoma with IRF4 rearrangement (LBCL-IRF4) predominantly affects children and young adults (CAYA) and presents as localized disease with excellent prognosis. Although most tumors harbor IRF4 rearrangements (IRF4-R), the existence of cryptic rearrangements has been suggested. Whether IRF4-R LBCL in adults represents the same biological entity remains unclear. To address this question, 35 CAYA patients diagnosed with LBCL-IRF4 and 7 adult (>40-year-old) LBCL with IRF4-R were investigated by an integrative molecular approach. Targeted sequencing structural variant analysis (SV-NGS) confirmed the IRF4-R in 84% of investigated cases. In CAYA, an enrichment (55% vs 29% in adults) of translocations involving IGH, with a breakpoint cluster 3' to IRF4 (EXOC2) was observed, including a cryptic insertion of IGHM-IGHJ5 into IRF4 locus. Novel translocations, IRF4::MIR142 in two CAYA (7%) and IRF4::BATF in one adult, were discovered. Whole-exome sequencing analysis identified unreported mutations in LBCL-IRF4 as YY1 and ZC3H12A (11% each). The high incidence of mutations affecting the B-cell receptor/NF-KB pathways in LBCL-IRF4 was confirmed in cases with diffuse component only. None of the CAYA tumors were classified by LymphGen tool. Adult IRF4-R LBCL showed higher levels of genetic complexity and a distinct mutational profile with mutations on KMT2D and DTX1 (43% each), and MYD88-L265P (29%), and were predicted as EZB or MCD (29% each). These differential genetic features were in line with different clinical presentations (extranodal involvement and advanced stage). In conclusion, IRF4-R architecture and mutational profile differ according to age, supporting that not all cases should be classified as LBCL-IRF4.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Intracellular pathogens remodel host cells by redirecting cellular machinery to the host-pathogen interface. The protozoan parasite Toxoplasma gondii co-opts host ESCRT proteins at the parasitophorous vacuole membrane (PVM), where they support budding of host-derived vesicles into the vacuole. Yet the parasite effectors that direct this process remain largely unknown. Here we developed spaCR (spatial phenotype analysis of CRISPR-Cas9 screens), a pooled image-based screening framework that combines deep-learning classification of single-cell spatial phenotypes with well-level barcode genotyping and regression-based deconvolution of gene effects. Screening T. gondii secretory proteins recovered the known TSG101 recruiter GRA14 and identified an uncharacterized effector, ESCRT-association factor 1 (EAF1), that promoted TSG101 recruitment to the PVM. Targeted deletion confirmed its role across Type I and II lineages, and IP-MS recovered ESCRT-I and ESCRT-III components, including TSG101. Together, these findings identify EAF1 as an ESCRT-associated parasite effector and establish spaCR as a general framework for linking CRISPR perturbations to spatial phenotypes.
Grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella) is a major freshwater aquaculture species in China, but its growth is limited under intensive high-density farming. This study aimed to investigate the characteristics of plasma exosomes associated with distinct growth performance by isolating and characterizing exosomes from fast- and slow-growing grass carp after nine months of culture. Exosomes showed typical morphology and expressed characteristic markers (CD63, CD81, TSG101). Small RNA sequencing identified 3325 miRNAs, with 177 highly abundant miRNAs differentially expressed: immune-related miRNAs were upregulated, while development-inhibitory miRNAs were downregulated in fast-growing fish. Target gene enrichment highlighted pathways in neural and skeletal development and amino acid metabolism. Integrative analysis across tissues revealed 26 miRNAs with coordinated expression patterns between plasma exosomes and brain, liver, or muscle, validated by qPCR. DIA proteomics quantified 4203 proteins, identifying 843 differentially enriched proteins linked to immune response, energy metabolism, and endoplasmic reticulum stress. Notably, TYMP was upregulated in muscle and exosomes, while several proteins (e.g., GYG2, BHMT) showed coordinated downregulation across tissues and exosomes in large fish. These results provide comprehensive evidence of exosome-mediated cross-tissue communication in teleosts and suggest a potential role for plasma exosomal miRNAs and proteins as non-invasive biomarkers correlated with growth status in aquaculture.
Tumor-derived exosomes mediate intercellular communication in the tumor microenvironment. Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) cells secrete exosomes that may regulate bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs), but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear.This study aimed to investigate whether EOC-derived exosomes regulate BMSCs through the Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A(VEGF-A)/Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase(MAPK)/Extracellular Signal-Regulated Kinase(ERK) signaling pathway and to determine the functional consequences of this interaction.EOC-derived exosomes (EOC-Exos) were isolated by ultracentrifugation and characterized by transmission electron microscopy, nanoparticle tracking analysis and Western blot. BMSCs were identified by flow cytometry. BMSCs were divided into control, EOC-Exos and EOC-Exos + ERK inhibitor (U0126) groups. Cell cycle distribution was analyzed by flow cytometry. VEGF-A and MAPK/ERK expression were detected by immunofluorescence and Western blot. VEGF secretion was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and VEGF mRNA expression was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).EOC-Exos exhibited a typical cup-shaped morphology, ranged from 30 to 150 nm in size and expressed CD9, CD63 and TSG101. BMSCs highly expressed CD90, CD73 and CD105, with low CD45 and CD34. EOC-Exos treatment significantly decreased the proportion of cells in G0/G1 phase (P=0.007) and increased that in S phase (P<0.001), indicating accelerated cell cycle progression. EOC-Exos time-dependently upregulated VEGF-A protein (P<0.05) and ERK phosphorylation (P<0.001). ERK inhibitor U0126 significantly attenuated EOC-Exos-induced VEGF upregulation (P<0.01), VEGF mRNA expression (P<0.01) and S phase increase (P<0.01).EOC-derived exosomes activate the MAPK/ERK pathway in BMSCs, upregulating VEGF transcription and secretion and accelerating cell cycle progression. ERK inhibition reverses these effects, demonstrating the critical role of this pathway in tumor-stroma interactions.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) chronically infects approximately 250 million people worldwide, and reliable curative therapies are lacking. A broader understanding of viral-host interactions could accelerate efforts to find new host-centric therapeutic targets. However, inefficient cell culture systems and limited replication markers compatible with pooled screening have precluded the widespread use of genetic perturbation screens. Here, we performed the first pooled, genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 knockout (KO) screen with authentic HBV infection and integrated these results with two orthogonal pooled screens to identify host factors. We selected 72 genes for a multi-step assessment that included arrayed validation assays using both HBV infection and pgRNA transfection. We then independently tested thirteen genes using high-efficiency bulk KO experiments to guide further investigations of both antiviral and proviral factors. In both KO and siRNA-mediated knockdown experiments, depletion of the top antiviral factor, EXOC1, enhanced multiple HBV replication markers, and transcriptomic analysis revealed activation of hypoxia- and HIF-1 gene signatures. Three proviral factors, IRF2, WDR48, and ZCCHC14, were investigated in vivo using a human liver chimeric mouse model, which demonstrated that ZCCHC14 KO greatly reduced HBV replication and spread. Together, these complementary in vitro and in vivo platforms expand the catalog of HBV host factors and provide a scalable framework for host target discovery.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42538614 is a review article
Alu elements are primate-specific retrotransposons known to mediate structural genomic alterations associated with neurological disorders, yet their underlying disease mechanism remains incompletely understood. Here, we leveraged human pluripotent stem cell-derived cortical organoids and xenografts to model an Alu-mediated exon 17 deletion in the SPAST gene, a frequent cause of hereditary spastic paraplegia (SPG4) with dementia. This deletion generates fusion transcripts between SPAST and the downstream gene SLC30A6, resulting in reduced expression of ZnT6, the Golgi-resident zinc transporter encoded by SLC30A6. In SPASTΔe17 organoids, we detected pronounced cytosolic zinc accumulation, Golgi fragmentation, lipid dysregulation, and increased aggregation of Aβ and ubiquitin. These phenotypes were further exacerbated in xenograft models, concomitant with ubiquitin-positive inclusions resembling those found in patients' brains. Knockdown of SLC30A6 in control organoids recapitulated the neurodegenerative features, supporting a critical role of ZnT6 in maintaining neuronal homeostasis. Intervention with TPEN, a zinc-specific chelator, or a GRASP55-blocking antibody to prevent Golgi fragmentation significantly restored Golgi integrity and reduced Aβ levels. Notably, immunohistochemistry revealed heterogeneous ZnT6 expression in AD brains; however, both ZnT6-low and ZnT6-high cases consistently exhibited elevated p-GM130, a marker of Golgi fragmentation. Finally, we detected a SPAST-SLC30A6 chimeric transcript in brain tissue from a sporadic AD patient. Together, our findings identify a primate-specific cascade linking Alu-mediated genomic rearrangements to zinc dyshomeostasis and Golgi pathology and suggest that dysregulation of the ZnT6-Golgi axis may represent a vulnerability and therapeutic target in structural variant-driven neurodegeneration and possibly in a subset of sporadic cases.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP) comprises a heterogeneous group of inherited neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive spasticity and weakness primarily of the lower extremities. Data describing pediatric HSP from the Levant region remain limited.This study characterizes the clinical and genetic spectrum of pediatric HSP patients with an identified variant in an HSP-associated gene evaluated at a tertiary referral center serving the Eastern Levant.A retrospective descriptive review of pediatric and adolescent patients with a clinical diagnosis of HSP and an identified variant in an HSP-associated gene, evaluated between 2010 and 2024 was conducted. Demographic, clinical, neuroimaging and genetic data were extracted from medical records. Genetic diagnoses were established using next-generation sequencing-based approaches and interpreted according to American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics guidelines. Data were summarized descriptively.A total of 21 pediatric patients were included. Nineteen patients (90.5%) had an autosomal recessive inheritance, 71.4% were progeny from consanguineous families. Clinically relevant variants were identified across 11 HSP-associated genes, including CYP2U1, SPG11, ARL6IP1, B4GALNT1, DDHD2, RNF170, AMPD2, as well as variants in AP-4 complex genes (AP4B1, AP4M1, AP4S1). Additionally, the autosomal dominant SPAST gene was also featured. Age at symptom onset ranged from infancy to late childhood. Ambulatory status at last follow-up ranged from independent ambulation to dependence on assistive devices or caregiver support. Clinical presentations spanned pure spastic paraplegia and complex phenotypes, the latter being associated with variable combinations of features such as intellectual disability, ataxia or seizures. Brain magnetic resonance imaging findings were variable and encompassed thinning of the corpus callosum and nonspecific white matter abnormalities.The cases discussed provide a descriptive overview of the clinical and genetic characteristics of pediatric HSP in Lebanon, Syria and Iraq. The relatively high number of CYP2U1 and AP-4 complex variants observed in this referral cohort, together with the predominance of autosomal recessive and complex forms, highlight the value of broad molecular testing in populations with high rates of consanguinity, such as the Eastern Levant.Copyright © 2026 European Paediatric Neurology Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Upper motor neuron (UMN) degeneration is a characteristic feature of hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP), a genetically heterogeneous heritable neurodegenerative disorder resulting from mutations in over ninety genes. The mutations in the SPAST gene, which encodes the microtubule-severing protein spastin, are responsible for about 40% of all HSP cases. To date, the cellular and molecular mechanisms linking mutant spastin protein to UMN vulnerability in HSP patients remain unknown and there are no disease modifying therapies. To address this knowledge gap, we isolated pure populations of corticospinal motor neurons (CSMN; a.k.a. UMN in mice) from SPASTC448Y-UeGFP reporter mice at two pre-symptomatic time points and performed bottom-up proteomic analyses to reveal changes in their proteome that informs the underlying causes of their initial vulnerability. We find dynamic changes in their proteome and that limitations with cytoarchitectural integrity and stability of key organelles contribute to their neuronal vulnerability. Since the compound NU-9 was shown to improve similar cellular problems in CSMN that are diseased due to misfolded SOD1 toxicity and TDP-43 pathology, we further investigated its effect on the well-established pathological features of HSP that are recapitulated in the SPASTC448Y mice. We find that NU-9 treatment (100 mg/kg, for 100 days) significantly prevented degeneration of corticospinal axons, restored the integrity of mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum, and reduced the presence of electron-dense accumulations in the CSMN of SPASTC448Y mice.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The Muscovy duck is a high-quality lean-meat duck breed, yet it exhibits relatively poor reproductive performance. In this study, GWAS was used to screen candidate genes controlling egg production of Muscovy duck. Transcriptomics were further used to explore their regulatory mechanisms. Results showed PPP3CA, ZFYVE28, DENND2B, UBAP1, MAP1B were associated with total egg production. LD analysis identified 4_7070908_G>A as tagSNP of PPP3CA, in which GG genotype had significantly higher egg production than AA genotype (P < 0.05) in both the sequenced group and their next two generation. Transcriptomic analysis of large white follicles from the two genotypes revealed that differentially expressed genes, mainly those involved in steroid biosynthesis, extracellular matrix-receptor interaction, and the MAPK signaling pathway, were upregulated in GG; meanwhile, in small yellow follicles, steroid biosynthesis, PPAR, calcium, and TGF-β signaling pathways were upregulated in GG. Among these, PPP3CA is a potential key candidate gene influencing egg production, and it may exert a negative regulatory effect on the proliferation of granulosa cells in Muscovy duck follicles.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP) is primarily an inherited neurodegenerative disorder, although reports suggest possible systemic involvement. Cardiac manifestations in SPG4-HSP remain poorly understood, and dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) has not previously been documented.A 54-year-old woman with genetically confirmed SPG4-HSP presented with progressive dyspnea and a new left bundle branch block. Echocardiography and cardiac magnetic resonance revealed nonischemic DCM with reduced ejection fraction and dyssynchrony. Alternative causes were excluded, and extended cardiomyopathy gene testing was negative. Guideline-directed medical therapy was initiated with symptomatic improvement at outpatient follow up, and she subsequently received cardiac resynchronization therapy with defibrillator given persistent low ejection fraction and dyssynchrony.To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported experience of coexisting SPG4-HSP and idiopathic DCM. While causality remains uncertain, the case highlights a potential cardiac phenotype in SPG4 and underscores the importance of targeted cardiac evaluation in HSP patients presenting with exertional symptoms.Cardiac symptoms in SPG4-HSP warrant structured cardiac assessment. Standard heart-failure therapy and device management remain applicable.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP) is a genetically neurodegenerative disorder with limited epidemiological data in Korea. This study aimed to characterize the genetic landscape of HSP in a large Korean cohort. We analyzed 657 patients with suspected HSP using Sanger sequencing and a targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) panel covering 54 HSP-related genes. Variants were classified according to American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics/Association for Molecular Pathology guidelines, and copy number variations (CNVs) were detected using in-house methods and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification. Pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants were identified in 121 patients (18%), with SPAST (83%) and ATL1 (6%) being the most frequently mutated genes. Notably, 5% of SPAST mutations were CNVs, underscoring the importance of CNV detection. Among the identified variants, 23 novel mutations were discovered, primarily in SPAST (19), REEP1 (3), and SACS (1), expanding the mutational spectrum of HSP. The diagnostic yield was higher with NGS (25%) compared to Sanger sequencing (16%), reflecting the panel's broader gene coverage. This study highlights the predominance of SPAST and ATL1 mutations in Korean HSP patients and emphasizes the utility of targeted NGS panels, particularly for detecting CNVs and novel variants. Despite these advances, the majority of cases remain unresolved, suggesting the need for broader sequencing approaches to uncover additional genetic factors. These findings provide a foundation for improved diagnostic strategies and personalized treatment in HSP.© 2026. The Author(s).
Viral infections are a major cause of cardiac metabolic dysfunction, leading to diseases like viral myocarditis and heart failure. In this study, we used G3-YSD, a synthetic DNA mimic from the HIV-1 genome, to model cytoplasmic viral DNA stress and aim to elucidate the mechanistic roles of TRMT13 and SPAST in cardiomyocyte metabolic impairment under conditions mimicking viral infection. Through functional assays such as ATP quantification and Seahorse XF metabolic stress tests on H9C2 and AC16 cells, we found that G3-YSD treatment suppressed cardiomyocyte energy metabolism in a dose- and time-dependent manner, with upregulation of TRMT13 and SPAST. Further analysis revealed a strong positive association between these two genes. Functional knockdown experiments showed that silencing TRMT13 or SPAST alleviated G3-YSD-induced energy metabolic impairment. Mechanistically, miR-409-3p was identified as a key intermediary directly targeting the 3'UTRs of TRMT13 and SPAST, with TRMT13 mRNA acting as a ceRNA to promote SPAST expression. In vivo validation using a G3-YSD-treated mouse model confirmed that knocking down TRMT13 or SPAST, or delivering miR-409-3p mimics, improved cardiac function and systemic metabolic activity, while SPAST overexpression negated these effects. Our study identifies a novel TRMT13-miR-409-3p-SPAST regulatory axis mediating cardiomyocyte energy metabolic decline in response to cytoplasmic viral DNA stress, revealing a nonmethyltransferase, nonimmune, ceRNA-based mechanism of a newly characterised tRNA methyltransferase in viral infection-induced cardiac metabolic dysfunction and proposing new molecular targets for therapeutic intervention.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Hereditary spastic paraplegia type 4 (SPG4), caused by variants in SPAST, is the most common form of HSP and exhibits a remarkable phenotypic heterogeneity ranging from late-onset pure presentations to severe, early-onset complex disease. Robust genotype-phenotype correlations and detailed natural history data are lacking, limiting clinical trial readiness. We analyzed 206 patients with genetically confirmed SPG4 enrolled across seven international centers, complemented by high-quality literature-derived cases. Deep phenotyping included standardized motor scales, spasticity ratings, developmental milestones, and patient-reported outcomes. We developed an extended essentiality-mapping framework to classify SPAST missense variants by integrating in silico pathogenicity predictions, evolutionary constraint, physicochemical residue connectivity, and variant enrichment within the human spastin hexamer structure. Plasma neurofilament light chain (pNfL) using was quantified using Simoa in 26 patients and 101 controls. We identified 136 distinct SPAST variants, including 10 novel variants. Variant class segregated strongly by inheritance, with de novo cases enriched for missense variants and inherited cases showing a variety of variant classes with enrichment for truncating variants. Longitudinal analysis revealed two latent trajectories: a rapidly progressive severe subgroup enriched for de novo missense variants, and a biphasic moderate subgroup enriched for inherited truncating variants. Patient stratification integrating spastin essentiality mapping (missense variants affecting essential, neutral, or context-dependent residues) with established genetic modifiers (biallelic pathogenic variants or modifier variants in trans) classified patients into predicted severe and moderate subgroups with divergent age at onset and clinical disease progression. The severe subgroup showed early developmental delays, rapid loss of ambulation, and declining quality of life, while the moderate subgroup displayed delayed but accelerating disease progression. pNfL levels were elevated in both subgroups, most pronounced in severe early disease. This study provides the most detailed natural history of SPG4 to date and introduces a biologically informed stratification framework that links variant class and location to divergent clinical trajectories. These data establish clinically meaningful benchmarks and offer a genotype-based framework to improve anticipatory care and optimize trial design for SPG4.Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain 2026.
Protein biomarkers are increasingly recognized as indicators of metabolic status, immune response, and reproductive performance in cattle. However, comparative data among different breeds commonly raised in Indonesia remain limited.This study aimed to compare the specific proteins in follicular fluid (FF) of Bali and Brahman cows.Samples from FF (n = 20 pairs of ovarium) were analyzed for identification of specific proteins using LC-HRMS analysis.Proteomic analysis revealed distinct breed-specific FF profiles, with 16 proteins uniquely identified in Bali cattle and 23 proteins in Brahman. Bali FF was enriched with proteins associated with protease inhibition, coagulation regulation, extracellular matrix remodeling, and cytoskeletal dynamics, including CORO1C, ZER1, YARS1, and L3MBTL3. In contrast, Brahman FF showed enrichment of proteins involved in lipid oxidation, one-carbon metabolism, and peroxisomal activity, notably ACOX2, BHMT, and KIAA0586.Here, we present the proteomic characterization of FF from Bali and Brahman cattle, where several bioactive proteins are candidate proteins potentially associated with reproductive processes. These findings highlight the potential of protein biomarkers in guiding cattle breeding and management strategies in tropical regions.Copyright © 2026 Sri Gustina et al. Veterinary Medicine International published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
N-(1,3-dimethylbutyl)-N-phenyl-p-phenylenediamine quinone (6PPD-Q), a quinone derivative of the tire antioxidant 6-PPD, has exhibited toxic effects across a wide range of organisms. However, its nephrotoxicity and underlying mechanisms in mammals remain largely unknown. Herein, we demonstrated the renal toxicity of 6PPD-Q using in vivo and in vitro models. Further analysis revealed that 6PPD-Q exposure triggered ferroptosis in podocytes, as characterized by elevated intracellular ROS and Fe2 + levels, downregulation of GPX4, and accumulation of lipid peroxidation. A genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 knockout screen identified EXOC7 as a critical mediator of 6PPD-Q-induced podocyte injury. Mechanistically, 6PPD-Q disrupted the E3 ubiquitin ligase activity of MARCHF2, leading to reduced ubiquitination of EXOC7, subsequent attenuation of its proteasomal degradation, and consequent accumulation of EXOC7 protein, which ultimately promoted ferroptosis. Limited proteolysis-mass spectrometry (LIP-MS) further revealed that 6PPD-Q directly bound to EXOC7, interfering with its recognition and ubiquitination by MARCHF. Importantly, inhibition of EXOC7 or ferroptosis alleviated chronic 6PPD-Q-induced oxidative stress and podocyte injury in vivo. Together, these findings identify a previously unknown molecular mechanism for 6PPD-Q-induced nephrotoxicity and establish EXOC7-mediated ferroptosis as a sensitive mechanistic endpoint for assessing environmental 6PPD-Q exposure.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Glioblastoma is a highly aggressive and lethal brain tumor that typically originates from glial cells, characterized by rapid growth and resistance to treatment, leading to poor patient prognosis. This study investigates the role and mechanism of the newly discovered circular RNA CircSLIT2 in the malignant progression of glioblastoma. We found that circSLIT2 is significantly overexpressed in glioblastoma cell lines and promotes the proliferation, migration, and invasion of glioblastoma cells by regulating miR-127-5p and upregulating SH3GLB1 expression. In vitro experiments demonstrated that the overexpression of circSLIT2 enhanced cell viability, while treatment with miR-127-5p mimics significantly inhibited this effect. Additionally, we confirmed that CircSLIT2 sponges miR-127-5p, reducing its negative regulation of SH3GLB1 and thereby maintaining SH3GLB1's stable expression. We further revealed the critical roles of METTL14 and IGF2BP1 in the m6A methylation and stability of CircSLIT2. Finally, in a nude mouse model, mice with CircSLIT2 overexpression exhibited significantly larger tumor volumes and shorter survival times, providing further evidence of the important role of CircSLIT2 in glioblastoma development and progression. These findings suggest that CircSLIT2 could serve as a potential molecular target, offering new insights for glioblastoma treatment.AJCR Copyright © 2026.
The response to lifestyle modification (LSM) in children with obesity is variable and difficult to predict.A systematic search for molecular markers to predict outcomes of LSM in pediatric obesity management.Out of 240 children with obesity (BMI>97%) recruited to a prospective 'multi-OMICS' study granted by ESPE Research Unit, 159 subjects (age 8-17 yrs, median 12.8 yrs; 45% females) finished twelve-months (between visits V0-V12) of LSM at three clinical centers (Poland, Turkey, Italy). Four of >180 baseline (V0, before LSM) clinical and laboratory features (sex, age, severity of obesity at V0, steroid metabolome) were used to select 50 representatives for RNA-seq analysis. We searched for circulating mRNA & miRNA capable of establishing the link with positive response to LSM defined by a decrease in z-score BMI (delta z-score BMI V12-V0<0, Responders/RS). First, the candidate gene approach with previously documented STAT3, CORO1C, SERPINH1, MVP, ITGB5 (upregulated in obesity), PCM1, SIRT1, EEF1G, PTEN and RPS2 (down-regulated in obesity) hub genes was applied. The pairwise ratios of transcripts per million (TPM)s of these genes were tested for statistical significance between RS (n=31) and non-RS (n=19) groups. Secondly, the TPM expression values of 2,129 miRNAs and 33,246 RPL13A-normalized mRNAs were compared between RS and non-RS to get a list of putative significant genes (p<0.05; the Welch t-test). Enrichr, a web-based tool (http://amp.pharm.mssm.edu/Enrichr), was used for analysing gene sets.Expression values for 909 mRNA and 24 miRNA genes were significantly different between RS vs non-RS. For example, STAT3/PTEN, CORO1C/PTEN, MVP/PTEN; miRNA-10a, miRNA-122, miRNA-127, miRNA-502, miRNA-210 were significantly higher and SIRT1/PTEN, EEF1G/PTEN, RPS2/PTEN, miRNA-27a were lower comparing RS vs. non-RS (p= 0.009, 0.022, 0.030, 0.048, 0.029, 0.045, 0.035, 0.020, 0.047, 0.04, 0.039, 0.029, respectively). Several pathways, including "Vitamin B6 metabolism" and "Insulin receptor signaling", were enriched in our differentially expressed mRNA (p<0.001): PNPO, PHOSPHO2, PDXP, PSAT1 were up-regulated in RS vs. non-RS. "Leptin signaling pathway WP2034" were enriched in STAT3 and PTEN (p<0.0001).The role of the balance between STAT3 and PTEN in LSM was discovered. The importance of previously described miRNA markers (miRNA-122, miRNA-127, miRNA-27a) related to adipogenesis risk, insulin resistance, hepatic fat reduction, PPAR-γ expression were confirmed. A combination of the previously reported V0 Leptin feature together with STAT3/PTEN and miRNA-27a levels showed promising predictive results. Our findings not only showed the predictive molecular markers but also pointed to their role in personalization of therapeutic management.S. Karger AG, Basel.
RNA modification pathways are often misregulated in various cancers, with N6-methyladenosine (m6A) having a pivotal role in cancer progression and metastasis. Methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3), a core component of the m6A methyltransferase complex, not only functions as an m6A writer but also promotes tumorigenesis through m6A-independent mechanisms. Here, we show that METTL3 is mislocalized to the cytoplasm in breast cancer tumors from patients, contributing to the oncogenic phenotype. Cytoplasmic METTL3 interacts with EXOC7, a key regulator of exocytosis, promoting its stabilization. In addition, METTL3 regulates m6A-dependent alternative splicing of EXOC7. Silencing METTL3 impairs vesicle trafficking and the breast cancer secretome-effects that do not rely on its enzymatic activity but instead involve METTL3-mediated stabilization of EXOC7 and potentially other exocyst components. Furthermore, METTL3 knockdown impairs invadopodia formation, collagen matrix invasion, and focal adhesion morphology in vitro, while inhibition of METTL3 catalytic activity does not. Our findings uncover noncatalytic roles of METTL3 in regulating exocytosis and the cancer secretome.
Spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia with joint laxity type 3 (SEMD-JL3) is a rare autosomal-recessive skeletal disorder caused by pathogenic variants in the EXOC6B gene. It is characterized by abnormal bone and joint development, resulting in generalized joint laxity, recurrent dislocations, and short stature from early childhood.We report the case of a 16-year-old Saudi girl with severe bilateral hip and knee involvement since early childhood. She was non-ambulatory and wheelchair-dependent prior to intervention. Following whole-genome sequencing, a pathogenic EXOC6B variant was identified, confirming the diagnosis of SEMD-JL3. A staged surgical plan was implemented, consisting of bilateral total hip arthroplasties (THA) followed by bilateral total knee arthroplasties (TKA). Postoperatively, the patient demonstrated marked pain reduction and improved mobility, ultimately regaining the ability to ambulate with support.This case represents the first documented report of SEMD-JL3 managed surgically in Saudi Arabia and highlights how individualized, staged orthopedic interventions can significantly improve function and quality of life in patients with rare skeletal dysplasias.© 2026. The Author(s).
Breast cancer (BC) is a highly heterogeneous malignancy and remains the leading cause of cancer-related mortality among women worldwide. Although advances in molecular classification and targeted therapies have improved outcomes for certain subtypes, robust prognostic biomarkers applicable across clinical contexts are still lacking. The CRISPR-Cas9 system offers a powerful platform for identifying cancer cell vulnerabilities and may facilitate the development of clinically relevant prognostic models.We integrated genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screening data from the DepMap database with transcriptomic and clinical data from TCGA and GEO datasets to identify BC cell survival-dependent genes (CSDGs). CSDGs prognostic signature was constructed using univariate Cox regression, LASSO, and stepwise multivariate Cox regression analyses. The model was validated in internal and external cohorts. Functional enrichment analyses, including GO, KEGG, WGCNA, and GSEA, were performed to explore the biological mechanisms underlying the signature. Random forest analysis and functional experiments were conducted to investigate the role of key gene in CSDGs signature.A total of 1,622 CSDGs were identified, and a nine-gene prognostic CSDGs signature (BRD4, CHORDC1, COPZ1, HNRNPC, NUP43, RAD1, RBBP8, TUBA1B, and VPS28) was developed. This signature effectively stratified patients into high- and low-risk groups with significantly different overall survival, and its robustness was confirmed across multiple internal and external cohorts. High-risk patients exhibited a significant association with multiple adverse clinical features. A nomogram that combined the risk score with clinical variables showed robust predictive performance, and its C-index surpassed those of individual predictors, underscoring the enhanced accuracy of the integrated model. Functional analyses revealed enrichment of oncogenic pathways (e.g., MYC targets, G2/M checkpoint, mTORC1 signaling) in high-risk patients, while low-risk patients exhibited immune and hormone response signatures. CHORDC1 was identified as the most critical gene in the model. Knockdown of CHORDC1 significantly inhibited proliferation, migration, and invasion of BC cells. Transcriptomic profiling further linked CHORDC1 to oncogenic pathways, including EMT, mTORC1 signaling, and TNF-α/NF-κB signaling activation.We developed a CRISPR-Cas9 screening-based prognostic signature for BC that effectively stratifies patient risk and demonstrates robust predictive performance across cohorts. CHORDC1 was identified as a key oncogenic driver, promoting tumor progression via pathways such as EMT and mTORC1 signaling, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target. These findings may contribute to the development of personalized prognostic tools and therapeutic strategies in BC.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42115010
Circadian rhythm disruption (CRD) is a major driver of immune dysregulation; however, whether CRD promotes ischemic stroke (IS) progression through immune imbalance and the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear.Transcriptomic data from human IS brain tissues were analyzed to identify CRD associated regulators using machine-learning approaches. A CRD score model was constructed to quantify circadian disruption. Circadian timing-dependent stroke models were established to evaluate diurnal variation in stroke severity and gene rhythmicity in vivo. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cell -derived scRNA-seq data was performed to characterize CRD-associated immune remodeling. Virtual gene knockdown analysis using the scTenifoldKnk framework, together with experimental validation including microglial gene silencing and T cell co-culture in vitro, as well as adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated gene intervention in a transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO) model in vivo, were conducted to assess immunoregulatory effects and neurological recovery.We identified seven hub genes associated with CRD in IS patients. Circadian timing significantly influenced stroke severity, with marked differences in infarct volume across Zeitgeber time points. In parallel, coronin 1C (CORO1C) exhibited rhythmic expression in the brain under physiological conditions, which was disrupted following ischemic stroke. High CRD scores were associated with enhanced CD8+ T-cell activation and reduced M0 macrophages, indicating a proinflammatory immune phenotype. Single-cell analysis revealed activation of PD-1/PD-L1 signaling and Th17 polarization within T-cell subsets, consistent with immune overactivation and functional exhaustion. Virtual knockdown analysis highlighted CORO1C as a central regulator linking neuronal and immune transcriptional programs. In microglia, CORO1C knockdown reduced IL-6 and IFN-γ secretion. In vivo, AAV-shCORO1C treatment decreased cerebral CORO1C expression, attenuated CD8+ T-cell infiltration and inflammatory signaling, enhanced Claudin-5 expression, improved neurological function, and promoted post-stroke recovery.This study indicates that CORO1C acts as a pivotal regulator that mediates circadian rhythm disruption-driven immune dysregulation, thereby influencing stroke progression and neurological recovery.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
We report the synthesis of hexafluorophosphate (PF6-) salts directly from white phosphorus (P4) and simple fluorides MF (M = Li, Na, K, Cs, NMe4) in a single step. The utilization of p-quinones, such as 2,3-dichloro-4,5-dicyano-1,4-benzoquinone (DDQ) offers a selective fluorination pathway, which affords MPF6 salts in up to 95% yield in acetonitrile (MeCN). NMR investigations of the DDQ-mediated P4 fluorination reaction revealed the formation of PF3 and PF5·MeCN as key reaction intermediates. Donor-acceptor interactions between DDQ and fluoride are critical, effectively increasing the fluoride concentration and enabling efficient fluorination to PF6-. Tetraethylene glycol (TEG) selectively stops the reaction at the adduct K[PF5·TEG]. In contrast, noncoordinating dichloromethane (DCM) favors PF3 formation by suppressing EDA interactions through low fluoride solubility, possibly via the tris(hydroquinonyl)phosphite P(DDQH)3, underscoring the critical role of fluoride solubility. This work demonstrates that quinone-fluoride interactions can be exploited for oxidative fluorination chemistry, establishing a new conceptual framework for P4 fluorination.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Mitochondrial dysfunction is increasingly recognized as a key factor in the development and progression of atrial fibrillation (AF).This study aimed too systematically assess the causal relationship between mitochondrial genes and AF.The study used mitochondrial genes from MitoCarta version 3.0 to extract corresponding methylation data from GoDMC, gene expression data from eQTLGen and GTEx, and protein abundance data from UKB-PPP and deCODE to identify quantitative trait loci (QTLs). These were used as instrumental variables for Mendelian Randomization, summary-based Mendelian Randomization, and colocalization analysis, with the Benjamini-Hochberg method employed to control for false positives, to investigate associations with AF (from FinnGen). Based on the analysis results, multi-omics evidence was categorized. Subsequently, single-cell RNA sequencing was employed to investigate the cellular mechanisms of key genes, and predictive models were constructed to assess their potential as biomarkers.Through the integration of multi-omics data, 16 genes were identified via MR and SMR analyses. Among these, the NME4 gene demonstrated consistent causal associations with AF across all 3 levels; specifically, methylation at the cg08183303 site within the NME4 gene, as well as high gene expression and elevated protein levels, were associated with an increased risk of AF. Analysis at the cellular level revealed that the key gene is highly expressed in fibroblasts, with expression levels dynamically changing as cells evolve. Machine learning models incorporating these key genes demonstrated good performance in disease prediction.The study identified 16 mitochondrial genes associated with AF and demonstrated the potential of mitochondrial genes as biomarkers.Copyright © 2026 Heart Rhythm Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Vitrification is a vital tool for the long-term preservation of animal genetic resources, yet cryoinjury-manifesting as oxidative stress, structural damage, and metabolic disorders-severely compromises its efficacy. Here, we investigated the protective effects of melatonin (MT) supplementation on the cryotolerance of mouse morulae. First, mouse morulae were assigned to four groups treated with vitrification and thawing media containing MT (0, 10-3, 10-5, and 10-7 M) to determine optimal MT concentration. Subsequently, embryos treated with the optimal MT concentration were evaluated for developmental competence, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and mitochondrial function. Furthermore, transcriptome sequencing was performed to elucidate MT-regulated molecular pathways. The results demonstrated that MT supplementation at 10-5 M significantly enhanced developmental competence, as evidenced by increased blastocyst rate, hatched blastocyst rate, total cell number and the inner cell mass (ICM)-to-total cell ratio compared to the MT-free group (p < 0.05). Consequently, embryo transfer outcomes showed higher live births and weaned pups in the 10-5 M MT group versus those in controls (p < 0.05), achieving levels comparable to fresh embryos (p > 0.05). Mechanistically, MT reversed cryoinjury-induced mitochondrial dysfunction by elevating membrane potential(MMP) and Adenosine Triphosphate(ATP) production while reducing Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS) accumulation (p < 0.05). Transcriptomic analysis further revealed that vitrification perturbed metabolic pathways, including amino acid/fatty acid degradation and glucose/pyruvate metabolism. MT downregulated cryoinjury-induced overexpression of Rela and Nfkb1, inhibiting excessive NF-κB activation and alleviating metabolic dysfunction. Additionally, MT restored expression of nucleotide synthesis genes (Ctps2, Nme4, Gmps, Nudt2, Ppat, Impdh2) critical for cell proliferation, and reversed downregulation of mitochondrial genes Sucla2 and Timm17a, confirming restoration of mitochondrial homeostasis. In conclusion, melatonin alleviates vitrification-induced cryoinjury by restoring mitochondrial function, which rescues nucleotide synthesis and partially reverses associated metabolic dysfunction. These findings advance MT-mediated cryoprotection and underscore its translational value for embryo cryopreservation in animal genetic resource conservation.
Minimising methane (CH4) emissions from livestock production is a global priority, and feed modifications, such as supplementing diets with microalgae, have previously been shown to help reducing enteric CH4 production. This study explored blood-derived host gene expression profiles from twenty lambs supplemented with increasing levels of microalgae oil to investigate their transcriptional responses associated with varying microalgae oil levels while also exploring the host systemic responses towards varied CH4 productions.Findings revealed no significant changes in CH4 production with increasing levels of microalgae oil intake through phenotypic analysis (P = 0.18). However inter-individual variations in CH4 production ranged from 27.02 to 47.86 g/day throughout the study period. Blood RNA-Sequencing identified 64 significant genes including DHCR7, DHCR24, HMGCS1, INSIG1, LSS, MSMO1, and SQLE, which were involved in lipid metabolism, and steroid biosynthesis that became enriched alongside increasing microalgae oil intake levels thereby contributing to a positive impact on lambs' metabolic functions. Additionally, seven significant blood-expressed host genes (NME4, MARCHF3, PLXNB3, LOC132657460, LOC121819234, LOC105603087, LOC101116551) functionally enriched in nucleotide metabolic pathways and immune responses were identified to have significant positive associations with increasing CH4 production. Importantly, this study found no overlap between genes associated with microalgae oil intake and those linked to CH4 emissions.Findings suggest that microalgae oil intake and inter-individual variations in CH₄ production are associated with distinct blood-derived transcriptional responses. Although such signals should be interpreted as proxies for systemic host responses rather than direct measures of rumen-specific processes, these results emphasise the importance of considering host-associated molecular variations alongside dietary CH₄-mitigation strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Gastric cancer (GC) exhibits marked epidemiological differences between European (EUR) and East Asian (EAS) populations, with significantly higher incidence rates in EAS. Circulating proteins represent promising drug targets; however, most proteomic studies have focused primarily on EUR ancestry, leaving EAS-specific targets largely underexplored. This study aims to identify ancestry-specific plasma protein targets for GC using Mendelian randomization (MR).We employed Mendelian randomization (MR) and colocalization approaches to assess the putative causal effects of plasma proteins on GC risk across diverse populations. Specifically, we examined proteins in EUR and EAS populations. Subsequent single-cell RNA sequencing and molecular docking were conducted to identify cellular expression patterns and potential therapeutic compounds. Finally, experiments were conducted to verify the newly discovered drug target.Our analyses revealed four significant protein targets in the EUR population (SLURP1, ANGPTL3, NME4, ANXA10) and nine in the EAS population (ICAM5, SMOC1, PSCA, SATB1, SCRG1, PTPRB, ISLR2, NCR3LG1, SELE) associated with GC susceptibility. These drug targets are mainly expressed in epithelial cells, and Pit mucous cells in gastric tumor tissue. Experimental validation indicated significant downregulation of NME4 and upregulation of ICAM5 in GC cell lines and tissue samples, suggesting potential tumor-suppressive and oncogenic functions, respectively. Moreover, molecular docking identified seven repurposable drugs, with digoxin demonstrating cross-ancestry therapeutic potential.Our findings delineate 13 ancestry-specific protein targets, including five novel candidates, thereby enhancing our understanding of GC pathogenesis. This study underscores the importance of ancestral diversity in informing drug development strategies for GC. Future research should focus on validating these targets and exploring their functional mechanisms further to translate these findings into clinical applications.Copyright © 2026 Zhi, Cui, Xue, Qiao, Geng, Chang, Xu, Yan, Wang and Zhao.
The development of circularly polarized luminescence (CPL) emitters with a luminescence dissymmetry factor (|glum|) approaching the theoretical limit of 2 remains a central challenge in chiral photonics. Herein, considerable glum values (1.48-1.65) were achieved in helicates (NMe4)2[Eu2(R/S-L1-4)4] (ΔΔ/ΛΛ-1-4) with different structural rigidity, as well as in crown ether-modified (NMe4)2[Eu2(R/S-L5)4] (ΔΔ/ΛΛ-5) that exhibits adjustable coordination geometry symmetry. Notably, encapsulating bulkier [NEt4]+ instead of a [NMe4]+ counterion within the inner cavity of ΔΔ/ΛΛ-2 further elevates |glum| to an unprecedented 1.71, the highest value for any chiral molecular emitter. While the NMe4-ΔΔ/ΛΛ-3 achieves an ultrahigh CPL brightness (BCPL = 3625 M-1 cm-1), resulting from its large glum value (1.63) and high quantum yield (ΦPL = 32%). Structural and spectroscopic analyses demonstrate that the high CPL activity originates from a conformationally rigidified square antiprismatic (SAP) geometry around the Eu(III) center. This structure and property relationship is vividly demonstrated by the crown-ether-functionalized ΔΔ-5, where gradual binding of Cs+ ions triggers a pronounced glum fluctuation (1.48 → 0.62 → 1.41) through a perturbation and subsequent restoration of the SAP environment. Furthermore, the multicrown-ether binding sites in ΔΔ-5 enable cooperative guest binding, facilitating the first naked-eye CPL recognition of the antispasmodic drug tizanidine. This work establishes rigidifying SAP configuration as a general design principle for maximizing the CPL activity of lanthanide complexes and opening avenues for advanced CPL applications.
This study aimed to comprehensively characterize the relationship between glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) and intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) by integrating population-level epidemiological profiling, Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis, multi-omics data, and single-cell transcriptomics. The objectives included clarifying the causal effect of HbA1c on IVDD, identifying key HbA1c-related genes, elucidating their cellular and molecular roles in disc degeneration, and exploring potential therapeutic targets. Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2021 database was used to evaluate the incidence rate of diabetes mellitus (DM) and low back pain (LBP) across the entire global population. To assess the causal effect of HbA1c on IVDD, MR approache was conducted using summary statistics from large genome-wide association studies. Subsequently, integrating cis-eQTL information, bulk RNA sequencing, and single-cell RNA sequencing were performed to identify HbA1c-related genes involved in disc degeneration, and explore their roles along pseudotime differentiation trajectories. Potential associations between hub genes and IVDD, as well as candidate therapeutic compounds targeting these genes, were further evaluated through database screening and molecular docking. The findings from GBD indicated a correlation between diabetes and low back pain in both 1990 and 2021. The results of MR analysis revealed a causal relationship between HbA1c levels and IVDD. After integrated analysis of the eQTLGen database and RNA-seq data, we identified five hub HRGs, including STAT5A, CDKN1C, TRPS1, NME4, and OASL, which have been implicated in multiple biological processes and pathways associated with IVDD. Moreover, the scRNA-seq analysis showed that hub HRGs were associated with specific cell subpopulations in human nucleus pulposus (NP) tissues, such as inflamed chondrocytes, fibrochondrocytes, chondrocytes, and calcifying chondrocytes. Additionally, hub HbA1c related genes (HRGs) have been found to be associated with several DDDs such as back pain, osteoporosis, and spinal stenosis. Meanwhile, 12 drugs, including resveratrol, dexamethasone, and simvastatin, were identified that have the potential to target hub HRGs. This study revealed a causal effect of HbA1c on IVDD and identified five key HbA1c-related genes (STAT5A, CDKN1C, TRPS1, NME4, and OASL) involved in disc degeneration, providing potential targets for future research.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is a common and aggressive malignant tumor of the kidney, with a complex pathogenesis involving abnormal expression of multiple genes and signaling pathways. In recent years, the nucleoside diphosphate kinase 4 (NME4) gene has garnered increasing attention due to its critical role in cell proliferation, differentiation, and migration. This study aims to investigate the role of NME4 in ccRCC and its potential as a biomarker and therapeutic target.In this study, we knocked down the NME4 gene and observed its effects on 786-O cells (a ccRCC cell line). We assessed cell proliferation and migration capacity using clonogenic assays, Ki67 immunofluorescence staining, and cell scratch assays. Additionally, we systematically analyzed the relationship between NME4 expression levels and clinical characteristics and prognosis in ccRCC patients using multiple large-scale public databases and explored its potential mechanisms in tumor immune regulation.Experimental results showed that NME4 knockdown significantly reduced the clonogenic capacity of 786-O cells, with a marked decrease in both the average number and size of clones. Ki67 immunofluorescence staining results further confirmed that NME4 knockdown inhibited the proliferation capacity of ccRCC cells. Cell scratch assay results showed that the wound healing rate of 786-O cells with NME4 knockdown was significantly reduced, indicating that NME4 also plays an important role in cell migration. Multi-database joint analysis results showed that high NME4 expression is closely associated with poor prognosis in ccRCC patients. In immune cell infiltration and signaling pathway enrichment analysis, high NME4 expression was significantly correlated with multiple immune cell infiltration levels and may promote tumorigenesis and progression by enhancing the activity of multiple signaling pathways.NME4 is highly expressed in ccRCC, and its expression levels are significantly associated with patients' clinical characteristics and survival prognosis. Meanwhile, experimental results indicate its important role in tumorigenesis and progression. NME4 has the potential to serve as a biomarker and therapeutic target for ccRCC.© AME Publishing Company.
RING finger protein 6 (RNF6), a member of the E3 ubiquitin ligase family, has been implicated in various cancers, yet its functional significance and regulatory mechanisms in ovarian cancer (OC) are poorly understood.RNF6 expression levels were analyzed using TCGA data and confirmed by IHC, qRT-PCR, and western blotting in OC tissues or cell lines. Functional roles of RNF6 were evaluated through CCK-8, colony formation, wound healing, Transwell, and EMT marker assays. Protein interactions and ubiquitination patterns were investigated via Co-IP, CHX chase, and ubiquitination assays. Rescue experiments were conducted by co-modulating RNF6 and NME4 expression. In vivo tumorigenesis was assessed using a nude mouse xenograft model.RNF6 was markedly overexpressed in OC and associated with poor prognosis. Silencing RNF6 suppressed cell growth, invasive behavior, and EMT, while enhancing NME4 expression. Mechanistic analyses demonstrated that RNF6 directly binds to NME4 and facilitates its K48-linked polyubiquitination, leading to proteasomal degradation. Knockdown of NME4 reversed the tumor-suppressive effects of RNF6 depletion and reinstated JNK/c-JUN pathway activation. In vivo, RNF6 silencing significantly reduced tumor burden and impaired downstream signaling events.RNF6 contributed to OC malignancy by destabilizing NME4 and activating the JNK cascade. This newly identified RNF6/NME4/JNK axis provides potential targets for therapeutic intervention in OC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a heterogeneous reproductive endocrine condition in women, with implications in fertility and long-term metabolic health. PCOS with hyperandrogen (HA-PCOS; hyperandrogenic PCOS) has been recently identified as one of the four subtypes of PCOS. Dyslipidemia is known to be associated with clinical hyperandrogenism in PCOS. Indeed, patients with HA-PCOS were found to have the highest incidence of dyslipidemia among patients with the other three subtypes of PCOS. In the present study, we identified genes involved in lipid-associated processes (namely, lipid biosynthetic process, lipid catabolic process, hyperlipidemia, hypolipidemia and lipid homeostasis) whose expression are changed in granulosa cells from HA-PCOS patients compared to those from non-PCOS women, in order to identify molecular factors contributing to the highest risk of dyslipidemia incidence observed in patients with hyperandrogenic PCOS. We found 27 lipid biology-associated genes (ACSM1, ACSM3, AGPAT4, AJUBA, ALDH1A2, CCDC3, LPL, P2RX1, PITPNM1, PRLR, PTGIS, SLC44A5, SPTSSB, ST8SIA5, IDH1, ITPKA, PPM1L, SPTLC2, ADRA2A, ASPG, IRS1, PLB1, IDH1, LCT, NUDT8, SMPDL3A and SYNE2) whose transcript levels are significantly downregulated or upregulated in granulosa cells of women with HA-PCOS compared to those in control women. The majority of these genes have not been previously studied in the context of PCOS, and are possible candidates for further research to better understand the contribution of high androgen levels to dyslipidemia in PCOS. Targeting of high androgen-induced dyslipidemia might be of high clinical importance in the treatment of women with HA-PCOS.© 2026 AOCS.
Chronic fatty acid (FA) elevation drives metabolic dysfunction-associated liver disease (MASLD). Hepatocytes buffer transient lipid overload via coordinated adaptive mechanisms, but the temporal limits of this capacity remain undefined.We characterized early, intermediate, and prolonged hepatocellular responses to sustained lipid excess.HuH7 hepatocytes were exposed to an equimolar palmitic/oleic acid (PA/OA) mixture for 1, 14, or 28 days. Viability, lipid accumulation, stress-response pathways, insulin signaling, metabolic regulators, mitochondrial markers, [14C]-PA uptake, and exo-metabolomic profiles were assessed (n≥3/group). Data (mean ± SEM) were analyzed by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni post hoc testing; cumulative cell death by linear regression. P<0.05 was significant.FA treatment increased lipid droplet accumulation 1.4- to 1.7-fold vs. time-matched BSA controls at all time points (p<0.001) and increased the rate of cumulative cell death ∼4.3-fold (1.556±0.083 vs. 0.365±0.054%/day, p<0.001). Exo-metabolomic PCA explained 88.5% of variance (Q2=0.758), with peak lactate release at Day 14 and progressively rising acetate through Day 28. [14C]-PA accumulation at Day 28 was ∼30% lower than Day 1 (∼800 vs. ∼500 cpm/mg protein), with a declining rather than plateauing profile between 20-60 s. By Day 28, FA-treated cells showed lower FASN (p<0.001), CD36 (p<0.05), FABP1 (p<0.001), SIRT1 (p<0.005), and CLOCK (p<0.01) protein levels, and higher CPT1A (p<0.001), pAMPK/AMPK (p<0.01), p53 (p<0.001), Bax/Bcl2 (p<0.005), and respiratory complex I-V abundance (p<0.05-p<0.001) vs. controls.Sustained PA/OA exposure induces a staged hepatocellular response, early lipid-buffering adaptation, intermediate metabolic compensation, and late decompensation, indicating that chronic lipotoxicity reflects progressive loss of regulatory coordination despite persistent metabolic adaptation.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
25-Hydroxycholesterol (25-HC) and 25R,26-hydroxycholesterol (25R,26-HC) are two endogenous oxysterols endowed with broad-spectrum antiviral activity. They hamper viral replication by targeting oxysterol-binding protein (OSBP), a host lipid transporter which plays a critical role in the replicative cycle of several viruses. Recently, we have reported the remarkable antiviral activity against herpes simplex virus 2 (HSV-2) of N,N-dimethyl-3β-hydroxychol-5-en-24-amide (PFM067, 3), identified by the screening of our synthetic oxysterol library. Further development of antiviral cholenamide-based fluorescent probes allowed us to support the hypothesis that OSBP was involved in the antiviral mechanism of action of the parent PFM067. Herein, we report the first study aimed at the definition of structure-antiviral activity relationships for PFM067 (3); successfully, we identified 24-(morpholin-4-yl)-3β-hydroxychol-5-en-24-one (8d), as highly potent, nanomolar inhibitor of HSV-2 replication, endowed with promising selectivity index. Moreover, we demonstrated that OSBP was the molecular target underlying the anti-HSV-2 activity of PFM067 (3) and its analogues by the development of a microscale thermophoresis binding assay. In-depth experiments performed using an OSBP-silenced cell line allowed us to disclose the role played by OSBP in the replicative cycle of HSV-2. Finally, molecular modelling studies evidenced a peculiar orientation of the active compound 8d within the binding site of OSBP respect to that stroked by either the endogenous ligand or an inactive compound.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is a heterogeneous condition where overlapping cardiometabolic risk factors challenge accurate prognostic prediction.We aimed to define the molecular heterogeneity underlying MASLD clinical presentation, resolving disease patterns and identifying sub-phenotypes that account for prognostic differences in the general population.We applied latent class analysis (LCA) to 48 806 UK Biobank participants with MRI-based proton density fat fraction (MRI-PDFF) data to define phenotypic subtypes over a >15-year follow-up. Large-scale proteomic profiling characterised the molecular basis of the identified prognostic patterns. This led to the derivation of a four-protein score (PS4), which was robustly validated for all-cause mortality prediction in an expanded cohort with/ without MRI-PDFF data (n=115 971). We used mediation analysis to assess the potential contribution of PS4 proteins to the observed class-outcome associations.The LCA identified clinically distinct MASLD subtypes, revealing pronounced sexual dimorphism in disease severity and identifying high-risk prognostic subgroups. The derived PS4 score significantly outperformed established non-invasive scores in predicting all-cause mortality across the expanded cohort. The PS4 components, linked to hepatic lipid/one-carbon metabolism (FABP1, FTCD) and immune/vascular integrity (ADGRG1, GAST) pathways, were found to account for a significant fraction (10-20%) of the estimated effect of the patient's phenotypic class on mortality outcome.MASLD-driven proteomic shifts reflect biological pathways that connect hepatic metabolic dysfunction with long-term survival. By resolving the MASLD cardiometabolic spectrum, we identified high-risk endotypes that are not captured by traditional liver-centric scores. The PS4 represents a biologically grounded framework for deciphering the systemic consequences of MASLD.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) depends on host lipid metabolism and lipid droplets (LDs) for genome replication, assembly, and particle production, yet how LD structure and lipid utilization change over the course of infection remains incompletely understood. Here, we investigated the temporal remodeling of LD-associated metabolic pathways during HCV JFH-1 infection of human hepatoma Huh7 cells. HCV infection transiently increased LD fluorescence intensity at 24 hours post-infection (hpi), followed by normalization or relative loss of LD signal at later time points. Concomitantly, LDs became progressively clustered and enlargement during late infection, despite reduced protein levels of the canonical LD fusion proteins CIDEA, CIDEB, and CIDEC, suggesting that HCV-induced LD enlargement occurs through CIDE-independent mechanisms. Transcriptomic, RT-qPCR, and immunoblot analyses revealed time-dependent regulation of genes and proteins involved in LD structure, triglyceride synthesis, lipolysis, lipid uptake, and mitochondrial fatty acid utilization. Subcellular fractionation demonstrated preferential accumulation of fatty acids in mitochondrial fractions at 24-72 hpi. This redistribution was accompanied by increased oxygen consumption rate, elevated extracellular acidification, and progressive reactive oxygen species accumulation, indicating infection-associated metabolic activation and oxidative stress. Pharmacological inhibition of DGAT1-dependent LD biogenesis, LIPA-dependent lysosomal lipid hydrolysis, LIPE/HSL-dependent lipolysis, or CPT1-dependent mitochondrial fatty acid transport markedly reduced mitochondrial fatty acid accumulation and suppressed HCV-induced respiratory activity. Inhibition of LIPA or LIPE/HSL reduced both HCV RNA and core protein levels, whereas inhibition of CPT1 or DGAT1 had more pronounced effects on core protein than on viral RNA. Together, these findings support a model in which HCV dynamically remodels LDs, mobilizes LD-associated fatty acids, and redirects them toward mitochondria to support infection-associated metabolism and downstream stages of the viral life cycle. Lipid hydrolysis and mitochondrial fatty acid trafficking therefore represent potential host-directed targets for limiting HCV infection.Hepatitis C virus depends on host lipid metabolism for replication, assembly, and production of infectious particles, but how it uses lipid droplets over time remains incompletely understood. This study shows that hepatitis C virus dynamically remodels lipid droplets, causing an early increase in lipid storage followed by droplet enlargement and mobilization of fatty acids during later infection. The released fatty acids preferentially accumulate in mitochondria, where they are associated with increased cellular respiration and oxidative stress. Blocking lipid droplet formation, lipid breakdown, or fatty acid transport to mitochondria reduced this metabolic response and decreased viral RNA or core protein accumulation. Inhibition of lysosomal acid lipase and hormone-sensitive lipase suppressed both viral RNA and protein levels. These findings identify lipid droplet breakdown and mitochondrial fatty acid trafficking as important host processes used by hepatitis C virus and as potential targets for host-directed antiviral intervention.
Fat deposition determines beef marbling grade and meat quality, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the role of bovine PPARD in lipid deposition, especially its effect on the expression of fatty acid transport genes (CD36, FATP1, and FABP1) and the lipid droplet-associated gene (PLIN2) in liver tissues from cattle with different marbling grades. The mRNA abundance and protein levels in liver tissues from thirty-one Wagyu × Angus crossbred beef cattle (25-26 months old) with different marbling grades (according to GB/T 29392-2022, based on the marbling richness of the longissimus dorsi muscle at the 12th-13th rib interface) were analyzed by RT-qPCR and Western blot, respectively. Additionally, PPARD was knocked down and overexpressed in bovine mammary epithelial cells to validate its effects on lipid-metabolism-related genes. The results showed that the mRNA levels of CD36, FATP1, PPARD, RXRA, RXRB, and PLIN2 were significantly higher (p < 0.01) in livers tissues from the A3 and A4 groups (high marbling) than in those from the A1 and A2 groups (low to moderate marbling). Western blot analysis revealed significantly higher PPARD protein expression in the A3 and A4 groups (high marbling) than that in the A1 and A2 groups (low to moderate marbling) (p < 0.05). It should be noted that the sample size of Group A4 is only 2, and the results of this group should be considered as a preliminary trend that needs to be validated with larger sample sizes. Cellular experiments confirmed that PPARD knockdown significantly decreased mRNA expressions of FABP1, CD36, and PLIN2 (p < 0.01), while PPARD overexpression significantly increased their mRNA levels (p < 0.05). These results indicate a positive correlation between PPARD expression and the transcriptional levels of genes involved in fatty acid transport and lipid droplet storage, suggesting that PPARD may be associated with hepatic lipid metabolism and potentially contribute to marbling development. These findings suggest that the PPARD signaling pathway contributes to hepatic lipid deposition and may play a role in marbling formation in beef cattle.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42448685
Cholesterol homeostasis in the central nervous system is essential for neuronal health and cognitive function. Among the oxysterol-binding protein (OSBP)-related proteins (ORPs), a conserved family of lipid transfer proteins, ORP6 has emerged as a brain-enriched isoform with potential roles in metabolic regulation and neuroprotection.Here, we generated a brain-specific Osbpl6 conditional knockout (Osbpl6Δbrain) to investigate its contribution to lipid metabolism and brain function. Loss of ORP6 in the brain lead to increased body weight and higher total cholesterol, driven primarily by increased low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol.Within the brain, Osbpl6Δbrain mice displayed elevated levels of amyloid beta oligomers (AβO) and impaired hippocampal-dependent learning and memory, as assessed by the Morris water maze and contextual fear conditioning. Together, these results identify brain ORP6 as a key regulator of lipid homeostasis, underscoring its essential role in maintaining cholesterol balance and protecting cognitive function.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Okra (Abelmoschus esculentus) is rich in phenolic compounds and shows various bioactivities. Free phenolic compounds in okra were identified, while the knowledge about its bound phenolics remains unclear. Consequently, this study aimed to optimize the alkaline extraction for okra pulp bound phenolics (OPBP) and okra seed bound phenolics (OSBP). The maximum total phenolic content (TPC) of OPBP was 7.77 mg GAE/g DW under the optimal conditions of liquid-solid ratio 60:1, 60 min, and 60°C. The maximum TPC of OSBP was 83.03 mg GAE/g DW under the optimal conditions of liquid-solid ratio 80:1, 40 min, and 70°C. Then 14 phenolic compounds in OPBP and 12 phenolic compounds in OSBP were identified by using HPLC-ESI-QTOF-MS/MS, among which nine other compounds including formononetin were reported in okra for the first time. Furthermore, the ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) values were 4.30 and 5.18 mmol Fe2+/g for OPBP and OSBP, respectively. The IC50 values of diammonium 2,2'-azino-bis (3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonate) (ABTS) radical scavenging activity were 3.34 for OPBP and 3.69 μg/mL for OSBP. Interestingly, OPBP exhibited stronger antibacterial activity against Escherichia coli and Vibrio parahaemolyticus, while OSBP was more effective in inhibiting the growth of Staphylococcus aureus and Listeria monocytogenes. These results provide valuable insights for assessing the nutritional and health benefits of okra.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The liver is the central organ for metabolism and detoxification, and its function gradually declines with age, often accompanied by pathological changes such as lipid metabolism disorders, inflammatory responses, and fibrosis, significantly increasing the risk of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) and metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH). Ginsenoside Rb1 (Rb1) is a major active constituent of ginseng. However, its regulatory mechanism on hepatic lipid metabolism and MASLD/MASH-related phenotypes during natural aging remains unclear.To explore the effects of Rb1 on liver aging phenotypes, lipid deposition, inflammation, fibrosis, and related metabolic pathways in naturally aged mice, and to further elucidate the underlying regulatory mechanisms.Naturally aged male C57BL/6J mice (72-week-old) were used and divided into the Old group and the Rb1 treatment group (Old + Rb1). Young mice (6-week-old) served as controls. Therapeutic effects were evaluated through histopathology (H&E, Masson trichrome, Oil Red O staining), immunofluorescence (p21, FASN, FABP1, PPARα), immunohistochemistry (PCNA, F4/80), RT-qPCR analysis of lipid metabolism-related genes. Additionally, untargeted metabolomics analyses of both serum and liver tissues, as well as liver transcriptome sequencing, were performed to investigate the underlying mechanisms.Rb1 alleviated hepatocellular senescence, as evidenced by reduced p21 expression and increased PCNA-positive cells. It ameliorated age-related hepatic pathological damage, as evidenced by reduced inflammatory infiltration (F4/80) and collagen deposition (Masson staining), along with improved hepatocellular vacuolation and lipid accumulation (Oil Red O staining). Rb1 regulated hepatic lipid metabolism through three mechanisms: inhibiting lipid synthesis (Fasn, Acaca, Srebf1), modulating lipid transport (Fabp1, Slc27a2), and promoting lipid oxidation (Pparα, Fgf21). Serum and hepatic metabolomics consistently revealed that Rb1 activated the lysine degradation pathway, accompanied by an increase in the key intermediate metabolite trimethyllysine (TML). Liver transcriptome sequencing further indicated an increasing trend in the numbers of genes associated with the biological process of metabolic process and the molecular functions of transporter activity and transcription regulator activity. Additionally, enrichment of the biological process of lipid export from the cell was observed in the comparison between the Old and Old+Rb1 groups.Rb1 ameliorates age-related hepatic lipid accumulation and pathological damage in naturally aged mice by promoting the lysine degradation pathway and comprehensively remodeling lipid metabolic homeostasis. These findings provide a potential target and theoretical basis for intervention in aging-related MASLD/MASH.© 2026 The Korean Society of Ginseng. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V.
Perturbations in lysosome integrity are tightly linked to neurological disorders and ageing, but the underlying pathogenic mechanisms are incompletely understood. Using an unbiased proteomic approach, we here identified the bridge-like lipid transport protein VPS13C/PARK23 as a key component of a global early response pathway to lysosome damage. VPS13C readily binds lysosomes under mechanical or osmotic tension in anticipation of membrane lesions. The latter trigger a conformational change in the protein's C-terminus, involving its ATG2C domain acting as sensor of damage-induced lipid packing defects. We show that ER-lysosome contacts formed by VPS13C provide critical binding platforms for OSBP/ORPs to enable efficient ER wrapping of damaged lysosomes. A chemical approach to assess directional ER-to-lysosome lipid transport revealed that VPS13C is essential for large-scale lipid delivery to acutely damaged lysosomes to facilitate their repair. Our findings offer new mechanistic insights into how loss-of-function mutations in VPS13C may enhance the risk of Parkinson's disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder in which ferroptosis and immune dysregulation have been implicated. However, the crosstalk between ferroptosis-related transcriptional signatures and peripheral immune alterations in PD remain unclear. Herein, we integrated bulk transcriptomic datasets and a peripheral blood single-cell dataset to identify ferroptosis-related genes associated with PD and to evaluate their diagnostic potential. Initially, we identified 16 abnormally expressed ferroptosis-related genes (AEFRGs) associated with peripheral immune cell infiltration in PD. Then a LASSO-derived 15-gene signature was established, which showed high discriminatory performance in the discovery dataset and in two validation datasets, including an independent blood dataset and a substantia nigra dataset. Consensus clustering of PD samples based on 276 ferroptosis-related genes (FRGs) stratified PD patients into three molecular subtypes with different diagnostic scores, immune scores, immune-related factors, and cell-death/oxidative-stress pathway enrichment. The imumue cell infiltration analysis indicated low level of macrophage and high level of B cell in PD patients' perioheral blood. Peripheral blood single-cell analysis localized ferroptosis-related transcriptional features mainly related to NK cells, CD4+ T cells and CD8+ T cells in PD patients with significant difference of RPL8 and ATM, and identified 9 key characteristic ferroptosis genes (CFGs). In rotenone-treated human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells, the CFGs inculding XBP1, SCP2, GABARAPL1, DUSP1, HSPA5 and HERPUD1 were increased, whereas UBC, RPL8 and ATM were not significantly changed. Collectively, these findings suggest that ferroptosis-related transcriptional signatures may reflect peripheral immune dysregulation and provide candidate diagnostic markers for PD.© 2026 The Author(s). The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
The Boer goat, a key global meat breed originating from South Africa, has been exported for breeding in over 70 countries, leading to diverse selection pressures and environmental adaptations. In this context, the main objectives of this study were to quantify genome-wide diversity, breed structure, and selection signatures in Boer goats from nine countries to identify shared and population-specific adaptation and production-related signals. Genomic information of 321 Boer goats from nine populations worldwide was analysed: Australia (AUS), Canada (CAN), New Zealand (NZL), South Africa (ZAF), Switzerland (CHE), Tanzania (TZA), Uganda (UGA), United States (USA), and Zimbabwe (ZWE). Genetic diversity varied markedly among populations. The ZAF population exhibited the lowest observed heterozygosity (0.360) and the highest fraction of the genome in runs of homozygosity, suggesting recent inbreeding or strong selection. Population structure analyses, including principal component analysis and ADMIXTURE (optimal K = 8), revealed clear genetic differentiation. AUS Boer goats were the most divergent, while others formed clusters indicating shared ancestry. Four complementary selection signature methods, Fixation index, Divergence index, integrated haplotype score, and cross-population extended haplotype homozygosity, identified 4 706 unique genes under putative selection. No identified genes were common to all populations, indicating strong local adaptation, but 35 candidate genes were identified across five to six populations, highlighting shared selection for core production traits like growth, metabolism, and reproduction. Key shared genes regulating metabolism, including PPP2R2B, SCP2, and PRELID2, were detected in six populations. Regulatory hub genes such as MAPK3, HIF1A, PRKACA, and CREB1 were also detected, playing crucial roles in coordinating important biological processes. Population-specific adaptations included heat tolerance genes in AUS, cold adaptation and reproductive performance genes in CAN, and disease resistance genes in ZAF. These results underscore the need to monitor local genetic diversity while improving production traits in Boer goat breeding worldwide.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Background: MASLD is a disorder linked to lipid metabolism and obesity, increasingly prevalent among sedentary people and leading to hepatic fibrosis. Cyclodipeptides (CDPs) have promising anti-obesogenic and liver-protective potential. Methods: CDP treatment was evaluated in a chronic MASLD model using female Wistar rats fed an obesogenic diet, with assessments of insulin resistance, glucose tolerance, liver damage, oxidative stress, and the expression of genes related to metabolic function. Results: MASLD CDP-treated rats showed low visceral adipose tissue (VAT) content, improved insulin responsiveness and glucose tolerance, reduced steatosis, and reversed oxidant stress and the NRF2, GPX1, and GCLC expression. Furthermore, MASLD-related dysregulation of genes involved in lipid metabolism was restored, including vLDL transport (MTTP, APOB, and RASAL2), β-oxidation (PPAR-α, ACOX1, and FOXO1), lipogenesis (ACC1 and SREBP 1C), and fatty acid transport (PSD3 and CD36). In accordance, genes of key signaling pathways were also restored, including mTOR, TSC1, and TSC2, along with fibrosis and inflammation TGF-β, Fas, NF-κB, and IL-6. In VAT of MASLD animals, crown-like structures and adiposity density were diminished by CDP treatment, with increased expression of genes associated with beige-like adipose tissue remodeling, including PGC-1α, UCP1, NRF1, ATP6v1, CEBP-α, COX4i1, PPARγ, and CS. Consistently, the UCP1 and PGC-1α protein expression was increased in the VAT of MASLD animals treated with CDPs. Conclusions: The anti-MASLD effects of CDPs were associated with reversal of key pathogenic markers in the liver and VAT, suggesting remodeling of white adipose tissue (WAT) toward a beige-like adipose tissue phenotype. The findings suggest that CDPs may modulate adipose tissue structure and adipogenesis, underscoring their therapeutic relevance for MASLD.
Fructus Ligustri Lucidi (FLL) is a traditional tonic Chinese medicine with a long history of application due to its various pharmacological effects, but there are fewer studies on the use of FLL to alleviate fatty liver in animals. The objective of the current study was to assess the influence of FLL fermentation products on fatty liver hemorrhagic syndrome in hens during the late stages of egg production. The study involved 288 Hy-Line Brown laying hens, aged 500 days, which were randomly allocated into 4 groups, with each group having 6 replicates of 12 chickens. Hens were fed a basal diet (control group, group Ι), a high-energy diet (model group, group II) and a high-energy diet supplemented with 0.05% and 0.1% FLL fermentation product (groups III and IV). The duration of the pre-experiment was 1 week, and the trial period was 12 weeks. The results showed that the addition of FLL fermentation product to high-energy diets significantly increased egg weight and reduced eggshell breakage rate. High-energy diet supplementation with FLL fermentation product increased serum T-AOC and T-SOD activity (p < 0.05), and reduced serum MDA content (p < 0.05). As more FLL fermentation product was added, there was a notable reduction in lipid droplets in liver tissues, alleviation of symptoms of steatosis, and suppression of mRNA expression levels of lipid synthesis genes ACC, FAS, and SCD in the liver (p < 0.001). Transcription factors such as NR1H3 (p < 0.01), LPK (p < 0.001), and SREBF1 (p < 0.05) were differentially down-regulated, significantly reducing MTTP gene expression (p < 0.001). It can be concluded that the addition of 0.1% FLL fermentation product can enhance the productivity of laying hens during their late laying phase, increase the antioxidant capacity, inhibit the mRNA expression level of genes related to fat synthesis in the liver, reduce the accumulation of fat, and alleviate the fatty liver of laying hens caused by the high-energy diet.
This study investigated the potential effects of Bellamya purificata polysaccharide (BPP) supplementation in feed on Cherax quadricarinatus, aiming to elucidate its impact on immune function and the underlying regulatory mechanisms. A 60-day feeding trial was conducted to evaluate the effects of varying dietary BPP concentrations (0‱, 2‱, 4‱, 6‱, and 8‱) on growth performance, histopathology, immune function, and transcriptomic profiles of C. quadricarinatus. Dietary BPP significantly increased the final body length and body weight of C. quadricarinatus. Furthermore, BPP inclusion improved the histological damage of hepatopancreatic tissues, alleviated physiological stress, and enhanced antioxidant capacity, antibacterial activity, and anti-inflammatory function, as evidenced by alterations in relevant enzyme activities and gene expression levels. Transcriptomic analysis revealed 957 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), which were predominantly enriched in GO terms and KEGG pathways associated with BPP-mediated immune regulation, such as the PPAR signaling pathway, peroxisome, steroid hormone biosynthesis, and lysosome. In addition, 14 candidate genes were identified, including Acox3, ACOX1, SCP2, and PPT1. Integrated analysis of GO, KEGG, and Short Time-Series Expression Miner (STEM) data supported the development of a mechanistic model illustrating how C. quadricarinatus modulates immune function in response to BPP supplementation. RT-qPCR validation confirmed the accuracy and reliability of the high-throughput sequencing results. Collectively, these findings highlight the potential of BPP as a functional feed additive in aquaculture and provide novel insights into disease prevention strategies for the C. quadricarinatus farming industry.
Immunotherapy has shown to be efficacious in patients with deficient mismatch repair (dMMR)/microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) colorectal cancer (CRC). Unfortunately, there is still a population of patients who either do not respond or progress after prior response. Understanding the progression dynamics and outcomes based on the nature of disease progression (PD) is critical in this patient population.We performed a retrospective analysis of 166 patients with advanced dMMR/MSI-H CRC who received immunotherapy. PD patterns were classified as intrinsic (progression at first restaging scan) or adaptive (progression after initial stable/responding disease) and as single organ or systemic.Progression was seen in 64 patients (38.6%) with single organ progression in 31 (48.4%) and systemic progression in 33 (51.5%). Intrinsic progression was seen in 32 patients (50%) and adaptive progression in 32 (50%). Patients with single organ progression had a longer median TTP (mTTP) and median OS (mOS) compared to patients with systemic progression (mTTP: 8.8 vs 4.0 months, P = .005; mOS: 65.9 vs 18.7 months, P = .023). Patients with adaptive PD had a longer mTTP and mOS compared to patients with intrinsic PD (mTTP: 11.6 vs 1.9 months, P = <.01; mOS: 65.9 months vs 17.0 months, P = .001).This analysis identifies significant differences in outcomes of patients with dMMR/MSI-H CRC based on the pattern and extent of progression, underscoring the need for tailored therapeutic strategies depending on the nature of PD-1-based progression.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
[This retracts the article DOI: 10.1016/j.isci.2024.109502.].© 2026 The Author(s).
Aim: This study investigates the potential of Curcuma wenyujin-derived nanovesicles (CW-DNVs) to ameliorate metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) and explores their underlying mechanism, focusing on hepatic macrophage accumulation and the regulation of lipid metabolism. Methods: CW-DNVs were isolated via ultracentrifugation and sucrose gradient purification, and their physicochemical properties, cellular uptake, and in vivo biodistribution were characterized. Anti-inflammatory and lipid-lowering effects were evaluated in liver macrophages, hepatocytes, and a high-fat diet (HFD)-induced MASH mouse model. Lipidomic, small-molecule, and small RNA (sRNA) cargoes were analyzed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and RNA sequencing. Results: CW-DNVs were spherical (~211 nm diameter), had a zeta potential of -27.4 mV, and were enriched in lipids, proteins, sRNAs, and terpenoids like well-known bioactive curcumenol and germacrone. Following intraperitoneal injection, they preferentially accumulated in Kupffer cells and were cleared within 7 days. In HFD-fed mice, CW-DNVs reduced body weight gain, hepatic steatosis, serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), triglycerides (TG), total cholesterol (TC), and hepatic interleukin (IL)-6 levels. Mechanistically, they upregulated peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alpha (PGC-1α) and microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTTP), and downregulated fatty acid synthase (FASN), promoting lipid oxidation and export. In vitro, CW-DNVs suppressed lipopolysaccharide-activated IL-6, IL-1β, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) in macrophages and reduced oleic acid-induced lipid accumulation in hepatocytes. sRNA sequencing identified predominantly rRNA-derived fragments (not canonical miRNAs); however, anti-inflammatory activity was primarily attributed to terpenoid components. Conclusion: CW-DNVs exert dual functionality in modulating macrophage inflammation and lipid metabolism. Loaded with bioactive terpenoids, they represent an effective natural nanoplatform for MASH therapy.© The Author(s) 2026.
To investigate the contribution of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress to the progression of thyroid cancer (TC) and to construct a prognostic gene signature.Differential expression analysis was performed on 572 samples from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). ER stress-related genes (ERSGs) were obtained from the GeneCards database. Overlap analysis revealed 178 differentially expressed ERSGs. Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression and multivariate Cox regression were used to construct a prognostic risk model. The model was validated in a test set (n = 172) and an independent clinical cohort (n = 90) by RT-qPCR. Immune infiltration, immune checkpoint expression, and drug sensitivity were compared between the high- and low-risk groups using the CIBERSORT algorithm and the Genomics of Drug Sensitivity in Cancer (GDSC) database.A total of 5,253 differentially expressed genes and 518 ERSGs were identified, yielding 178 overlapping genes. An 11-gene prognostic model (CDKN1A, HTR2A, ATF3, MTTP, BRSK2, EGF, CASP12, HSPA5, IL1A, FOXRED2, CASQ2) was constructed. Patients in the high-risk group had significantly worse overall survival than those in the low-risk group did (log-rank P < 0.001; hazard ratio [HR] = 2.34; 95% CI: 1.58-3.47). The model showed good predictive performance, with AUC values of 0.74, 0.72, and 0.71 for 1-, 3-, and 5-year overall survival, respectively. Significant differences in tumor immune cell infiltration (e.g., Tregs, P < 0.01; M2 macrophages, P < 0.05) and drug sensitivity (e.g., gefitinib, P < 0.05) were detected between the two groups. In 90 clinical samples, the expression patterns of the 11 genes were validated by RT-qPCR (all P < 0.05), which was consistent with the bioinformatics findings.The 11-gene ER stress-related signature independently predicted prognosis in patients with TC across both the TCGA cohort and an independent cohort. This study provides new insight into the role of ER stress in TC and may facilitate the identification of prognostic biomarkers and support clinical decision-making.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to the Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
Eggshell quality is a critical trait in poultry production, as it directly influences economic outcomes. The genetic architecture underlying this trait remains poorly characterized. In this study, we conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) on Chinese Wenshang Barred chickens at 43 weeks of age to identify genomic loci and candidate genes associated with eggshell quality. This analysis revealed 87 significant SNPs and 14 candidate genes. Genes including MC2R, CDC73, LYSMD2, TNFAIP8L3, and CYP19A1 were associated with eggshell weight; PHEX, ATM, STXBP6, SLIT3, and RALY with eggshell thickness; and SOCS5 and ATG4C with eggshell strength. Notably, three SNPs emerged as the most promising markers for eggshell quality, though their functional roles in laying hens require further investigation. This study advances our understanding of the genetic basis of eggshell quality and holds significant practical implications for improving this trait through targeted breeding strategies.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) remains difficult to treat in a substantial minority of patients, despite the established first-line use of exposure and response prevention, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, and pharmacological augmentation. This treatment gap has encouraged renewed interest in biological axes that sit outside a narrow monoamine-centered model. In this study, we asked whether transcriptional genetic signals for OCD show enrichment in cellular maintenance pathways motivated by nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN)-associated aging biology and whether any such pathways outperform a curated antidepressant-related gene comparator. Using OCD transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS)-derived gene-level Z statistics and an absolute Z-score ranking framework, ten NMN-motivated Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway expansions were compared against AntiDep_Genes. The strongest and most defensible finding in the OCD analysis was selective enrichment of KEGG_AUTOPHAGY_ANIMAL. Autophagy nominally outperformed the antidepressant comparator in the primary head-to-head test, with normalized enrichment score (NES) = 1.166, p = 0.041979, and difference in normalized enrichment score (dNES) = +0.2097. The signal persisted after removal of overlapping antidepressant-related genes, with cleaned NES = 1.1784 and p = 0.042479, and the autophagy set also showed a higher absolute Z-score distribution than AntiDep_Genes by Mann-Whitney U testing, p = 0.04717. Leading-edge overlap with the antidepressant comparator was minimal, limited to mechanistic target of rapamycin (MTOR). The OCD autophagy signal was driven by a mixture of core autophagy machinery and upstream signaling genes, including MAPK3, MAP1LC3A, PPP2CB, MAP2K1, GORASP2, BAD, ATG2A, ATG10, MAPK8, and CALCOCO2. This pattern suggests a signaling-execution module rather than a simple enrichment of canonical ATG genes alone. The result is biologically consistent with recent OCD genetic findings implicating cortical and hippocampal excitatory neurons and D1/D2 striatal medium spiny neurons, which are cell types with high synaptic and metabolic demands. These findings are best viewed as hypothesis-generating. They do not support NMN, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) precursors, or autophagy modulators as OCD treatments, but they do identify autophagy and mitochondrial quality-control biology as plausible targets for future functional and stratification studies. The autophagy enrichment was nominally significant in the primary analysis but did not survive Benjamini-Hochberg false-discovery rate correction across the ten tested pathways (false discovery rate (FDR)-adjusted p = 0.41979); the findings should therefore be considered hypothesis-generating.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Fatty acids (FAs) are transported from lipid droplets (LDs) to mitochondria for β-oxidation during cell starvation. Starvation also triggers engulfment of LDs by autophagosomes and their subsequent degradation by lysosomes (lipophagy). The mechanisms coordinating these pathways remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that PISD-LD, an LD-localized isoform of phosphatidylserine decarboxylase, facilitates FA transfer while inhibiting lipophagy. PISD-LD mediates LD-mitochondrion (LD-mito) contacts via interaction with mitochondrial PISD. In PISD-LD KD cells, LDs are larger, and FA trafficking and mitochondrial FA β-oxidation are suppressed. The lipid transfer proteins ATG2A/B are recruited by PISDs to mediate FA transfer from LDs to mitochondria. Disruption of PISD-LD-mediated LD-mito contacts activates lipophagy, aiding LD degradation. PISD-LD binds the lipophagy receptor Spartin and inhibits lipophagy by impeding Spartin-LC3 interaction. PISD-LD also regulates LD-mito contacts and lipid metabolism in mouse liver. Thus, PISD-LD serves as a switch between LD-to-mitochondrion FA transfer and lipophagy, ensuring efficient energy production.© 2026 Xue et al.
Alkuraya-Kučinskas syndrome (AKS) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by severe brain malformations, arthrogryposis, and multiple system abnormalities. We present a case of recurrent AKS in a 24-year-old woman with consanguineous marriage history who previously had one pregnancy terminated due to AKS. First-trimester ultrasound revealed cystic hygroma and limb contractures. Chorionic villus sampling (CVS) confirmed homozygosity for the BLTP1 gene variant c.13042C>T p.(Arg4348Ter), consistent with AKS. After genetic counseling, the pregnancy was terminated; postmortem examination and genetic analysis of fetal tissue reconfirmed the diagnosis. This case highlights the importance of early prenatal diagnosis in recurrent genetic disorders, demonstrates the ultrasonographic features enabling first-trimester detection, and underscores the value of comprehensive preconception genetic counseling in consanguineous families with a history of genetic disorders.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Osteoporosis, a prevalent metabolic bone disease, often leads to pathological fractures. Identifying causative relationships between proteins, genetic loci, and osteoporosis can highlight potential therapeutic targets.This study employed Mendelian randomization (MR) and summary-data-based MR (SMR) to investigate the causal relationships between protein quantitative trait loci (pQTLs), expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs), and various forms of osteoporosis, including drug-induced osteoporosis. Data from large-scale proteomic and genomic studies were used. Sensitivity analyses included Bayesian colocalization and HEIDI testing. Potential therapeutic targets were prioritized using phenome-wide association studies (pheWAS), druggable target tests, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) analyses.The MR and SMR analyses identified 17 targets potentially regulating osteoporosis and one specific to drug-induced osteoporosis. Bayesian colocalization confirmed these findings, supporting their validity as therapeutic targets.Our study found that SREBF1, TAS1R3, SPTBN1, and RSPO3 have potential for osteoporosis drug development. In addition, we found that GID4, CPTP, and UBE2Q2 have effects on regulating the genesis of osteoporosis. In our study, we also found that IFI16 has an effect on regulating drug-induced osteoporosis. We believe that basic research on osteoporosis drug development should focus on the above targets with sufficient evidence to further promote the progress and development of osteoporosis treatment.© 2026 Japan Geriatrics Society.
This work formulates semiclassical gravity within a causal-diamond framework where a finite-resolution boundary provides the edge structure for a local Wheeler-DeWitt description. Because the diffeomorphism-invariant Hilbert space does not factorize, each diamond is equipped with a boundary-completed algebra AO, ensuring the operational state ρO and the semiclassical reference family σO[Λ] share identical operator content. Dynamics are posed as local statistical inference: the relative-entropy functional Srel(ρO∥σO[Λ]) quantifies the mismatch between data and reference. This yields the minimal operational axioms defining subsystems, intrinsic clocks, and regulated observables in a finite-resolution, background-independent setting. The topology-locked boundary capacity budget fixes an effective channel multiplicity N≈1.23×1011. Calibrating its coherent fraction to Newton's constant determines a matching scale Ms≈3.02×1013GeV. In the modular/KMS regime, the relative-entropy Hessian (Kubo-Mori metric) block-diagonalizes into orthogonal tensor, vector, and scalar response sectors. A heat-kernel expansion on the fixed S3×S1 history manifold maps this near-equilibrium response to a matching-scale effective field theory, yielding the Einstein-Hilbert tensor structure, Yang-Mills susceptibilities, and leading mass deformations. Vector and scalar responses remain intensive, while the tensor response scales extensively with coherent channel multiplicity. The fixed modular protocol and quantized boundary currents imply α-1(Ms)=4πk at integer levels k, while the reduced R2 plateau sector yields linked cosmological targets: ns≃0.965, r≃0.0038, and As≃2.1×10-9. Translations between causal diamonds act as completely positive trace-preserving (CPTP) updates. The resulting open-modular Walsh filtration selects the three-dimensional degree-one sector as the algebraic basis for family structure. Treating continuum fields as the structured response of a finite boundary, the framework yields correlated, falsifiable relations for gravitational stiffness, gauge response, plateau cosmology, and threefold matter-sector organization from one minimal operational architecture.
In this study, the protective mechanisms of chlorogenic acid (CGA) supplementation against high-fat diet-induced hyperlipidaemia and glucose dysregulation were investigated using an integrated multi-omics approach in C57BL/6J mice, encompassing serum biochemistry, targeted hepatic gene expression, gut microbiome profiling, and untargeted metabolomics of gut and liver tissues, complemented by molecular docking analysis. CGA supplementation significantly reduced serum total cholesterol, triglycerides, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, attenuated hepatic lipid accumulation, and improved glucose handling through downregulation of lipid metabolism-related genes (LOX, CPTP, FABP4, and LPCAT3) and concurrent activation of IRS1 signaling and modulation of CD36-mediated lipid uptake. At the microbial level, CGA markedly reshaped gut microbial composition by enriching Lactobacillus, Ligilactobacillus, and Bacteroides, while restoring key gut metabolites involved in lipid and glucose regulation, including L-glutathione, chenodeoxycholic acid glycine conjugate, N-acetylaspartic acid, and N-acetylcysteine. Liver metabolomic profiling further revealed elevated levels of lithocholic acid, L-proline, and 4-methylcatechol, metabolites associated with enhanced energy metabolism and ferroptosis resistance. Integrative correlation analysis identified a coordinated Lactobacillus-4-methylcatechol-glycerophospholipid metabolism axis as a central mechanistic signature underlying CGA-mediated metabolic improvement. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that CGA exerts pronounced anti-hyperlipidaemic and glucose-regulatory effects by simultaneously restoring gut microbial balance, remodelling host metabolite networks, and activating IRS1/CD36 signalling pathways, supporting its potential as a promising dietary intervention for the prevention and management of metabolic disorders.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42299458 is a review article
DFT calculations were conducted to investigate the Au(I)-catalyzed one-pot reaction of propargylsilane (R1) and aldehyde (R2), which exclusively provides the trans-2-silyl-4,5-dihydrofuran (tP) without the formation of the corresponding cis-isomer (cP). Key findings reveal that the unconventional chemoselectivity─wherein the nucleophilic attack of R2 occurs at Si(-Me3) rather than the alkyne C atom─originates from the stronger electrostatic interaction between the carbonyl O atom of R2 and the Si(-Me3) cation. Subsequently, following re/si-face addition, an "O(TMS) nucleophilic cyclization-promoted" catalytic mechanism was established to account for the formation of cP/tP, characterized by two key features: (i) the O(TMS) nucleophilic cyclization weakens its σ-interaction with the Si(-Me3) atom, thereby facilitating subsequent Si(-Me3)-migration─distinct from the challenging cleavage of the inherently inert O-Si σ-bond; (ii) the resultant outer-sphere protodeauration ensures significant σ-type orbital overlap between the migrating H and Au-attached C atom, circumventing the energetically unfavorable orbital angular misalignment characteristic of the classical inner-sphere pathway. Furthermore, the in situ-generated cP coordinates with the active [Au]+ catalyst, forming an oxonium cation intermediate. This intermediate features the activation of the rigid (aryl)C-O σ-bond on the dihydrofuran ring, which contributes significantly to the cis-trans isomerization (cP → tP). Consequently, the exclusive diastereoselectivity is achieved. These insights are anticipated to facilitate the rational design and optimization of innovative synergistic catalytic systems.
Omnidirectional X-ray detection is important for applications such as high-energy astrophysics and environmental safety monitoring. However, conventional approaches to omnidirectional X-ray detection, based on solid-state flat-panel detectors or gas/liquid-state spherical detectors, are often hindered by fabrication complexity, insufficient omnidirectional response, or limited portability. Herein, we present a portable solid-state omnidirectional X-ray detector (ODXD) based on a spherical glass scintillator composed of (CPTP)2MnBr4 (CPTP = cyclopropyltriphenylphosphine). From a crystallographic perspective, the cyclopropyl group in triphenylphosphine cation plays a critical role in modulating the phase transition of (CPTP)2MnBr4. This molecular design not only lowers melting temperature (170°C), enabling device fabrication via a low-temperature melt-quenching process, but also provides a sufficiently high glass transition temperature (61°C) to ensure operational stability. From a device perspective, the ODXD based on spherical (CPTP)2MnBr4 glass offers excellent omnidirectionality and registers an X-ray response limit of 0.49 µGyair s-1, which is 11-fold lower than the regular medical diagnostic dose rate (5.5 µGyair s-1), demonstrating exceptional capabilities for monitoring omnidirectional X-ray sources with high sensitivity. Given the high processability of organic-inorganic glasses and the simplicity of their fabrication, our findings provide a viable solution for constructing portable omnidirectional optical detectors toward advanced sensing and photonic applications.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559078 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510799 is a review article
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder with diverse molecular signatures that extend beyond the central nervous system. Peripheral blood serves as a minimally invasive source of transcriptomic biomarkers reflecting systemic inflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction, lysosomal impairment, and disrupted RNA processing-key pathways involved in PD. Long-read RNA sequencing with Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT) offers unprecedented detail of full-length transcripts, alternative isoforms, and RNA modifications, enabling more accurate detection of disease-related transcriptional changes. We conducted high-throughput ONT long-read RNA sequencing on blood samples from 145 individuals, including PD patients and age-matched healthy controls. RNA libraries were prepared using a cDNA-based protocol optimised for high-accuracy PromethION sequencing. Transcriptomes were quantified with ONT-specific pipelines, and analyses of differential gene expression (DGE), differential transcript expression (DEX), differential transcript usage (DTU), and alternative splicing were performed using ONT-aware tools such as DRIMSeq, DEXSeq, and stageR. Pathway enrichment linked disease-related changes to mitochondrial, lysosomal, and vesicle-trafficking pathways. Our analysis identified highly significant PD-associated transcriptional signatures in peripheral blood (SNCA, VPS13C, LRRK2, GRN, STAU1, NPTN, PARK7). Long-read sequencing uncovered extensive isoform-level dysregulation, including novel transcript variants (e.g., BCL2L2-PABPN1, SQSTM1) in pathways relevant to PD, such as autophagy and endolysosomal trafficking. DTU analyses revealed shifts in isoforms of LRRK2 and GBA1, indicating widespread disturbances in RNA processing. Enrichment analysis showed activation of molecular pathways linked to neurodegeneration. This study provides the largest long-read blood transcriptomic dataset in PD to date, demonstrating that ONT sequencing can resolve isoform-level changes and reveal systemic molecular signatures of PD. Our findings support the development of blood-based RNA biomarkers and the establishment of long-read transcriptomics as a transformative approach for genomic pathology in PD.Copyright © 2026 Koks, Muldmaa, Price, Whiley, Jakobson, Singleton, Howting, Pfaff, Chopra, Watson, Sikk and Taba.
The genetic architecture of Parkinson's disease varies considerably across ancestries, yet most previous genetic studies have focused on individuals of European ancestry. We aimed to characterise the distribution of established Parkinson's disease causal variants, as well as risk-associated variants with clinical implications (ie, variants in genes involved in pathways targeted by ongoing clinical trials), across ancestrally diverse populations.We conducted a multi-ancestry, observational, cross-sectional genetic study using retrospective data from the Global Parkinson's Genetics Program (GP2) release 11 (released in December, 2025). The study investigated causal and risk variants, including copy number variants, in established Parkinson's disease and parkinsonism-associated genes, following the recommendations of the Movement Disorder Society (MDS) Task Force on the Nomenclature of Genetic Movement Disorders, including GBA1, LRRK2, SNCA, VPS35, RAB32, PINK1, PRKN, PARK7, ATP13A2, DCTN1, DNAJC6, FBXO7, JAM2, RAB39B, SLC20A2, SYNJ1, VPS13C, and WDR45. Individuals with Parkinson's disease were diagnosed based on established clinical criteria, including the Parkinson's UK Brain Bank or MDS diagnostic criteria (or both), and healthy control participants were defined as individuals without evidence of neurodegenerative disease and unrelated to participants with Parkinson's disease. We analysed genome and exome sequencing and array genotyping data of 99 783 individuals, including 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 41 224 controls, from 11 genetically inferred ancestries (African, African admixed, Ashkenazi Jewish, Latino and Indigenous people of the Americas, central Asian, complex admixture, east Asian, European, Finnish, Middle Eastern, and south Asian), defined using reference population-based ancestry inference methods. We calculated allele frequencies for all investigated variants in individuals with Parkinson's disease and controls, both overall and stratified by ancestry.Approximately 29% of individuals (29 001 of 99 783; 15 443 [26·4%] of 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 13 558 [32·9%] of 41 224 controls) were from under-represented populations (ie, non-European and non-Ashkenazi Jewish). Our findings indicated both shared genetic contributors across ancestries as well as ancestry-specific differences in variant frequencies and the spectrum of variants within Parkinson's disease-associated genes. Overall, 1217 (2·1%) of 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease carried a causal variant, with substantial variations across ancestries ranging from ten (0·4%) of 2844 African individuals to 251 (10·7%) of 2343 individuals of Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry. Risk variants in GBA1 and LRRK2 were identified in 6893 (11·8%) of 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 3578 (8·7%) of 41 224 controls. GBA1 risk variants were most frequent overall and identified across all ancestries, but variant frequency and spectra differed substantially between ancestries, from 195 (4·1%) of 4773 in the east Asian ancestry group to 1505 (52·9%) of 2844 in the African ancestry group. Similarly, LRRK2 causal and risk variants showed ancestry-specific enrichment, with the highest frequencies of causal variants in the Ashkenazi Jewish (250 [10·7%] of 2343) and Middle Eastern (59 [4·4%] of 1347) ancestry groups, whereas risk variants were predominantly identified in the east Asian ancestry group (601 [12·6%] of 4773). Carriers of biallelic causal variants in PRKN, commonly including deletions and duplications, were also identified across all ancestries except Ashkenazi Jewish; the highest frequency was in the Middle Eastern ancestry group (17 [1·3%] of 1347), and frequencies in all other ancestries were less than 1%.This large-scale, multi-ancestry genetic study offers crucial insights into the population-specific genetic architecture of Parkinson's disease. Whereas clinical trials targeting GBA1 and LRRK2 variant carriers are primarily performed in Europe and the USA, increased ancestral diversity in Parkinson's disease research will be crucial to improve diagnostic accuracy, enhance our understanding of disease mechanisms across populations, and ensure equitable application of and access to emerging genetically informed therapies.Aligning Science Across Parkinson's (ASAP) through the Global Parkinson's Genetics Program (GP2).Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Bridge-like lipid transfer proteins (BLTPs) play fundamental roles in cellular lipid redistribution between organellar membranes. They comprise bridge domains spanning organelles at contact sites that allow lipids to transit through the cytosol between adjacent membranes. The assembly of BLTPs into complexes with adaptor proteins enables lipid transfer. To address the mechanisms underlying the assembly and regulation of BLTP complexes, we used cryo-EM to resolve the structure of one such BLTP, the Parkinson's disease protein VPS13C, at near-atomic resolution. The structure identifies a lipid-transfer-nonpermissive conformation, in which the built-in C-terminal VAB adaptor module blocks the end of the lipid transfer bridge, interfering with lipid delivery. We also identify calmodulin (CaM), central to calcium signaling, as a constitutive VPS13C interactor. Calcium induces conformational changes in the VPS13C-CaM complex, suggesting calcium regulation of VPS13 function. Altogether, this structure of intact VPS13C serves as a starting point for understanding its regulation and that of other VPS13 proteins.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42387113 is a review article
Chronic liver disease is a rapidly growing cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide, and this increase is largely driven by steatotic liver disease (SLD) comprising metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD), alcohol-related liver disease (ALD), and MASLD and increased alcohol intake (MetALD). Hepatic steatosis and fibrosis are highly heritable and genetic variation has also associated with risk of hepatocellular carcinoma and hepatic decompensation. This review summarizes the state of the art of genetics and genomics in SLD, with particular emphasis on potential clinical utility. Variants in/near genes including PNPLA3, TM6SF2, and HSD17B13 have been associated with cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in both MASLD and ALD, while others such as those in GCKR, TRIB1, and GPAM have been consistently associated with greater risk of hepatic steatosis in MASLD with much weaker effects if any on cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. While data on MetALD genetics are limited, we believe that the genetic risk factors for liver steatosis, cirrhosis, and HCC will be similar in MetALD compared to MASLD and ALD based on the largely shared genetic risk factors for MASLD and ALD. Finally, we discuss future directions in SLD genetics, notably genetically-defined disease subtypes, gene-environment interactions and its implications for therapy, and utility of genetics in clinical risk stratification. Genetic studies have provided insight into important disease processes in SLD and may have an upcoming role in clinical care.
The prion-like spread of tau from cell to cell in the central nervous system involves escape from the endolysosomal network, which is counteracted by the lysosomal repair activity of the ESCRT system. Here, we investigate whether other components of the lysosomal damage sensing and repair system, namely the ESCRT-recruiting Ca 2+ sensor ALG-2, conjugation of ATG8s to single membranes (CASM), the phosphoinositide-initiated tethering and lipid transport (PITT) pathway, and the Parkinson's disease-related lipid transporter VPS13C are involved in tau spread. We found that the PITT pathway and VPS13C are strongly implicated in tau seeding by pre-formed fibrils (PFFs) in both neurons and astrocytes, CASM has a major role in astrocytes but not neurons, and ALG-2 has a lesser role in both. We then investigated the mechanism of damage and seeding by tau PFFs using cryo-electron tomography. Unlike the classical lysosome damage agent LLOMe, tau PFFs were not seen to directly interact with the lysosomal membrane, nor do they distort local membrane curvature. Lysosomes in PFF-treated cells were structurally intact. Extensive protein aggregates of similar character were seen in both the lysosomal lumen and in the cytosol proximal to lysosomes. The observations are consistent with the PFF-induced co-aggregation of tau with other cellular materials within lysosomes, with leakage to the cytosol attributed to reversible holes in the lysosome membrane.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) arises from an intricate interplay of dysregulated metabolic, inflammatory, and fibrogenic pathways, necessitating coordinated therapeutic intervention that remains inadequately achieved by current treatments. Small interfering RNA (siRNA) therapeutics offer a promising solution to this unmet need, but their potential is limited by reliance on endosomal escape, which is often associated with endosomal disruption and inflammatory signaling. Here, we introduce a steric gating strategy that programs thiol-mediated uptake for hepatocyte-selective, endosome-independent cytosolic siRNA delivery through on-demand exposure of latent disulfide moieties. To implement this strategy, we developed TRIO (Thiol-mediated siRNA delivery by Inflammation-responsive DNA Origami), a DNA origami nanodevice that reconfigures in response to reactive oxygen species to expose disulfide moieties in inflamed hepatic microenvironments. Coupling N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) ligands to the nanodevice promoted hepatocyte cell-surface engagement, facilitating proximity-driven thiol-mediated uptake and efficient cytosolic delivery of siRNA payloads. Functionally, the TRIO nanodevice enabled coordinated downregulation of HSD17B13 and TAZ, two mechanistically distinct yet convergent drivers of MASH progression, thereby attenuating lipid metabolic dysregulation, inflammatory signaling, and fibrogenic activation at the cellular level. In a murine model of MASH, the nanodevice ameliorated hepatic steatosis, inflammation, and fibrosis under sustained dietary stress and expedited disease resolution upon dietary normalization. This study establishes a steric gating strategy for targeted cytosolic siRNA delivery and provides an integrated system for MASH intervention, with implications for the development of inflammation-responsive nucleic acid therapeutics.
A 29-year-old woman with a novel homozygous VPS13A frameshift variant presented with drug-resistant temporal-lobe epilepsy and severe sensory neuronopathy, but no acanthocytes on repeated blood smears-expanding the phenotypic spectrum of chorea-acanthocytosis beyond its defining haematological feature.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
To quantify key disease milestones, particularly loss of ambulation and survival, and to describe the VPS13A variant spectrum and clinical heterogeneity in patients with chorea-acanthocytosis (ChA).We conducted a cross-sectional study of 34 ChA patients from 24 unrelated families. Whole-exome sequencing identified VPS13A variants in all probands. Clinical and paraclinical data were collected through neurological evaluations and electronic medical records. Patients were classified as either surviving (ambulatory or non-ambulatory) or deceased.Twenty-one VPS13A variants were identified, including 12 novel variants. Median current age and disease duration were 38.5 (IQR, 34-43) and 8 (IQR, 4-12.25) years, respectively. Loss of ambulation occurred in 26.5% of patients after a median of 10 years (range, 5-16) from onset. Kaplan-Meier analysis estimated a median time to loss of ambulation of 16.0 years (95% CI, 8.8-23.2), with estimated ambulation probabilities of 87% at 6 years and 38% at 16 years. Seven patients died after a median disease duration of 10 years (range, 3-17). The median survival time was not reached during follow-up; the estimated restricted mean survival time was 16.7 years (95% CI, 14.1-19.3). Compulsions co-occurred with obsessions in all cases and were associated with higher rates of suicidal ideation, while insomnia was more frequent in patients without compulsions. Suicide and sepsis were the leading causes of death.This study defines the natural history of ChA, providing prognostic data on ambulation and survival. The discovery of novel VPS13A variants highlights genetic heterogeneity and supports further investigation into disease mechanisms and therapeutic targets.
The NLRP3 inflammasome has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various human diseases; however, no specific NLRP3-targeted therapies have yet been approved for routine clinical use. Abscisic acid (ABA), a well-characterized plant hormone, has recently demonstrated efficacy in alleviating both chronic and acute inflammation. Here, we show that ABA dose-dependently inhibits caspase-1 activation (CASP1 p20), interleukin-1β (IL-1β) secretion, and NLRP3 inflammasome assembly in macrophages. Mechanistically, we identified PDZD8 as a direct target of ABA. ABA-mediated activation of PDZD8 promotes a compensatory lysosomal enlargement, preserves lysosomal membrane integrity, and prevents stress-induced lysosomal rupture. In vivo, ABA markedly attenuates NLRP3-driven inflammation in mouse models of cerulein-induced acute pancreatitis, monosodium urate (MSU)-induced gouty arthritis. Together, these findings identify ABA as a candidate natural compound with potential therapeutic relevance in NLRP3-driven inflammatory diseases and a possible starting point for further preclinical investigation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
An acetaminophen (APAP) overdose is the leading cause of drug-induced hepatotoxicity and acute liver failure (ALF) in the United States. While N-acetylcysteine (NAC), is highly effective when administered early after an overdose, its efficacy decreases with delayed administration. Since most patients present late to the clinic, there is an urgent need for novel late-acting therapeutic options to prevent progression to ALF. We previously demonstrated the benefit of delayed activation of the Adenosine A2B Receptor (A2BAR) in attenuating APAP-induced hepatotoxicity and this study focuses on its effects on liver recovery after injury. Fasted male C57BL/6J mice were treated with 300 mg/kg APAP, followed by activation of A2BAR 6 or 9 h later and sacrifice 24, 48 or 72 h post-APAP with evaluation of liver injury, the innate immune response and liver regeneration. Delayed activation of A2BAR significantly enhanced liver recovery, with accelerated repopulation of the liver by Kupffer cells, increased macrophage migration to the necrotic areas and their faster resolution. A2BAR activation also upregulated lipid metabolism-related genes in non-parenchymal cells and cell proliferation and metabolism genes in hepatocytes. Remarkably, genes such as Cidec and Plin2 , crucial for lipid droplet formation, were upregulated, indicating that A2ABR activation enhances lipid metabolism which plays a key role in providing energy for liver regeneration. Overall, these findings highlight the potential of A2BAR activation not only in protecting against liver injury, but also in promoting and accelerating liver regeneration by modulating the innate immune responses and metabolic pathways.
VPS13A disease, historically known as chorea-acanthocytosis, is a rare autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by variable combinations of chorea, dystonia, orolingual involvement, cognitive or psychiatric changes, acanthocytosis, and peripheral neuromuscular abnormalities. Although phenotypic heterogeneity is well recognized, neuropathy-predominant onset may delay diagnostic recognition, particularly before typical hyperkinetic or orolingual features become apparent.We describe two affected siblings from a consanguineous family who carried the same homozygous VPS13A missense variant and were followed for more than 10 years. The younger sister developed symptoms at 27 years of age with severe choreiform movements and prominent lingual/orofacial dystonia, which was partially relieved by placing a towel in the mouth and was considered consistent with a possible sensory trick. The older brother developed symptoms at 32 years of age with mild peripheral neuropathic symptoms and later developed facial/orofacial involuntary movements that progressed to more prominent choreiform and orofacial features in the later disease stage. Cognitive decline, acanthocytosis, and mild axonal peripheral neuropathy were documented in both siblings. Brain MRI in the younger sister showed findings suggestive of mild caudate atrophy. Genetic testing identified a homozygous VPS13A c.2964G > C [p.(Lys988Asn)] variant in both affected siblings, whereas family validation showed heterozygous carrier status in the parents. The variant was absent from the gnomAD East Asian population database and remained classified as a variant of uncertain significance by the reporting laboratories.This family illustrates that a VPS13A disease-like phenotype associated with a plausible candidate VPS13A variant may follow markedly different clinical trajectories even within the same sibship, including neuropathy-predominant onset and a hyperkinetic-dystonic presentation. The findings emphasize the need to reconsider VPS13A disease when peripheral neuropathy is accompanied or followed by progressive choreiform movements, orolingual dystonia, cognitive decline, acanthocytosis, or caudate atrophy. Although functional validation was unavailable, the characteristic phenotype, rarity of the variant, and segregation pattern support its clinical relevance as a plausible candidate variant associated with the phenotype, rather than as definitive proof of pathogenicity.© 2026. The Author(s).
West Nile virus (WNV) remodels the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane in cells to aid virus production. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this process remain unclear. PDZD8 is an ER-resident protein that mediates ER-mitochondria contact and lipid transfer, both of which are associated with membrane remodeling. In this study, we found that WNV infection suppressed the expression of PDZD8, leading to a reduction in ER-mitochondria contact sites. By contrast, PDZD8 suppressed WNV production by inhibiting the processes of viral particle assembly and release. These findings suggest that WNV suppresses PDZD8 expression to partially counteract its inhibitory effect on WNV production.© 2026 The Societies and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is a devastating cerebrovascular disorder with high acute mortality and long-term neurological disability, and early brain injury (EBI) characterized by mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and neuronal apoptosis is a pivotal determinant of poor prognosis. Mitochondria-endoplasmic reticulum contact sites (MERCs) are specialized membrane domains essential for maintaining cellular homeostasis via calcium trafficking and lipid exchange, but their regulatory mechanisms in SAH-induced EBI remain largely undefined. Here, we investigated the role and underlying mechanism of PDZD8, a core MERCs-stabilizing protein, in SAH pathogenesis using in vivo endovascular perforation models of male C57BL/6 mice and in vitro oxyhemoglobin (OxyHb)-challenged primary cortical neurons/HT22 cells, combined with PDZD8 overexpression, CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout, and C884A site-directed mutagenesis. Results demonstrated that PDZD8 was neuron-specifically downregulated at 48 h post-SAH, which closely correlated with MERCs structural disruption detected by transmission electron microscopy, impaired mitochondrial respiration analyzed via Seahorse assays, excessive reactive oxygen species production, and severe neuronal damage assessed by Nissl staining. PDZD8 overexpression preserved MERCs integrity, restored mitochondrial metabolic balance, mitigated oxidative stress, and ameliorated neurobehavioral deficits evaluated by modified neurological severity scores, rotarod, and open field tests. Mechanistically, SAH-induced PDZD8 downregulation was associated with enhanced global S-nitrosylation and post-translational regulation at cysteine 884 (C884), promoting its ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation, while C884A mutation abrogated this process. Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized mechanism involving S-nitrosylation-associated ubiquitination of PDZD8 in SAH-induced MERCs dysfunction and EBI, highlighting PDZD8 as a promising therapeutic target for SAH treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
In eukaryotes, bridge-like lipid-transfer proteins (BLTPs) are central in mediating vesicle-independent lipid transfer between organelles. BLTPs span the cytosolic space between organelles at contact sites, featuring hydrophobic channels for lipids to travel between membranes. How BLTPs cooperate with partner proteins to orchestrate lipid delivery remains a mystery. Here, we used cryo-electron microscopy to visualize a complex comprising the prototypical BLTP VPS13A and the plasma membrane-localized scramblase XK at near-atomic resolution. VPS13A interacts with XK via its pleckstrin homology domain, priming VPS13A's bridge-like lipid-transfer domain to deliver lipids directly to the cytosolic leaflet of the acceptor membrane. In molecular dynamics simulations, this arrangement allows for robust lipid transfer. Newly delivered lipids can then be equilibrated between leaflets of the membrane bilayer by the scramblase, allowing for membrane growth. Mechanistic insights regarding lipid delivery by VPS13A are directly applicable to all VPS13 proteins and, more broadly, to all BLTP family members.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Intermembrane lipid transfer protein VPS13A (VPS13A) is a large protein whose cellular functions are still under investigation. VPS13A gene mutations leading to the absence of protein expression cause Chorea-acanthocytosis (ChAc), an ultra-rare inherited neurodegenerative movement disorder. Although the molecular mechanisms linking VPS13A loss to neuronal dysfunction remain unclear, its role as a bulk lipid transfer protein suggests that impaired lipid distribution may represent a primary pathogenic mechanism leading to neurodegeneration in ChAc. In this study, we investigated the effect of neuronal silencing of VPS13A in a murine model to phenocopy the human disease.Lipidomics analysis revealed an increase in the concentration of several diacylglycerol species induced by VPS13A knockdown. We then explored the downstream molecular pathways related to the altered diacylglycerol levels and found that VPS13A knockdown induces a decrease in protein kinase C (PKC)βII concentration but an increase in PKCα/βII phosphorylation in cultured neurons. Finally, pharmacological inhibition of PKCβII reverted aberrant neuronal morphology and loss of spine density induced by VPS13A KD. These results underscore the importance of VPS13A in regulating neuronal lipid distribution, showing that its absence perturbs the diacylglycerol/PKC signaling pathway, with measurable effects on neuronal structure and synaptic density.Overall, our results underscore a previously underappreciated role for VPS13A in the structural organization of neurons through lipid-mediated signaling mechanisms, providing insight into the cellular dysfunction underlying ChAc.© 2026. The Author(s).
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a leading cause of visual impairment in older adults, with both genetic and environmental factors contributing to disease risk. Epigenetic mechanisms, particularly DNA methylation, may mediate the effects of environmental exposures on disease-relevant genes, yet their role in AMD remains poorly understood. To investigate blood DNA methylation differences associated with AMD severity, we studied 29 monozygotic twin pairs discordant for AMD from the Finnish Twin Cohort. This design controls for genetic background, sex, age, and shared early-life environment. Genome-wide DNA methylation was measured in whole blood using the Illumina HumanMethylation EPIC BeadChip. Analyses were restricted to 263 AMD candidate genes identified through prior genetic, epigenetic, and transcriptomic studies. Of 9,694 analyzed CpG sites, one site within ESYT1 reached statistical significance after multiple testing correction, but the corresponding methylation difference was below our predefined threshold for biological relevance. No CpG sites met both statistical and biological significance criteria. These findings do not provide evidence for large, systemic DNA methylation differences in peripheral blood at established AMD loci, though subtle effects below the detection limit of the current sample size cannot be excluded.© 2026. The Author(s).
Despite substantial advances in radiotherapy and chemotherapy for nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC), a subset of patients still develops metastasis or recurrence following initial treatment. Additionally, the atypical early symptoms of NPC often lead to clinical misdiagnosis or missed diagnosis, resulting in late diagnosis and unfavorable prognosis. Thus, novel diagnostic biomarkers are urgently required. By integrating five GEO datasets and applying four machine learning models, namely LASSO, SVM-RFE, XGBOOST, and mRMR, this study identified two key NPC-related genes, BLK and OSBPL10. Bioinformatic analyses revealed that both genes are significantly downregulated in NPC, and this downregulation pattern was further validated in the GSE61218 dataset. Notably, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves confirmed their high diagnostic efficacy for NPC. BLK and OSBPL10 are involved in pathways such as B-cell receptor signaling and lipid metabolic regulation, respectively, and are closely associated with the infiltration of various immune cells. Immunohistochemical staining validation further confirmed that the protein expression levels of BLK and OSBPL10 are downregulated in NPC tissues compared with those in benign lesions, and their low expression is strongly associated with the poor prognosis of patients. In summary, these findings indicated that BLK and OSBPL10 may serve as candidate biomarkers for NPC diagnosis and prognosis, although further validation in independent cohorts is warranted.© 2026. The Author(s).
Migraine is a highly prevalent, heritable neurological disorder with a marked female predominance, indicating substantial hormonal contributions to disease pathophysiology. Endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) are ubiquitous environmental contaminants that interfere with hormonal signaling and have been linked to multiple diseases, yet their molecular contribution to migraine remains unclear. This study aims to identify EDC-related genes contributing to migraine risk and explore underlying mechanisms using an integrative multi-omics and causal inference framework.We curated 181 EDCs and identified 1,116 EDC-related genes through chemical-gene interaction network analysis, followed by integration of multi-omics quantitative trait loci datasets (eQTL, sQTL, mQTL, and pQTL) to derive genetic instruments. Summary data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) was performed to assess the effects of genetically predicted molecular traits on migraine risk using genome-wide association study (GWAS) data from the OpenGWAS and GWASCatalog. HEIDI testing and Bayesian colocalization analyses were conducted to distinguish pleiotropy from linkage and to prioritize genes with shared causal variants, followed by transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) for validation. Multi-omics integration and differential gene expression analysis were used to characterize regulatory mechanisms. Finally, molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations were performed to evaluate interactions between prioritized EDCs and molecular targets implicated in migraine pathophysiology.Eight EDC-related genes were identified as significantly associated with migraine risk, of which MEF2D, OSBPL10, B9D2, HTRA1 and PRDM16 were classified as high- or medium-evidence genes. Notably, PNKP and B9D2 demonstrated consistent cross‑tissue evidence across multiple molecular layers, including TWAS, gene expression, DNA methylation, and alternative splicing. PNKP, prioritized through integrative analyses of EDC-related genes and migraine-associated omics datasets, exhibited limited individual differential gene expression but significant enrichment of pathways related to hypothalamic-pituitary axis dysfunction, blood circulation, and pain signaling. Molecular docking and dynamics simulations further suggested stable binding between migraine-related target proteins and prioritized EDCs, including triphenyl phosphate (TPP), tris(1,3-dichloro-2-propyl) phosphate (TDCPP), and benzo(a)pyrene (B[a]P), providing preliminary connections between EDC exposure and migraine at the molecular level.This study provides integrative genetic and multi-omics evidence suggesting that EDC-related genes may be associated with to migraine susceptibility, highlighting the potential role of environmental factors to migraine risk. These findings identify a set of candidate EDCs and molecular targets that warrant further investigation, offering novel insights into migraine pathogenesis and informing future research on environmental determinants and preventive strategies for migraine.© 2026. The Author(s).
Phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate (PI4P) is a low-abundance membrane lipid that plays crucial roles in lipid exchange and homeostasis, signal transduction, and vesicle trafficking. PI4KA, a type III phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase, catalyzes PI4P synthesis at the plasma membrane (PM). However, the mechanism by which cytoplasmic PI4KA is recruited to the PM to regulate PI4P levels in response to extracellular and intracellular signals remains unclear. We found that PI4KA is tightly associated with membranous organelles, including the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). In response to Ca2+, the membrane tethering protein extended synaptotagmin 1 (E-Syt1) recruits ER-localized PI4KA to ER-PM junctions, facilitating its PM recruitment and the assembly of the enzyme complex. In hippocampal neurons undergoing synaptic potentiation, neuronal activity-induced PM localization of PI4KA and PM PI4P synthesis also rely on E-Syt1 function. Thus, E-Syt1-mediated PI4KA localization to ER-PM junctions serves as a critical mechanism by which Ca2+ signaling regulates lipid metabolism at the PM.© 2026. Science China Press.
The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a highly dynamic intracellular organelle that forms close contact sites with other organelles and the plasma membrane. These membrane contact sites play essential roles in lipid exchange and calcium homeostasis. ER membrane proteins from the VAP, ORP, and ESYT families are key players in the formation and function of these contacts. Numerous interactions between these proteins are likely critical for their activity. We investigate the interactome between these protein families in live cells by analyzing two members from each family, using FRET between pairs of proteins labeled with fluorescent proteins. FRET is detected by Fluorescence Lifetime Imaging Microscopy. Our quantitative approach shows that all tested proteins clusterize and sometimes interact within their respective families and that their organization at the nanometer scale can be disrupted by specific mutations or domain deletions. In particular, we show that the coiled-coil domains of ORP5 and ORP8 are required for the formation of both homomeric and heteromeric complexes. Moreover, we demonstrate that FRET-FLIM can detect intramolecular conformational changes in response to alterations in the cellular environment, such as variations in Ca2+ concentration, as observed for ESYT1. We also identify novel interfamily organization, including clustering between VAPB and ORP8, and between ESYT2 and ORP5/8. Finally, our approach highlights the broad interaction network (interactome) of VAPA/B and shows how various potential binding partners can influence FRET efficiency.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
APOE-ε4 is the strongest common genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet many carriers remain cognitively unimpaired into late life. We tested whether a protected-ε4-first proteomic approach could identify plasma proteins associated with delayed clinical onset among ε4 carriers.We analyzed harmonized plasma proteomics from the Global Neurodegeneration Proteomics Consortium. Protected ε4 carriers (ε3/ε4 aged ≥75 years; ε4/ε4 aged ≥65 years; CDR=0; n=456) were compared with ε4 carriers with AD (n=1,096). Protein-wise linear models adjusted for age, sex, ε4 dosage, and plasma proteomic principal components. Top signals were integrated with high-confidence loss-of-function burden testing and plasma/CSF Mendelian randomization.ε4 protected was associated with 721 protein levels. Integrated analyses prioritized proteins linked to ε4-modified disease biology, including LILRA5, DBI, BPNT1, PTEN, EPHA1, and PCDH10, and proteins aligned with broader AD-related change, including OMG, SELENOW, VAT1, and TPPP3. TREM2 and ACE were also identified, providing internal biological validation of the approach.A protected-ε4-first plasma proteomic strategy highlights immune, synaptic, metabolic-stress, and myelin/axonal pathways that may delay AD onset and helps prioritize candidate ε4-specific modifiers for prevention-focused therapeutics.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is an aggressive malignancy with a poor prognosis, in which the role of lipophagy, a selective autophagic process degrading lipid droplets (LDs), remains poorly characterized. This study investigated lipophagy and its key regulator, OSBPL10, in PDAC progression. Through immunofluorescence analysis of patient samples, transgenic mouse tissues, and cell lines, we find that lipophagy is elevated in PDAC and correlates with poor prognosis. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis identified OSBPL10 as a critical lipophagy regulator and an independent clinicopathological indicator. Functional assays, including orthotopic and subcutaneous xenografts, demonstrated that OSBPL10 promotes tumor growth. Mechanistically, OSBPL10 functionally cooperates with VAPA/VAPB to facilitate rapid lysosomal repair via ATG2A, thereby promoting lipophagy and lipid mobilization. Inhibition of lysosomal function abrogated the pro-lipophagic and pro-tumorigenic effects of OSBPL10. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that upregulated OSBPL10 drives PDAC progression by enhancing lipophagy through ATG2A-mediated rapid lysosomal repair, highlighting OSBPL10 as a potential therapeutic target in PDAC.© The author(s).
Lymphoma is the most common hematologic malignancy in Thailand, with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) being the predominant subtype. Early prognostic indicators are essential for guiding clinical decisions. Genetic alterations, particularly in regulatory regions, may serve as potential biomarkers. This study investigated sequence alterations upstream of exon 1 of the OSBPL10 gene and their clinical relevance in a Northern Thai DLBCL population.Eighty-five DLBCL patients residing in Northern Thailand were genotyped to assess sequence alterations in the upstream regulatory region of OSBPL10.Two previously reported single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)-rs76150980 (G>C) and rs62244394 (C>G) and two additional alterations not listed in public SNP databases were identified. The heterozygous GC genotype of rs76150980 and the CG genotype of rs62244394 were significantly associated with a reduced risk of extranodal involvement (OR = 0.229 and 0.196, respectively). While no significant difference in overall survival (OS) was observed, individuals carrying the CG/GG genotypes of rs62244394 had significantly longer progression-free survival (PFS) compared to homozygous CC individuals (median PFS: 39.7 months, 95% CI: 30.4-49.0 vs. 17.3 months, 95% CI: 12.4-22.2; p = 0.031). Additionally, two upstream substitutions-C>T at chr3:31,981,252 and G>T at chr3:31,981,259-showed genotype frequencies of CC (87.1%), CT (3.5%), TT (9.4%) and GG (89.4%), GT (2.4%), TT (8.2%), respectively. At the allele level, the T allele at both positions was associated with increased International Prognostic Index risk (OR = 3.615 and 4.717), while the T allele at position 31,981,259 was associated with lower odds of the aggressive non-GCB subtype (OR = 0.324). No significant OS or PFS differences were observed for these variants.Variations upstream of OSBPL10 were associated with extranodal involvement and selected clinical parameters in DLBCL, highlighting the prognostic potential of regulatory-region SNPs and the importance of population-specific genetic diversity in lymphoma research.
Body mass index (BMI) is an important composite trait reflecting fat and muscle deposition, which is closely related to feed efficiency, carcass composition, and overall production performance in pigs. Optimizing BMI is crucial for achieving balanced growth and desirable meat quality in modern pig breeding programs. While numerous genetic loci associated with BMI have been reported in humans, studies in livestock remain scarce, and the genetic and regulatory mechanisms driving BMI variation are still largely unknown. To address this, we conducted genome-wide association study on 4,519 pigs representing three commercial breeds (Yorkshire, Landrace, and Duroc), performing analyses both at the single-breed level and in the combined population. By integrating Assay for Transposase-Accessible Chromatin using sequencing (ATAC-seq), Chromatin Immunoprecipitation followed by Sequencing (ChIP-seq), and in situ Hi-C followed by chromatin immunoprecipitation (HiChIP) datasets for functional genomics analyses, we identified five quantitative trait loci with potential regulatory function, two of which are homologous to enhancer regions in the human genome. We further prioritized a set of high-confidence candidate genes, including OSBPL10, PCCA, MYPN, PAWR, and PCDH7, which are closely associated with lipid metabolism and muscle development. These findings reflect breed differences in body composition, provide targets for improving meat production efficiency through breeding, and offer insights into the genetic and regulatory mechanisms underlying human metabolic disorders.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society of Animal Science. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) exerts severe adverse effects on patients, leading to impaired motor functions in segments remote from the injury site. Following SCI, lysosomes are damaged due to inflammatory microenvironment, and the repair of such damage requires a substantial supply of lipids. Studies have demonstrated that lipid transfer proteins (LTPs) play a pivotal role in the repair process of neuronal organelles. However, whether these proteins regulate functional recovery after SCI and their underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Through RNA sequencing and human cerebrospinal fluid enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) analyses, we verified that OSBPL10 is significantly downregulated in the acute phase of SCI and may serve as a protective factor against SCI. The Basso Mouse Scale (BMS), Nissl staining, and two-dimensional (2D) gait analysis were employed to evaluate functional recovery. Western blotting and immunofluorescence assays were performed to detect the expression changes of proteins associated with autophagy, ferroptosis, oxidative stress, and lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP) related proteins. Finally, molecular docking and rescue experiments using lipid synthesis inhibitors further confirmed that OSBPL10 ameliorate LMP by transferring PS to lysosomes, thereby promoting autophagic flux. Collectively, our findings conclude that OSBPL10 overexpression alleviates autophagic flux impairment, ferroptosis, and oxidative stress after SCI through PS-mediated lysosomal repair, thus facilitating post-injury neurological function recovery and holding promising potential for clinical application.
In utero heat stress (IUHS) is associated with long-term alterations in offspring performance, physiology, and metabolism, but whether epigenetic mechanisms are a causal effect in pigs remains poorly understood. In this study, we compared genome-wide DNA methylation in the Longissimus dorsi muscle of 105-day-old pigs exposed to either in utero thermoneutral (IUTN) or IUHS conditions during early gestation (d 0 to 59 of gestation) to identify differentially methylated loci and genomic regions, as well as candidate genes potentially involved in the skeletal muscle response to prenatal heat exposure. Whole-genome bisulfite sequencing was performed in 10 IUHS and 10 IUTN pigs, with reads aligned and processed using the Bismark package, and differential methylation was analyzed using the methylKit R package. Differential methylation analyses enabled the identification of both loci and genomic regions located near or within genes such as ARID1B, DUSP4, SMPD3, and OSBPL8, which are involved in lipid metabolism, inflammatory responses, and cellular stress signaling. These findings suggest that prenatal heat stress induces persistent locus-specific epigenetic remodeling that remains detectable in the Longissimus dorsi muscle of offspring at 105 days of age. Overall, this study provides new insights on how the prenatal environment may shape the skeletal muscle epigenome and potentially contribute to long-term phenotypic consequences in pigs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Feed efficiency (FE) is important in the poultry industry because feed accounts for 70% of total poultry production expenses. The elongation of very-long-chain fatty acid protein 2 (ELOVL2) and oxysterol binding protein-like 8 (OSBPL8) genes are promising candidates for influencing FE owing to their potential roles in lipid metabolism. The genetic effects by which ELOVL2 and OSBPL8 influence FE remain unclear. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the associations between SNPs in OSBPL8 and ELOVL2 and FE traits in meat-type ducks. Genomic DNA was extracted from 505 ducks for primer design, PCR amplification, and target gene sequencing. Polymorphism analysis identified two SNPs in OSBPL8 (g.40194710T > A and g.40194759A > G) and two in ELOVL2 (g.95803706 G > A and g.95803927 G > A). Both ELOVL2 SNPs were significantly associated with feed conversion ratio (FCR), residual feed intake (RFI) (P < 0.01), and ADFI (P < 0.05). For OSBPL8, the g.40194710T > A locus was associated with FCR and ADFI (P < 0.05), whereas the g.40194759A > G locus was associated with RFI (P < 0.05). Notably, combined genotype analysis indicated that the AAAATAAG genotype exhibited lower FCR and RFI values than the other genotype combinations (P < 0.05). In conclusion, polymorphisms in OSBPL8 and ELOVL2 are significantly associated with FE traits in meat-type ducks, offering valuable molecular markers for selecting breeding pairs with enhanced feed utilization ability.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Mitochondrial metabolic dysregulation is associated with periodontitis (PD); however, related biomarkers remain unclear. In this study, we identified key mitochondrial metabolism-related biomarkers in PD through integrated bioinformatics technology.Transcriptomic and single-cell RNA sequencing data from the Gene Expression Omnibus database were analysed using machine learning to identify biomarkers. A diagnostic nomogram was constructed. Immune infiltration, drug prediction, and T-cell dynamic expression were assessed. Putative biomarkers were validated in clinical samples and a rat PD model by reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction, immunohistochemistry, and Western blot analysis.Six biomarkers were identified, which included ENTPD1, CYP24A1, ADA, TDO2 (upregulated), OSBPL6, and NUDT15 (downregulated). The nomogram exhibited excellent diagnostic efficacy (area under the curve [AUC] = 0.954). The biomarkers correlated with plasma cells and resting dendritic cells. Single-cell analysis revealed dynamic expression during T-cell differentiation. CTA018 exhibited strong binding to CYP24A1. Five biomarkers were validated in clinical samples, and the upregulation of ENTPD1, CYP24A1, and TDO2 protein and messenger RNA was confirmed in a rat model and correlated with PD progression.ENTPD1, CYP24A1, and TDO2 are mitochondrial metabolism-related biomarkers with high diagnostic potential in PD and targets for therapy.The identified biomarkers, particularly ENTPD1, CYP24A1, and TDO2, have strong diagnostic value. The nomogram contributed to PD risk stratification. Associations with immune infiltration and drug sensitivity may guide immunotherapy and targeted therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
OSBPL2 was identified as a causal gene responsible for autosomal dominant non-syndromic hearing loss. Previous study revealed that OSBPL2-mediated AMPK signalling was crucial for cholesterol-homeostasis in inner ear. AMPK is the downstream component of a kinase cascade as the key regulator of autophagy, metabolism, cell growth and apoptosis, etc. In addition, OSBPL2 deficiency could lead to autophagy impairment in auditory cells, indicating the potential role of OSBPL2-mediated AMPK signalling in autophagy. In the present study, autophagy function was characterized in hair cells (HCs) of Osbpl2-knockout mice and in Osbpl2-knockdown HEI-OC1 cells. The results showed that OSBPL2 deficiency impaired autophagy by inhibiting AMPK-TFEB signalling, resulting in aberrant accumulation of lipid droplets and apoptosis in auditory cells, which could be partially reversed by trehalose treatment. This study revealed the implications of OSBPL2 for autophagy in auditory cell and contributed to elucidating the pathogenesis of OSBPL2 mutations in hearing loss.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The classification of regulated cell death (RCD) has evolved from discrete, siloed pathways into an integrated network of metabolic and proteostatic checkpoints. For over a decade, the glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4)-dependent neutralization of lipid hydroperoxides on the plasma membrane was considered the primary defense against ferroptosis. However, the landmark discovery by Xia et al. [1] in Cell has identified a "non-canonical" ferroptosis pathway governed by the GPX1-OSBPL8 axis, which operates specifically at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). By elucidating how the lipid transfer protein OSBPL8 recruits GPX1 to reduce peroxidized phosphatidic acid (PA-OOH), this research provides a definitive organelle-specific mechanism for lipid-driven cell death. For the field of apoptosis, this discovery is pivotal: it positions the ER as a central decision-making hub where ferroptotic lipid damage converges with intrinsic apoptotic signals via ER stress, the Unfolded Protein Response (UPR), and unregulated calcium dynamics. This commentary evaluates the mechanistic underpinnings of this non-canonical axis and explores the synergistic potential of targeting ER-localized death programs in oncology.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Lipophagy, a selective form of macroautophagy/autophagy, degrades lipid droplets (LDs) to provide energy and is implicated in metabolic disorders. The molecular mechanism underlying lipophagy induction remains incompletely understood. This study explored the role of SETDB1 in starvation-induced autophagy and lipophagy. We demonstrate that SETDB1 deficiency exacerbates starvation-induced hepatic lipid accumulation by inhibiting lipophagy. Mechanistically, starvation promotes ATM-mediated phosphorylation of SETDB1, which enhances its interaction with and methylation of the RNA helicase DDX5. In SETDB1-knockout hepatocytes, hypomethylation of DDX5 facilitates the formation of the DDX5-METTL3-METTL14 complex, increasing m6A modification of BECN1 and TFEB mRNAs. This modification promoted YTHDF2-mediated decay of these transcripts, thereby inhibiting starvation-induced autophagy and lipophagy. Furthermore, administration of the SETDB1 activator (R, R)-59 significantly enhances lipophagy and attenuates starvation-induced hepatic steatosis. Collectively, our findings reveal a novel pathway in which SETDB1 deficiency drives m6A-mediated mRNA degradation to suppress lipophagy, thereby contributing to hepatic steatosis.Abbreviations: AA free: amino acid deprivation; ATG14: autophagy related 14; ATG5: autophagy related 5; ATG7: autophagy related 7; ATM: ATM serine/threonine kinase; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; DDX5: DEAD-box helicase 5; FASN: fatty acid synthase; LAMP1: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LAMP2A: lysosome associated membrane protein 2A; LIPE/HSL: lipase E, hormone sensitive type; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MAP3K5/ASK1: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 5; METTL3: methyltransferase 3, N6-adenosine-methyltransferase complex catalytic subunit; METTL14: methyltransferase 14, N6-adenosine-methyltransferase non-catalytic subunit; MGLL/MGL: monoglyceride lipase; OA: oleic acid; OSBPL8/ORP8: oxysterol binding protein like 8; PLIN2: perilipin 2; PNPLA2/ATGL: patatin like domain 2, triacylglycerol lipase; SETDB1: SET domain bifurcated histone lysine methyltransferase 1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; TP53/p53: tumor protein p53; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; YTHDF2: YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein F2.
The kappa class of glutathione S-transferases 1 (GSTK1) is a vital regulatory factor in metabolic diseases. This study was conducted to investigate the regulatory effects of GSTK1 on renal ectopic fat deposition (EFD) and lipotoxic injury in diabetic nephropathy (DN) .HK-2 cells under high glucose(HG) / high fatty acid (HFA) stimulation, diabetic mice and human renal biopsy tissues were used. GSTK1 plasmid, GSTK1 siRNA and OSBPL8 siRNA were applied in vitro. Lipid accumulation was analyzed in the renal tissue of type 2 DN patients, diabetic mice and HK-2 cells under HG/HFA stimulation. The expression of GSTK1, DGAT1, ACAT1, CPT-1, BECLIN1, LC3II, ATG5 and RAB7 in renal tubular cells of diabetic mice and HK-2 cells under HG/HFA condition decreased significantly. Metformin treatment restored the expression of GSTK1 in diabetic mice. Additionally, the GSTK1 pharmacological modulator metformin relieved lipophagy dysfunction and promoted fatty acid (FA) β-oxidation enzyme CPT-1. In vitro, GSTK1 plasmid reduced lipid accumulation, fibrosis and inflammation and up-regulated the expression of CPT1 in HK-2 cells, but GSTK1 plasmid had no effect on lipid metabolizing enzymes (ACAT1, DGAT1) . In addition, GSTK1 plasmid could obviously restore lipophagy. However, pretreatment of HK-2 cells with the AMPK inhibitor Compound C, GSTK1 siRNA or OSBPL8 siRNA negated the activating effects of GSTK1 on lipophagy.This study indicated that GSTK1 could contribute to alleviate EFD in DN tubular cell through increasing the expression of FA β-oxidation enzyme CPT-1 and restoring lipophagy via AMPK-OSBPL8 pathway.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Oxysterol-binding protein-like 2 (OSBPL2) is a lipid transfer protein that modulates intracellular lipid homeostasis; however, its regulatory role in coordinating iron and fatty acid homeostasis remains largely elusive. A recent study has reported a strong positive correlation between iron overload and the progression of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD). Herein, we found that OSBPL2 binds to HSP90β, and OSBPL2 deficiency inhibits ACSL4 expression while altering hepatic fatty acid distribution by impairing lipolysis. Depletion of OSBPL2 conferred resistance to ferroptosis via the ACSL4-mediated ferroptosis pathway and further attenuated diet-induced liver fibrosis in mice. Our findings provide important insights into the function of OSBPL2 in ferroptosis and suggest that OSBPL2 may serve as a potential therapeutic target for MASLD.© 2026 The Author(s).
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) originates from the malignant transformation of immature lymphoblasts committed to the T-cell lineage. Relapsed or refractory T-ALL patients show a dismal outcome with limited therapeutic options and cure rates below 10%. Accurate risk stratification is essential for optimizing first-line treatments and maximizing initial complete response rates. Minimal residual disease (MRD) assessment is the most relevant clinical parameter in T-ALL and a direct measure of treatment response, but it requires an initial treatment course that reduces the time for decision-making. Consequently, there is an urgent need to identify novel biomarkers that can predict the response to first-line treatments at diagnosis. By integrating clinical and transcriptomic data from diagnostic T-ALL samples, we found that high MRD patients show a specific transcriptional profile. Moreover, we identified a transcriptional signature characterized by the differential expression of HSH2D, LAT2, BCL2, MAST4, METRN, and PITPNM2 genes that is tightly associated with an increased MRD, which could improve the prediction of poor treatment response in T-ALL patients, especially during early treatment phases.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Oncology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Diazotrophic L-glutamate (L-Glu) fermentation, independent of the Haber-Bosch process, is a sustainable strategy. Following our successful production of L-Glu from aerial nitrogen by an engineered Klebsiella pasteurii NG13 overproducing citrate synthase and citrate transporters (+CC strain), we herein examined L-Glu transporters in this bacterium. Extracellular L-Glu accumulation was abolished in a K. pasteurii strain in which a gene homologous to Escherichia coli ybjL was deleted, suggesting that the YbjL homologous protein (herein designated as GluE) was the main exporter of the +CC strain for diazotrophic L-Glu production. However, the overexpression of gluE did not increase diazotrophic L-Glu production, suggesting that the export of L-Glu was not a rate-limiting step in diazotrophic L-Glu production in the +CC strain. To sustain and increase diazotrophic L-Glu production, we constructed a triple knockout K. pasteurii +CC strain lacking the putative gltS, gltP, and gltIJKL orthologs, all the counterparts of which encode L-Glu importers in E. coli. In glucose-fed cultures, while L-Glu produced extracellularly by the +CC strain decreased during a long-term cultivation, the triple knockout strain sustained L-Glu production over the culture period and finally reached 2.67 g L-1. These results suggest the potential of the practical application of our system to the production of nitrogen-containing compounds from aerial nitrogen.Copyright © 2026 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42385053
Ferroptosis, a form of regulated cell death driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, plays a pivotal role in chondrocyte death and the pathogenesis of osteoarthritis (OA). Taurine, a sulfur-containing amino acid with established anti-inflammatory and anti-ferroptotic properties, has been implicated in joint protection; however, its potential to mitigate OA progression by targeting ferroptosis mechanisms remains largely unexplored.RNA sequencing was performed on normal and OA knee joint cartilage tissues to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was used to screen for OA-related modules, and ferroptosis-related targets were retrieved from public databases. Intersecting genes from the DEGs, WGCNA modules, and ferroptosis targets underwent pathway enrichment analysis. Taurine target genes were predicted via multiple databases, and machine learning algorithms were applied to identify hub genes. A nomogram model was constructed to evaluate diagnostic accuracy. Immune infiltration was assessed using the CIBERSORT algorithm. Furthermore, in vitro experiments involving interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β)-stimulated chondrocytes and in vivo studies using a destabilization of the medial meniscus (DMM) mouse model were conducted to validate the effects of taurine.Machine learning analysis identified four key hub genes: CSRNP1, CTH, OSBPL3, and CITED2. CTH was selected as the primary focus due to the effect of taurine on its expression in IL-1β-stimulated chondrocytes. In vitro assays demonstrated that taurine treatment specifically reversed the IL-1β-induced downregulation of CTH. Mechanistic studies showed that taurine directly bound to the CTH protein and attenuated IL-1β-induced ferroptosis by restoring CTH expression, thereby increasing glutathione (GSH) levels, reducing iron accumulation and lipid peroxidation, and upregulating solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) and glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4). Consistently, taurine alleviated cartilage degradation and synovial inflammation in DMM-induced OA mice, whereas these benefits were reversed by the CTH inhibitor propargylglycine (PAG).Taurine exerted significant chondroprotective effects, at least in part, by directly targeting CTH to suppress chondrocyte ferroptosis, thereby ameliorating OA progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common cancer worldwide, with prognosis often limited by disease progression. The role of oxysterol-binding protein-like 3 (OSBPL3) in various cancers remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the expression, biological function, and relationship of OSBPL3 with the tumor microenvironment (TME) in CRC, and to assess its potential as a therapeutic target.We employed bioinformatic analysis, immunohistochemistry (IHC), Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay, Western blot (WB), ethynyl deoxyuridine (EdU) incorporation assay, wound healing assay, transwell assay, and animal models to characterize the expression pattern of OSBPL3 in CRC. We assessed the effects of OSBPL3 on CRC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and apoptosis. Additionally, we investigated the mechanisms by which OSBPL3 drives CRC progression through the TGF-β signaling pathway and immune cell infiltration.OSBPL3 was highly expressed in CRC, and its elevated expression was positively correlated with lymphatic metastasis. High OSBPL3 expression was associated with activity of the TGF-β signaling pathway and with epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Cellular experiments and animal models demonstrated that OSBPL3 knockdown suppressed CRC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion and increased apoptosis, whereas OSBPL3 overexpression produced the opposite effects. Furthermore, OSBPL3 knockdown inhibited TGF-β signaling and EMT, while OSBPL3 overexpression showed the reverse pattern. Additionally, OSBPL3 expression was positively correlated with central memory T cells (Tcm) and Th2 cells but negatively correlated with regulatory T cells (Tregs).OSBPL3 expression is positively associated with increased proliferative and invasive capacities of CRC cells. Our analyses further indicate that OSBPL3 is closely linked to TGF-β/SMAD signaling activity, EMT-related molecular features, and the immune infiltration landscape within the TME. Collectively, these findings suggest that OSBPL3 may serve as a clinically relevant biomarker and a potential therapeutic target in CRC.© AME Publishing Company.
Glutamate (Glu) accumulation-induced excitotoxicity is a major cause of retinal ganglion cell (RGC) death in glaucoma, and the role of ferroptosis, a novel form of cell death, is critical in this process. The aim of this study was to investigate the function and regulatory mechanisms of the lipid transport protein StarD7 in RGC ferroptosis.An N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced retinal excitotoxicity mouse model and a Glu-induced RGC cell model were constructed for experimental investigation. RT‒qPCR and Western blotting were used to assess the expression of related genes and proteins, HE staining was used to assess pathological retinal damage, and kits were used to evaluate ferroptosis-related indicators.Ferroptosis was involved in NMDA-induced RGC damage in glaucoma mice. StarD7 expression was upregulated in glaucoma, and overexpression of StarD7 decreased the levels of total iron, Fe2+, ROS, and MDA in vitro and in vivo while increasing the expression levels of GSH, GPX4, and xCT, thereby suppressing RGC ferroptosis. Mechanistically, Glu treatment significantly reduced the expression of the Wnt signaling pathway proteins Wnt1 and β-catenin. Activating the Wnt/β-catenin pathway promoted StarD7 expression, which in turn inhibited Glu-induced ferroptosis in mRGCs.The Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway inhibits Glu-induced RGC ferroptosis by upregulating StarD7 expression, revealing the potential neuroprotective role of StarD7 in glaucoma treatment and providing a scientific basis for the development of new therapeutic strategies.Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s).
Back pain affects millions worldwide, with lumbar spine disorders (LSDs) being a major contributing factor due to the spine's critical role in supporting body weight. This study aims to improve the detection of LSDs using advanced deep learning techniques. The proposed framework introduces a novel pipeline that begins with bilateral filtering for image preprocessing, followed by segmentation using a Proposed Residual Block with Patch-based RESU-NET (PRB-PRESU-NET). Feature extraction integrates Gaussian Filter with Scharr Operator-based Gradient Local Ternary Patterns (GSO-GLTP), MT, and deep features, where the Scharr operator enhances edge detection compared to conventional Sobel filters. Finally, classification is performed using the Improved Bottle Neck-based Modified GhostNet (IBN-MGNet), which achieves a high accuracy of 0.9312, outperforming existing methods. The innovation lies in the integration of refined segmentation, feature extraction, and classification strategies, resulting in a reliable and precise system for LSD detection.
Mitochondria are composed of phospholipid bilayers rich in phosphatidylcholine (PC). StAR-related lipid transfer domain-containing protein 7 (STARD7) functions as a lipid transfer protein that plays a crucial role in maintaining mitochondrial PC homeostasis. In this study, we investigated the physiological role of STARD7 in skeletal muscle using muscle-specific knockout (mKO) mice. STARD7 expression was markedly higher in the soleus, a mitochondria-dense slow-twitch muscle, compared with fast-twitch fibers. Although muscle fibers from mKO mice exhibited no apparent structural abnormalities, their endurance exercise capacity was markedly reduced. RNA-seq analysis revealed suppressed expression of fast-twitch-related genes accompanied by a reduction in fast-twitch fibers. At the mitochondrial level, respiratory chain complexes remained intact, but oxygen consumption was consistently decreased. Targeted lipidomic analysis showed decreased levels of PC, cardiolipin (CL), and coenzyme Q in mKO mitochondria, particularly in the soleus. Conversely, expression of CL biosynthetic enzymes was unchanged, and an in vitro binding assay indicated that STARD7 preferentially transfers linoleic acid-containing PC required for CL remodeling. Furthermore, electron microscopy revealed disorganized cristae structures, whereas 4-HNE-modified proteins, mtDNA content, and OPA1 processing remained unaffected. Together, these findings demonstrate that STARD7 plays an essential role in maintaining mitochondrial integrity and function in skeletal muscle, and its loss likely contributes to the pathogenesis of mitochondrial myopathy.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
The role of phosphatidylcholine transporters such as Stard7 in intestinal cancer development is unknown. To explore this issue, we generated a mouse model lacking Stard7 in intestinal epithelial cells (IECs). Loss of Stard7 impaired mitochondrial Complex I activity, led to a severe metabolic and lipid reprogramming, enhanced mitochondrial ROS production and potentiated an mTORC1/ATF4 signature. As a result, levels of enzymes involved in serine biosynthesis were enhanced in Stard7-deficient IECs. We next assessed the consequences of Stard7 deficiency in both Wnt-dependent tumor initiation and in inflammation-driven tumor development. Strikingly, despite generating similar molecular signatures, Stard7 deficiency inhibited tumor development in Azoxymethane (AOM)/Dextran Sulfate Sodium (DSS)-treated mice but promoted Wnt-driven cancer initiation in the intestine. Apc+/Min mice lacking Stard7 in IECs developed more tumors in the distal colon as well as a specific microbiota signature. Collectively, our results suggest that the genetic status critically controls the effects of Stard7 deficiency on intestinal tumor development.© 2026. The Author(s).
Fat deposition plays a crucial role in regulating the production performance and meat quality of broilers. Although the heterogeneity of mammalian adipocytes has been extensively studied, research on the molecular mechanisms underlying differences in lipid droplet accumulation in avian adipocytes remains limited. This study confirmed a significant positive correlation (R2 > 0.81, p < 0.001) between the SSC signal and lipid droplet content via fluorescence staining of lipid droplets, Oil Red O staining, and triglyceride (TG) quantification. Based on this, a label-free sorting strategy using SSC signals was established to sort differentiated chicken preadipocytes, obtaining high lipid droplet (H) and low lipid droplet (L) subpopulations, which were subsequently subjected to transcriptome sequencing and differential gene expression (DEG) analysis, followed by GO and KEGG enrichment analysis. The results indicated no significant differences in the expression of adipogenesis marker genes (PPARG, LPL, CD36, PLIN1, PLIN2) between the high lipid droplet (H) and low lipid droplet (L) groups, suggesting that both groups are at similar stages of differentiation. KEGG analysis revealed that both the H vs. NC and L vs. NC comparisons were enriched in common pathways, including the PPAR signaling pathway, ECM-receptor interaction, focal adhesion, cytokine-receptor interaction, and calcium-Apelin signaling pathway, suggesting that both groups of cells had activated the adipogenesis program. GO analysis showed that, in both H vs. NC and L vs. NC comparisons, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were enriched in biological processes (BPs) related to cell adhesion, nucleosome assembly, chromatin remodeling, and receptor activity, as well as cellular components (CCs) such as the extracellular matrix, cytoskeleton, and nucleosome organization, indicating extensive gene reprogramming and activation of signaling transduction during differentiation. In the H vs. L comparison, enriched pathways included ABC transporters, ECM-receptor interaction, focal adhesion, gap junctions, microtubule-related processes, and neuroactive ligand-receptor interactions, involving lipid transmembrane transport, cytoskeleton stabilization, and signal transduction regulation, suggesting that high lipid droplet cells are more mature in lipid droplet transport, storage, and homeostasis maintenance. GO enrichment results further supported this conclusion, as H vs. L specifically enriched processes related to microtubule-related processes, cell cycle, and redox reactions (BPs), as well as chromosome organization, cytoskeleton, and motor activity (CC/MF), indicating that high lipid droplet cells maintain lipid droplet fusion and metabolic homeostasis via enhanced microtubule transport and antioxidant regulation. Differential gene analysis revealed that the L group upregulated genes associated with fatty acid synthesis and elongation (ACACA, FASN, SCD, FADS2, ELOVL1), cholesterol and isoprenoid biosynthesis (HMGCR, SQLE, MSMO1, DHCR7, DHCR24, FDPS, LSS), and fatty acid oxidation (PPARA, PPARD, ACAD11, SIRT5), reflecting a metabolic characteristic of concurrent lipid synthesis and mobilization; the H group, conversely, upregulated genes associated with lipid droplet formation and storage (G0S2, MOGAT1, GPAT4, PLIN4, AUP1), lipid transport (ABCA1, ABCA2, ABCG1, OSBPL3, VLDLR), and antioxidant defense (GPX3, GPX4, HMOX1), exhibiting a storage and homeostasis-oriented metabolic state. In the NC, L, and H groups, the expression of five genes-GEM, SPP1, ABCA1, PDLIM3, and ITGA8-showed a gradual increase, suggesting that these genes were associated with preadipocyte differentiation and lipid droplet deposition. In summary, although the high and low lipid droplet subpopulations of chicken preadipocytes exhibit similar differentiation states, they form distinct metabolic orientations. The L group is characterized by active lipid synthesis, fatty acid oxidation, and membrane lipid remodeling, while the H group predominantly features lipid droplet storage, lipid transport, and antioxidant homeostasis. This study highlights the molecular mechanisms underlying the metabolic heterogeneity of avian adipocytes and provides a theoretical basis for poultry fat deposition regulation and genetic improvement.
The glycolipid transfer protein (GLTP) has been proposed to function as a sensor and regulator of glycosphingolipid homeostasis in the cell, as levels of GLTP directly influence the quantities of many glycosphingolipids. Furthermore, through its interaction with the endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein vesicle-associated membrane protein-associated protein A (VAPA), GLTP may also be involved in regulating intracellular vesicular transport. Here we show that GLTP knockout (GLTP KO) leads to the sequestration of coat protein complex II coat proteins Sec23 A and Sec31 A at the ER exit sites. The intracellular localization of the small GTPase Sar1A is altered in GLTP KO cells and in cells expressing a GLTP mutant incapable of VAPA binding, indicating a correlation between the inhibition of the GLTP/VAPA interaction and the altered localization of Sar1A. We also observed alterations in the intracellular localization of the Sar1A-activating GEF Sec12 in GLTP KO cells, implying a Sec12-activating role of the GLTP/VAPA interaction. Knockout of GLTP does not alter the amounts of other lipid transfer proteins or glucosylceramide synthase, indicating that a decrease in the levels of these proteins is not responsible for the decreased glycosphingolipid levels associated with GLTP KO. We propose a role for GLTP in modulating the coat protein complex II vesicle trafficking pathway, thereby indirectly regulating the cellular glycosphingolipid homeostasis by controlling the vesicular ceramide transport from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi. Moreover, the discovery that GLTP localizes to the nucleus at the onset of the DNA-replicating S-phase of the cell cycle introduces an entirely new and unexpected dimension to GLTP's in vivo function.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To investigate whether periodontitis stage and grade are associated with circulating active lipid mediators and whether baseline lipid species predict periodontitis progression.The study included 473 Finnish participants from the Parogene cohort undergoing coronary angiography, with 12-year follow-up data available for 117 individuals. Periodontal status was assessed clinically and radiographically. Plasma ceramides (Cer) and phosphocholines (PC) were quantified by LC-MS/MS, and cardiovascular risk scores (CERT1 and CERT2) were calculated.Several Cer:Cer and Cer:PC ratios increased with periodontitis stage, grade and edentulousness, whereas most PC species decreased. Cer(d18:1/16:0)/PC(16:0/22:5), Cer(d18:1/18:0)/Cer(d18:1/24:0), Cer(d18:1/18:0)/PC(16:0/22:5) and Cer(d18:1/24:1)/PC(16:0/22:5) were associated with all periodontal measures. CERT2 was independently associated with both stage and grade. In cross-sectional analyses, periodontitis was associated with multiple lipid species both directly and indirectly through systemic inflammation. In longitudinal analyses, baseline lipid levels did not predict periodontitis progression.Periodontitis severity was found to be associated with systemic ceramide and phospholipid profiles, particularly Cer:PC ratios, whereas baseline lipid levels were not associated with subsequent disease progression. These findings suggest that systemic inflammation substantially mediates the relationship between periodontitis and circulating lipid species, linking periodontitis with broader disturbances in lipidomic homeostasis.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Clinical Periodontology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Residual cardiovascular risk persists despite optimal control of traditional risk factors. Ceramide-based lipid scores have emerged as novel biomarkers that may improve prognostic assessment in Cardiovascular Disease (CVD) and Heart Failure (HF).The literature was reviewed using PubMed, Embase, and the Cochrane Library, with all records up to October 2025 included. Terms like ceramide, ceramide ratios, CERT1, CERT2, lipidomics, cardiovascular disease, and heart failure were searched. The focus of the study was on prospective cohort studies, randomized trial substudies, and external validation analyses that linked ceramide-based scores to cardiovascular outcomes. Studies that only used experimental or preclinical models were excluded. If multiple papers came from the same group of patients, the most thorough or reliable ones were selected. Because of differences in how scores were constructed, tested, and reported, the findings were summarized qualitatively rather than conducted as a meta-analysis. Results In several studies, ceramide-based scores were consistently linked to worse cardiovascular outcomes, even after accounting for standard risk factors. CERT2 performed well in both people without heart disease and those with existing conditions. In the STABILITY trial, CERT2 predicted cardiovascular death (HR 1.47, 95% CI 1.35-1.59) and hospitalizations for Heart Failure (HR 1.56, 95% CI 1.39-1.76). Adding ceramide ratios, especially C16:0/C24:0, to existing models improved risk prediction, with net reclassification improvements up to 0.17. On the other hand, higher C24:0/C16:0 ratios were linked to lower risks of death from any cause or from heart disease. These results were similar in older adults, people with diabetes, and community groups.Ceramide-based scores reflect metabolic risks that standard lipid tests do not show. They offer extra information for predicting outcomes in different clinical situations, including heart failure.Ceramide-based lipid scores, especially CERT2 and some ceramide ratios, provide extra value for predicting cardiovascular risk beyond traditional factors. However, most evidence so far only shows associations, not cause and effect, so their use in everyday clinical care is still under investigation. More studies in different groups and randomized trials are needed before these scores can be used regularly in practice.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Elevated cholesterol levels are associated with the risk of the most socially significant cardiovascular diseases, such as atherosclerosis, ischemic heart disease, and myocardial infarction.In this study, we sought to study the genetic architecture of lipid metabolism by conducting genome-wide association studies of total cholesterol, LDL-C, and HDL-C levels in a sample of the Russian population (n = 8,732) who were not carriers of variants linked to familial hypercholesterolemia and did not take lipid-regulating agents. Based on the detected associations and machine learning methods, several polygenic score models were constructed for each lipid type, and the link between polygenic scores and atherosclerosis, ischemic heart disease, and myocardial infarction was examined in an additional sample of patients diagnosed with either of these diseases (n = 3,954).A meta-analysis of the results of the conducted genome-wide association studies showed that total cholesterol and LDL-C were largely associated with the same variants located in the HMGCR, CERT1, POLK, ANKDD1B, APOC3, BCL3, CBLC, BCAM, NECTIN2, TOMM40, APOE, APOC1, APOC4, and SMARCA4 genes, while HDL-C was associated with variants located in the LPL, ALDH1A2, LIPC, and CETP genes. Men and women differed in genetic predictors of lipid levels, with variants in the SMARCA4 and LDLR genes associated with cholesterol levels only in women.The models developed in this study consider age and a modifiable factor, BMI. Therefore, the personalized polygenic profiling approach presented in this study enables life-long CVD risk assessment.© 2026 Mamchur, Bruttan, Daniel, Kashtanova, Zelenova, Dzhumaniiazova, Ivanov, Matkava, Blinova, Mitrofanov, Golubnikova, Kumar, Maralova, Shingaliev, Ezhov, Meshkov, Chubykina, Pogorelova, Tripoten, Balahonova, Viskova, Komarova, Gurtsiev, Gomyranova, Vorobeva, Hotuleva, Kolyaskina, Yudin, Makarov, Keskinov, Kuzmina, Boytsov, Yudin and Skvortsova.
Osteosarcoma (OS) is the most common primary malignant bone cancer. Hypoxia-inducible lipid droplet-associated protein (HILPDA) promotes tumor growth, migration, and ferroptosis resistance in OS. However, the oncogenic mechanisms of HILPDA in OS are largely unexplored. Glycolytic activity was assessed by measuring glucose uptake and lactate release. Ferroptosis was evaluated by measuring ROS, MDA, Fe2+, and total iron contents. Cell proliferation was assessed via EdU incorporation assay, and tube formation ability was analyzed. Animal experiments were used to test the function in vivo. Expression analysis was performed using quantitative PCR, immunoblotting, and immunohistochemistry. The regulation of Wilms' tumor 1-associating protein (WTAP) in HILPDA was detected by methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP) assay. HILPDA and WTAP were upregulated in OS tissues. Overexpression of HILPDA or WTAP was associated with poor prognosis in OS patients. HILPDA deficiency impaired OS cell proliferation and glycolysis while promoting ferroptosis, concurrently attenuating HUVEC tube formation in vitro. Moreover, HILPDA depletion constrained the in vivo growth of HOS OS xenografts. Mechanistically, WTAP regulated HILPDA expression through an m6A-dependent manner. Additionally, HILPDA re-expression reversed sh-WTAP-mediated alterations in OS cell glycolysis and ferroptosis and HUVEC tube formation. Our findings identify the WTAP/HILPDA axis as a key regulator of OS development through coordinated control of glycolysis, ferroptosis, and angiogenesis, offering new avenues for multi-targeted therapeutic intervention in OS.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Each year, tens of millions of individuals sojourn to high-altitude environments (>2500 m), where they face the significant physiological challenge of hypoxia, a condition that often induces a range of gastrointestinal disorders. While our prior studies linked this damage to ferroptosis, the role of hypoxia-inducible lipid droplet-associated protein (HILPDA), a hypoxia inducible factor-1α/2α (HIF-1α/2α) downstream regulator, in this process remains unclear. This study aimed to explore the role and mechanism of HILPDA in regulating ferroptosis of normal human gastric and small intestinal epithelial cells (NGEC and HIEC) under hypoxic conditions. Our results found that overexpression of HIF-1α, HIF-2α, and HILPDA exacerbated hypoxia-induced cell death, which was reversed by the ferroptosis inhibitor ferrostatin-1. Knockdown of HIF-1α/2α inhibited HILPDA expression. Furthermore, knockdown of HILPDA led to a reduction of the hypoxia-induced lipid peroxidation, and the ferroptotic characteristics of cellular mitochondria observed under transmission electron microscopy. Conversely, HILPDA overexpression reversed the protective effects of HIF-1α/2α knockdown. Lipidomic analysis further revealed that HILPDA knockdown significantly decreased the levels of polyunsaturated fatty acid-phosphatidylcholines (PUFA-PCs) and phosphatidylethanolamines (PEs) under hypoxia. Compared to HIF-1α knockdown, HILPDA knockdown led to a slight difference in PUFA-PEs without significant difference in PCs and phosphatidylinositols (PIs) under hypoxia. Compared to HIF-2α knockdown, HILPDA knockdown resulted in negligible differences in PEs, PCs, and PIs. In addition, HILPDA knockdown downregulated Lysophosphatidylcholine Acyltransferase 3 (LPCAT3), and overexpression of LPCAT3 significantly attenuated the inhibitory effect of HILPDA knockdown on hypoxia-induced ferroptosis. In conclusion, HILPDA enhanced susceptibility to hypoxia-induced ferroptosis in NGEC and HIEC by enriching PUFA-containing phospholipids through LPCAT3. These findings identified the HIF-1α/2α-HILPDA-LPCAT3 axis as a pivotal pathway driving hypoxia-induced ferroptosis, therefore providing potential therapeutic targets for gastric and small intestinal mucosal injury associated with hypoxia.Copyright: © 2026 Song et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) increases liver-related mortality, and new therapies targeting its underlying mechanisms are warranted. We examined whether two lipid-droplet proteins, CIDEB and CGI-58, exert opposing control over MASH by altering cholesterol in liver lipid droplets. Using antisense oligonucleotides, we silenced CIDEB or CGI-58 in the livers of C57BL/6J mice fed a choline-deficient, L-amino acid-defined high-fat diet. CIDEB silencing decreased both triglyceride and cholesterol levels in liver lipid droplets and lowered plasma transaminases and the number of crown-like structures. These protective effects were abrogated by cholesterol supplementation. Conversely, CGI-58 knockdown raised triglyceride and cholesterol levels and exacerbated MASH; bempedoic acid, a cholesterol-synthesis inhibitor, reversed these changes. Dual CIDEB/CGI-58 silencing confirmed that CGI-58 loss abrogated the protective effects of CIDEB knockdown. Our data establish liver lipid-droplet cholesterol as a critical determinant in MASH mediated by CIDEB and CGI-58 and demonstrate that CIDEB knockdown confers protection by enhancing CGI-58-dependent lipolysis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a multifactorial autoimmune disease in which genetic and environmental factors play important role in SLE pathogenesis. Recently, cytoplasmic phosphatidylinositol transfer protein 1 (PITPNC1) was reported to be capable of enhancing vesicular secretion, which was correlated with autoimmune disorders contributing to SLE. Here, we aimed to explore the genetic association between PITPNC1 polymorphisms and SLE susceptibility. The genetic association analysis included two cohorts: a discovery cohort (490 SLE cases vs. 493 healthy controls) and replication cohort (1003 SLE cases and 815 healthy controls). rSNPBASE, RegulomeDB databases, and Three-dimensional (3D) chromatin looping data were used for functional annotation, and luciferase reporter assay was performed for validation. The expression data from ArrayExpress were used for PITPNC1 gene expression analysis. Three variants (rs4239092, p = 3.04×10-2; rs6504516, p = 3×10-2; rs2706682, p = 3.88×10-4) were significantly associated with the increased susceptibility to SLE in a previous GWAS cohort. The prominent rs2706682 was successfully replicated (p = 1.44×10-3), and the significance of genetic association was reinforced reaching 6.21×10-6 (OR 2.36, 95% CI 1.63-3.42). Functional analysis showed that rs2706682 is a regulatory SNP located within the strong transcription and enhancer chromatin state region. Further, dual-luciferase reporter gene assay demonstrated that the risk G allele correlated with increased expression. Finally, the gene expression analysis showed that the level of PITPNC1 expression was significantly higher in patients with SLE. Our study identified that the variant rs2706682 in PITPNC1, encoding an important player in enhancing extracellular vesicles, was associated with SLE susceptibility.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Aberrant lipid metabolism is closely associated with tumorigenesis and progression; however, its specific roles and molecular mechanisms in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) remain to be fully elucidated. This study aims to develop a prognostic signature based on lipid metabolism-related genes and to investigate the functional role of the key gene MBTPS2 in LUAD.Transcriptomic profiles and clinical data pertaining to LUAD were retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) (training set) and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) (external test set) repository. A lipid metabolism-related gene set was obtained from the Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) online portal. Prognostic lipid metabolism-related genes were identified through univariate Cox, followed by Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) and multivariate Cox regression analyses to construct a prognostic signature. The predictive accuracy of this model was assessed using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and time-dependent receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. Functional enrichment analysis was performed to investigate the potential biological processes associated with differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the high- and low-risk groups. The expression levels of the 12 signature genes in LUAD cell lines were quantified by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). The oncogenic functions of MBTPS2 were examined using a series of in vitro assays, including Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), wound healing and apoptosis.A prognostic signature comprising 12 lipid metabolism-related genes (HILPDA, ACHE, PPARD, ETNK1, ST3GAL2, NCOA2, HACD1, MBTPS2, UGT8, LPIN2, SPHK2, and AKR1C4) was successfully established. Based on this signature, LUAD patients were stratified into high- and low-risk subgroups. Patients in the high-risk group exhibited a significantly shorter overall survival in both the training and validation cohorts. The robust predictive capacity of the signature was confirmed by ROC curve analysis. Additionally, the risk score served as an independent prognostic factor for LUAD after adjustment for other clinical variables. MBTPS2 was found to be significantly overexpressed in LUAD tissues and cell lines at both the messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein levels. Functional assays revealed that knockdown of MBTPS2 in H1975 cells inhibited proliferative and migratory capacities and induced apoptosis, whereas its overexpression in A549 cells promoted these oncogenic phenotypes. MBTPS2 expression was also positively correlated with key lipid metabolism regulators, including SREBP1, FASN, and SCD1.This study developed and validated a novel lipid metabolism-related prognostic signature that functions as an independent indicator for LUAD patient. Furthermore, MBTPS2 was identified as an unfavorable prognostic factor that promotes proliferation, and lipid metabolism, while suppressing apoptosis in LUAD.© AME Publishing Company.
Post-infarction myocardial fibrosis is a pivotal pathological process leading to heart failure; however, its epitranscriptional regulatory mechanisms remain poorly defined. The role of the MYC-METTL1-HILPDA axis in this process remains unexplored.Myocardial infarction (MI) models were established in mice, and hypoxia-induced mouse cardiac fibroblasts were used. A range of molecular techniques, including qRT-PCR, Western blot, immunohistochemistry, RNA immunoprecipitation, chromatin immunoprecipitation, and dual-luciferase reporter assays, were employed to investigate the MYC-METTL1-HILPDA axis.Following MI, METTL1 and HILPDA were significantly upregulated in cardiac tissue. METTL1 stabilized HILPDA mRNA via m7G modification, thereby enhancing its protein expression. Functional studies demonstrated that HILPDA overexpression induced mitochondrial dysfunction and fibroblast activation, whereas HILPDA knockdown attenuated these effects. Furthermore, the transcription factor MYC was identified as an upstream regulator that directly binds the METTL1 promoter to activate its transcription. Crucially, HILPDA knockdown improved cardiac function, attenuated fibrosis, and reduced infarct size in mice.This study identifies the MYC-METTL1-HILPDA axis as a novel driver of post-infarction myocardial fibrosis, which promotes mitochondrial dysfunction and fibroblast activation through m7G-mediated stabilization of HILPDA mRNA. These findings provide new mechanistic insights and reveal potential therapeutic targets for preventing heart failure.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skeletal muscle loss is associated with cognitive decline, but whether neuroimaging-derived muscle characteristics predict incident dementia remains unclear.We evaluated associations of deep learning-derived temporalis muscle (TM) cross-sectional area (CSA) and radiomic texture features from baseline T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with incident dementia in dementia-free participants from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) (n = 750) and the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study (n = 532). TM was segmented using a convolutional neural network trained in ADNI and externally validated in ARIC. Radiomic features were reduced using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator-penalized Cox models to generate a composite score. Multivariable Cox regression adjusted for demographics, apolipoprotein E ε4, baseline cognition, body mass index, and physical performance.Higher TM radiomic scores were associated with increased dementia risk in ADNI (hazard ratio per SD, 1.32) and ARIC (1.64). Smaller TM CSA predicted dementia in ADNI but not ARIC.TM texture patterns from routine brain MRI are associated with dementia risk, supporting TM phenotyping as a scalable marker of systemic biological vulnerability.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559224 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556482 is a review article
To investigate the association between apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene polymorphisms and coronary heart disease (CHD) risk within a localized Mongolian clinical cohort.This hospital-based case-control study recruited 63 patients with angiographically confirmed CHD and 61 sex-matched healthy controls. Anthropometric measurements and lipid profiles and pathways for APOE genotypes were strictly assessed. This exploratory hospital-based case-control study was not designed as a nationally representative population-based survey, and participant recruitment was limited to a single tertiary referral center in Mongolia.High-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were significantly higher in the case group than in the control group (1.56 ± 0.14 vs. 1.33 ± 0.18 mmol/L, P < .001), while total cholesterol was significantly lower in cases than in controls (3.91 ± 0.60 vs. 5.34 ± 0.80 mmol/L, P < .001). The distribution of APOE genotypes (ε2/ε3, ε3/ε3, ε3/ε4, and ε4/ε4) differed significantly between the case and control groups (P = .009). Both systolic and diastolic blood pressure significantly correlated with waist circumference (P = .026). Multivariable logistic regression revealed that the ε2/ε3 genotype was associated with significantly lower odds of disease (odds ratio [OR] = 0.29, P = .007, 95% CI: 0.12-0.71), whereas ε4-related findings were highly imprecise due to sparse genotype counts and lacked statistical significance (OR = 1.07, P = .930, 95% CI: 0.23-5.02).This study showed a significant association between the APOE genotype and CHD in a Mongolian population. These findings highlight the importance of considering qualitative aspects of lipid metabolism, rather than total cholesterol alone, and suggest that genetic factors, including APOE polymorphisms, may contribute to CHD risk independently of absolute cholesterol levels, underscoring the need for population-specific cardiovascular risk assessment.
African Americans (AAs) face a higher risk of Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) than European Americans (EUs), yet the utility of polygenic risk scores (PRS) in AAs remains underexplored.A standardized dementia PRS was evaluated in the Chicago Health and Aging Project (n = 4336; 61% AA) for associations with ADRD and cognitive trajectories over 8.4 years.PRS predicted ADRD more strongly in EUs (c-index 0.86) than AAs (0.77); however, it conferred higher risk in AAs (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.36, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.04-1.78) compared to EU (HR = 1.13, 95% CI: 0.88-1.44). The PRS remained predictive among AAs after apolipoprotein E (APOE) ε4 adjustment (HR = 1.53, 95% CI: 1.03-2.27). Higher PRS associated with lower baseline cognition and faster decline (p < 0.05).PRS conferred greater ADRD risk in AAs and comparable rates of cognitive decline, despite stronger discrimination in EUs, adding to the limited knowledge of genetic contributions to ADRD risk among AAs beyond APOE ε4 alleles.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Although immunotherapy has revolutionized cancer treatment, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) continues to demonstrate limited clinical responses, highlighting the urgent need for novel immunomodulatory strategies. Trained immunity, an emerging paradigm wherein innate immune cells develop a memory-like phenotype through epigenetic and metabolic reprogramming, offers a promising avenue to remodel the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. This study investigated whether β-glucan-induced trained immunity could potentiate antitumor immunity against HCC.We established orthotopic HCC mouse models to investigate the role of trained immunity induced by whole β-glucan particle (WGP) in the HCC microenvironment, particularly in modulating hepatic apolipoprotein E (APOE)-positive monocytes/macrophages. Transcriptional changes in trained monocytes/macrophages were identified by analyzing single-cell RNA sequencing and bulk RNA-sequencing data from the livers of WGP-treated and control mice. Mechanistic studies were performed using Apoe -/- mice and in situ monocyte/macrophage engineering. Flow cytometry was performed to assess immune cell phenotypes and phagocytosis, while luminescence-based assays were used to evaluate cytotoxic activity. The translational potential was assessed using human monocyte training assays.This study demonstrated that preconditioning with WGP, a trained immunity inducer, increased the accumulation of trained monocytes/macrophages in the liver and suppressed tumor progression in HCC mouse models. Mechanistically, WGP-trained APOE+ monocytes/macrophages exhibited a decrease in lipid accumulation and endoplasmic reticulum stress, thereby enhancing their antitumor function. Genetic deletion of Apoe in monocytes/macrophages abrogated the antitumor effects of WGP, demonstrating that APOE+ monocytes/macrophages are essential mediators of WGP-induced trained immunity. Adoptive transfer of WGP-trained bone marrow-derived macrophages suppressed the growth of HCC in recipient mice. Furthermore, WGP induced trained immunity in human monocytes, leading to enhanced killing of HCC cells. Notably, combination therapy with WGP and anti-programmed death-ligand 1 antibody achieved superior tumor control compared with either monotherapy.These findings identify a critical role for trained APOE+ monocytes/macrophages in WGP-mediated antitumor immunity in the liver. Harnessing WGP-induced peripheral trained immunity represents a novel therapeutic strategy for HCC.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) represents a distinct subtype of lung cancer, diverging significantly from lung adenocarcinoma. It demonstrates the ability to evade the immune system before the tumor has even begun to infiltrate. However, our understanding of these immune evasion mechanisms in LUSC is still in its infancy, calling for more intensive research.The expression levels of FAT atypical cadherin 2 (FAT2) and mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 3 (SMAD3) in LUSC were assessed by bioinformatics analysis, with the correlation between FAT2 and CD8+ T cell infiltration examined. The FAT2 expression and immune cell infiltration in clinical samples were analyzed via immunohistochemistry. FAT2, SMAD3, and programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) expressions were determined using quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. The interplay between FAT2 and SMAD3 was elucidated through chromatin immunoprecipitation and dual-luciferase reporter gene assays. The mechanism by which FAT2 activates the Wnt/β-catenin pathway to induce PD-L1 expression was further validated by TOPFlash/FOPFlash dual-luciferase reporter assays and chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by quantitative PCR. After culturing tumor cells alongside CD8+ T cells, the effect of SMAD3-activated FAT2 on PD-L1-mediated immune escape was tested through Cell Counting Kit-8 and lactate dehydrogenase detection and evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The rescue experiments were designed by introducing Wnt pathway inhibitors to determine whether FAT2 affected PD-L1 expression through the Wnt pathway. Based on a mouse transplant tumor model, we verified the effect of knockdown of FAT2 and combination therapy with anti-PD-L1 on tumor growth.An upregulation of FAT2 in LUSC was observed, which showed a negative correlation with CD8+ T cell infiltration. High FAT2 expression was linked to increased PD-L1 levels, which suppressed the anti-tumor immune function of CD8+ T cells. SMAD3 was found to bind to the FAT2 promoter, stimulating its transcription. Rescue experiments illustrated that FAT2 overexpression could neutralize the positive impact of SMAD3 knockdown on the immune response of CD8+ T cells. In further research, FAT2 was found to mainly promote PD-L1 expression by activating the Wnt pathway. In addition, animal experiments demonstrated that the combination therapy of knocking down FAT2 and anti-PD-L1 significantly repressed LUSC growth.In summary, this study elucidated the important role of SMAD3 activation of FAT2 expression in LUSC immune escape and proposed a combined immune strategy targeting the FAT2/PD-L1 axis. The study can provide a new direction for the clinical intervention of LUSC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cadherin-2 (CDH2) has been implicated in angiogenesis-related tumor biology, but its microenvironmental significance remains unclear. To clarify the role of CDH2 in a biologically informative setting, we used a two-round site-selection strategy and identified pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) as the final study context. Integrative single-cell, spatial, and regulatory analyses were then performed to define the cellular localization and biological meaning of CDH2 in the PDAC microenvironment. CDH2 was reproducibly localized to a fibroblast-associated stromal compartment rather than to a broadly endothelial compartment. Within fibroblasts, CDH2-positive cells were enriched for extracellular matrix remodeling, mesenchymal activation, wound-healing, angiogenesis-related, and TGF-beta-associated programs, supporting a coherent stromal remodeling state. Additional cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF) subtype signature analysis indicated that this state preferentially overlapped with a myofibroblastic CAF-like (myCAF-like)/extracellular matrix-remodeling CAF-like program rather than a dominant inflammatory or antigen-presenting CAF-like program. Communication analysis further showed that CDH2-positive fibroblasts occupied a primarily inter-compartmental, sender-dominant, extracellular matrix-centered signaling niche characterized by prominent collagen-, fibronectin-, and laminin-related interactions with stromal, malignant, myeloid, and endothelial-associated compartments. Spatial transcriptomic mapping supported tissue-level concordance between the CDH2-associated fibroblast state and an extracellular matrix-centered stromal program. Regulatory and counterfactual attenuation analyses further implicated candidate upstream regulators, including RUNX2, SMAD3, and TCF21. Together, these findings indicate that, in PDAC, CDH2 marks a fibroblast-associated CAF-like stromal cell state linked to extracellular matrix remodeling rather than to a directly vascular-centered program.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Human Cell Society.
Atherosclerosis (AS) is a major cause of cardiovascular diseases, with OX-LDL-induced VSMC dysfunction being a critical pathogenic driver of AS development. Saikosaponin D (SSD), a bioactive compound, shows therapeutic potential, but its mechanism in AS is unclear.An atherosclerotic cell model was established by treating hVSMCs with OX-LDL. Intracellular ROS was detected via a fluorescent probe, MDA content and SOD activity via biochemical kits. Inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-8 and TNF-α) were quantified by ELISA. Lipid parameters (TG, LDL and HDL) were analysed biochemically, and intracellular lipid accumulation was assessed via Oil Red O staining. Autophagy (LC3B and p62) and senescence-related (p16 and p21) protein expression was detected by WB, with cellular senescence further assessed via SA-β-gal staining. SSD's potential targets were predicted via bioinformatics (CTD, SwissTargetPrediction and GeneCards). SSD-EPHB2 interaction was predicted by AutoDock Vina docking (visualised by PyMOL), and its stability was evaluated by using iMODS-based NMA. EPHB2's functional role was confirmed via its overexpression in hVSMCs.SSD significantly attenuated OX-LDL-induced oxidative stress, inflammation, lipid accumulation, autophagic flux impairment and cellular senescence in hVSMCs. Bioinformatics analysis pinpointed EPHB2 as a hub gene. Molecular studies confirmed that SSD directly binds to EPHB2 and downregulates its expression. Crucially, overexpressing EPHB2 abolished all the protective effects of SSD.SSD alleviates OX-LDL-induced hVSMC dysfunction by inhibiting EPHB2, highlighting the SSD-EPHB2 pathway as a potential therapeutic target for AS.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is the most prevalent cardiomyopathy and a leading cause of heart failure worldwide. Midkine (MDK), a conserved heparin-binding growth factor with antiapoptotic, proangiogenic, anti-infective, and proinflammatory functions, has been implicated in inflammatory and fibrotic diseases. Its specific roles and mechanisms in DCM pathogenesis remain unclear.A doxorubicin (DOX)-induced mouse model and DOX-treated HL-1 cardiomyocytes were used to investigate the effects of MDK on DCM progression. Myocardial injury and fibrosis were evaluated using hematoxylin and eosin (HE), Picrosirius Red (PSR), and Masson's trichrome staining. MDK and Neurexin-1 (NRXN1) localization in cardiac tissues was assessed through immunofluorescence. Cell viability, apoptosis, and surface area were measured by Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), flow cytometry, TUNEL, and Actin-Red staining. mRNA and protein levels were quantified by RT-qPCR and western blotting.MDK expression was significantly elevated in both DOX-induced DCM and HL-1 cells. Exogenous MDK administration aggravated myocardial injury, interstitial fibrosis, and cardiomyocyte apoptosis in vivo, and reduced cell viability while increasing apoptosis and cell surface in vitro. Mechanistically, MDK markedly enhanced DOX-induced upregulation of NRXN1, IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, NLRP3, ANP, BNP, NEU1, cleaved caspase-1/caspase-1, cleaved IL-1β, cleaved caspase-3/caspase-3; while attenuating DOX-induced downregulation of NRG1, NEXN, and SYNE1 in vivo and in vitro.MDK promotes DCM-associated heart failure through NRXN1 upregulation and enhanced inflammatory responses, highlighting itself as a potential therapeutic target for DCM.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Mutations in the human neurexin 1 (NRXN1) gene are associated with neurodevelopmental disorders including autism and schizophrenia. Vertebrate NRXN1 produces three major NRXN1 isoforms, referred to as α, β and γ. Human genetic data suggest that deletions located at the 5' region of the gene disrupting the α isoform associate mostly with clinical behavioral deficits. Yet, 3' deletions that disrupt multiple isoforms have also been identified in clinical cases. Whether deletions that selectively affect specific NRXN1 isoforms result in specific behavioral deficits remains unclear. Here, combining larval sensorimotor assays with a custom hands-free social preference assay developed for juvenile zebrafish, we show that zebrafish harboring Nrxn1 deletions that differentially encompass α, β and/or γ isoforms display both unique and overlapping locomotion, sensorimotor behavior, and social behavior deficits. Combined, our results strongly support a model by which domain-selective nrxn1 deletions predict behavioral phenotypes. Moreover, our results demonstrate compelling relationships between genotype and resulting behavioral phenotypes, providing functional insights into the complexity of NRXN1-associated neuropsychiatric behaviors.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42211283 is a review article
Angiogenesis is a fundamental process in cancer progression, but computational prioritization of angiogenesis-associated genes often relies on predefined gene sets or canonical signaling pathways, limiting the identification of non-canonical and context-dependent regulatory programs. To address this limitation, we developed a literature-guided integrative transcriptomic framework to prioritize angiogenesis-associated candidates across heterogeneous cancer types. The framework integrates bibliometric trend profiling, pan-cancer gene expression analysis, survival association assessment, tumor microenvironment-related transcriptional characterization, and functional enrichment analysis. Rather than prespecifying angiogenic regulators, candidate genes were prioritized through convergence across these complementary evidence layers. Across diverse cancer cohorts, the framework consistently identified cadherin 2 (CDH2) as a representative non-canonical angiogenesis-associated signal. CDH2-associated transcriptional programs were enriched in extracellular matrix organization, cell-cell adhesion, and structural remodeling processes, and tumor microenvironment analyses indicated preferential alignment with stromal and vascular-associated features, particularly cancer-associated fibroblast-related signatures, rather than immune-dominant profiles. In independent external glioma cohorts, CDH2 showed a non-uniform and context-dependent relationship with vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA)-associated transcriptional patterns, while CDH2-high tumors reproducibly exhibited higher extracellular matrix remodeling, adhesion/focal adhesion, epithelial-mesenchymal transition, and angiogenesis-related signature scores. In an independent Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas cohort, higher CDH2 expression was also associated with worse overall survival in a lower-grade glioma-preferred subset. Collectively, this study demonstrates the utility of a knowledge-guided integrative transcriptomic framework for prioritizing angiogenesis-associated genes beyond canonical regulators and highlights structure-oriented, non-canonical angiogenesis-related programs as reproducible biological signals.© 2026. The Author(s).
The salutary effects of physical exercise in mitigating metabolic disorders, particularly type 2 diabetes, are well recognized. Several studies have demonstrated that endurance training boosts the production of exercise-induced myokines, which are pivotal for interorgan communication enhancing insulin sensitivity. However, several challenges, including an incomplete understanding of underlying molecular mechanisms, hinder their therapeutic application. Here, we have identified a potential exercise-induced mediator, neuroligin-3 (NLGN3), that enhances insulin sensitivity and abrogates inflammation. Mechanistic studies in white adipocytes revealed that NLGN3 interacts with neurexin-3 (NRXN3) to modulate their function and insulin sensitivity, while in macrophages, NLGN3 engages with NRXN1 to attenuate inflammation and promote an anti-inflammatory phenotype. Administration of NLGN3 in high-fat diet (HFD)-fed mice significantly ameliorated obesity-induced visceral adipose tissue dysfunction and insulin insensitivity; however, these attributes are markedly abolished in NRXN1/3-deficient mice. In addition, elevated serum NLGN3 levels following swimming exercise training correlated with improved metabolic outcomes in HFD-fed obese diabetic mice. These findings suggest that NLGN3 may serve as a key mediator of exercise-induced metabolic benefits and highlight the NLGN3-NRXN1/3 pathway as a promising target for managing obesity-induced insulin resistance.This study aimed to identify novel exercise-induced myokines and their role in improving insulin sensitivity and reducing inflammation. We identified neuroligin-3 (NLGN3) as an exercise-induced mediator that enhances insulin sensitivity and alleviates inflammation. Exercise-induced NLGN3 upregulation or recombinant NLGN3 administration improved metabolic function in high-fat diet-fed mice via neurexin-1 and -3 (NRXN1/3), but these benefits were lost upon NRXN1/3 ablation. NLGN3 emerges as a key mediator of exercise-driven metabolic benefits and a promising therapeutic target for obesity-associated insulin resistance.© 2026 by the American Diabetes Association.
FAT atypical cadherin 2 (FAT2), a member of the protocadherin superfamily involved in cell adhesion and polarity, remains incompletely characterized in breast cancer. This study aimed to elucidate the expression pattern, clinical significance, and functional mechanisms of FAT2 in breast cancer.FAT2 expression and clinicopathological associations were analyzed using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) dataset. Recombinant FAT2 protein was generated, and its effects on migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) were assessed in HER2-positive breast cancer cell lines (BT-474 and MDA-MB-453). Downstream effectors were identified through gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) combined with correlation analysis and validated by gain- and loss-of-function experiments. Immunohistochemical analysis of 31 paired clinical specimens was performed to corroborate the in vitro findings.FAT2 mRNA was significantly downregulated in breast cancer tissues and was associated with advanced clinical stage, higher T stage, and negative hormone receptor status. High FAT2 expression correlated with longer overall survival, particularly in the ER-positive subgroup. Functionally, recombinant FAT2 protein inhibited cell migration and invasion at sub-cytotoxic concentrations and reversed the EMT phenotype. Integrative bioinformatics analysis identified the tight junction protein CLDN19 as a key downstream effector of FAT2, and rescue experiments demonstrated that CLDN19 knockdown markedly attenuated FAT2-mediated anti-migratory and anti-EMT effects. Immunohistochemical analysis validated the concurrent downregulation and strong positive correlation of FAT2 and CLDN19 in clinical specimens.FAT2 functions as a tumor suppressor in breast cancer by inhibiting migration, invasion, and EMT through transcriptional upregulation of CLDN19. The FAT2-CLDN19 axis represents a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for anti-metastatic intervention in breast cancer.Copyright © 2026 Xie, Lu, Li and Xu.
The hippocampus participates in crucial functions such as memory consolidation, spatial processing and emotional regulation that require diverse input from multiple cortical areas that is funneled through the upper layers of the entorhinal cortex (EC), mostly from layer II to the dentate gyrus (DG). Traditional models of the hippocampal formation described 200,000 EC layer II neurons projecting to 1 million granule cells (GCs) in the rat, rendering low divergence (1:5), with each EC neuron establishing about 18,000 synapses with GCs and each GC receiving about 4000 synapses from EC neurons. In this manuscript, we update this model of connectivity incorporating new features described in the last three decades that include updated populations of EC layer II neurons obtained with design-based stereology, a revised definition of EC layer II based on molecular criteria and selecting reelin expressing neurons as the only layer II neurons projecting to the hippocampus. The updated model shows ~80,000 neurons from EC layer II projecting to the DG, ~45,000 from the medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) and ~35,000 from the lateral entorhinal cortex (LEC) with high divergence of 1:20 and 1:30. We also show that EC layer II neurons may establish ~90,000-115,000 synapses on GCs, while GCs receive about 8000 synapses from EC layer II neurons. We estimate a ~25% redundancy in the connectivity, so each EC neuron may contact ~68,000-86,000 GCs and each GC would be contacted by ~3000 neurons from MEC and 3000 from LEC. In addition, we quantitatively assess a potential projection of mossy cells to the middle molecular layer described in mice, which could have an impact on GC inhibition. Overall, we produced a detailed, complete, and updated quantitative model of EC projections to the DG that reveals a much more divergent and richer projection than previously described, with implications for functional models (e.g., pattern separation) and more widely for building realistic hippocampal models or establishing comparisons across species.© 2026 The Author(s). Hippocampus published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
β-catenin-coding gene CTNNB1 is a top-ranking risk gene for autism and intellectual disability. To better understand how CTNNB1 haploinsufficiency is involved in the pathophysiology of neurodevelopmental disorders, we generated a new mouse model that enables Ctnnb1 deletion in forebrain excitatory neurons starting at embryonic corticogenesis. Behavioural assays of the Ctnnb1 conditional knockout (cKO) mice revealed significant fear memory deficits, despite normal social preference, anxiety, spatial and recognition memory. Pyramidal neurons in prefrontal cortex (PFC) of Ctnnb1 cKO mice exhibited the significantly elevated intrinsic excitability but markedly decreased AMPA receptor-mediated synaptic response, while GABAA or NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic response was unchanged. Gene profiling revealed the significantly reduced mRNA level of Syp (encoding Synaptophysin) and Nlng2 (encoding Neuroligin-2) in PFC of Ctnnb1 cKO mice, while most of other screened genes were unchanged. These results suggest that β-catenin deficiency in forebrain excitatory neurons leads to fear conditioning impairment, which could be contributed by the diminished excitatory synaptic transmission in PFC resulting from disrupted synaptic gene expression.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain.
Neural circuit assembly requires precise coordinated interactions between developing neurons and the vasculature; yet, the instructive signals provided by endothelial cells remain largely unknown. Here, we find a vascular-to-neural signaling axis that orchestrates postnatal cerebellar development. Endothelial-specific deletion of the adapter protein Dab1 (Dab1iΔEC) in mice disrupts vascular patterning and uncouples the growth of major cerebellar neuronal populations. We show that endothelial Dab1 in the cerebellum drives secretion of the morphogen Wnt5a, which acts through Frizzled-2 to restrain granule-cell progenitor proliferation and promotes Purkinje cell dendritic maturation. Endothelial Wnt5a deletion phenocopies Dab1iΔEC defects, whereas exogenous Wnt5a restores normal progenitor dynamics in Dab1iΔEC cerebellar slices, demonstrating pathway sufficiency. Functionally, loss of this vascular signal impairs Purkinje cell firing, diminishes parallel-fiber input, reduces synapse formation from both parallel and climbing fibers, and disrupts long-term plasticity. These findings indicate a key instructive role for blood vessels in shaping cerebellar architecture and establishing functional circuit connectivity.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Since the discovery of the first antipsychotic, pharmacological treatment of schizophrenia (SCZ) has primarily relied on dopamine D2 receptor antagonist. However, variability in treatment responses highlights the need for novel biomarkers and therapeutics targets. Here, we developed a dual-hit mouse model combining maternal immune activation (MIA) induced by polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (Poly(I:C)) with adolescent exposure to Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the main psychoactive component of cannabis. We evaluated the face validity of this model and investigated potential alterations in the Reelin signaling pathway. Behaviorally, the dual-hit condition induced alterations across multiple domains, including social deficits and increased repetitive behavior, consistent with schizophrenia-relevant phenotypes. These effects were particularly evident in males, supporting a domain-specific interaction between prenatal immune activation and adolescent THC exposure rather than a uniform synergistic effect. Structurally, THC exposure was associated with reduced cortical thickness, while dual-hit mice showed decreased dendritic spine density in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. At the molecular level, Reelin pathway alterations were observed in a sex-dependent manner. In males, reduced Reelin levels were most prominent following THC exposure alone, whereas in females, a general reduction was observed across treatment groups. Additionally, a decrease in the number of Reelin-positive cells was detected. These findings indicate that adolescent THC exposure is a major driver of Reelin alterations, with prenatal immune activation potentially modulating this effect. Overall, this model recapitulates selective SCZ-relevant phenotypes and highlights the complex, domain-specific interaction between environmental risk factors. Our results support a role for Reelin signaling alterations in SCZ-related processes, while emphasizing that their contribution depends on the nature and timing of environmental insults.Abbreviations: Poly(I:C): polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid; THC: Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol; GD: gestational day; PD: postnatal day; PFC: prefrontal cortex; HP: hippocampus. Created with Biorender.com.© 2026. The Author(s).
Reelin signaling regulates multiple pathways in neurodegenerative conditions, including neuronal migration, synaptic plasticity, tau phosphorylation, and amyloidogenic processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP). This study aimed to investigate the impact of reelin downregulation on the expression of topoisomerase IIβ (topo IIβ), given its crucial role in neuronal differentiation and its established association with neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Furthermore, we sought to elucidate the potential relationship between reelin downregulation and proteins implicated in the pathophysiology of AD. Firstly, the optimum concentration of small interfering RNAs (siRNA) targeting reelin was transfected into SH-SY5Y cells using Lipofectamine RNAiMAX reagent. The downregulation of reelin was confirmed at the mRNA level by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Reelin-mediated molecular alterations at both the mRNA and protein levels were analyzed by qRT-PCR and Western blotting. Reelin downregulation led to a decrease in the number of viable cells as determined by the MTT assay. Consistent with the downregulation of reelin gene expression, topo IIβ, Psen1, and BACE1 expressions were also reduced, whereas tau and APP expressions were upregulated. Although siRNA treatment effectively decreased reelin mRNA levels and the proteolytic fragment of reelin protein, no significant change was observed in total full-length reelin protein levels, suggesting the involvement of post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms. Moreover, pTAU and APP protein expressions were increased, while Nurr1 protein was decreased in reelin-silenced cells. These findings suggest that downregulation of reelin gene expression may contribute to neurodegeneration through alterations in topo IIβ and nurr1 expression, in addition to changes in proteins associated with AD pathology.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Optic nerve injury induces rapid retinal neurodegeneration; however, how distinct retinal cell type responses are coordinated from the hyperacute injury phase to the early repair phase remains incompletely understood. In this study, to explore the dynamic changes in intercellular and intracellular signaling events between different cell types and elucidate their potential roles in retinal ganglion cell survival and early repair, we generated a time-resolved single-nucleus RNA sequencing atlas of adult male mouse retinas across five hyperacute-to-acute timepoints (2 hours, 8 hours, 1 day, 3 days, and 7 days) following optic nerve injury. Using computational network analysis, we reconstructed dynamic cell-to-cell communication and subsequent internal genetic responses among retinal ganglion cells, Müller glia, microglia, and endothelial cells. Distinct stage-specific intercellular communication networks were identified, including transient Itgb1-associated signaling between Müller glia and retinal ganglion cells that peaked at early timepoints, enhanced Nrxn1-Nlgn1-mediated signaling in endothelial cells during the acute phase, and sustained Sema6a-Plxna4 interactions in microglia through day 7. Functional pathway analysis linked these signaling events to focal adhesion, energy metabolism, immune regulation, and cell adhesion pathways. Multiplex immunofluorescence further validated the temporal dynamics and spatial localization of key signaling molecules, including Itgb1, Nlgn1, and Plxna4, consistent with the transcriptomic findings. Collectively, these results delineate a coordinated hyperacute-to-acute neuro-glial-vascular signaling network that supports retinal ganglion cell survival and identify potential molecular targets for therapeutic intervention following optic nerve injury.Copyright © 2026 Neural Regeneration Research.
Precise regulation of excitatory-inhibitory balance is critical for neural circuit function, and its disruption underlies neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and epilepsy. PX-RICS, a major ARHGAP32 splice variant enriched at inhibitory synapses, has been linked to cognitive dysfunctions; however, the molecular basis of its synaptic targeting and function remains unknown. Here, we identify gephyrin as the primary synaptic anchor for PX-RICS and determine the 2.2 Å crystal structure of their complex. Our structural analysis reveals that the N-terminal gephyrin-binding region (GBR) engages gephyrin E-domain through conserved hydrophobic interactions, explaining the isoform-specific targeting of PX-RICS (but not RICS) to inhibitory synapses. This binding interface overlaps with the neurotransmitter receptor binding site on gephyrin, suggesting a competitive yet dynamic interaction landscape among these inhibitory synaptic proteins. Arhgap32ΔGBR mice exhibit key features of ARHGAP32-related disorders, including impaired social novelty recognition and increased seizure susceptibility, indicating that gephyrin-mediated anchoring is critical for PX-RICS to function in inhibitory synapses.
Alzheimer's disease is associated with synaptic dysfunction, but standardized procedures for evaluating how Aβ-induced pathology affects inhibitory synapse-associated proteins and autophagy-related signaling after candidate intervention remain limited. This protocol describes a workflow for establishing an Aβ1-42-induced Alzheimer's disease-like mouse model and assessing the effects of triptolide on hippocampal Gephyrin, Collybistin, PI3K/Akt/GSK-3β signaling, and autophagy-related markers. Adult C57BL/6J mice receive bilateral intracerebroventricular injection of Aβ1-42 prepared under aggregation-inducing conditions, followed by daily intraperitoneal administration of triptolide with or without the PI3K inhibitor LY294002. Spatial learning and memory are evaluated using Morris water maze testing. Hippocampal neuronal injury and Aβ deposition are assessed by hematoxylin and eosin staining and Aβ immunohistochemistry, and hippocampal lysates are analyzed by Western blotting to quantify Gephyrin, phosphorylated Gephyrin, Collybistin, PI3K/Akt/GSK-3β signaling proteins, LC3-II/I, and p62. Key procedural considerations include standardized Aβ1-42 preparation, accurate stereotaxic injection, consistent behavioral testing conditions, blinded region-of-interest selection, and standardized image and densitometry analysis. Using this workflow, Aβ1-42 administration produced spatial learning and memory deficits, hippocampal neuronal injury, Aβ deposition, reduced Gephyrin and Collybistin expression, altered PI3K/Akt/GSK-3β signaling, and increased LC3-II/I and p62 accumulation. Triptolide partially reversed these behavioral, histological, and molecular changes, whereas LY294002 attenuated its effects. This protocol can be used to evaluate Aβ-induced hippocampal molecular alterations and candidate interventions, while recognizing that this model does not reproduce the chronic, multifactorial progression of human Alzheimer's disease.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42440017 is a review article
Closed head injury (CHI) is often considered to cause mild brain injury without overt cortical lesions. However, synaptic pathology following CHI, particularly in different phase, remains poorly understood. In this study, we investigate temporal changes in synaptic protein expression and microglial responses following CHI. Our results show a selective loss of inhibitory presynaptic marker vGAT, accompanied by transient increases in excitatory postsynaptic markers PSD-95 and gephyrin. Notably, these changes occur alongside a peak in microglial activation at 3 days post-injury (dpi). Bulk RNA sequencing analysis identified TREM2 as a prominently upregulated microglia-associated gene during the acute phase of injury. Loss of TREM2 in knockout mice (TREM2-/-) resulted in attenuated microglial activation, impaired accumulation at the injury site, and reduced expression of response-related genes, including Cx3cr1 and Cd68. Additionally, C1q, a key component in synaptic pruning, exhibited altered expression and spatial distribution in TREM2-deficient mice, suggesting a potential TREM2-dependent role in regulating microglial responses and synaptic alterations after CHI. These findings highlight TREM2 as a critical modulator of microglial function and synaptic remodeling following brain injury.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Maternal immune activation (MIA) is associated with increased risk of neurodevelopmental disorders, including schizophrenia. Research demonstrates sex-specific responses to MIA, yet how MIA interacts with intrinsic sex differences during brain development remains unclear. Here, we investigated how poly(I:C)-induced MIA alters metabolic, epigenetic and inhibitory developmental trajectories. Female, but not male, poly(I:C) offspring exhibited an object location memory deficit, implicating the hippocampus as a vulnerable region. Using RNA sequencing of the prenatal hippocampus, we identified a pronounced female-specific transcriptional response to MIA, with enrichment of mitochondrial and chromatin-related pathways. Concurrently, intrinsic sex differences indicated divergent metabolic/mitochondrial maturation, such as increased expression of Ppargc1a (encoding peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-α) and increased antioxidant activity in females compared to males, consistent with greater metabolic capacity. MIA interacted with these trajectories, producing sex-dependent effects on mitochondrial dynamics which coincided with signatures of a more permissive chromatin state, including reduced histone deacetylase activity, increased histone acetylation and reduced H3K27 methylation. In adulthood, MIA offspring showed altered chloride transporter expression, with a shift toward NKCC1 (a molecular driver of the GABAergic switch) and evidence of promoter-level epigenetic regulation, most evident in females. This coincided with reduced clusters of the scaffolding protein gephyrin in adolescent poly(I:C) females, consistent with altered inhibitory synapse maturation. Together, these findings indicate that sex-specific metabolic programming shapes the neurodevelopmental response to MIA and contributes to the observed sex differences in brain and behavioural response. Understanding typical sex differences in mitochondrial development is critical for predicting vulnerability and informing therapeutic treatment.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
GABAergic synaptic inhibition is heterogenous across neuronal compartments, and plays a critical role in shaping local, cellular and circuit excitability. In pyramidal neurons, inhibition is mediated by GABAA receptors (GABAARs) clustered at the inhibitory postsynaptic domain (iPSD). Synaptic strength depends not only on the number of GABAARs within the iPSD, but also on their precise nanoscale organization into discrete sub-synaptic domains (SSDs). These SSDs often align with presynaptic GABA release sites to form nanocolumn structures that enhance synaptic efficacy. While nanocolumn organization is increasingly recognized as a key determinant of synaptic function, most studies of GABAergic synapses have focused on archetypal dendritic synapses, which control the plasticity and integration of excitatory inputs. Nonetheless, it remains unclear whether somatic synapses - which deliver and provide robust inhibition to suppress neuronal output - share a similar nanoscale organization. Here, we used complementary super-resolution imaging approaches to directly compare inhibitory synapses in somatic and dendritic compartments. We found that somatic synapses are larger and exhibit greater structural diversity and nanoscale complexity than dendritic synapses. Dendritic synapses display relatively compact architectures with GABAAR SSDs frequently arranged into nanocolumns. In contrast, somatic synapses show a broader range of organizations, including aligned nanocolumns as well as more disorganized configurations with additional misaligned release sites or receptor SSDs. Computational modeling revealed that these structural differences produce distinct functional outcomes, including increased IPSC amplitude and altered kinetics at somatic synapses. Together, our findings demonstrate that nanoscale organization differentially shapes inhibitory strength and signaling properties across neuronal compartments.
Membrane protein trafficking is essential for synaptic growth, maintenance, function, and plasticity, and involves the regulated exocytosis and endocytosis of proteins to and from the pre- and post-synaptic membranes. Defects in the clearance of membrane proteins can lead to the accumulation of ubiquitinated membrane proteins and contribute to neurodegenerative disease. The ESCRT (endosomal sorting complexes required for transport) machinery binds and sorts ubiquitinated membrane proteins into lysosomes for degradation, yet the presence and function of ESCRTs in sorting ubiquitinated AMPA and other receptors at the post-synapse remain unclear. Here we show that the ubiquitin-binding ESCRT-0 protein, Hrs, localizes to both pre- and post-synapses, and levels are modulated by neuronal activity, increasing and decreasing with higher and lower neuronal activity, respectively. Phosphoproteomic profiling of Hrs-depleted post-synaptic membranes revealed a role for Hrs in glutamatergic synaptic transmission, including long-term potentiation. In addition, Hrs-depleted neurons showed faster AMPAR current kinetics and reduced amplitude in whole-cell patch-clamp recordings. Genetic deletion of neuronal Hgs in mice led to reductions in phosphorylated CaMKII-α and -β (T286/T287) and structural proteins, PSD-95 and gephyrin, suggestive of LTD (long-term depression)-like synaptic depression. In contrast, Hrs overexpression led to increases in Ca2+-dependent signaling, including protein kinase C (PKC) and PKC substrate, AMPAR subunit GluA1-S831, a site which increases conductance. Together, these findings identify a dynamic, bidirectional role for Hrs at the post-synapse as it both senses and is modulated by neuronal activity, ultimately impacting excitatory synaptic strength.
Epilepsy, a common neurological disorder is frequently linked to genetic variants in synaptic proteins. Here, we describe a de novo pathogenic missense variant in the gephyrin G-domain (G134R) identified in an individual with developmental delay, epileptic seizures, microcephaly, dysmorphic features and short stature. Functional analyses reveal that G134R disrupts higher-order oligomerization, leading to impaired liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) and synaptic clustering. Recombinant G134R-gephyrin variant forms lower oligomers and retains only 60% of its molybdenum cofactor (Moco) synthesis activity while binding to glycine receptor models is unaffected. In non-neuronal cells, G134R fails to oligomerize beyond dimers with Moco synthesis activity reduced to 5%. In neurons, G134R is unable to form synaptic clusters and exerts a dominant-negative effect on WT-gephyrin, severely disrupting inhibitory synapse formation. Our findings highlight a critical role for the G-domain in gephyrin self-assembly and LLPS, shifting the focus from the E-domain-centric view of gephyrin function and providing a novel molecular mechanism for epilepsy linked to G-domain mutations.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hirschsprung disease (HSCR) is a congenital malformation characterized by the absence of the enteric nervous system (ENS) in the distal colon, resulting from defective colonization of enteric neural crest cells (ENCCs). The underlying pathogenesis of HSCR remains incompletely understood. Here, we report that c-Cbl-associated protein (CAP), also known as sorbin and SH3 domain-containing protein 1 (SORBS1), is upregulated in the aganglionic colon tissues of children with HSCR. Functional studies revealed that CAP overexpression suppresses ENCC colonization by binding the lipid raft protein flotillin-1 through its sorbin-homology (SoHo) domain, followed by recruitment of the focal adhesion protein vinculin via its SH3 domain. Using mass spectrometry, we identified an endogenous CAP-derived peptide, termed PDCAP, in aganglionic colon tissues. ELISA further revealed reduced PDCAP levels in the diseased colon tissues of HSCR children. Mechanistically, PDCAP exerts a protective role by competing with its precursor protein, CAP, for binding to flotillin-1, thereby reversing CAP-mediated inhibition of ENCC colonization. This protective function was further validated in Caplsl/lsl;Nestin-Cre as well as Ednrb-/- mouse models of either sex, where PDCAP promoted ENCC colonization and ENS development. Collectively, our findings establish PDCAP as a functional antagonist of its precursor CAP, providing a rationale for exploring peptide-mediated interventions in HSCR.Copyright © 2026 the authors.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is characterized by disruption of the retinal physiological vasculature. Impairment of physiological angiogenesis profoundly destabilizes the retinal microenvironment and ultimately leads to visual dysfunction. Current treatments, including anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and laser photocoagulation therapy, mainly slow disease progression by inhibiting pathological neovascularization. However, strategies to restore functional vascular networks and retinal homeostasis remain limited. Analysis of miRNA profiles in retinal tissue and plasma exosomes from DR patients revealed that miR-31-5p, enriched in microglia-derived exosomes, is markedly upregulated during DR progression and was closely associated with retinal microvascular injury and repair. In vitro experiments demonstrated that retinal microvascular endothelial cells efficiently internalize microglia-derived exosomes. Mechanistically, miR-31-5p disrupts vascular maturation and exacerbates microvascular dysfunction by suppressing flotillin-1 (FLOT1)/sphingosine kinase-1 (SPHK1)/sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P)/VEGF/zona occludens-1 (ZO-1) signaling axis. Conversely, inhibition of miR-31-5p markedly restored physiological angiogenesis in retinal microvascular endothelial cells. In a DR mouse model, intravitreal injection of a miR-31-5p inhibitor similarly rescued FLOT1 expression in endothelial cells, promoted vascular regeneration, alleviated retinal inflammation and oxidative stress. This study clarifies a novel microglia-endothelial cell communication mechanism, in which microglia-derived exosomes deliver miR-31-5p to suppress the FLOT1/SPHK1/S1P/VEGF/ZO-1 signaling axis, thereby disrupting physiological retinal vascular remodeling. Targeting miR-31-5p may represent a potential therapeutic strategy to physiological angiogenesis homeostasis and slow DR progression.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy has achieved clinical success in hematologic malignancies, but remains limited in solid tumors due to immune checkpoint-mediated suppression and intrinsic signaling constraints. Unlike T-cell receptors (TCRs), CARs fail to efficiently recruit the linker for activation of T cells (LAT) signalosome, resulting in suboptimal signal propagation and unstable immunological synapse organization.To address this limitation, we engineered a programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)-LAT (PLAT) chimeric switch scaffold that couples PD-1 engagement to LAT-dependent proximal signaling. We compared the signaling kinetics, synaptic architecture, and antitumor efficacy of PLAT-expressing HER2 CAR T cells against those expressing conventional PD-1-CD28 switch receptors or dominant-negative PD-1 using biochemical signaling assays, quantitative imaging analysis, chronic antigen stimulation models, and in vivo xenograft validation.PLAT enhanced LAT phosphorylation and nucleated LAT-associated signaling complexes on programmed death-ligand 1 engagement. This reorganized the CAR immune synapse into a concentric, TCR-like architecture, restoring proximal signaling strength. This signaling reprogramming resulted in increased calcium flux and NFAT/NF-κB activation, driving enhanced cytotoxicity, sustained proliferation, and resistance to functional exhaustion under chronic antigen exposure. In direct comparisons, PLAT outperformed conventional PD-1-CD28 switch receptors in early functional responses and demonstrated superior functional durability and antitumor activity in vivo compared with dominant-negative PD-1 strategies.These findings establish PLAT as a scaffold-based strategy that directly addresses intrinsic CAR signaling deficiencies by converting immune checkpoint engagement into LAT-dependent proximal signaling restoration. This work provides a new framework for engineering CAR T cells with improved function and persistence in immunosuppressive tumor environments.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
The attaching and effacing (A/E) pathogens, enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) and enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC), remodel the host actin cytoskeleton to form actin-rich pedestals that anchor the bacteria atop intestinal epithelial cells. Although pedestal formation requires clathrin-endocytic proteins, the role of clathrin-independent proteins, like Flotillin-1 remain unclear.Flotillin-1 localization in pedestal formation was analyzed using immunofluorescence microscopy during EPEC and EHEC infections in HeLa cells. This protein's function was then examined using competing peptide interference and siRNA-mediated knockdown approaches.Flotillin-1 localizes to the Membranes of EPEC pedestals. Disruption of Flotillin-1 membrane association or depletion of Flotillin-1 using siRNA resulted in significantly elongated EPEC pedestals. A similar pattern of Flotillin-1 localization is seen at EHEC pedestals.Our work expands current models of A/E host-pathogen interactions by highlighting a role for Flotillin-1 in controlling pedestal length.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Infectious Diseases Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Tumor-produced extracellular vesicles (EVs) are key players in cancer progression by transferring their bioactive cargo (nucleic acids, lipids, proteins) to target cells leading to increase their proliferation, migration and invasive properties. EVs are involved in virus-associated carcinogenesis. Cervical cancer is due to a persistent infection with a high-risk human papillomavirus (HPV) whose integration into the cellular genome causes the continuous and deregulated expression of viral oncoproteins E6/E7, responsible for the carcinogenesis process. This study aimed to isolate EVs of HPV-infected cells, to explore their viral material content, to determine whether viral cargo can impact the proliferative status of HPV-lacking recipient cells.EVs were isolated from HPV16-harboring Ca Ski cells by ultracentrifugation or a kit. Their metrological, microscopic and biochemical characterization was performed by NTA for size, TEM for morphology and western blotting for EV markers (CD9, CD63, CD81, ALIX, TSG101, Flotillin-1, Syntenin). Viral material cargo (HPV16 DNA; e6/e7, e6*I, e6^e7 early transcripts; E6/E7 oncoproteins) was analyzed by PCR/RTqPCR and immunoblotting. Confocal microscopy was used to observe the internalization of fluorescent EVs deposited over HPV-negative bladder cancer T24 cells. The effect of Ca Ski EVs on the proliferation of T24 cells was assessed by IncuCyte and CCK-8 assay. The involvement of early transcripts in proliferation was validated by siRNA experiments.A sEV-enriched fraction was obtained from Ca Ski cell supernatants. The unspliced e6/e7 transcripts and the spliced variants e6*I /e6^e7 were detected inside EVs but HPV16 DNA or E6/E7 proteins were not detected. After 24 h-incubation, EVs were internalized by T24 cells and led to an increase of their proliferation. This biological effect was partially due to e6/e7 transcripts loaded in EVs.After a complete characterization of Ca Ski sEVs (NTA, microscopy, PCR, western-blotting), our data show for the first time, a functional transfer of HPV16 early transcripts via EVs driving the proliferation of HPV-negative target cells. EV-loaded HPV16 e6/e7 mRNA could be used as early biomarkers before the disease sets in and to predict the evolution of cervical precancerous lesions towards cancer and facilitate patient monitoring through a simple liquid biopsy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Maintaining the pro- and antioxidative balance during pregnancy is crucial. Oxidative stress (OS) can complicate pregnancy and disrupt maternal-foetal communication, which is partly mediated by extracellular vesicles (EVs). This study investigated how OS affects EV secretion by bovine caruncular epithelial cells isolated from the established bovine placenta (4th month of gestation). To induce OS, cells were treated for 48 h with 1% cigarette smoke extract (CSE), known to increase reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, while controls remained untreated. EVs were isolated via ultracentrifugation (UC) and size-exclusion chromatography (SEC) and characterized using Tunable Resistive Pulse Sensing (TRPS) technology, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and Western blotting (WB). WB confirmed small-EV enrichment in fractions 5-8 of SEC by detecting CD9 and flotillin-1 markers. TRPS analysis demonstrated that OS increased EV concentration. In fractions 5-6, CSE treatment increased EV concentration from 1.79 × 109 (mode diameter 127 nm) to 3.12 × 109 particles/mL (122 nm). In fractions 7-8 of SEC, concentration rose from 4.48 × 1010 (84 nm) to 7.53 × 1010 particles/mL (80 nm). These data indicate that OS increases EV secretion by bovine maternal epithelial cells, providing a basis for future studies on the potential role of stress-induced EVs in foetal-maternal communication.
The transmembrane adaptor protein SIT1 (signaling threshold-regulating transmembrane adaptor 1) is a negative regulator of T-cell receptor (TCR) signaling, but its role in human immunity remains poorly characterized.We sought to investigate the molecular consequences of a biallelic loss-of-function SIT1 variant in a patient with combined immune deficiency and recurrent lymphoma.Exome sequencing identified the putative disease-causing variant. Immunophenotyping and functional assays were performed on patient-derived lymphocytes and CRISPR-Cas9-mediated SIT1 knockout (KO) T cells from healthy donors. Transcriptomics, proteomics, and super-resolution imaging were used to characterize SIT1 deficiency.The c.236+2T>G variant caused exon 2 skipping and complete SIT1 loss. Patient/KO T cells revealed skewed T-cell subsets, increased activation and proliferation, and impaired CD8+ cytotoxicity. Transcriptomic analysis demonstrated that SIT1 KO upregulated cytokine signaling, metabolic reprogramming, and cell cycle hallmarks. Proteomic analysis confirmed SIT1's association with Src and receptor tyrosine kinases and suggested a novel role for SIT1 in intracellular vesicle trafficking. Imaging revealed SIT1 localized to plasma membrane and TCR microclusters, colocalizing with endolysosomal compartments and linker for activation of T cells. Patient T cells exhibited impaired immune synapse maturation and vesicle accumulation on TCR stimulation. Population data link this rare SIT1 variant to lymphoid malignancy and reduced risk of autoimmunity.We report the first patient with biallelic loss-of-function SIT1 variant, establishing SIT1 as a critical regulator of T-cell activation, proliferation, and synapse organization, implicating SIT1 deficiency as a novel cause of combined immunodeficiency, predisposing to lymphoid malignancy.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ligand engagement of the T cell receptor (TCR) triggers phosphorylation-dependent assembly of signalling complexes at the plasma membrane, yet how these assemblies are organised to coordinate signal propagation remains unclear. Here, using quantitative super-resolution imaging in primary human T cells, we show that phosphorylated TCR (pTCR) and linker for activation of T cells (pLAT) reside within micrometre-scale signalling condensates that exhibit defined nanoscale organisation. Within these condensates, pTCR and pLAT are spatially interleaved with characteristic spacing of ~70-100 nm and display short-range dispersion rather than aggregation. Spatial cross-correlation analysis reveals that pLAT is organised around pTCR sites, consistent with a model in which activated TCRs act as local sources of LAT phosphorylation that nucleate condensate assembly. This organisation suggests that multivalent interactions and steric constraints generate structured, yet dynamic, reaction environments that couple receptor activation to downstream signalling. Together, our findings establish that TCR signalling condensates are not amorphous assemblies but possess intrinsic nanoscale architecture and support a general framework in which membrane-proximal signalling is regulated by spatially organised, multivalent assemblies.
The disordered adapter protein linker for activation of T cells (LAT) propagates T cell receptor signaling. To interrogate how LAT coordinates multiple downstream pathways, we developed a single-cell screening approach, identifying widespread functional segments including protein interaction motifs and blocks of negative charge. Regardless of their position in LAT, individual segments generally conferred defects across all downstream signaling pathways. To understand the underlying mechanism, we used molecular biology, computational modeling, and imaging to demonstrate that disruption of LAT interaction with a single partner protein indirectly disrupts other partner interactions, likely through the dual roles of these proteins as effectors of downstream signaling and bridging factors between LAT molecules. Overall, we describe an extendable approach for interrogating sequence-function relationships for proteins with complex activities.
Chemoresistance, a long-standing clinical challenge in breast cancer treatment, continues to affect chemotherapy outcomes. Cholesterol-enriched lipid rafts are increasingly recognized as key mediators of drug efflux, primarily via transporters like P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Therefore, targeting lipid rafts as a viable treatment strategy to restore cancer sensitivity to chemotherapeutics. Our study aims to evaluate whether methyl-β-cyclodextrin (MβCD), a well-characterized lipid raft disruptor, can enhance the antitumor efficacy of paclitaxel liposomes (PTX-LPs) in preclinical breast cancer models, with a particular focus on triple-negative breast cancer subtypes.The sequential effects of paclitaxel liposomes (PTX-LPs) and MβCD were evaluated in vitro in MDA-MB-231 cells with a 1-hour dosing interval. Intracellular paclitaxel retention, apoptotic rate, and the expression of Flotillin-1, Caveolin-1, and P-gp were quantified by HPLC, flow cytometry, and Western blotting. In vivo therapeutic effects were further assessed in tumor-bearing xenograft models following sequential administration with a 5-hour interval.Flotillin-1 was significantly overexpressed across breast cancer subtypes. Sequential PTX-LPs and MβCD treatment significantly increased intracellular paclitaxel retention (3-fold at 48 h vs. PTX-LPs alone, p < 0.01) and apoptotic rate (38.6% vs. 16.2%, p < 0.01). Moreover, MβCD reduced the expression of Flotillin-1, Caveolin-1, and P-gp in MDA-MB231 cells. Importantly, sequential treatment achieved 73.6% tumor growth inhibition in vivo (p < 0.01 vs. PTX-LPs alone).Breast cancer chemoresistance is closely associated with lipid rafts. Here, we demonstrate that sequential treatment with MβCD and PTX-LPs disrupts lipid rafts, suppresses efflux transporter activity, enhances intracellular paclitaxel retention, and potentiates paclitaxel efficacy in MDA-MB-231 cells. However, the long-term safety of MβCD and its applicability to other breast cancer subtypes remain to be further investigated.Sequential therapy with MβCD and PTX-LPs enhances the chemotherapeutic efficacy of PTX-LPs in breast cancer. This effect is mediated by the inhibition of drug efflux through the disruption of lipid raft integrity. This strategy provides a novel approach to overcoming chemoresistance.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
The human host factors Secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor (SLPI) and Annexin A2 (AnxA2) influence susceptibility of epithelial cells to human papillomavirus (HPV)-infections. Although nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is classically associated with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), increasing evidence indicates that a subset of NPCs from non-endemic regions harbours HPV DNA, suggesting biological overlap with HPV-associated head and neck cancers. Therefore, we studied whether this host-driven mechanism also shapes NPC-biology.Retrospectively 44 histopathological confirmed NPC cases from non-endemic German regions were analysed. Nucleic acids were extracted from FFPE tissue. DNA was used for PCR-based detection of HPV and EBV, RNA was used for RT-PCR detection of HPV transcriptional activity and RT-qPCR for quantification of SLPI- and AnxA2-expression. Associations between viral-status, host factor expression, and clinicopathological parameters were assessed using Fisher's exact test, Student's t-test, and one way-ANOVA.EBV was detected in 65.9% cases, HPV-DNA in 29.6%, all harboured HPV16-DNA; none expressed HPV16-RNA. EBV-status had no effect on SLPI-expression and was associated with lower AnxA2-levels. HPV-presence was associated with significantly lower SLPI- and higher AnxA2-expression, indicating a permissive epithelial environment for viral entry. Combined-status analyses confirmed that host factor expression paralleled the HPV-DNA- but not EBV-status.These findings indicate that in NPC from non-endemic regions, SLPI- and AnxA2-expression defines a host microenvironment permissive for HPV-DNA, whereas EBV-status appears independent of these factors. As no HPV-RNA was detected, these results reflect HPV-presence rather than transcriptionally active infection, suggesting that these host factors may govern viral entry without determining subsequent infection.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Influenza viruses, characterized by antigenic drift and shift, can cause seasonal epidemics or pandemics. According to World Health Organization (WHO) data, approximately 650,000 global annual deaths are attributed to influenza-associated respiratory diseases, highlighting the urgent need for vaccine protection in high-risk populations. Residual host cell protein (HCP) may elicit allergic reactions or compromise antigen stability, with their permissible limits stringently regulated by international health authorities. This study employed liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS) to systematically evaluate a downstream purification process involving ultrafiltration concentration coupled with Capto™ Core 700 multimodal chromatography and anion-exchange chromatography (AEC). Key results demonstrated that ultrafiltration concentration of the viral harvest significantly reduced HCP content, achieving a removal rate of 90.32%. Subsequent purification steps further eliminated HCP, with gel filtration chromatography and AEC providing removal rates of 92.47% and 61.52%, respectively. Concurrently, the principal antigen hemagglutinin (HA) increased from 2.21% to 8.61% in the viral bulk. HCP residuals were reduced to 535.67 ng per dose, while residual recombinant nuclease fell below the detection limit of 0.312 ng/mL. Proteomic profiling indicated substantial changes in dominant HCP species following ultrafiltration, with Annexin A2 (ANXA2), Actin cytoplasmic 2 (ACTG), and IF rod domain-containing protein predominating in the concentrate. The subsequent purification maintained consistent HCP profiles, primarily composed of ANXA2, ACTG, and Peroxiredoxin-1 (PRDX1). Overall, ultrafiltration critically reduces HCPs and process-related impurities, while multimodal chromatography effectively enriches key antigens (HA/NA). The established LC/MS platform might provide a robust analytical framework for influenza vaccine quality control and process optimization.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Orthodontic tooth movement (OTM) is a mechanically induced inflammatory process. Intriguingly, OTM under periodontitis conditions orchestrates a complex inflammatory microenvironment and exacerbates bone resorption.Stimulator of interferon genes (STING) is a key inflammation mediator, but its role in OTM with periodontitis was unclear.We established an OTM model in rats with ligature-induced periodontitis. In vitro, rat periodontal ligament fibroblasts (PDLFs) were subjected to compressive stress and LPS to mimic orthodontic force and periodontitis inflammation. STING was activated with agonists (cGAMP/diABZI) or inhibited with H151 or knockdown. Inflammatory responses and bone resorption were assessed. RNA sequencing and co-IP followed by LC-MS/MS were used to identify downstream signals.STING activation in PDLFs increased IL-1β and IL-6 while reducing Runx-2 and osteogenesis. In periodontitis-OTM rats, STING, IL-1β and IL-6 were upregulated and Runx-2 downregulated on the compression side, leading to increased alveolar bone loss that was rescued by H151. Under mechanical-inflammatory stress, activated STING triggered ER stress, and a cascade of cellular responses including increased pro-inflammatory mediators, enhanced apoptosis, altered mechano-response, and suppressed osteogenesis. Meanwhile, Annexin A2 (Anxa2) was identified as a novel STING interactor. Anxa2 knockdown mirrored STING inhibition, suppressing ER stress, inflammatory activation, apoptosis and mechano-response. Mechanistically, Anxa2 knockdown markedly reduced P65 phosphorylation and nuclear translocation, suggesting Anxa2 may serve as an intermediary linking STING to NF-κB activation. STING-Anxa2 interaction was notably increased in PDLFs and in compression-side periodontal tissues under mechanical-inflammatory stress.Within an inflammatory milieu, STING activation in PDLFs is associated with ER stress, pro-inflammatory responses, apoptosis, and suppressed osteogenesis that collectively accelerate bone resorption during OTM. We identified Annexin A2 (Anxa2) as a novel STING interactor whose knockdown attenuated these responses and NF-κB activation, suggesting Anxa2 as a functional intermediary in STING-mediated inflammation.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The virulence factor PrsA, a parvulin‑type peptidyl‑prolyl isomerase (PPIase) in Streptococcus suis serotype 2 (SS2), triggers inflammatory responses and host cell death, yet the host protein it interacts with and the downstream signaling events remain poorly defined. Here in this study, we employed an integrated strategy combining bait protein affinity purification methods by covalent coupling and co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) identification, bioinformatic and molecular docking analysis to screen for the putative host proteins interacting with SS2-PrsA. Candidate interactions were further validated through pull-down, Co-IP, and molecules co-localization analysis by immunofluorescence assay. The expression of the candidate host target was knocked down using RNA interference, then the PrsA- or SS2-induced corresponding cells death were determined via LDH release and LIVE/DEAD staining, with its downstream pathway activation evaluated by Western blotting. Annexin A2 was identified as a key host interactor of SS2-PrsA. Both in vitro and cellular stimulation experiments confirmed a direct interaction and significant co-localization effect between PrsA and Annexin A2. Its knockdown markedly reduced cell death triggered by either purified PrsA or SS2 infection. At the mechanistic level, loss of Annexin A2 impaired the activation of pyroptosis markers (cleaved caspase-1, GSDMD, and IL-1β) and suppressed phosphorylation of the necroptosis mediator MLKL. These findings not only advance our understanding of SS2 pathogenesis but also highlight Annexin A2 as a critical host factor that links PrsA function and has the potential for developing anti-infective strategies based on host-pathogen interactions.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Abnormal tumor vasculature creates a permissive microenvironment that fuels the malignant progression of bladder cancer (BCa). While Leucine-rich alpha-2 glycoprotein 1 (LRG1) is known to regulate angiogenesis, its specific role in remodeling the BCa microenvironment remains poorly defined.We integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) with bulk transcriptomic datasets to identify key cellular subclusters. Functional validation was performed using subcutaneous and orthotopic BCa mouse models, neutrophil depletion, DNase I treatment, and clinical specimens. The molecular interactome was mapped via pull-down assays, mass spectrometry, and confocal imaging.LRG1 is significantly upregulated in BCa and correlates with hematogenous metastasis and poor prognosis. Mechanistically, tumor-derived LRG1 binds to Annexin A2 (ANXA2) on neutrophils through its LRR domain, impeding the mitochondrial translocation of Akt and triggering mtROS-dependent release of Neutrophil Extracellular Traps (NETs). These NETs directly cause vascular destabilization by stripping mural cell coverage. Blockade of the LRG1-NETosis axis induces vascular normalization, effectively overcoming microenvironmental barriers to increase drug delivery and T-cell infiltration, thereby profoundly sensitizing BCa to cisplatin and anti-PD-1 therapy.The LRG1-neutrophil-NETosis axis is a critical driver of vascular dysfunction and therapeutic resistance in BCa. Targeting this axis represents a promising translational strategy to improve clinical outcomes.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Cellular metabolism critically influences tumor resistance. Biophysical stimulations such as mechanical vibration and electrical pulses can reprogram mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and T cells into tumor-suppressive states. Here, we investigated whether optical pulses (OP) could similarly promote an anti-tumor microenvironment. Using mechanical and electrical stimulation as controls, we examined optically stimulated MSCs and T cells and their conditioned medium (CM) in breast cancer and osteoclast models. OP elicited color-specific effects: blue light induced direct tumor cell death, whereas green and red light converted MSCs into induced tumor-suppressing (iTS) cells. This conversion was mediated by OPN4, independent of the Piezo1 pathway engaged by mechanical and electrical cues. Green/red pulses enhanced nucleosome scattering, increased the NAD⁺/NADH ratio, reduced the repressive histone mark H3K9me3, and activated demethylases KDM3A/KDM4. Proteomic profiling revealed enrichment of transferrin receptor (TFRC) and Annexin A2 (ANXA2) in CM, which may suppress tumors via CD44 interaction and are associated with reduced immune-evasive signaling, including Programmed Death-Ligand 1 (PD-L1). These findings demonstrate that visible light pulses can epigenetically reprogram MSCs and T cells, offering a potential therapeutic strategy for breast cancer and bone metastasis.© 2026. The Author(s).
It is generally known that kidney stone disease (KSD) is associated with alterations in urinary microbiome, but the roles of the urinary microbiome in KSD pathogenesis remain unclear.This study addressed the impact of Lactobacillus acidophilus (a commensal bacterium found in normal urine) on renal epithelial integrity, calcium oxalate monohydrate (COM) crystal-cell adhesion, expression of membrane receptors of COM crystals, and oxalate degradation under oxalate-induced stress (a known inducer of KSD). Inner medullary collecting duct cells (mIMCD-3) were cultured for 24 h under control or oxalate-induced (by 0.6 mM sodium oxalate; NaOx) conditions without or with L. acidophilus (at 1 × 103 colony-forming unit (CFU)/ml) co-incubation.NaOx reduced transepithelial resistance (TER) of the mIMCD-3 monolayer and downregulated ZO-1, a tight junction (TJ) protein. Additionally, NaOx enhanced the COM crystal-binding capability of mIMCD-3 cells by upregulating a COM crystal receptor, annexin A2, on cell membranes. Such harmful effects of NaOx were abolished when mIMCD-3 cells were co-cultured with L. acidophilus. Moreover, culturing L. acidophilus in artificial urine (AU) supplemented with NaOx for 24 h revealed that the oxalate level in AU decreased, suggesting the oxalate-degrading activity of the bacterium in an AU environment.L. acidophilus prevented oxalate-mediated renal epithelial barrier disruption and COM crystal adhesion to renal epithelial cells by preserving ZO-1 and annexin A2 expression at their basal levels, at least in part, via its oxalate-degrading property.Not applicable (This is not a clinical trial).© 2026. The Author(s).
Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma (ATC) is an exceptionally aggressive malignancy with dismal survival, largely due to intrinsic cisplatin resistance. This study identifies a novel mechanism by which small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) promote chemoresistance by enhancing DNA repair via protein lactylation. ATC cells secrete sEVs enriched with Annexin A2 (ANXA2). Upon delivery to recipient ATC cells, ANXA2 stabilizes the interaction between SRC kinase and lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA), leading to increased LDHA phosphorylation (Y10), enzyme activity, and lactate production. The resulting lactate surge serves as a substrate for lysine lactylation. Ku80 (XRCC5) is identified as a key lactylation target at K265, catalyzed by the acyltransferase KAT5. This lactylation modification strengthens the interaction between Ku80 and its partner Ku70 (XRCC6), stabilizing the initial DNA-end binding complex in the non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) repair pathway. Consequently, NHEJ efficiency is significantly enhanced, enabling ATC cells to rapidly repair cisplatin-induced DNA double-strand breaks and survive treatment. Genetic disruption of the XRCC5-K265 lactylation site or pharmacological inhibition of LDHA sensitizes ATC xenograft tumors to cisplatin, while in vitro, inhibition of the SRC/LDHA axis produces a similar chemosensitizing effect. This work unveils the ANXA2+ sEV/SRC/LDHA/lactate/XRCC5-lactylation axis as a critical driver of NHEJ-mediated chemoresistance in ATC, offering new potential therapeutic targets.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.34133/research.0708.].Copyright © 2026 Tianlong Huang et al.
This case report describes a rare presentation of rippling muscle disease (RMD) due to a pathogenic CAV3 variant, manifesting with myocarditis-like cardiac involvement in an adolescent patient. To the best of our knowledge, this represents an exceedingly rare pediatric case of RMD associated with clinically significant cardiac findings.A previously healthy 15-year-old male adolescent presented with vomiting and markedly elevated creatine kinase and troponin levels, raising suspicion of acute myocarditis. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated non-ischemic myocardial fibrosis, and genetic testing identified a pathogenic de novo variant in the CAV3 gene consistent with rippling muscle disease.This case highlights the potential for myocarditis-like cardiac involvement in caveolin-3-related rippling muscle disease and underscores the importance of considering underlying genetic myopathies in adolescents presenting with unexplained elevations of serum creatine kinase (hyperCKemia) and cardiac biomarkers.
Pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PAAD) is an extremely invasive malignancy with limited effective treatment options. S100 calcium-binding protein A10 (S100A10), a protein-coding gene, plays a critical role in tumor progression. However, its correlation with immune cell infiltration and PAAD prognosis has not been previously reported. This study aimed to systematically explore the expression pattern, biological function and clinical value of S100A10 in PAAD.The expression of S100A10 in PAAD was investigated in a number of databases, including The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), Tumor IMmune Estimation Resource 2.0 (TIMER 2.0), Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), and the Human Protein Atlas (HPA). To evaluate the association between S100A10 expression and patient survival, both the Kaplan-Meier plotter and TCGA datasets were utilized. Furthermore, Gene Ontology, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis, and protein-protein interaction network evaluations were carried out to clarify the molecular mechanisms related to S100A10. Immune infiltration data were sourced from TCGA, and the methylation profile of S100A10 was evaluated using the UALCAN and MethSurv platforms. The expression levels of S100A10 were further confirmed in PAAD cell lines using quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and western blot analyses. To explore the functional implications of S100A10, assays including Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), wound healing, Transwell, and colony formation, were performed to assess its influence on the proliferation, migration, and invasion of PAAD cells.The expression levels of S100A10 were notably elevated in PAAD compared with control group (P<0.05). S100A10 demonstrated high diagnostic precision, as evidenced by an area under the curve of 0.989, also with P<0.05. Higher levels of S100A10 correlated with poor prognosis in patients with PAAD. Cox regression analysis showed that S100A10 expression, tumor (T) stage, lymph node (N) stage, and histological grade were independent prognostic factors for overall survival (OS). A prognostic nomogram incorporating S100A10 expression was created to predict the patient outcomes. Functional analyses revealed that S100A10 was implicated in JAK-STAT and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction pathways. Additionally, S100A10 was associated with humoral immune responses and DNA methylation processes, and hypomethylation of S100A10 was correlated with poor prognosis in PAAD. Immune infiltration analysis indicated that S100A10 expression was negatively correlated with various immune cell types. Furthermore, in vitro investigations showed that the silencing of S100A10 notably obstructed cell proliferation, migration, and invasion.S100A10 is an oncogenic protein that promotes PAAD progression. Its elevated expression and hypomethylation status make it a promising diagnostic and prognostic biomarker for PAAD.© AME Publishing Company.
Elevated circulating nonesterified fatty acids (NEFA) represent a key pathological feature in dairy cows with fatty liver. Palmitic acid (PA), a major component of NEFA, can be enzymatically attached to proteins via a reversible post-translational modification known as palmitoylation, which potently modulates protein activity and function. Studies have revealed that aberrant hepatic palmitoylation is a crucial mechanism promoting lipid accumulation in non-ruminants. Nevertheless, the extent and pathological relevance of hepatic protein palmitoylation in dairy cows with fatty liver have largely remained unexplored. Therefore, this study was conducted to determine the status of hepatic protein palmitoylation in dairy cows with fatty liver and to elucidate its functional role in the development of hepatic steatosis. Blood and liver samples were collected from 10 dairy cows with fatty liver (hepatic triglyceride [TG] content >5%) and 10 control cows (hepatic TG content <1%) that had a similar number of lactations (median: 3, range: 2 to 4) and days in milk (median: 9 d, range: 5 to 14 d). To determine the effects of NEFA on palmitoylation, hepatocytes isolated from calves were treated with 1.2 mM NEFA for 12 h. To investigate the effects of palmitoylation on lipid accumulation in bovine hepatocytes, the cells were treated with 1.2 mM NEFA for 12 h in the presence or absence of a palmitoylation inhibitor (2-bromohexadecanoic acid). The results revealed that dairy cows with fatty liver exhibited liver injury and elevated hepatic palmitoyl-CoA content. Moreover, fatty liver dairy cows showed higher hepatic mRNA abundance of ZDHHC4/5/14/20 and lower mRNA abundance of ZDHHC3/19/21/23/24. In contrast, the mRNA abundance of depalmitoylase-related genes, including lysophospholipase 1 (LYPLA1 and LYPLA2), palmitoyl-protein thioesterase 1 (PPT1 and PPT2) and abhydrolase domain containing 17 (ABHD17A, ABHD17B and ABHD17C), was lower in the liver of cows with fatty liver than in control cows. Consistently, a greater abundance of palmitoylated proteins was observed in the liver of dairy cows with fatty liver. In vitro, NEFA treatment induced lipid accumulation, cell injury, and aberrant protein palmitoylation in bovine hepatocytes. Additionally, the upregulation of palmitoyltransferases and downregulation of depalmitoylases observed in cows with fatty liver were recapitulated in NEFA-treated bovine hepatocytes. Importantly, pharmacological inhibition of palmitoylation significantly alleviated NEFA-induced lipid accumulation and cell damage in bovine hepatocytes. Overall, these findings establish protein palmitoylation as both a critical pathological mechanism and a promising therapeutic target for fatty liver in dairy cows.The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of the American Dairy Science Association®. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
Adenosine, acting through A1 adenosine receptors (A1ARs), exerts anti-adrenergic effects by inhibiting β1-adrenergic receptor (β1AR)-mediated cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) production and contractility in the heart. While the functional interaction between A1ARs and β1ARs is well established in both atrial and ventricular myocytes, the subcellular compartmentalization of this crosstalk and how it is disrupted in heart failure (HF) remains incompletely understood. This study investigates the spatial confinement of A1AR-β1AR signalling within atrial microdomains and assesses how structural remodelling in HF alters this regulatory axis.Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) analysis revealed that A1AR is the predominant adenosine receptor subtype in both rat and human atrial tissues. In healthy rat and mouse atrial myocytes, A1AR activation reduced β1AR-induced cAMP production and sarcomere shortening, with suppression of cAMP signals at sarcolemmal microdomains enriched in protein kinase A Type II. This was further supported by scanning ion conductance microscopy-guided scanning patch-clamp, which showed that A1AR suppressed β1AR-driven L-type Ca2+ channel activity at both T-tubule and crest membrane domains. In atrial myocytes isolated from failing rat and human hearts, A1AR-mediated inhibition of β1AR-induced cAMP production and contractility was impaired. Caveolar disruption by methyl-β-cyclodextrin in rat atrial myocytes or via cardiac-specific caveolin-3 (Cav3) knockout in mice abolished this A1AR-mediated inhibition. Notably, cholesterol repletion alone did not restore membrane cAMP regulation, whereas Cav3 overexpression rescued A1AR-dependent suppression, supporting a requirement for Cav3-dependent organization. In mouse atrial preparations isolated from failing hearts, high-resolution optical mapping showed that A1AR-mediated anti-adrenergic regulation of Ca2+ cycling was selectively lost in the intercaval region, correlating with the regional absence of T-tubule and downregulation of caveolae structures.A1ARs provide anti-adrenergic restraint of β1AR signalling through Cav3-dependent membrane organization. In HF, regional caveolar disorganization uncouples this protective pathway, contributing to spatially heterogeneous Ca2+ dysregulation in the atrium.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.
Every heartbeat is initiated by a spontaneous electrical signal generated inside the cardiac pacemaker. This signal depends on the coordinated activity of ion channels, where voltage-gated L-type calcium channels play a central role. All mammals experience a progressive decline in pacemaker rate with age, which in humans can become pathological and drive the need for artificial pacemaker implantation. Yet the mechanisms underlying this age-associated slowdown remain incompletely understood.We combined patch-clamp electrophysiology, single-channel recording, calcium imaging, immunocytochemistry, and super-resolution microscopy to investigate L-type calcium channel density, organization, and function in sinoatrial node pacemaker cells from young and old mice.Aging reduced L-type calcium channel density at the plasma membrane, disrupted channel clustering, and decreased open probability, collectively diminishing calcium current density by 50%. Pharmacological enhancement of channel open probability with Bay K 8644 was sufficient to accelerate diastolic depolarization and restore pacemaker rate in old cells to young levels. These channel alterations were paralleled by a decline in caveolin-3 expression. Disrupting caveolae in young cells recapitulated the loss of channel clustering, pointing to caveolae as a structural basis for the age-associated channel alterations.Aging impairs L-type calcium channel organization and function in cardiac pacemaker cells. This impairment is mediated by an age-associated reduction of caveolae, key membrane microdomains for channel organization. The resulting decline in L-type calcium channel density and activity is an important driver of the age-associated slowdown of the cardiac pacemaker.
Mutations in the BRAF (B-raf serine-threonine-protein kinase) gene occur in the majority of melanoma patients and significantly contribute to the progression of the disease. One of the most commonly used methods for treating melanoma is the use of BRAF and MEK (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase) inhibitors. Unfortunately, resistance to treatment quickly develops in most patients. Therefore, an exhaustive understanding of the molecular basis of this resistance is crucial. We developed two melanoma cell lines resistant to vemurafenib (BRAF inhibitor) and cobimetinib (MEK inhibitor), which we previously characterized as highly invasive. Because cancer cells acquiring resistance may undergo significant metabolic changes, we investigated these processes in the obtained melanoma double-resistant cells. These cells exhibit increased glycolysis and elevated caveolin 1 levels, which contribute to their increased invasiveness. The mitochondria present in the peripheral region of the resistant cells are more functional than those present in the same region of control cells. Resistant cells also form more lipid droplets, but they are smaller than in control cells. Cholesterol ester level is reduced in resistant cells, while free cholesterol level is elevated. Moreover, resistant cells exhibit reduced lipolysis rate and expression of proteins regulating this process. In summary, the obtained results suggest that the purpose of metabolic changes present in melanoma cells resistant to BRAF/MEK inhibitors is mainly to support the significantly increased invasiveness of these cells.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42535383 is a review article
Targeting lipid metabolism reprogramming presents a potential strategy to overcome drug resistance and enhance treatment outcomes in pancreatic cancer. Caveolin-1, a critical regulator of lipid metabolism, is highly expressed in pancreatic cancer, indicating its viability as a novel therapeutic target. To address the poor biocompatibility and inadequate tumor targeting associated with methyl-β-cyclodextrin (MβCD)-an indirect inhibitor of Caveolin-1 function through cholesterol chelation-novel MβCD@hyaluronic acid-adamantane (MβCD@HA-Ad) nanoparticles were developed to enhance therapeutic efficacy against pancreatic cancer. These nanoparticles achieve dual targeting via HA-mediated CD44 receptor binding and MβCD-driven Caveolin-1 metabolic inhibition, while exhibiting acid-responsive release properties that enhance their responsiveness to the pancreatic cancer microenvironment. In vitro studies suggest that MβCD@HA-Ad nanoparticles possess improved drug penetration capacity and enhanced antitumor effects. Inhibition of Caveolin-1 induces cell membrane stretching and increases Piezo1 sensitivity to mechanical stimuli, resulting in elevated intracellular Ca2+ influx, activation of PLA2G4A phosphorylation, and subsequent promotion of lipolysis. Concurrently, impaired endocytosis reduces fatty acid uptake, resulting in decreased lipid droplet accumulation. Non-targeted metabolomics analysis indicates that Caveolin-1 regulates glycerophospholipid and fatty acid metabolism in pancreatic cancer cells, influencing cellular growth, migration, and invasiveness. In a mouse model of pancreatic cancer, MβCD@HA-Ad nanoparticles exhibited excellent biosafety, efficient tumor-targeting capabilities, and sustained antitumor effects. By reducing lipid deposition in tumor tissues, these nanoparticles significantly delayed tumor progression and inhibited tumor cell proliferation. In summary, MβCD@HA-Ad nanoparticles exert precise antitumor effects by targeting Caveolin-1 and modulating the Piezo1/PLA2G4A signaling axis to disrupt lipid metabolism, thereby presenting a novel nanotherapeutic strategy for pancreatic cancer.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Increased hepatic lipid accumulation occurs in high-fat diet (HFD)-induced insulin resistance. Integrin-linked kinase (ILK) contributes to HFD-induced hepatic insulin resistance by increasing hepatic triglyceride content. How ILK promotes HFD-induced hepatic fatty acid accumulation is underexplored. ILK favors the formation of F-actin bundling and is upregulated following HFD. Moreover, the fatty acid transporter CD36 localizes to membrane ruffles rich in F-actin following HFD. Thus, we investigated whether ILK-mediated F-actin stabilization and liver fatty acid uptake are mechanistically linked. HFD-fed mice lacking ILK in hepatocytes have reduced hepatic F-actin abundance, CD36 plasma membrane localization, and intracellular lipid accumulation. ILK-null cells treated with the F-actin stabilizer jasplakinolide increased cortical F-actin polymerization, plasma membrane-associated CD36, and intracellular lipid uptake. CD36 inhibition reduced lipid uptake in jasplakinolide-treated ILK-null cells, confirming that F-actin-induced CD36 plasma membrane localization promotes lipid accumulation. Thus, ILK regulates intracellular lipid transport by linking CD36 to an F-actin-rich cytoskeleton.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42518953 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42052762 is a review article
ABCA7 (ATP binding cassette subfamily A member 7) encodes a lipid transporter associated with increasing risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD). A 44-base pair deletion in ABCA7 (rs142076058; p.Arg578Alafs) is a strong risk factor in individuals of African ancestry (AA). However, the biological consequences of this deletion are poorly understood.We expressed the truncated ABCA7 protein in HEK and HepG2 cells to assess cellular localization and impact on lipid metabolism, respectively. Additionally, induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived neurons carrying the deletion were functionally assessed compared to isogenic controls.Truncated ABCA7 localized to endoplasmic reticulum and plasma membranes similarly to the wild type in HEK cells but induced significant lipid droplet accumulation in HepG2 cells and iPSC-derived neurons while reducing mitochondrial membrane potential in iPSC-derived neurons.These findings show that the AA-specific ABCA7 deletion disrupts lipid and mitochondrial homeostasis, supporting a mechanistic link between the ABCA7 deletion and increased AD risk.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Peroxisomes are dynamic organelles that play a crucial role in cellular metabolism, particularly in fatty acid degradation, cholesterol homeostasis and reactive oxygen species metabolism. Their dysfunction is associated with severe neurological disorders, including Zellweger spectrum disorders (ZSD) and X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD). In this study, we investigated the relationship between cholesterol homeostasis and myelination in postnatal peroxisome-deficient Pex2 knockout mice. We dissected the central nervous system (CNS) of 10-day-old (P10) control and Pex2 -/- mice into five regions: spinal cord, brainstem, cerebellum, diencephalon and cerebral cortex. Catalase activity, a marker enzyme of peroxisomes, was significantly increased in CNS regions of Pex2 -/- mice, indicating an oxidative imbalance. Proteomic analysis revealed significant alterations in peroxisomal proteins and pathways related to neurodegenerative diseases, cholesterol and fatty acid metabolism and mRNA processing. Cholesterol biosynthesis was particularly dysregulated: enzyme activities, mRNA, and protein levels were reduced in white matter regions but increased in the cerebral cortex. The elevated desmosterol levels in the brain of Pex2 -/- mice indicate impaired cholesterol synthesis. Sphingolipid metabolism was also altered in the peroxisome-deficient CNS, as the protein levels of enzymes dihydroceramide desaturase 1, ceramide synthase 2, fatty acid 2-hydroxylase, and UDP-glycosyltransferase 8 were significantly decreased. Myelination was significantly reduced throughout the CNS, as evidenced by decreased activities of the myelin marker 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase (CNP) and decreased mRNA and protein levels of myelin-associated proteins. The consistent decrease in ribosomal protein S6 phosphorylation in the CNS of Pex2 -/- mice suggests that decreased mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) activity contributes to hypomyelination. Gene expression analysis revealed an upregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines and altered expression of some homeostatic and disease-associated microglial (DAM) genes. However, full DAM activation was not yet observed in Pex2 -/- mice at P10. In conclusion, this study shows that systemic peroxisome deficiency leads to severe hypomyelination and dysregulation of cholesterol and fatty acid metabolism in the CNS, providing new insights into the pathophysiology of peroxisomal disorders.Copyright © 2026 Eberhart, Charles, Salumbides-Torres, Price, Fliesler, Faust and Kovacs.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41798181 is a review article
NAD(P)HX epimerase (NAXE) deficiency is a rare, often fatal, autosomal recessive neurometabolic disorder of early childhood, characterized by acute neurological regression triggered by febrile illness. Here, we report a case with compound heterozygous NAXE mutations (c.733A > C and c.389A > C) associated with a milder phenotype, thereby expanding the known disease spectrum.A previously healthy 19-month-old girl presented with acute neurological regression after a high-grade fever, losing motor skills and exhibiting lethargy. Initial investigations showed leukocytosis, elevated C-reactive protein, and MRI findings of sulcal/cisternal widening and spinal cord signal changes. Given the unexplained encephalopathy, whole-exome sequencing was performed, which identified compound heterozygous NAXE mutations, confirming the diagnosis. Management included intravenous immunoglobulin, corticosteroids, and NAD + precursors. Neurological improvement was observed during the hospital course, and near-complete motor recovery was achieved by the 11-month follow-up.This case underscores the need to consider NAXE-related encephalopathy in children with fever-induced acute neurological decline. The discovery of a novel compound heterozygous variant combination [c.389A > C [p.His130Pro] and c.733A > C [p.Lys245Gln]] defines a milder phenotypic spectrum and mandates early genetic testing for timely diagnosis and prognostic insight. Importantly, given the single-case nature of this observation, conclusion regarding treatment efficacy remains hypothesis-generating and require validation in additional cases.© 2026 Zhu, He, Luo and Chen.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease. Abnormal iron metabolism is closely associated with PD risk. This study aimed to identify key iron metabolism-related genes (IMRGs) in the substantia nigra (SN) that affect PD progression.Differences in iron metabolism scores between PD and control groups were compared. After differential expression analysis and weighted gene co-expression network Analysis, differentially expressed-IMRGs (DE-IMRGs) were identified from IMRGs, differentially expressed genes (DEGs), and module genes. Key genes were obtained from a protein-protein interaction network, machine learning, and receiver operating characteristic curves. Correlations between key genes and nomograms, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis, immune infiltration, potential drug prediction, and consensus clustering were explored. In vitro experiments were conducted to verify the identified key genes.Iron metabolism scores differed significantly between the PD and control groups. In total, 1128 DEGs and 597 module genes were obtained, intersected with 522 IMRGs, and 23 DE-IMRGs were acquired. Eight candidate key genes were identified, followed by the identification of two key genes, Fatty Acid 2-Hydroxylase (FA2H)‌ and ‌Cytochrome P450 Family 1 Subfamily A Member 2 (CYP1A2). The nomograms of the two key genes possessed high precision for predicting PD, and 102 and 15 drugs involving CYP1A2 and FA2H were searched, respectively. The proportions of the five immune cells showed obvious differences between the PD and control groups, and CYP1A2 and FA2H were significantly correlated with many immune cells. In vitro experiments revealed that FA2H reduced 6-OHDA-stimulated SH-SY5Y cell viability and enhanced apoptosis.Iron metabolism in the SN is important in the progression of PD, and two IMRGs, CYP1A2 and FA2H, are involved in the pathogenesis of PD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The vital cofactors NADH and NADPH are prone to hydration, forming hydroxylated redox-inactive derivatives (NADHX and NADPHX) in cells. These damaged metabolites are repaired by two highly conserved enzymes, an NAD(P)HX dehydratase (NAXD) and an NAD(P)HX epimerase (NAXE). Mutations in NAXE or NAXD cause early onset progressive encephalopathy (PEBEL1 or PEBEL2), typically induced by fever or other triggers, and leading to premature death. To advance our comprehension of the disease mechanism and investigate potential therapeutic strategies, we generated zebrafish lines deficient in naxe or naxd using CRISPR/Cas9 technology. While both models accumulated NADHX, only naxd-/- larvae developed a severe phenotype, showing reduced locomotion and early death, which was partially rescued by nicotinic acid supplementation. Both mutant lines displayed signs of dysregulated immune function based on gene expression analyses and increased neutral red staining in the head region, indicating an increased number or activation of microglial cells. Our findings suggest that immune system perturbations play a role in PEBEL disease development, aligning with its inflammatory trigger-induced nature in humans. The naxd-/- model's responsiveness to nicotinic acid underscores its utility for preclinical drug screening. Overall, these models will be instrumental in furthering our understanding of PEBEL disease mechanisms and enhancing translational research efforts.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of SSIEM.
OBJECTIVE: This study aims to explore the clinical characteristics of patients with NAD(P)HX metabolic deficiency and their prognosis after nicotinamide treatment. METHODS: This study retrospectively analyzed the clinical characteristics, efficacy of nicotinamide treatment, and prognosis of patients with genetically confirmed NAD(P)HX metabolic defects admitted to Beijing Children’s Hospital from January 2016 to January 2025, as well as cases previously reported in the literature. The log-rank test was used for survival analysis, and the prognosis was evaluated using the Modified Rankin Scale (mRS). RESULTS: Nine patients were analyzed, including eight with NAXE deficiency and one with NAXD deficiency, seven of whom received nicotinamide treatment (180–500 mg/day). With a median follow-up of 3.92 years [range: 0.50–6 years, interquartile range (IQR) = 2.42 years], the overall prognosis was favourable. All seven treated patients survived, three of whom were able to attend school normally, and no significant adverse reactions were observed during treatment. Combined with previous studies, a total of 59 patients were included for analysis (14 cases of NAXD deficiency and 45 cases of NAXE deficiency), with an overall mortality rate of 66.7%. Among the 21 patients who received niacin/nicotinamide treatment, 17 survived (80.95%), whereas only two untreated patients survived, and 85.45% of the untreated patients died within 2 years of onset. Respiratory failure was the most common cause of death. CONCLUSIONS: NAD(P)HX metabolic defects are rare mitochondrial diseases with high mortality and morbidity rates. Early identification and timely initiation of nicotinamide treatment are crucial for improving patient prognosis and quality of life.
Rare mutations in the ATP binding cassette subfamily A member 7 (ABCA7) gene are known risk factors for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Genetic sequencing in 1372 Belgian patients previously revealed rare ABCA7 mutations in 102 carriers, 58 with a premature termination codon mutation (PTC) and 44 with a missense mutation. Among carriers, 14 received post-mortem examination. Here, we reviewed and report the demographics, clinicopathological phenotypes, and diagnoses of identified ABCA7 mutation carriers. Carriers mostly developed late-onset AD (71 ± 9 years) and had a high familial load (67 % with positive family history). Patients presented with classic amnestic AD based on neuropsychological assessment, imaging and CSF biomarkers. However, vascular involvement was observed in a considerable part of patients, leading to diagnosis of vascular dementia (9 %) and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) (6 %). In line with this, neuropathology of the 14 examined carriers uncovered extensive levels of CAA and AD hallmarks. Carriers of an ABCA7 missense mutations displayed a less aggressive phenotype, with comparable onset but longer disease duration compared to carriers of a PTC mutation. Furthermore, non-amnestic features including language, dysexecutive and behavioural symptoms, were more frequently seen in PTC patients (18 % vs 9 %), as was the case for concomitant vascular disease (22 % vs 10 %). Taken together, the clinical phenotype of rare ABCA7 mutation carriers spans the AD-CAA spectrum. Patients present with a classical AD phenotype although clinical heterogeneity is observed among carriers. The presence of a cerebrovascular component (CAA) may, in part, explain this heterogeneity.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Silurus asotus (Amur catfish) egg lectin (SAL) inhibits cell proliferation and enhances the effects of anticancer drugs by binding to globotriaosylceramide (Gb3) on the cell surface. Gb3 expression is typically increased in seminomas. However, its association with SAL and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we investigated the effects of SAL on morphology, migratory ability, and integrin expression in JKT-1 cells using chromatography and mass spectrometry. Gb3 was expressed in JKT-1, an established seminoma cell line. SAL did not alter JKT-1 proliferation but increased propidium iodide uptake. Furthermore, SAL induced morphological changes and increased the expression of integrin α2 in JKT-1, but not in HeLa cells. Gb3 expression was detected in JKT-1 and HeLa cells, with high- and low-mobility bands observed. However, the low-mobility bands were more abundant in JKT-1 than in HeLa cells. The main forms of Gb3 in JKT-1 cells were high-mobility d18:1/24:0 and d18:1/24:1 and low-mobility hydroxylated Gb3. Fatty acid 2-hydroxylase was involved in the acyl chain hydroxylation of low-mobility Gb3 in JKT-1 cells and showed 5-fold higher expression in JKT-1 cells than in HeLa cells. Our findings suggest that the antitumor effects of SAL vary according to the specific Gb3 molecular species expressed in cancer cells.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are critical regulators of skeletal muscle development and adaptation, orchestrating the balance between proliferation, differentiation, and tissue repair. Here, we identify miR-339-5p as a previously unrecognized, conserved regulator of skeletal muscle remodeling. Transcriptomic analysis from human, mouse, and rat studies revealed that miR-339-5p is consistently upregulated in skeletal muscle under conditions of stress or injury and declines during myogenic differentiation in vitro. Gain-of-function experiments demonstrated that miR-339-5p overexpression impairs expression of genes associated with myogenic differentiation and promotes expression of proliferative markers in both primary human myotubes and mouse C2C12 cells. Transcriptomic profiling confirmed widespread repression of pathways involved in cytoskeletal organization, myofibrillar assembly, and mitochondrial function. In vivo, electroporation-mediated overexpression of miR-339-5p in mouse tibialis anterior altered regeneration-associated gene expression and increased the number of immature fibers, therefore modulating tissue remodeling during postinjury growth. Integrated analyses combining target prediction algorithms, differentiation-associated correlations, and overexpression datasets identified seven conserved high-confidence miR-339-5p targets, among which the autophagy-associated phosphatase myotubularin related protein 3 (MTMR3) emerged as the most consistently regulated candidate. Collectively, our data demonstrate that miR-339-5p functions as a conserved inhibitor of myogenic progression, linking injury-induced stress responses to delayed differentiation and altered muscle remodeling. These findings establish miR-339-5p as a potential therapeutic target in conditions characterized by impaired muscle regeneration or dysregulated tissue remodeling.NEW & NOTEWORTHY We uncover miR-339-5p as a conserved microRNA that suppresses myogenic proliferation and differentiation and reshapes contractile gene networks in skeletal muscle. Its induction after injury and ability to alter regeneration and fiber morphology in vivo highlight miR-339-5p as a regulator of muscle repair or remodeling.
Fine particulate matter with a diameter ≤2.5 μm (PM2.5) pollution poses a global public health crisis, demonstrating significant threats to human health. This study focused on the strategically important Chengdu-Chongqing Economic Circle in western China, systematically comparing the toxic effects of urban and rural PM2.5 across five levels. PMF and regression analysis were used to identify source contributions, dual-omics to pinpoint key molecules, and epidemiological data with a GAM model to assess health risks. Findings demonstrate that rural PM2.5 possesses greater biotoxicity than its urban counterpart. Cytotoxicity in urban and rural PM2.5 originated from road dust/vehicle emissions and biomass burning, respectively. Subsequently, integrated omics and molecular biology analyses identify kinesin family member 20A (KIF20A) as a shared key target, which mediates toxicity induced by both urban and rural PM2.5. Finally, epidemiological analysis reveals that females and ≥65 years old exhibit relatively high sensitivity to urban PM2.5 exposure trends, with rhinitis showing a comparatively higher impact among various related diseases. The novelty of this work lies in its pioneering application of a multi-tiered investigative approach. This approach spans "environmental samples-cellular mechanisms-population health" within the Chengdu-Chongqing economic circle context, systematically elucidating common and distinct respiratory health risk of urban and rural PM2.5. This work offers a vital scientific foundation for advancing region-specific, precise air pollution prevention and control measures.
The mechanism by which kinesin-like protein family 20A (KIF20A) influences prostate cancer progression remains unclear. This study aims to investigate the functional role of KIF20A in prostate cancer and its transcriptional regulatory mechanism via activation of activating transcription factor 2 (ATF2).Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), western blotting, and immunohistochemistry (IHC) were used to assess KIF20A expression in prostate cancer tissues. The chi-square tests was used to analysze the association between KIF20A expression and clinical-pathological features of prostate cancer. A stable KIF20A knockdown prostate cancer cell line was established. The effects of KIF20A expression levels on prostate cancer cell proliferation and invasion were investigated through plate cloning and cell invasion assays. JASPAR was used to predict ATF2 binding sites within the KIF20A promoter region, which were validated by chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and dual-luciferase reporter assays.KIF20A expression was significantly elevated in prostate cancer tissue compared to their adjacent non-cancerous tissue controls. Furthermore, high KIF20A expression was significantly correlated with tumor grading and staging, as well as lymph node metastasis factors in prostate cancer patients. Knockdown of KIF20A significantly inhibited the proliferation and invasion of prostate cancer cells. ATF2 bound to the promoter region of the KIF20A gene, thereby promoting KIF20A transcription.Under the transcriptional regulation of ATF2, KIF20A expression is significantly upregulated in prostate cancer tissues, thereby promoting the progression of prostate cancer. KIF20A may serve as an independent prognostic factor influencing the prognosis of prostate cancer patients.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Resistance to immunotherapy, driven by the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment, remains a major clinical challenge in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Although metabolic reprogramming is a known culprit, the precise epigenetic mechanisms linking lactate accumulation to immune evasion are poorly defined.Immunohistochemistry analysis of 89 pairs of HCC and paracancerous tissues was conducted to correlate histone h3 lysine 18 lactylation (H3K18la) levels with TNM stage. A separate clinical cohort of 46 patients with HCC was enrolled to assess the association between H3K18la levels and anti-PD-1 therapy resistance. Chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing in HCC cells, performed to screen for downstream targets, identified kinesin family member 20A (KIF20A). The regulatory relationships among H3K18la, KIF20A, c-Myc, and PD-L1 were verified with dual-luciferase reporter assays and chromatin immunoprecipitation-PCR. The immune evasion mechanism was explored through gene knockdown/overexpression in HCC cells, followed by co-culture with CD8+ T cells and functional analysis via flow cytometry. Finally, a subcutaneous mouse xenograft model was established to evaluate the synergistic efficacy of a glycolysis inhibitor combined with anti-PD-1 therapy on tumor growth and the tumor immune microenvironment.Histone lactylation (forming H3K18la) was identified as a key epigenetic checkpoint linking tumor metabolism to immunotherapy failure in HCC. Elevated H3K18la is a reliable biomarker for tumor progression and resistance to anti-PD-1 therapy. Mechanistically, we discovered that lactate-driven H3K18la directly activates transcription of the oncogene KIF20A. KIF20A in turn stabilizes c-Myc protein, thereby enhancing PD-L1 expression and attenuating anti-tumor immunity. This immunosuppressive phenotype was therapeutically reversible: genetic silencing of KIF20A restored T cell function, and pharmacological inhibition of glycolysis acted synergistically with anti-PD-1 therapy in suppressing tumor growth and extending survival by dismantling the H3K18la-KIF20A axis.This study deciphered a novel druggable metabolic-epigenetic pathway (lactate-H3K18la-KIF20A-Myc-PD-L1) responsible for immune evasion in HCC. Targeting this axis might offer a promising strategy to reprogram the tumor microenvironment and restore immunotherapy sensitivity.Copyright © 2026 The Authors.
Kinesin family member 20A (KIF20A), a microtubule-dependent motor protein of the Kinesin superfamily, is involved in cell division and organelle transport. Its expression is dysregulated in various cancers and is closely related to tumor metastasis and patient prognosis. However, its specific functions in different tumor types and the potential as an anticancer target have not been fully elucidated, and a systematic pan-cancer analysis is lacking.This study integrated multiple cancer database resources and systematically analyzed the multi-omics alterations of KIF20A in different cancers using R software, including gene expression, genomic variation, methylation status, biological pathways, and clinical value. In addition, we evaluated the regulatory role and immunotherapy potential of KIF20A in the tumor microenvironment through various bioinformatics algorithms. Finally, we explored the impact of KIF20A on the biological behaviors of Kidney Renal Clear Cell Carcinoma (KIRC) cells through in vitro and in vivo experiments.KIF20A is localized in the nucleus and participates in the cell cycle process, serving as a core gene for tumor cell growth. It undergoes copy number alterations in various tumors, and its high expression is closely associated with clinical progression, poor prognosis, and activation of classical oncogenic pathways in multiple cancers. Mechanistically, aberrant epigenetic modifications and mutations in hallmark pathways are significant reasons for the dysregulated expression of KIF20A. Furthermore, the expression of KIF20A correlates with immune cell infiltration and the expression of immune checkpoint molecules, impacting the efficacy of immunotherapy in various cancers. In vitro experiments have confirmed that interfering with KIF20A expression can effectively inhibit the proliferation, migration, and invasion of KIRC cells. Furthermore, in vivo experimental results indicate that interfering with KIF20A can inhibit tumor growth in nude mice.To our knowledge, this is the first study to reveal the role of KIF20A in tumorigenesis and development from a pan-cancer multi-omics perspective, providing solid theoretical and experimental evidence for KIF20A as a potential anti-cancer therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Li, Qi, Yang and Guo.
Lysosome homeostasis is vital for cellular fitness due to the essential roles of this organelle in various pathways. Given their extensive workload, lysosomes are prone to damage, which can stimulate lysosomal quality control mechanisms such as biogenesis, repair, or autophagic removal - a process termed lysophagy. Despite recent advances highlighting lysophagy as a critical mechanism for lysosome maintenance, the extent of lysosome integrity perturbation and the magnitude of lysophagy in vivo remain largely unexplored. Additionally, the pathophysiological relevance of lysophagy is poorly understood. To address these gaps, it is necessary to develop quantifiable methods for evaluating lysosome damage and lysophagy flux in vivo. To this end, we created two transgenic mouse lines expressing a tandem fluorescent LGALS3/galectin 3 probe (tfGAL3), either constitutively or conditionally under Cre recombinase control, utilizing the property of LGALS3 to recognize damaged lysosomes. This tool enables spatiotemporal visualization of lysosome damage and lysophagy activity at single-cell resolution in vivo. Systemic analysis across various organs, tissues, and primary cultures from these lysophagy reporter mice revealed significant variations in basal lysophagy, both in vivo and in vitro. Additionally, this study identified substantial changes in lysosome integrity and lysophagy flux in different tissues under stress conditions such as starvation, acute kidney injury and diabetic modeling. In conclusion, these complementary lysophagy reporter models are valuable resources for both basic and translational research.Abbreviation: AAV: adeno-associated virus; ATG7: autophagy related 7; CA-tfGAL3: cre-recombinase-activated tandem fluorescent LGALS3; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DM: diabetes mellitus; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complex required for transport; GFP: green fluorescent protein; HFD: high-fat diet; Igs2/H11/Hipp11: intergenic site 2; IST1: IST1 factor associated with ESCRT-III; KI: knock-in; LAMP1: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1; LGALS3: lectin, galactoside-binding, soluble, 3; LLOMe: L-leucyl-L-leucine methyl ester hydrobromide; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; NaOx: sodium oxalate; PDCD6IP: programmed cell death 6 interacting protein; PTECs: proximal tubular epithelial cells; RFP: red fluorescent protein; STZ: streptozotocin; TAM: tamoxifen; tfGAL3: tandem fluorescent LGALS3; TMEM192: transmembrane protein 192.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), being both aggressive and highly lethal, poses a major clinical challenge in terms of treatment. Its heterogeneity and lack of hormone receptors or HER2 expression further restrict the availability of targeted therapy. Breast cancer stem cells (BCSCs), known to fuel TNBC malignancy, are now being exploited as a vulnerability for TNBC treatment. Here, we dissected the transcriptome of BCSCs and identified kinesin family member 20A (KIF20A) as a key regulator of BCSC survival and TNBC tumorigenesis. Genetic depletion or pharmacological inhibition of KIF20A impairs BCSC viability and tumor initiation and development in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, KIF20A supports BCSC stemness through modulation of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, which is repressed by SMARCA4, a component of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex. Therapeutically, KIF20A inhibition sensitizes TNBC xenografts to standard-of-care chemotherapy. Our study highlights the importance of targeting KIF20A to exploit BCSC vulnerabilities in TNBC.
Cardiac hypertrophy, defined as a stress-induced increase in heart mass/size, is a major risk factor for adverse cardiovascular events, including heart failure and arrhythmia. Within this general definition, the orientation of cell and organ growth varies considerably depending on stress type and duration, with important implications for cardiac function, yet little is known regarding the mechanisms that regulate hypertrophic orientation. Here, we evaluated the role of the cytoskeletal protein βIV-spectrin and associated prohypertrophic STAT3 (signal transducer and activator of transcription 3) to direct the orientation of hypertrophic growth.Transgenic mouse models with altered STAT3 signaling through modified interaction with its scaffolding partner βIV-spectrin, or phospho-regulation of STAT3 directly, were evaluated at baseline, and after transaortic constriction, or aortocaval fistula. Unbiased screening of gene expression from these structurally divergent states was evaluated for pathways responsible for directing myocyte length/width. These pathways were tested in vitro using primary mouse myocytes and in vivo to tune growth patterns for therapeutic intervention.Loss of βIV-spectrin or direct STAT3 activation promoted a preferential increase in myocyte length over width, resulting in dilation of the left ventricular chamber (eccentric hypertrophy) and decreased systolic function. Conversely, preservation of βIV-spectrin favored an increase in myocyte width without left ventricular dilation (concentric hypertrophy) and preserved systolic function in response to transaortic constriction or aortocaval fistula. Differential expression of genes associated with microtubules, including the trafficking kinesin motor, KIF20A (kinesin family member 20A), were identified in concentric versus eccentric hypertrophic states. In vitro assays revealed a relationship between βIV-spectrin/STAT3 signaling, KIF20A expression, microtubule density, and spatial distribution of mRNA for the sarcomeric gene actc1. Finally, intervention with pharmacological STAT3 inhibition after chronic 6-week transaortic constriction successfully recovered concentric growth with improved systolic function.These data identify a novel and pivotal role for βIV-spectrin/STAT3 to modify microtubule properties and sarcomeric transcript distribution to direct myocyte geometry in response to chronic stress. These studies further illustrate the unique separation of hypertrophic growth and orientation as distinct pathways in cardiac remodeling.
Acrylamide (ACR) is a widely used environmental chemical with neurotoxicity. However, the molecular mechanism and intervention targets of ACR have not been fully elucidated. IST1 factor associated with ESCRT-III (IST1) is an important regulatory subunit of endosomal sorting and transport complex III (ESCRT-III). It can promote autophagy flux and accelerate the autophagic clearance of the phosphorylated Tau protein (p-Tau). This study aimed to explore the role of IST1 in ACR-caused apoptosis, autophagy flux blockage, and p-Tau accumulation. SH-SY5Y cells were exposed to ACR for 72 h at 0.5 and 0.75 mmol/L doses. IST1 overexpression (IST1oe) of SH-SY5Y cells and hippocampal IST1oe C57BL/6 J mice was conducted to evaluate the role of IST1 in ACR-caused neurotoxicity. Results showed that ACR treatment could cause apoptosis, autophagy flux blockage, decreased IST1 level, and abnormal expressions of learning and memory-related proteins, including p-CREB, BDNF, and p-Tau. The effect of ACR on IST1 protein was earlier than that of apoptosis- and autophagy-related proteins such as Bax, Bcl-2, LC3-II, and p62. IST1oe alleviated ACR-induced autophagy flux blockage by promoting autophagosome-lysosome fusion, thereby alleviating the changes in p-CREB, BDNF, p-Tau proteins, and cell apoptosis. IST1oe could alleviate ACR-led learning and memory dysfunction, alleviate the reduction of dendritic spines in C57BL/6 J mice. This study helped elucidate the neurotoxic mechanism of ACR and provide potential molecular targets for prevention and treatment.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ferroptosis resistance is a key player in cervical cancer (CC) development. Hypoxia is a negative factor affecting CC treatment by inducing ferroptosis resistance. Our study aimed to investigate the detailed mechanisms of hypoxia-induced ferroptosis resistance in CC cells. The mRNA and protein levels were assessed using RT-qPCR and western blot. Immunofluorescence staining was used to analyze the co-localization of Budding uninhibited by benzimidazole 1 (BUB1) and Kinesin family member 20A (KIF20A) in CC cells. Fe2+, MDA, and GSH levels were measured by commercial kits. Cell viability was determined by CCK-8. The molecular interactions were analyzed by RIP or Co-IP. MeRIP was adopted to measure the m5C level of KIF20A. We found that hypoxia facilitated ferroptosis resistance in CC cells. Hypoxia led to the upregulation of KIF20A, and KIF20A knockdown weakened hypoxia-mediated ferroptosis resistance in CC cells. Mechanistically, Aly/REF export factor (ALYREF) stabilized KIF20A mRNA stability via m5C modification. In addition, KIF20A upregulated BUB1 in CC cells by directly interacting with BUB1. Rescue experiments indicated that BUB1 overexpression partially reversed the inhibitory effect of KIF20A knockdown on hypoxia-mediated ferroptosis resistance in CC cells. In conclusion, hypoxia triggers ALYREF-mediated m5C methylation of KIF20A to activate the KIF20A/BUB1 axis, thereby inducing ferroptosis resistance in CC cells.© 2025 The Author(s). The Kaohsiung Journal of Medical Sciences published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Kaohsiung Medical University.
Hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP) comprises a group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive spasticity of the lower limbs. Troyer syndrome (MIM #275900), an autosomal recessive form of complicated HSP, was initially described in the Old Order Amish population. The syndrome is associated with a spectrum of clinical manifestations, including spastic paraplegia, muscle atrophy, dysarthria, intellectual disability, and abnormal white matter on neuroimaging. The causative gene for Troyer syndrome has been identified as SPG20, which encodes the spartin protein. Spartin plays a pivotal role in lipid droplet degradation and mitochondrial function. Here, we report the clinical and molecular features of the second documented case of Troyer syndrome in China. The patient, a 5-year-8-month-old Han Chinese girl, presented with delayed psychomotor development, abnormal gait, and a history of febrile seizures. Whole-exome sequencing revealed a novel homozygous pathogenic variant, c.1734-1G>C, in SPG20, leading to a frameshift and the expression of a truncated protein. This variant was absent from multiple population databases of healthy individuals, and both parents were heterozygous carriers without clinical manifestations. Functional studies in cells transfected with SPG20 constructs demonstrated that the variant spartin protein failed to localize to lipid droplets, leading to their accumulation. This functional impairment may contribute to the pathogenesis of Troyer syndrome. Our findings expand the variant spectrum of SPG20 and provide further insight into the genotype-phenotype relationship in Troyer syndrome, highlighting the critical role of spartin in lipid metabolism and neuronal function.Copyright © 2026 Zhu, Hu, Jiang, Gu, Wang, Zhang, Peng and Ma.
Orthoflaviviruses, including Zika (ZIKV), dengue, Japanese encephalitis, and West Nile viruses, cause diverse clinical syndromes and threaten human health. Identifying factors that inhibit orthoflavivirus infection could lead to antiviral countermeasures. Here, we conducted a genome-wide CRISPR activation screen and identified the host gene SPART (Spartin/SPG20) as a restriction factor against ZIKV and other orthoflaviviruses. SPART interacts with and disrupts the endosomal localization of Itchy E3-ubiquitin ligase (ITCH), which we determine ubiquitinates the ZIKV capsid, thereby triggering uncoating. Loss of SPART enhances ZIKV replication, an effect not observed in SPART-ITCH double knockout mutants. Maternal ZIKV infection of Spg20-/- mice results in heightened maternal and fetal viral loads and greater fetal abnormalities, whereas infection of Itch-/- mice yields opposite outcomes. Similar results were observed in these gene-edited mice upon infection with related orthoflaviviruses. Overall, this approach identified a broad orthoflavivirus restriction factor, providing a potential target against these emerging pathogenic viruses.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Senile osteoporosis (SOP) is characterized by impaired osteogenesis of bone-marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). The underlying metabolic basis remains unclear. This study aimed to identify energy-regulating pathways sustaining MSC osteogenesis during aging. Progressive activation of lipophagy was observed during MSC osteogenic differentiation, coupling lipid-droplet degradation with mitochondrial β-oxidation and ATP generation. Loss of the lipophagy receptor SPARTIN disrupted this process, leading to lipid accumulation, reduced CPT1A/CPT2 expression, suppressed oxidative phosphorylation, and impaired osteogenesis in vitro and in vivo. Conditional deletion of Spart in MSCs reproduced an osteoporosis-like phenotype in young mice. Reactivation of lipophagy using bone-tropic AAV9-LAP restored mitochondrial metabolism and bone mass in both Spart-CKO and SOP mice. Pharmacological activation with digoxin produced similar effects but induced cardiotoxicity. A senescent-neutrophil-membrane-coated nanoplatform (SNM@NP-DIG) enabled bone-targeted digoxin delivery, rescuing bone mass while minimizing cardiac injury. Overall, SPARTIN-mediated lipophagy is a critical metabolic regulator of MSC osteogenesis and represents a promising therapeutic target for senile osteoporosis.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
BACKGROUND: Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is one of the primary contributors to global cancer mortality. Elevated expression of centrosomal protein 55 (CEP55) is frequently observed in NSCLC and is closely linked to tumorigenesis and disease progression. However, the prognostic value of CEP55 in NSCLC has not been fully established. The current meta-analysis assessed how increased CEP55 expression may influence prognosis in patients diagnosed with NSCLC. METHODS: Eligible studies were retrieved via a systematic search across major biomedical databases. Additionally, validation cohorts were retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. To quantify the prognostic relevance of CEP55, hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were synthesized from eligible studies. The Newcastle-Ottawa Scale was leveraged to assess the methodological quality of the included studies. This review was registered with PROSPERO (CRD420251006676). RESULTS: A total of 18 independent study cohorts (6 literature-derived and 12 database-derived) involving 4,829 patients were included. The meta-analysis revealed that elevated CEP55 expression was significantly associated with poorer overall survival (OS) in NSCLC patients [HR = 1.22, 95% CI: 1.13–1.32]. Subgroup analysis by histological subtype showed that CEP55 serves as an independent predictor of poor OS in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) [HR = 1.28, 95% CI: 1.20–1.37], whereas its prognostic utility in lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) was not statistically significant [HR = 0.98, 95% CI: 0.90–1.06]. Multivariate analysis further confirmed CEP55 as an independent risk factor for LUAD, with its prognostic impact being particularly evident in early-stage disease characteristics—including Stage I, limited tumor infiltration (T1–T2), and the absence of distant metastasis (M0)—as well as in patients with negative surgical margins or those who had not received chemotherapy. CONCLUSION: CEP55 may act as a potential indicator for predicting disease progression and survival outcomes in NSCLC, particularly in LUAD. Further investigation into the underlying mechanisms of CEP55 is necessary.
Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma (OSCC) is one of the most occurred cancer types with yearly 377,713 cases and 177,000 deaths. Traditional risk factors of OSCC include smoking, alcohol consumption, excessive sun exposure, family history of cancer, and human papillomavirus (HPV). Last few years, the prevalence of OSCC is growing big in numbers particularly among younger people for their lifestyle. From the Gene Expression Omnibus, 2 gene-expression profiles (GSE23558 and GSE146483) were identified based on some conditions. The GEO2R tool was used to analyze those datasets to extract all the genes. Statistical cut-off criteria were applied to find out DEGs from both datasets, and after that common DEGs were identified by comparing both datasets. Common DEGs were used to perform bioinformatics analysis such as gene ontology and pathway analysis, protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction, and generating Transcription factor - miRNA network. 265 common DEGs were identified from the datasets including 69 up-regulated and 196 down-regulated DEGs. Using the STRING database and a strong combine score > 0.70, a PPI network is generated including 92 nodes and 226 interactions. Using 3 different hub DEGs seeking algorithm, we identified 9 top hub DEGs. The hub genes are Kinesin Family Member 23 (KIF23), Aurora Kinase A (AURKA), Centromere Protein F (CENPF), Cell Division Cycle 20 (CDC20), Discs Large Associated Protein 5 (DLGAP5), Centrosomal Protein 55 (CEP55), Anillin Actin Binding Protein (ANLN), Non-SMC Condensin I Complex Subunit G (NCAPG), and Kinesin Family Member 14 (KIF14). 3 significant clusters also identified from the PPI network. Previous study shows KIF23 takes part in raising Cell Proliferation in Hepatocellular carcinoma cells and AURKA shows notable overexpression in cancer tissues, which indicates that KIF23 and AURKA showed promising character to become possible biomarkers for OSCC. Further analysis needed to justify the statement.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are critical mediators of intercellular communication in the tumor microenvironment and play an essential role in tumor growth and metastasis. MUC1 has been identified in tumor cell-derived EVs, but its function in that context has not been well investigated. We show that MUC1 is highly enriched in EVs derived from pancreatic cancer cell lines and patient tumors but not normal pancreas. Pretreatment of mice with tumor derived MUC1 positive EVs promoted tumor cell growth and metastasis in vivo. MUC1 positive EVs enhanced tumor cell growth, motility and invasion in vitro. Proteomic profiling revealed that MUC1-positive EVs contain protein cargo distinct from MUC1-negative EVs, which implicates MUC1 in selective EV cargo regulation. We demonstrate that the cytoplasmic tail of MUC1 expressed in pancreatic cancer cells interacts with programmed cell death 6-interacting protein (ALIX) and influences EV biogenesis and loading of specific oncogenic cargo (PhosphoTyr416-Src) that are known to associate with MUC1. EVs from SRC inhibitor Bosutinib treated cells showed reduced effects on cell viability, migration, and invasion of MUC1 knockout cells as compared to EVs from untreated cells. Thus, MUC1-positive EVs containing activated Src promoted tumor cell proliferation and in vivo tumor growth, migration, and metastasis of orthotopic pancreatic cancer cells. Collectively, our findings identify a previously unrecognized role for MUC1 in influencing EV composition and function: influencing loading of oncogenic protein cargoes into EVs. Our data highlight a novel mechanism controlling tumor-specific EV cargo loading and demonstrate that oncogenic cargo in MUC1-associated EVs contributes to pancreatic cancer progression.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Intracellular persistence caused by Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) is among the primary reasons for recurrence and difficulty in eradicating S. aureus infections. In this study, we identify the secreted protein Hla (α-hemolysin) by S. aureus as a key factor enabling its intracellular retention. We demonstrate that intracellular Hla secreted by S. aureus inhibits lysosome degradation via disrupting lysosomal function, which sustains the survival and proliferation of S. aureus within autophagosomes. Furthermore, we identify the interaction between Hla and intracellular LGALS3 (galectin 3) as crucial for sustaining intracellular survival of S. aureus, resolve the structure of the Hla-LGALS3 complex, and identify the Loop 68-75 region of Hla as the key binding domain with LGALS3. Moreover, the interaction between Hla and LGALS3 influences the recruitment of PDCD6IP/ALIX (programmed cell death 6 interacting protein) to the damaged lysosomal surface, resulting in disruption of lysosomal degradative function. Our results highlight an unknown role of Hla in the intracellular survival of S. aureus and suggest that interrupting the interaction between Hla and LGALS3 May be a potential therapeutic strategy for treating S. aureus infections.Abbreviations: 3 MA: 3-methyladenine; AECII: alveolar epithelial cells II; Agr: accessory gene regulator; ATG13: autophagy related 13; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; BLI: biolayer interferometry; CFU: colony-forming units; ClfA: clumping factor A; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CRD: carbohydrate recognition domain; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complex required for transport; FnbA: fibronectin-binding protein A; FnbB: fibronectin-binding protein B; Hla: α-hemolysin; IP-MS: immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry; LGALS3: galectin 3; LLoMe: L-leucyl-L-leucine methyl ester hydrobromide; LMP: lysosomal-membrane permeabilization; MOI: multiplicity of infection; PDCD6IP/ALIX: programmed cell death 6 interacting protein; S. aureus: Staphylococcus aureus; SPA: staphylococcal protein A; SSPA: staphylococcal surface protein A; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TRAF3: TNF receptor associated factor 3; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1.
Pancreatic cancer (PC) remains a highly lethal malignancy with limited treatment options, largely due to its heterogeneity and therapy resistance. While ferroptosis-a form of iron-dependent cell death driven by lipid peroxidation-has emerged as a relevant pathway, its role in PC is incompletely understood, as is the oncogenic function of Centrosomal Protein 55 (CEP55). Here, we integrated TCGA data with immunohistochemical validation and demonstrated that CEP55 is significantly overexpressed in PC and correlates with advanced disease and poor prognosis. Functionally, CEP55 knockdown suppressed proliferation, migration, and clonogenicity, while inducing ferroptosis, as evidenced by elevated lipid peroxidation, iron accumulation, and glutathione depletion. Mechanistically, CEP55 silencing downregulated key ferroptosis suppressors, including GPX4, SLC7A11, and NQO1, increasing cellular sensitivity to ferroptotic stress. Erastin, a ferroptosis inducer, enhanced ferroptosis in CEP55-deficient cells and counteracted the tumor-promoting effects of CEP55 overexpression. In vivo, CEP55 silencing reduced tumor growth and altered ferroptosis markers. Our findings establish CEP55 as a novel driver of PC progression via ferroptosis suppression, supporting its potential as both a prognostic biomarker and a therapeutic target for combination strategies aimed at overcoming PC resistance.© 2026 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
Aurora kinase B (AURKB), a key component of the chromosomal passenger complex (CPC), plays a critical role in mitosis and is aberrantly expressed in various human cancers, including acute myeloid leukemia (AML), colorectal cancer, and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Although AURKB represents an attractive therapeutic target, the clinical translation of conventional ATP-competitive inhibitors has been hindered by poor selectivity and dose-limiting toxicity. PROTAC technology offers a promising strategy to overcome these limitations by achieving selective protein degradation. Guided by molecular docking, we herein developed a series of novel AURKB-targeting PROTACs. Among them, compounds 1 and 3 emerged as potent and highly selective AURKB degraders, exhibiting DC50 values in the low nanomolar range with minimal activity against AURKA. Mechanistic studies confirmed that compound 1 forms a stable ternary complex with AURKB and the E3 ligase CRBN in cells, leading to time- and ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS)-dependent degradation. Interestingly, beyond enzymatic inhibition, targeted degradation of AURKB also led to the downregulation of other CPC components (borealin, INCENP, survivin) and the transcription factor YY1, which are stabilized through direct interaction with AURKB. In addition, compound 1 suppressed proliferation across a panel of cancer cell lines, induced G2/M phase arrest, and triggered apoptosis. Together, this study presents a highly potent and selective AURKB degrader, offering a valuable chemical probe for studying CPC biology and a promising lead for cancer therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
A new series of seven N-(isoxazol-3-yl)-4-(1,3,4-thiadiazol-3(2H)-yl)benzenesulfonamide derivatives (22-28) was designed, synthesized, and biologically evaluated as potential dual Aurora kinase A/B inhibitors. Cytotoxicity screening against MCF-7, PC-3, HepG-2, and HCT-116 cell lines revealed variable activities, with compound 25 emerging as the most potent derivative (IC50 = 7.72-9.51 μM) and exhibiting selective toxicity toward cancer cells over normal WI-38 fibroblasts. Mechanistic studies demonstrated that compound 25 significantly reduced intracellular levels of Aurora A and Aurora B kinases in MCF-7 cells, decreasing Aurora A from 53.96 to 42.21 pg/mg protein and Aurora B from 63.84 to 36.48 pg/mg protein, with a more pronounced inhibition of Aurora B. Flow cytometric analysis revealed marked induction of G2/M phase arrest (46.10% vs 26.46% in control), indicating disruption of mitotic progression. In addition, compound 25 induced significant apoptosis, increasing early and late apoptotic populations to 7.99% and 25.39%, respectively, accompanied by a substantial reduction in viable cells. This effect was further supported by activation of the intrinsic apoptotic pathway, as evidenced by a 7.6-fold increase in caspase-3 expression, upregulation of Bax, and downregulation of Bcl-2.Computational analyses were performed to rationalize the observed biological behavior. DFT calculations confirmed the structural and electronic stability of compound 25. Molecular docking revealed that compound 25 binds strongly to Aurora A and B through key hydrogen-bonding and hydrophobic interactions within the ATP-binding site. Subsequent 100 ns MD simulations, MM-GBSA analyses, Pro-LIF profiling, and PCA of trajectories collectively confirmed the dynamic stability, thermodynamic favorability, and persistence of key interactions in the complexes. In silico ADME and toxicity assessments further indicated favorable pharmacokinetic properties and low predicted toxicity for compound 25. Collectively, the experimental and computational findings establish compound 25 as a promising dual Aurora kinase A/B inhibitor, integrating potent antiproliferative activity with a mechanistically supported and computationally validated interaction profile, warranting further optimization and in vivo evaluation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Aurora kinase B (AURKB) is a key mitotic regulator frequently overexpressed in various malignancies. However, its functional link and therapeutic relevance in MYC-driven lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) have not been fully elucidated. This study aimed to investigate whether targeting AURKB could attenuate tumor growth by disrupting MYC-mediated oncogenic programs in LUAD.AURKB expression and its clinical significance were analyzed using public cancer datasets. Molecular crosstalk between AURKB and MYC signaling was evaluated via Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA). In vitro, the effects of AURKB inhibition (siRNA or AZD2811) on MYC target genes were assessed by RT-qPCR. Finally, the synergistic antitumor effect of dual AURKB (AZD2811) and MYC (MYCi361) inhibition was validated in an H1299 xenograft mouse model.High AURKB expression was associated with poor overall survival in LUAD patients and significantly correlated with the enrichment of MYC target signatures. Genetic or pharmacological inhibition of AURKB led to a significant reduction in the mRNA expression of core MYC target genes (CDC20, CCNA2, and CDC45), which themselves were identified as independent poor prognostic factors. In the xenograft model, combined treatment with AZD2811 and MYCi361 resulted in a superior reduction in tumor volume and weight compared to either monotherapy.AURKB contributes to LUAD progression by modulating MYC-driven oncogenic programs. Consequently, targeting the AURKB/MYC axis may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for MYC-dependent lung adenocarcinoma.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42138941
Prostate cancer (PCa) is a highly prevalent malignant tumor in males. Lysine β-hydroxybutyrylation (Kbhb), an emerging post-translational modification, plays a critical role in tumorigenic processes. However, its functional mechanism in PCa remains elusive. This study aims to identify Kbhb-related prognostic genes in PCa and provide novel insights for its diagnosis, prognosis and treatment.Candidate genes were obtained through differential expression analysis and intersection analysis. Univariate Cox proportional hazards model and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression were employed to screen Kbhb-related prognostic genes, and a risk model was constructed and validated. The expression levels of Kbhb modification and related prognostic genes were validated using Western blotting (WB), real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) and immunohistochemistry (IHC). Additionally, clinical correlation analysis, nomogram development and validation, immune infiltration analysis, tumor mutation burden (TMB) analysis, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), drug sensitivity prediction, molecular regulatory network analysis, drug targeting analysis, and molecular docking were performed.Three genes--kinesin family member 4A (KIF4A), TPX2 microtubule nucleation factor (TPX2), and aurora kinase B (AURKB)-were identified as Kbhb-related prognostic genes. Results of WB indicated that the butyrylation level of the H3K27 (H3K27-Bu) protein was significantly upregulated in PCa tissues. RT-qPCR and IHC results demonstrated that the expression levels of KIF4A, TPX2, and AURKB were significantly higher in the PCa than normal tissues. A risk model based on these genes demonstrated discriminatory ability (AUC >0.6) and served as an independent prognostic factor alongside prostate-specific antigen (PSA). The prognostic nomogram showed high accuracy (AUC 0.82-0.88). High-risk patients exhibited distinct immune infiltration profiles and higher mutation frequencies in tumor protein 53 (TP53), Titin (TTN), and speckle-type POZ protein (SPOP). Drug sensitivity analysis linked the risk score to 24 compounds, while molecular docking suggested that estradiol and bisphenol A could target the identified hub genes.This study identified KIF4A, TPX2, and AURKB as reliable prognostic biomarkers for PCa. These findings provide a theoretical basis for understanding Kbhb-mediated mechanisms in PCa and offer novel targets for early diagnosis and precision therapy.Copyright © 2026 Meng, He, Yan, Che, Tang and Zhang.
The importance of the deubiquitinase ubiquitin-specific peptidase 7 (USP7) in the etiology of various cancers is well recognized; however, its specific role and mechanisms of action in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain insufficiently elucidated. Aurora kinase B (Aurora B) has been implicated in HCC progression, yet the regulation of its protein stability in this setting is poorly defined. Here, we report that USP7 directly interacts with Aurora B, stabilizing the kinase by preventing its ubiquitination and subsequent degradation. Silencing USP7 increases the ubiquitination and degradation of Aurora B, concomitant with a reduction in HCC cell proliferation, wound healing, and migratory capacities. Conversely, USP7 overexpression enhances these malignant phenotypes, which are reversed by Aurora B knockdown. Importantly, dual inhibition of USP7 and Aurora B in vivo has marked therapeutic efficacy against HCC. Moreover, high expression of the USP7-Aurora B axis is correlated with adverse outcomes in HCC patients and may serve as an independent prognostic indicator. Collectively, our findings identify a previously unrecognized substrate relationship between USP7 and Aurora B, underscoring the pivotal role of the USP7-Aurora B axis in HCC progression. These findings offer promising avenues for therapeutic intervention and prognostication in HCC.
Aurora kinase B (AURKB) is overexpressed in lung cancer and is associated with poor prognosis. AZD2811 is an AURKB inhibitor that demonstrated tolerability during a Phase I dose-escalation study in patients with advanced solid tumours, including small-cell lung cancer (SCLC). Here we report the dose-expansion results.Eligible patients received nanoparticle-formulated AZD2811 500 mg IV (Day 1; 21-day cycles) with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (Day 8). Dose-expansion endpoints included: preliminary antitumour activity, safety/tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and biomarker-based disease monitoring.One of 21 enrolled patients achieved a partial response for an objective response rate of 4.8%; stable disease ≥6 weeks was observed in 10 patients (47.6%). The most common AZD2811-related AEs were decreased neutrophil and white blood cell count, anaemia, and decreased platelet count; grade ≥3 AZD2811-related AEs occurred in 15/21 patients. Baseline ctDNA levels were prognostic, and on-treatment ctDNA changes mirrored clinical response and identified progression early, suggesting it could be an effective surrogate for tumour tissue. Molecular profiling of paired tumour biopsies demonstrated AZD2811 pharmacodynamic activity and identified genes/pathways potentially linked to response.A personalised surveillance strategy may provide a novel avenue to monitor SCLC, supporting further investigation and potential broader clinical application.NCT02579226.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is an aggressive and often fatal cancer with limited treatment options. Small nucleolar RNA host gene 10 (SNHG10) has emerged as a key regulator in the progression and metastasis of human cancers. However, the potential of SNHG10 in PDAC tumorigenesis, gemcitabine resistance, and the underlying molecular mechanisms remains poorly understood. Our data analysis revealed significant upregulation of the SNHG10 transcript in 179 PDAC cases compared with 171 normal pancreatic specimens, with a positive association with clinical stages of PDAC. Further, we confirmed the significant overexpression of the SNHG10 transcript in several PDAC cell lines compared to normal pancreatic cells. Our results revealed that the downregulation of SNHG10 significantly decreased the cellular proliferation, clonogenic ability, cell migration, and the epithelial to mesenchymal transition, leading to the induction of cell cycle arrest and apoptosis of PDAC cells. Mechanistically, the downregulation of SNHG10 significantly inhibited the expression of vimentin, N-cadherin, survivin, CDK4, CDK6, cyclin B1, cyclin D1, aurora kinase A, and aurora kinase B, with an increased expression of E-cadherin and p21. The bioinformatics analysis, RNA Immunoprecipitation, and qRT-PCR results showed the physical interaction among SNHG10, miR-150-5p, and VEGF-A, which are the integral parts of the ternary complex in PDAC cell lines. Interestingly, silencing of SNHG10 led to the significant induction of miR-150-5p, which repressed the expression of VEGF-A in PDAC cells. Moreover, the miR-150-5p rescued the VEGF-A expression in PDAC cells even during the silencing of SNHG10. Interestingly, the downregulation of SNHG10 enhanced gemcitabine sensitivity in gemcitabine-resistant PDAC cells. The depletion of SNHG10 in the PDAC xenograft model significantly reduced tumor growth, volume, and weight. Importantly, downregulation of SNHG10 suppressed the phosphorylation of EGFR, AKT, ERK1/2, mTOR, and c-MET signaling pathways in both in vitro and xenograft models of PDAC. Our study unveils the oncogenic potential of SNHG10 in tumorigenesis through modulation of the EGFR/AKT/ERK/mTOR, and miR-150-5p/VEGF-A axis, as well as gemcitabine resistance of PDAC as a prospective therapeutic strategy. The graphical abstract represented the potential role of SNHG10 and its regulated molecular mechanisms in the tumorigenesis and gemcitabine resistance in PDAC. Silencing of SNHG10 decreases cell survival, proliferation, clonogenicity, EMT tumor growth through the EGFR/AKT/ERK/mTOR axis, and restores the expression of miR-150-5p, which eventually downregulates VEGF-A. SNHG10 downregulation enhanced the gemcitabine sensitivity in gemcitabine-resistant PDAC cells.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cell cycle regulators play fundamental roles in maintaining genomic integrity, and their dysregulation commonly leads to uncontrolled proliferation and chromosomal instability, which are hallmarks of cancer. Among these regulators, Aurora kinase B (AURKB) plays a critical role in chromosome segregation and cytokinesis. Aberrant expression of AURKB has been strongly associated with tumor progression and poor clinical outcomes, making it an attractive target for anticancer drug development. Traditional drug discovery pipelines are time-consuming, costly, and burdened by high attrition rates during clinical trials. In contrast, drug repurposing offers a faster, more cost-effective strategy that leverages the established safety, pharmacokinetic, and pharmacodynamic profiles of existing drugs, thereby significantly reducing the risk and duration of preclinical development. Here, we employed an integrated in silico pipeline combining structure-based virtual screening, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, and thermodynamic analyses to identify FDA-approved drugs with inhibitory potential against AURKB. A curated library of approved drugs was virtually screened against the AURKB catalytic domain. Two drug molecules, Ponatinib and Lapatinib, were identified as promising repurposed inhibitors based on their strong binding affinities, stable interactions within the ATP-binding pocket, and relevant pharmacological profiles. All-atom MD simulations for 500 ns confirmed the conformational stability of the protein-ligand complexes, characterized by minimal RMSD fluctuations and persistent hydrogen-bonding patterns. Essential dynamics and free-energy landscape analyses, followed by MM-PBSA and per-residue analyses, supported the thermodynamic stability and favorable binding energetics of the complexes. Collectively, these findings nominate Ponatinib and Lapatinib as promising repurposing candidates for subsequent biochemical and cellular validation as AURKB inhibitors.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Transverse tubules (T-tubules) are invaginations of the plasma membrane crucial for excitation-contraction coupling. Disruptions in T-tubule organization are frequently observed in heart diseases and are associated with impaired contractile function and malignant arrhythmias. In mammalian cells, the ESCRT (endosomal sorting complex required for transport) proteins mediate a fundamental mechanism for membrane deformation. This study aimed to elucidate the roles of key ESCRT proteins, including Chmp4b (charged multivesicular body protein 4b) and Tsg101 (tumor susceptibility gene 101), in the formation and maintenance of T-tubules.Myocardial-specific gene deletion was achieved using Chmp4bF/F, Tsg101F/F, and Rosa26Cas9-GFP mouse strains in conjunction with adeno-associated virus 9-mediated gene editing. The polymerization state of Chmp4b was assessed through the introduction of point mutations combined with glycerol-gradient fractionation. Direct interaction between Chmp4b and membrane phospholipids was examined using genetically encoded biosensors, lipid strip binding, and liposome tubulation assays. An inducible Chmp4b knockout model was utilized to determine its role in T-tubule maintenance during adulthood. Chmp4b expression levels were analyzed in a heart failure mouse model and in human patients with dilated cardiomyopathy.Chmp4b gradually localizes to the dyad during postnatal development, with its deletion causing a complete loss of T-tubules and defects in cardiac structure and contractile function. Chmp4b polymerizes and binds to PtdIns(4,5)P2 (Phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate) as well as other negatively charged membrane lipids, driving plasma membrane invagination in a process that depends on the ESCRT-I component Tsg101. In mature cardiomyocytes, Chmp4b remains anchored to the T-tubule membranes to maintain their structure, while Tsg101 detaches and becomes dispensable for T-tubule organization. Chmp4b expression was significantly reduced in heart samples from dilated cardiomyopathy patients and in a mouse model of heart failure.These results uncover an ESCRT-mediated membrane deformation machinery that is essential for shaping cardiomyocyte structure in physiological and disease conditions.
Loss of the protein scaffold Coiled-coil and C2 domain containing 1A (CC2D1A) leads to intellectual disability, autism spectrum disorder, and other neurodevelopmental presentations in humans. CC2D1A interactions have been studied in different cell lines proposing diverse roles in endolysosomal maturation and intracellular signaling, but the composition and function of the CC2D1A interactome remain poorly understood, especially in the brain. We performed comprehensive proteomic analyses to characterize CC2D1A binding partners, first comparing immunoprecipitations with three different anti-CC2D1A antibodies in HEK293 cells and then probing the mouse hippocampus. In HEK cells, gene ontology analysis revealed broad interaction networks in the nucleus, mitochondrion, and cytosol with a variety of functions unified by the best characterized CC2D1A interactor, the Endosomal sorting complex required for transport III (ESCRT-III) component Charged multivesicular body protein 4B (CHMP4B), and reflecting the pleiotropic role of CC2D1A in membrane trafficking and protein signaling. In the hippocampus, using stringent criteria, we identified 41 high-confidence interactors in addition to CHMP4B revealing roles for protein translation, cytoskeletal organization, and synaptic function. The HEK studies had also pointed to Coiled-coil and C2 domain containing 1B (CC2D1B), the only paralog of CC2D1A, as an interactor. We confirmed that not only the two proteins can bind in the brain, but also localize in different synaptic compartments, showing that CC2D1A is uniquely enriched in the post-synapse. This supports a unique function of CC2D1A in regulation of synaptic transmission that could explain the more severe cognitive deficits in humans and mice upon its loss. To our knowledge these findings provide the most comprehensive characterization of the CC2D1A interactome to date, elucidating novel, multifaceted, and dynamic cellular functions, providing potential implications for its role in neurodevelopmental disorders.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The systematic dissection of molecular mechanisms through which aerobic exercise (AE) mitigates neurodegenerative pathologies remains a significant challenge. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by impaired autophagy-lysosomal flux and the accumulation of amyloid-β (Aβ) and hyperphosphorylated tau. We recently identified the β2-adrenergic receptor (β2-AR) as a key mediator of exercise-induced bene = d sought to dissect its role in regulating distinct proteostatic pathways. We revealed that AE activates β2-AR signaling to promote lysosomal acidification via upregulation of VMA21, an essential assembly factor for the vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase) proton pump, thereby facilitating Aβ clearance. Concurrently, AE enhanced autophagosome-lysosome fusion through the β2-AR - retinoid X receptor alpha (RXRα) - charged multivesicular body protein 4B (CHMP4B) axis, promoting tau degradation. Critically, pharmacological inhibition of β2-AR fully abolished these effects. Here, we propose an integrated mechanism through which β2-AR activation by AE could coordinate dual autophagy-lysosomal recovery processes and suggest that targeting this pathway offers a promising therapeutic strategy for AD and related proteostatic disorders.© 2025 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.
Dysregulated cell cycle progression is a hallmark of cancer, promoting uncontrolled cell proliferation. Growth arrest-specific 2 like 3 (GAS2L3), which is highly expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells, correlates with poor clinical outcomes. However, the role of GAS2L3 in HCC pathogenesis remains unclear.This study aimed to investigate the molecular mechanisms by which GAS2L3 contributes to cytokinesis and hyperproliferation of HCC cells.Loss-of-function assays of GAS2L3 were performed to assess midbody assembly, a process essential for cytokinesis. By analyzing protein structure, we predicted liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) potential of GAS2L3, which was validated via fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP), time-lapse imaging, and in vitro droplet formation assays. Additionally, we generated an intrinsically disordered region (IDR)-deficient model to investigate the role of IDR in LLPS and its effects on cytokinesis, cell cycle progression, and HCC tumorigenicity.Highly expressed GAS2L3 localizes to the midbody and accelerates the cytokinesis of HCC cells by facilitating the recruitment of the charged multivesicular body protein 4B (CHMP4B). Notably, EGFP-GAS2L3 aggregates in the midbody exhibit dynamic behavior. Structural analysis and experimental evidence confirm GAS2L3 undergoes phase separation via its IDR. GAS2L3 scaffolds the CHMP4B condensate formation at midbody through phase separation, thereby accelerating cytokinesis in HCC cells. Moreover, GAS2L3 knockdown or IDR deletion in HCC cells leads to defective cytokinesis, G1 arrest, and significant tumorigenicity inhibition.GAS2L3 critically regulates cytokinesis in HCC through LLPS-mediated remodeling of midbody abscission microenvironment. These findings reveal novel insights into HCC hyperproliferation and suggest GAS2L3 as a potential therapeutic target.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Nearly one-third of the global population is affected by cardio-kidney-metabolic (CKM) diseases; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying CKM diseases are poorly understood. Here we show that tissue proteomics provide critical insights not captured by tissue gene expression or blood proteomics information by performing whole-genome and RNA sequencing and proteomics analysis of human kidney samples (n = 337), and we generated a publicly available database. Via Bayesian co-localization and Mendelian randomization analyses of kidney protein quantitative trait loci and 36 CKM genome-wide association studies, we prioritized 89 proteins for CKM traits. We prioritized relationships that could underlie the interconnectedness of CKM traits and discovered multiple and targetable mechanisms for CKM diseases, including the potential role of kidney angiopoietin-like protein 3 (ANGPTL3) in serum lipid levels and kidney function as well as the role of charged multivesicular body protein 1A in kidney function and hypertension. Notably, we identify pathways with confluence of evidence from genetic loci, tissue gene expression and protein levels for CKM traits. In summary, our large-scale kidney proteomics study uncovers proteins and targetable mechanisms prioritized for CKM diseases.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
Although research has increasingly been focused on pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) in adolescents, its diagnosis remains complex and challenging. Thus, the use of host transcription markers in the diagnosis of adolescent PTB was evaluated in this study.The study cohort comprised 40 adolescents (aged 14-18 years) with PTB who had received their first PTB diagnosis at Anhui Provincial Chest Hospital, China, between January and December 2023 (case group) and 32 healthy adolescents who had undergone physical examinations at The First Affiliated Hospital of the University of Science and Technology of China during the same period (control group). Peripheral blood samples were collected from both groups, and isolated monocytes were subjected to transcriptome sequencing and bioinformatic analysis. The relevant genes were confirmed through quantitative polymerase chain reaction. The diagnostic value of these genes in adolescent PTB patients was analysed using receiver operating characteristic curves. Furthermore, an in vitro model was constructed by infecting THP-1 cells with the Mycobacterium tuberculosis strain H37Ra to assess whether the in vitro expression levels of the identified genes were consistent with those of the genes in the peripheral blood monocytes of adolescents with PTB. The specific mechanisms were explored using methods such as lentiviral infection, flow cytometry, immunofluorescence, Western blotting, and qRT‒PCR.The results revealed that the expression level of the myotubularin-related protein 4 gene (MTMR4) was lower in the case group than in the control group (P < 0.0001; area under the curve: 0.946; 95 % confidence interval: 0.893-0.999; cut-off value: 0.844; sensitivity: 0.875; specificity: 0.969). The expression level of the oncostatin M gene (OSM) was greater in the case group than in the control group (P = 0.014; area under the curve: 0.962; 95 % confidence interval: 0.914-1.000; cut-off value: 0.919; sensitivity: 0.950; specificity: 0.969). However, no significant between-group difference was detected in the expression level of the complement component 1q subcomponent A gene. The results from the in vitro experiment indicated that the expression levels of MTMR4 and OSM were consistent between the H37Ra-infected cells and the case group samples. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that cytokine-cytokine receptor interactions, JAK/STAT signalling and PI3K/cell survival-related pathways play key roles in the pathogenesis of adolescent PTB. Additionally, we found that H37Ra infection affected tuberculosis progression via the OSM/PI3K/GPX4 pathway.Peripheral blood monocyte OSM and MTMR4 may serve as biomarkers of adolescent PTB. We speculate that targeting the OSM signalling pathway by knocking down OSM expression or inhibiting its ligand/receptor might be a strategy to reduce pulmonary tuberculosis-related tissue damage.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Deficits in the autophagy-lysosomal pathway facilitate intracellular microtubule associated protein tau (MAPT) accumulation in Alzheimer disease (AD). Aerobic exercise (AE) has been recommended as a way to delay and treat AD, but the exact effects and mechanisms have not been fully elucidated. Here, we found that AE (8-week treadmill running, 40 min/day, 5 days/week) alleviated autophagy-lysosomal defects and MAPT pathology through the activation of β2-adrenergic receptors (β2-AR) in MAPT P301L mice. Molecular mechanistic investigations revealed that endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT) III subunit charged multivesicular body protein 4B (CHMP4B), which is essential for autophagosome-lysosome fusion, was significantly decreased in the cerebral cortex of AD patients and the hippocampus of MAPT P301L mice. AE restored the levels of CHMP4B, which reversed autophagy-lysosomal defects and reduced MAPT aggregation. Inhibition of β2-AR by propranolol (30 mg/kg, intragastric administration 1 h before each AE session) restrained AE-attenuated MAPT accumulation by inhibiting autophagy-lysosomal flux in MAPT P301L mice. Our findings suggest that AE can alleviate autophagosome-lysosome fusion deficits by promoting the β2-AR-RXRα-CHMP4B-ESCRT-III pathway, reducing pathological MAPT aggregation, which also reveals a novel theoretical basis for AE attenuating AD progression.© 2025 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Methuosis represents a novel cell death modality characterized by catastrophic cytoplasmic vacuolization in normal and malignant cells. However, the critical role and the underlying mechanism of cytoskeleton and plasma membrane damage in methuotic cells are largely unknown.We found that cytoskeleton protein F-actin, α-tubulin, β-tubulin and filamin A/B were disrupted in a reversible-dependent manner. In addition, RhoA-ROCK1 signaling pathway mediated cytoskeleton disruption in methuotic cells. Excessive cytoplasmic vacuolization triggered cellular plasma membrane damage and the release of damage associated molecular patterns (DAMPs), including lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and calreticulin (CRT). Furthermore, at the end phase of methuotic cells, plasma membrane was damaged independent of pore-forming protein phosphorylation mixed lineage kinase domain-like (p-MLKL) and gasdermin D (GSDMD). Endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT)-III especially its subunit charged multivesicular body protein 3 (CHMP3) and charged multivesicular body protein 5 (CHMP5) negatively regulated excessive vacuolization-induced plasma membrane damage in cells undergoing methuosis.The critical role and potential mechanism of cytoskeleton and plasma membrane damage in methuotic cells are known, which would facilitate the employment of methuosis in life science and pharmacology.© 2025. The Author(s).
Tris (1,3-dichloro-2-propyl) phosphate (TDCPP), a prevalent flame retardant, is associated with neurotoxicity linked to lysosomal damage. Timely repair of damaged lysosomal membranes is crucial for cell survival. This study aimed to elucidate the role of endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT)-dependent lysosomal membrane repair mechanisms in TDCPP-induced neurotoxicity, focusing on the regulatory roles of apoptosis-linked gene 2 (ALG-2) and ALG-2 interacting protein-X (ALIX) in recruiting ESCRT-III complexes. Using in vitro models of TDCPP exposure in the human neuroblastoma cell line SH-SY5Y and murine astrocyte cell line C8-D1A, we found that TDCPP exposure led to impaired lysosomal membrane repair via ESCRT-dependent mechanisms, disrupted lysosomal membrane integrity, and induced apoptosis. This impairment was characterized by: decreased expression of ALG-2, ALIX, and the ESCRT-III subunit - charged multivesicular body protein 4B (CHMP4B); reduced recruitment of CHMP4B mediated by ALG-2/ALIX; increased levels of galectin-3 and cleaved poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (Cleaved-PARP); and an elevated apoptosis rate. Notably, ALG-2 and ALIX overexpression reinstated CHMP4B accumulation at injury sites, facilitated lysosomal recovery, and mitigated TDCPP-induced lysosomal membrane damage and apoptosis. These findings indicate that TDCPP interferes with ALG-2/ALIX-mediated ESCRT-III recruitment, leading to defective lysosomal membrane repair. Moreover, ALG-2 and ALIX overexpression attenuated TDCPP-induced lysosomal injury, enhancing cell survival. Our findings reveal a novel mechanism by which TDCPP disrupts lysosomal membrane repair through interference with ALG-2/ALIX-mediated ESCRT-III recruitment, providing the molecular mechanisms of TDCPP-induced neurotoxicity and highlighting potential therapeutic strategies for combating TDCPP toxicity.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
With the advent of exome sequencing, a growing number of children are being identified with de novo loss-of-function mutations in the dynamin 1-like (DNM1L) gene, which encodes the large GTPase essential for mitochondrial fission, dynamin-related protein 1 (DRP1). Mutations in DRP1 result in severe neurodevelopmental phenotypes, such as developmental delay, optic atrophy, and epileptic encephalopathies. Though it is established that mitochondrial fission is an essential precursor to the rapidly changing metabolic needs of the developing cortex, it is not understood how identified mutations in different domains of DRP1 uniquely disrupt cortical development and synaptic maturation. We leveraged the power of human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) harboring DRP1 mutations in either the GTPase or stalk domains to model early stages of cortical development in vitro. High-resolution time-lapse imaging of transport in neuronal projections revealed mutation-specific changes in mitochondrial motility of severely hyperfused mitochondrial structures. Transcriptional profiling of mutant DRP1 cortical neurons during maturation also implicated mutation-dependent alterations in synaptic development and gene expression of calcium-regulatory genes. Disruptions in calcium dynamics were confirmed using live functional recordings of 65-200 days in vitro (DIV) mutant DRP1 cortical neurons. These findings strongly suggest that altered mitochondrial morphology in DRP1 mutant neurons leads to pathogenic dysregulation of synaptic development and activity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lewy bodies (LBs), composed primarily of aggregated α-synuclein (α-syn), are the pathological hallmark of Lewy body diseases, including Parkinson's disease, Parkinson's disease dementia and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Despite their diagnostic significance, the mechanisms underlying LB formation and their contribution to neurodegeneration remain poorly understood. Previous studies have reported that structures labelled with ubiquitin phosphorylated at serine 65 (p-UbS65)-a marker of mitophagy-localise both at the periphery of and within LBs. This study aimed to further characterise these structures and clarify their relationship to α-syn pathology in DLB. Immunofluorescence analysis of post-mortem DLB brain tissue revealed intermittent co-localisation of p-UbS65+ puncta with conventional mitochondrial markers. Given previous findings that granulovacuolar degeneration bodies (GVBs)-vesicular structures frequently associated with tau pathology, itself a concomitant feature of DLB-are immunopositive for p-UbS65, we next examined whether peri-LB p-UbS65+ structures are actually GVBs. p-UbS65 puncta co-stained with established GVB markers including charged multivesicular body protein 2B (CHMP2B) and casein kinase 1 delta (CK1D), and, more variably with hyperphosphorylated tau (AT8), across multiple brain regions associated with LB pathology. Notably, GVB abundance within the anterior cingulate gyrus was found to positively correlate with p-α-synS129 burden. In summary, p-UbS65+ GVBs, containing both auto- and endolysosomal material, cluster around LBs in DLB. Frequently immunoreactive for tau, these hybrid waste vesicles provide a tangible mechanistic link between α-syn and tau pathology and may offer new insight into the processes underlying LB formation in DLB.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of International Society of Neuropathology.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic, systemic autoimmune disease primarily characterized by symmetrical synovial inflammation, leading to joint swelling, pain, and progressive cartilage and bone destruction. Unfortunately, the clinical treatment of RA still faces numerous challenges. Although melatonin (MT), the circadian rhythm hormone, is known to relieve the pathological process of RA, the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood. Herein, we assess the impacts of MT on collagen or K/BxN serum-induced arthritis (two well-established models of RA) and confirm its excellent therapeutic effect. Mechanistically, MT activates MTNR1A (melatonin receptor 1A) to promote mitophagy for the elimination of reactive oxygen (ROS) and leaked mitochondrial DNA triggered by damaged mitochondria, which in turn limits NLRP3 (NLR family pyrin domain containing 3) inflammasome activation and pro-inflammatory cytokine release. Mice with deletion of the autophagy-related gene Atg5 in myeloid cells (atg5fl/flLyz2/LysM-cre) barely display any benefits of MT in K/BxN serum-induced arthritis. Our results indicate that mitophagy promoted by MT is essential to deactivate NLRP3 inflammasome and alleviate the development of arthritis, which provides a candidate for the treatment of RA.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ACP5/TRAP: acid phosphatase 5, tartrate resistant; ANOVA: analysis of variance; ATG5: autophagy releated 5; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BMD: bone mineral density; BMDMs: bone marrow derived macrophages; BV:TV: bone volume to tissue volume; CASP1: caspase 1; CYCS: cytochrome c; DNM1L/DRP1: dynamin 1 like; EtBr: ethidium bromide; FCCP: carbonyl cyanide-4-(trifluoromethoxy)phenylhydrazone; GSDMD: gasdermin D; IL1B/IL-1β: interleukin 1 beta; IL18: interleukin 18; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MT: melatonin; MTNR1A: melatonin receptor 1A; MTNR1B: melatonin receptor type 1B; MFF: mitochondrial fission factor; mtROS: mitochondrial reactive oxygen species; mt-DNA: mitochondrial DNA; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NT-GSDMD: N-terminal gasdermin D; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; Ox-mtDNA: oxidized mitochondrial DNA; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKAA/AMPK: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; PYCARD/ASC: PYD and CARD domain containing; RA: rheumatoid arthritis; ROS: reactive oxygen; SD: standard deviation; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; Tb.N: trabecular number; Tb.Th: trabecular thickness; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1.
Endolysosomal dysfunction has been increasingly implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. The charged multivesicular body protein 2B (CHMP2B) gene encodes a component of the endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRT-III), which regulates endosomal trafficking, multivesicular body formation, and autophagosome-lysosome fusion. Mutations in CHMP2B are classically associated with autosomal dominant frontotemporal dementia. Here, we report a 59-year-old woman with biomarker-confirmed Alzheimer disease (AD) (A+T+N+) carrying a heterozygous CHMP2B c.90C>T (p.Ala30Ser) variant identified by targeted exome sequencing after negative testing for APP, APOE, PSEN1, and PSEN2. The patient presented with progressive episodic memory impairment and spatial disorientation over 3 years. Brain MRI showed prominent posterior cortical atrophy, and cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers demonstrated decreased Aβ42 and elevated phosphorylated and total tau levels consistent with AD pathology. Dysfunction of CHMP2B-mediated endolysosomal pathways may impair intracellular protein degradation and influence tau clearance mechanisms. This observation suggests that rare variants in endolysosomal pathway genes may contribute to AD pathophysiology.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a highly lethal liver cancer with complex pathogenesis intertwined with metabolic and mitochondrial dysfunction. MEN1/menin is a protein with context-dependent functions in liver diseases. While MEN1 has been linked to HCC progression and mitochondrial homeostasis, its precise regulatory mechanism in these processes remains incompletely understood. Here, we report that MEN1 localizes to the outer mitochondrial membrane (OMM) in HCC cells, which is mediated by its N-terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence and the TOMM20 translocase complex. In a genetically engineered DEN- and CCl4-induced HCC mouse model, hepatocyte-specific men1 deficiency significantly suppressed tumorigenesis, a phenotype associated with impaired mitochondrial homeostasis. Mechanistically, MEN1 deficiency disrupted mitochondrial function by manifesting as promoted mitochondrial fission, impaired oxidative phosphorylation, reduced ATP levels, and elevated reactive oxygen species during energy stress. Critically, MEN1 loss inhibited mitophagy via downregulating the PINK1-PRKN/Parkin pathway, which impaired clearance of dysfunctional mitochondria and promotes their cytotoxic accumulation. Moreover, MEN1 expression was upregulated in human HCC tissues, correlated with poor clinical outcomes and was positively associated with autophagy signatures. Notably, pharmacological activation of mitophagy reversed the tumor-suppressive effects of MEN1 deficiency in vitro and in vivo. These findings identified a noncanonical role of mitochondrial MEN1 in driving HCC progression via regulating mitophagy homeostasis, and highlight the MEN1-mitophagy axis as a potential therapeutic target for HCC.Abbreviations: Alb-Cre: albumin promoter-driven recombinase Cre; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; CCCP: carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone; CCl4: carbon tetrachloride; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; DEN: diethylnitrosamine; DNM1L: dynamin 1 like; DQ-BSA: self-quenched BODIPY-conjugated bovine serum albumin; Gal: galactose; GOT1/AST: glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT: glutamic-pyruvic transaminase; HCC: hepatocellular carcinoma; WT: wild type; HMKO: hepatocyte-specific men1 knockout; IF: immunofluorescence; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IMM: inner mitochondrial membrane; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MEN1-FL: full-length MEN1; MFF: mitochondrial fission factor; MFN1: mitofusin 1; MTS: mitochondrial targeting sequence; OCR: oxygen consumption rate; OMM: outer mitochondrial membrane; OXPHOS: oxidative phosphorylation; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase1; PRKAA1: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; qPCR: RNA extraction and quantitative polymerase chain reaction; RNA-seq: RNA-sequencing; ROS: reactive oxygen species; shMEN1: small hairpin RNA-mediated MEN1 knockdown; TCGA: The Cancer Genome Atlas; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic systemic autoimmune disease characterized by persistent synovial inflammation and progressive joint destruction. Numerous clinical studies have revealed that exercise is extremely beneficial for the outcome of RA. However, the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood. In the present study, we investigated the therapeutic efficacy of irisin, an exercise hormone, on K/BxN serum and collagen-induced arthritis (CIA), two well established mouse models for RA research. Mechanistically, irisin interacted with ITGAV (integrin subunit alpha V) and ITGB5 (integrin subunit beta 5) to activate mitophagy and remove leaked mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and reactive oxygen species (ROS), which suppressed the activation of NLRP3 (NLR family pyrin domain containing 3) inflammasome and then hindered the pathological process of experimental arthritis. Notably, the beneficial effects of irisin on the treatment of experimental arthritis were significantly abolished in mice with atg5 (autophagy related 5) conditional knockout in myeloid cells (atg5fl/flLyz2). Our study elucidated the underlying mechanism through which exercise alleviated experimental arthritis and offered a feasible therapeutic strategy for RA.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine Ac-TUBA: acetylated TUBA; ACP5: acid phosphatase 5, tartrate resistant; AIM2: absent in melanoma 2; ANOVA: analysis of variance; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BAF: bafilomycin A1; BV:TV: bone volume per total volume; BMD: bone mineral density; BMDMs: bone marrow-derived macrophages; CASP1: caspase 1; CTSB: cathepsin B; CIA: collagen-indcued arthritis; DNM1L: dynamin 1 like; CYCS: cytochrome c, somatic; EtBr: ethidium bromide; FNDC5: fibronectin type III domain containing 5; FL-GSDMD: GSDMD full length; GSDMD: gasdermin D; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; iBMDMs: immortalized bone marrow-derived macrophages; IL1B: interleukin 1 beta; IL6: interleukin 6; IL18: interleukin 18; LDH: lactate dehydrogenase; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MSU: monosodium urate; mtROS: mitochondrial reactive oxygen species; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA; NLRC4: NLR family CARD domain containing 4; NLRP1: NLR family pyrin domain containing 1; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; NT-GSDMD: GSDMD N-terminal fragment; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; ox-mtDNA: oxidized mitochondrial DNA; PYCARD: PYD and CARD domain containing; PRKAA: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; RA: rheumatoid arthritis; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SD: standard deviation; SiO2: silicon dioxide; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; Tb.Th: trabecular thickness; Tb.N: trabecular number; Tp.Sp: trabecular separation; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; TUBA: tubulin alpha; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; WT: wild type.
To determine whether physalin A (PA) safeguards the outer blood-retinal barrier under diabetic stress by engaging nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) to restore redox balance and restrain ferroptosis in human retinal pigment epithelial (hRPE) cells and C57BLKS/J Iar -+Leprdb/+Leprdb mice.In high-glucose challenged hRPE cells, PA dose-dependently preserved viability, maintained claudin-1/occludin/zonula occludens-1 abundance and membrane localization, and reversed ferroptosis hallmarks (restored solute carrier family 7 member 11 [SLC7A11], SLC3A2, and glutathione peroxidase 4; reduced ferrous iron [Fe2+] overload and lipid peroxidation). PA restored glutathione levels, reduced malondialdehyde (MDA), and enhanced the antioxidant defense pathway mediated by Nrf2, including upregulation of heme oxygenase 1, NAD(P)H quinone dehydrogenase 1, and superoxide dismutase 2. Silencing Nrf2 abolished the effects of PA on barrier integrity and ferroptosis suppression, with rebounds in reactive oxygen species, MDA, Fe2+, and tight junction loss. In db/db mice treated systemically for 20 weeks, PA reduced Evans Blue leakage, increased retinal thickness, restored RPE tight junction proteins, and normalized mitochondrial architecture by transmission electron microscopy. PA rebalanced mitochondrial dynamics (dynamin 1-like, optic atrophy 1, fission 1, mitofusin 1, FUN14 domain containing 1), increased retinal mitochondrial DNA copy number, and partially stabilized glycemia and weight.PA restores redox tone, restrains ferroptosis, and preserves junctional integrity to protect the diabetic retina, with Nrf2 being indispensable for these benefits. These findings position PA as a promising adjunctive candidate for early diabetic retinopathy and support Nrf2-centered strategies to reinforce the outer blood-retinal barrier. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 45, 5-27.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301317
Aim2-like receptors (ALRs) play crucial roles in innate immune signaling pathways and demonstrate strong positive selection likely driven by pathogens. IFI207, an ALR found in all Mus species, enhances interaction with and stabilization of STING, contributing to the control of murine leukemia virus (MLV) infection. We show here that IFI207 enhances the type 1 interferon response by inhibiting activation-induced K63-linked ubiquitination of STING, thereby preventing its recognition by hepatocyte growth factor-regulated tyrosine kinase substrate (HRS), a key component of the ESCRT complex, and its subsequent degradation in lysosomes. IFI207 promotes downstream signaling in the STING pathway in multiple cell types and moreover enhances the STING-dependent response to herpes simplex virus 1 infection ex vivo and in vivo. We also show that IFI207 likely functions in dendritic cells to suppress MLV infection. Our study reveals that IFI207 acts as a modulator in the STING pathway, strengthening the host's defense against viral infections and suggesting that the expansion of the Alr locus in mice may have occurred in response to endemic viruses.The innate immune system serves as a first line of defense by utilizing a variety of pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) that detect various nucleic acids generated during virus infection, many of which activate the STING pathway, leading to interferon production. One family of PRRs, the Aim2-like receptors (ALRs), is thought to contribute to innate immunity by this mechanism. However, the Alr locus is highly polymorphic at the sequence and copy number level. We found that at least one member in mice, IFI207, contributes to innate immunity by preventing the degradation of STING that normally occurs after its activation, defining a novel mechanism for sustaining immune response. Several ALRs have been implicated in adipogenesis, autoimmune disease, and inflammation, and identification of the pressures that shaped the genes in the locus is thus important for understanding the biological processes in which the ALRs function.
The CGAS-STING1 pathway plays a key role in detecting cytosolic DNA and initiating immune responses. Excessive STING1 activation can lead to aberrant inflammation and autoinflammatory diseases; therefore, the STING1 degradation pathway is tightly regulated by several negative regulatory mechanisms. In our recent study, we show that the selective autophagy receptor TAX1BP1 functions as a negative regulator of STING1 signaling. TAX1BP1 promotes the degradation of activated STING1 through microautophagy by facilitating the interaction of STING1 with the ESCRT-0 protein HGS, and selective autophagy of the Golgi apparatus in a process known as Golgiphagy. In TAX1BP1-deficient macrophages, STING1 aggregates accumulate at the trans-Golgi network, leading to stronger antiviral and inflammatory responses. These findings support a novel mechanism linking organelle quality control and innate immune regulation, highlighting Golgiphagy as an important feedback mechanism that limits STING1 signaling.Abbreviations: cGAMP: cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate; CGAS: Cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complex required for transport; ECTV: ectromelia virus; HGS: hepatocyte growth factor-regulated tyrosine kinase substrate; IKK: IκB kinase; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TAX1BP1: Tax1 binding protein 1.
EXOC5/SEC10, the central subunit of the exocyst complex, is crucial for the trafficking of secretory vesicles to the plasma membrane. However, its role in innate immunity and viral replication remains unclear. Here we demonstrate that EXOC5 acts as a negative regulator of DNA virus-triggered CGAS-STING1 signaling via targeting STING1. Mechanistically, EXOC5 facilitates the autophagic degradation of STING1 via K63-linked polyubiquitination at Lys224 and Lys338 by the E3 ligase TRIM56, which serves as a recognition signal for the cargo receptor SQSTM1/p62 (sequestosome 1). Furthermore, EXOC5 inhibits antiviral innate immunity and promotes viral replication via EXOC5-TRIM56-STING1-SQSTM1 signal transduction. More importantly, myeloid-specific deletion of Exoc5 in mice improves survival and reduces viral load. In general, these findings revealed a negative feedback loop of type I interferon signaling through the EXOC5-TRIM56-STING1-SQSTM1 axis, which has the potential to serve as a new target for the development of antiviral therapeutics that regulate the host immune response.Abbreviations: BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BMDMs: bone marrow-derived macrophages; cGAMP: cyclic GMP-AMP; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; EXOC5/SEC10: exocyst complex component 5; HAdV-4: human adenovirus type 4; HSV-1: herpes simplex virus type 1; HT-DNA: herring testis deoxyribonucleic acid; IFN: interferon; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; ISD: interferon stimulatory DNA; PMs: peritoneal macrophages; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; VACV70: 70-mers of dsDNA representing the genome of vaccinia virus.
Aim2-like receptors (ALRs) play crucial roles in innate immune signaling pathways and demonstrate strong positive selection likely driven by pathogens. IFI207, an ALR found in all Mus species, enhances interaction with and stabilization of STING, contributing to the control of Murine Leukemia Virus (MLV) infection. We show here that IFI207 enhances the type 1 interferon response by inhibiting activation-induced K63-linked ubiquitination of STING, thereby preventing its recognition by hepatocyte growth factor-regulated tyrosine kinase substrate (HRS), a key component of the ESCRT complex, and its subsequent degradation in lysosomes. IFI207 promotes downstream signaling in the STING pathway in multiple cell types and moreover enhances the STING-dependent response to herpesvirus simplex 1 infection ex vivo and in vivo. We also show that IFI207 likely functions in dendritic cells to suppress MLV infection. Our study reveals that IFI207 acts as a modulator in the STING pathway, strengthening the host's defense against viral infections and suggests that the expansion of the Alr locus in mice may have occurred in response to endemic viruses.
Fibrosis, an undesirable side effect of the repair process, is due to aberrant cell differentiation and is a typical cause of progressive diseases including chronic kidney disease (CKD). Exocyst complex component 5 (Exoc5), a central component of the highly-conserved eight-protein exocyst complex, is involved in cell differentiation and maturation; however, the role of Exoc5 in fibrosis remains to be defined. Here we investigate the role and underlying molecular mechanisms of Exoc5 on kidney development and fibrosis using kidney proximal tubule cell-specific Exoc5-knockout (PT-Exoc5KO) mice generated by crossing Exoc5f/f with PEPCK-cre mice. Exoc5-knockout mice showed normal kidney structure and function. Unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO) led to kidney fibrosis with decreased Exoc5 expression, and Exoc5 knockout worsened the fibrosis. Exoc5 knockout alone increased Yes-associated protein (YAP) expression and exacerbated UUO-induced YAP activation and the expression of CTGF and CYR61, products of YAP, compared with wild-type (PT-Exoc5WT) mice. UUO induced paired box 2 (Pax2, which is mainly expressed during kidney development) expression in both mice, and the UUO-induced Pax2 expression in PT-Exoc5KO was greater than in PT-Exoc5WT mice. In HK-2 cells, a human proximal tubule cell, EXOC5 downregulation by siRNA increased YAP and Pax2 expression. EXOC5 downregulation augmented TGF-β-induced YAP activation and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. Taken together, our data demonstrate that Exoc5 plays a protective role in kidney fibrosis, implying that Exoc5 could potentially serve as a therapeutic target for the regulation of fibrosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Preeclampsia (PE) is closely associated with alterations in placental extracellular vesicles (pEVs), but the mechanisms and their role in PE pathogenesis remain unclear. This study reveals that nicotinamide (NAM) levels in PE-derived pEVs (PE-EVs) are lower than in pEVs from normal pregnancies, correlating with disease severity. Functionally, NAM in pEVs inhibits Th1 differentiation via SIRT1 suppression and Th17 differentiation via macrophages. NAM-deficient pEVs exhibit reduced capacity to inhibit Th1 and Th17 cell differentiation both in vitro and in vivo, leading to PE-like symptoms. NAM is enriched in pEVs compared to placental villous tissue and maternal serum. The lower NAM in PE-EVs is due to decreased hepatocyte growth factor-regulated tyrosine kinase substrate (HRS) expression in trophoblasts, which loads NAM into the cargo of multivesicular bodies (MVBs) via binding to the tryptophan-115 residue of HRS. Furthermore, the reduction of HRS in PE trophoblasts results from ubiquitination and degradation by elevated HSP27. Collectively, these findings indicate that elevated HSP27 in PE trophoblasts leads to the degradation of HRS, a reduction in pEV NAM levels, and diminished Th1 and Th17 inhibitory effects, thereby contributing to the development of PE.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Gastric cancer prognosis remains poor, and neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) is not widely used in Japan. While docetaxel-based regimens have shown promise internationally, the biological basis of their efficacy is not fully understood.We performed a transcriptomic analysis of tumor sections from 24 patients with gastric cancer who received docetaxel plus S-1 (DS) or docetaxel with cisplatin plus S-1 (DCS) as NAC between 2011 and 2015. Our goal was to identify key biological differences between pathologically responsive and non-responsive groups.The non-responding group had a significantly worse prognosis (p=0.017) despite similar baseline patient characteristics. Their tumors were marked by enrichment of proliferation-related gene sets, and a low infiltration of CD8+ and CD4+ effector memory cells and dendritic cells. We found no difference in key immune pathways, such as interferon-γ and interferon-α response. A final key finding was the significantly lower expression of five genes, namely zinc finger protein 296 (ZNF296), RAS association domain family member 10 (RASSF10), exocyst complex component 3-like 1 (EXOC3L1), microtubule-associated tyrosine carboxypeptidase 2 (KIAA0895), and polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 1 (GALNTL1), in the non-response group.Our study suggests that the lack of NAC response to DS/DCS therapy is associated with increased tumor proliferation, a poor antitumor immune response, and the reduced expression of these five genes (ZNF296, RASSF10, EXOC3L1, KIAA0895 and GALNTL1). These genes represent promising candidates for further investigation as biomarkers for predicting treatment efficacy and as novel therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
While current antivirals primarily target viral proteins, host-directed strategies remain underexplored. Here, we performed a genome-wide CRISPR inhibition (CRISPRi) screening to identify the host protein, hepatocyte growth factor-regulated tyrosine kinase substrate (HGS), facilitating the pan-coronavirus infection both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, HGS interacts with the viral membrane (M) protein, facilitating its trafficking to the ER-Golgi intermediate compartment for virion assembly. Conversely, HGS deficiency caused M retention in the ER, blocking assembly. Leveraging this interaction, we designed M-derived peptides and screened over 5,000 FDA-approved or commonly used drugs, identifying riboflavin tetrabutyrate (RTB). Both the peptides and RTB bind HGS and disrupt its interaction with the M protein, leading to M retention in the ER and subsequent blockade of virion assembly. These agents demonstrated broad anti-pan-coronavirus activity in vitro and in vivo. Collectively, our findings establish HGS as a druggable host target and identify RTB as a promising broad-spectrum antiviral candidate.
Ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI) frequently occurs in obese individuals and significantly negates outcomes. Understanding mechanisms behind susceptibility of obese patients to VILI is, therefore, important. This study delved into the molecular biology mechanisms of VILI and investigated the effects of plasma exosomes from obese patients on VILI in mice, as well as its potential molecular mechanisms.MicroRNAs (miRNAs) in plasma-derived exosomes from 6 obese patients and 6 healthy volunteers were analysed to map different miRNA profiles. A lung cell line (MLE-12) was cultured with or without exosomes from obese patients and then challenged with cyclic stretching for 4 h. Western blotting, immunofluorescence, electron microscopy and other techniques were used to detect intercellular connections directly or indirectly. Co-immunoprecipitation and dual luciferase reporter experiments were conducted to verify underlying mechanism involved. Lung function, wet/dry (W/D) ratio, pathological changes, and inflammatory cytokines in alveolar lavage fluid were measured in C57BL/6 mice after 4 h of mechanical ventilation with high tidal volume.Compared to those in healthy volunteers, miR-27a-5p was decreased in plasma exosomes from obese patients. Cyclic stretching induces endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress in lung cells and consequently promotes the generation of Xbp1s, which act as transcription factors to initiate the phosphorylation of proline-rich tyrosine kinase 2 (Pyk2). p-Pyk2 thereby activated hepatocyte growth factor-regulated tyrosine kinase substrate (Hgs), which, in turn, promoted the endocytosis and transport of E-cadherin for lysosomal degradation and subsequently disrupted the pulmonary epithelial barrier. miR-27a-5p administered to cultured lung cells and mice protected lung cells and attenuated VILI through the regulation of Pyk2.Our findings suggest that the increased susceptibility of obese patients to VILI is likely, at least in part, due to a lack of miR-27a-5p in plasma exosomes. Targeting miR-27a-5p and its associated molecules may be a promising therapeutic avenue for preventing and treating VILI in obese patients.© 2025. The Author(s).
Tumor-derived exosomes carry programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), which binds programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) on T cells, suppressing immune responses locally and systemically. However, the mechanisms governing exosomal PD-L1 sorting and secretion remain elusive. Here, we identify Munc13-4 as a crucial regulator of this process. Deletion of Munc13-4 in breast tumors enhances T cell-mediated anti-tumor immunity, suppresses tumor growth, and improves the efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors. Mechanistically, Munc13-4 collaborates with hepatocyte growth factor-regulated tyrosine kinase substrate (HRS), Rab27, and SNAREs to facilitate PD-L1 sorting and secretion via exosomes. Cryogenic electron microscopy (cryo-EM) analysis of the Munc13-4-Rab27a complex provide structural insights into exosome secretion. Importantly, PD-L1 sorting relies on a ternary complex composed of Munc13-4, PD-L1 and HRS, which is regulated by interferon gamma (IFNγ) signaling. A designed peptide that disrupts Munc13-4-PD-L1 interaction impedes PD-L1 sorting, enhances antitumor immunity, and suppresses tumor growth, highlighting the therapeutic potential of targeting this pathway.© 2025. The Author(s).
Cancer therapy-related cognitive impairments (CRCI) are detrimental for millions of cancer survivors. Chemotherapy induces neuroinflammation and reduces synaptic integrity, contributing to CRCI. Our past pre-clinical animal studies showed synaptic loss, including postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD-95) and dynamin-1, that were associated with CRCI. Our human observational data showed reduced plasma dynamin-1 in breast cancer patients receiving chemotherapy. Since these proteins promote synaptic trafficking and plasticity that contribute to cognitive function, augmenting and protecting synaptic integrity represents a viable solution to reverse CRCI. Catalpol, a phytochemical, isolated from Rehmannia glutinosa (Gaertn.) Libosch. ex DC. plant root, has been shown to increase PSD-95 and dynamin-1, and reduce microglial activation in the injured brains.This study tested the neuroprotective impact of oral catalpol treatment in the mouse model of CRCI.Adult wild-type mice received either vehicle or chronic chemotherapy, doxorubicin (Adriamycin®, 3 mg/kg, intraperitoneal) once weekly for four weeks. 72 h after the last Adriamycin injection, mice were treated with catalpol (0.5 mg/ml corresponding to 50 mg/kg) for one month in drinking water (in addition to 50 mg/kg daily injections for the first 6 days), followed by cognitive function testing.Administration of catalpol to Adriamycin-exposed mice significantly improved cognitive performance in the spatial recognition memory task. Hippocampal tissue analysis revealed that catalpol significantly reduced microglial activation and prevented loss of synaptic machinery proteins, including dynamin-1 and PSD-95, in the Adriamycin-exposed brains. Catalpol also restored hippocampal neurogenesis and neuronal plasticity-related cFos.This data provides pre-clinical evidence of the feasibility of oral administration of catalpol as a phytopharmaceutical candidate for CRCI.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42274586 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42233009 is a review article
Chemoradiotherapy resistance remains a major obstacle in gastric cancer treatment, primarily due to enhanced DNA repair mechanisms that allow tumor cells to overcome therapeutic damage. Here, we demonstrate that nuclear-localized Exocyst Complex Component 4 (EXOC4) promotes chemoradiotherapy resistance in gastric cancer by enhancing non-homologous end joining-mediated DNA repair. Specifically, p300-mediated acetylation of EXOC4 at lysine 433 induces its nuclear translocation. In the nucleus, EXOC4 facilitates the interaction between PRMT5 and KU70, inducing PRMT5-catalyzed methylation of KU70 at arginine 318. This modification increases the DNA-binding affinity of the KU complex, thereby accelerating double-strand break repair. A peptide targeting EXOC4 K433 inhibits acetylation-dependent nuclear import, reducing KU70 methylation and restoring chemoradiotherapy sensitivity in preclinical models. Collectively, our findings identify the p300-EXOC4-KU70 axis as a critical mediator of chemoradiotherapy resistance and a promising therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
VPS37A (VPS37A subunit of ESCRT-I), a component of the ESCRT-I (endosomal sorting complex required for transport I) complex, mediates vesicular trafficking through sorting endocytic ubiquitinated cargos into multivesicular bodies (MVBs). Although accumulating evidence indicates that VPS37A deficiency occurs in numerous malignancies and exerts tumor-suppressive effects during cancer progression, its functional significance in colorectal cancer (CRC) pathogenesis remains poorly characterized. Therefore, this study aims to further investigate the functional and molecular mechanisms by which VPS37A downregulation contributes to malignant biological phenotypes in CRC, with a specific focus on how its dysregulation affects cell death pathways.Multi-omics analysis of TCGA, GEO, and CPTAC cohorts identified VPS37A as a downregulated tumor suppressor gene in CRC. The prognostic relevance of VPS37A was validated in two clinical cohorts (Cohorts 1 and 2) using immunohistochemistry. Functional assays in VPS37A-overexpressing CRC cells and xenografts assessed proliferation, cell cycle progression, and stress-induced cell death. RNA sequencing, nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) luciferase reporter assays, and lysosomal inhibition experiments elucidated the mechanisms underlying tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNFR1) degradation.VPS37A is significantly downregulated in advanced-stage CRC and independently predicts poor survival. Functionally, VPS37A overexpression suppresses proliferation and induces G2/M arrest in vitro, while reducing xenograft growth. Under metabolic stress (glucose deprivation/galactose adaptation), VPS37A triggers cell death via apoptosis, necroptosis, and ferroptosis. Mechanistically, VPS37A redirects TNFR1 to lysosomal degradation, suppressing NF-κB nuclear translocation and transcriptional activity.VPS37A deficiency drives CRC progression by sustaining TNFR1/NF-κB signaling under metabolic stress. Restoring VPS37A activity promotes TNFR1 degradation, offering a therapeutic strategy to counteract NF-κB-mediated treatment resistance in CRC.© 2025 The Authors.
As a core aptamer for anti-DNA viral immunity, STING1 (stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1) is tightly regulated to ensure the proper functioning of the natural antiviral immune response. However, many mechanisms underlying the regulation of STING1 remain largely unknown. In this study, we identify EXOC4/SEC8 (exocyst complex component 4) as a novel positive regulator of DNA virus-triggered type I interferon signaling responses through stabilizing STING1, thereby inhibiting DNA viral replication. Mechanistically, EXOC4 suppresses K27-linked ubiquitination of STING1 at K338, K347, and K370 catalyzed by the E3 ligase FBXL19 (F-box and leucine rich repeat protein 19), thereby preventing ubiquitinated-STING1 from recognition by SQSTM1 (sequestosome 1) for autophagic degradation. Importantly, mice conditionally knocked out for Exoc4/Sec8 are more susceptible to herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) infection and exhibit more severe lung pathology compared to control mice. This further confirms the important role of EXOC4/SEC8 in antiviral natural immunity. Taken together, our study reveals the importance of EXOC4/SEC8 in promoting STING1-centered antiviral natural immunity and highlights its potential as an anti-DNA viral therapeutic target.Abbreviations: ACTB/β-actin: actin beta; BMDMs: bone marrow-derived macrophages; CALCOCO2/NDP52: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; cGAMP: cyclic GMP-AMP; CQ: chloroquine; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; EXOC4/SEC8: exocyst complex component 4; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; HAdV-4: human adenovirus type 4; HSV-1: herpes simplex virus type 1; IFIT1: interferon induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 1; IFIT2: interferon induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 2; IFNB1: interferon beta 1; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; IFN-I: type I interferon; ISGs: IFN-stimulated genes; ISRE: IFN-stimulated response element; MG132/Z-LLL-CHO: carbobenzoxy-Leu-Leu-leucinal; MOI: multiplicity of infection; MST: microscale thermophoresis; PMs: peritoneal macrophages; Poly(dA:dT): polydeoxyadenylic-thymidylic acid; qPCR: quantitative real-time PCR; shRNAs: short hairpin RNAs; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TCID50: 50% tissue culture infectious dose; WT: wild-type.
Metabolic reprogramming and epigenetic alternations are implicated in tumor progression and metastasis, but the metabolic and epigenetic mechanisms underlying lymphatic and distant metastasis of bladder cancer (BCa) remain poorly understood. In this study, we provide the first evidence that glutamine-fructose-6-phosphate aminotransferase 1 (GFAT1), the crucial rate-limiting switch of the hexosamine biosynthesis pathway (HBP), is considerably upregulated in the nutrient-scarce microenvironment and causes a high O-GlcNAcylation of signal transducing adaptor molecule 2 (STAM2), further facilitating lymphatic and distant metastasis of BCa. Inhibition of GFAT1 and O-GlcNAcylation impairs STAM2-induced metastasis. Mechanistically, O-GlcNAcylation of STAM2 at serine 375 augments protein stability by inhibiting proteasome degradation and ubiquitination. In addition, STAM2 O-GlcNAcylation facilitates Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) and signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT3) phosphorylation, thus activating the epithelial‒mesenchymal transition. In summary, these results reveal a novel metabolic and epigenetic link mediating tumor metastasis, and indicate that targeting GFAT1 and STAM2 O-GlcNAcylation may serve as a promising treatment strategy for BCa progression.© 2025. The Author(s).
In the intricate landscape of cellular communication, small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) originating from endosomes play crucial roles as mediators and have garnered significant attention in theranostics. Our understanding of sEV biogenesis largely stems from studies on cancer cells, which are vital for diagnostics. However, in therapeutics, where mesenchymal stromal cell (MSC)-derived sEVs are emerging as investigational new drugs, their biogenesis pathways remain largely unexplored. This article explores the parallel narratives of sEV biogenesis in cancer cells and stem cells, specifically using HeLa cells and MSCs as model cell lines. This study investigated the roles of key proteins-hepatocyte growth factor-regulated tyrosine kinase substrate (HRS), signal-transducing adaptor molecule (STAM), tumor susceptibility gene 101 (TSG101), and ALG-2-interacting protein X (ALIX)-as identified in HeLa cells, in the context of MSC-sEV biogenesis. While these proteins show similarities across cell types, a discernible difference arises in their primary functions in regulating sEV biogenesis. The critical role of ALIX in MSC-sEV biogenesis, in particular, underscores its potential as a target for modulating sEVs' yield in regenerative therapies. Through this comparative analysis, we identified shared molecular signatures, offering insights to guide therapeutic interventions and unlock the regenerative potential of stem cells.Copyright © 2025 International Society for Cell & Gene Therapy. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Qingyuan Partridge chickens represent a notable breed of high-quality, slow-growing chickens. The cost of feed constitutes 65-70 % of the total breeding expense for Qingyuan Partridge chickens. Enhancing feed utilization efficiency and reducing feed consumption are crucial for the advancement of Qingyuan Partridge chickens and the broader poultry industry. To investigate the key candidate genes associated with feed efficiency in Qingyuan Partridge chickens for genome selection, the genome-wide association study (GWAS) was performed in this study. Genetic parameters estimation results indiated that the heritability of 12-17 feed conversion ratio was 0.19, with the highest genetic correlation observed with 17 body weight (-0.96). Additionally, the heritability of 12-17 residual feed intake was 0.09, with the highest genetic correlation with 12-14 average daily feed intake (0.93). GWAS results revealed 28 significant SNPs associated with body weight, feed intake, metabolic weight, weight gain, feed conversion ratio, and residual feed intake. The multiple genes are significantly enriched in the aromatic compound biosynthetic process, heterocycle biosynthetic process, and nucleobase-containing compound biosynthetic process. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis showed that the expression levels of four genes-exocyst complex component 4(EXOC4), fibrosin like 1(FBRSL1), methionine adenosyltransferase 2 non-catalytic beta subunit (MAT2B), and cytidine/uridine monophosphate kinase 1(CMPK1)-related to significant SNPs exhibited significant differences in the liver tissues of high residual feed intake group compared with low residual feed intake group. These findings contribute to a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying chicken feed efficiency traits, enabling further genetic improvement of Qingyuan Partridge chickens, and improving industrial efficiency.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Ubiquitin (Ub) signals are recognized and decoded into cellular responses by Ub-receptors, proteins that tether the Ub-binding domain(s) (UBDs) with response elements. Typically, UBDs bind mono-Ub in highly dynamic and weak affinity manners, presenting challenges in identifying and characterizing their binding interfaces. Here, we report the development of a new approach to facilitate the detection of these weak interactions using split-reporter systems where two interacting proteins are proximally co-translated from a single mRNA. This proximity significantly enhances the readout signals of weak protein-protein interactions (PPIs). We harnessed this system to characterize the ultra-weak UBD and ENTH (Epsin N-terminal Homology) and discovered that the yeast Ent1-ENTH domain contains two Ub-binding patches. One is similar to a previously characterized patch on STAM1(signal-transducing adaptor molecule)-VHS (Vps27, Hrs, and STAM), and the other was predicted by AlphaFold. Using a split-CAT selection system that co-translates Ub and ENTH in combination with mutagenesis, we assessed and confirmed the existence of a novel binding patch around residue F53 on ENTH. Co-translation in the split-CAT system provides an effective tool for studying weak PPIs and offers new insights into Ub-receptor interactions.
Coronaviruses replicate by using the 3C-like protease (3CLpro) to cleave polyprotein precursors and host proteins. However, current tools for identifying 3CLpro cleavage sites are limited, particularly in Gammacoronaviruses (GammaCoV) and Deltacoronaviruses (DeltaCoV). This study aims to fill this gap by identifying 3CLpro cleavage sites in these viruses to provide deeper insights into their pathogenic mechanisms. By integrating sequence alignments and structural model comparisons, we developed a position-specific scoring matrix (PSSM) based on self-cleavage motifs, revealing specific preferences for each residue. Utilizing AlphaFold2's predicted alignment error (PAE) and predicted local distance difference test (pLDDT), we found that most cleavage sequences are located in regions with high PAE and low pLDDT values. KEGG pathway analysis showed that potential host protein cleavage targets are mainly concentrated in pathways related to nucleo-cytoplasmic transport and endocytosis. Through in vitro cleavage experiments and mutational analysis, we identified and validated three high-scoring proteins-nucleoporin 58 (NUP58), cell division cycle 73 (CDC73), and signal transducing adaptor molecule 2 (STAM2). These findings suggest that 3CLpro not only plays a vital role in viral replication but may also influence host cell functions by cleaving host proteins. This study provides an effective tool for identifying 3CLpro cleavage sites, revealing the pathogenic mechanisms of coronaviruses, and offering new insights for developing potential therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRT) pathway is composed of a series of protein complexes that are essential for sorting cargo through the endosome. In neurons, the ESCRT pathway is a key mediator of many cellular pathways that regulate neuronal morphogenesis as well as synaptic growth and function. The ESCRT-0 complex, consisting of HGS (hepatocyte growth factor-regulated tyrosine kinase substrate) and STAM (signal-transducing adaptor molecule), acts as a gate keeper to this pathway, ultimately determining the fate of the endosomal cargo. We previously showed that a single nucleotide substitution in Hgs results in structural and functional changes in the nervous system of teetering mice. To determine if these changes occurred as a function of HGS's role in the ESCRT pathway and its association with STAM1, we investigated if STAM1 deficiency also leads to a similar impairment of the nervous system. In contrast to teetering mice that die within 5 weeks of age and exhibit reduced body mass, 1-month-old Stam1 knockout mice were not visibly different from controls. However, by 3 months of age, STAM1 deficiency caused reduced muscle mass, strength, and motor performance. These changes in motor function did not correlate with either a loss in motor neuron number or abnormal myelination of peripheral nerves. Instead, the motor endplate structure was altered in the Stam1 knockout mice by 1 month of age and continued to degenerate over time, correlating with a significant reduction in muscle fiber size and increased expression of the embryonic γ acetylcholine receptor (AChR) subunit at 3 months of age. There was also a significant reduction in the levels of two presynaptic SNARE proteins, VTI1A and VAMP2, in the motor neurons of the Stam1 knockout mice. As loss of STAM1 expression replicates many of the structural changes at the motor endplates that we have previously reported with loss of HGS, these results suggest that the HGS/STAM1 complex plays a critical role in maintaining synaptic structure and function in the mammalian nervous system.© 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
OBJECTIVE: Dementia, particularly Alzheimer’s disease (AD), continues to be a major public health concern due to population aging, yet minimally invasive biomarkers for early diagnosis have not been established. DNA methylation (DNAm) has recently attracted considerable attention as a promising biomarker. This study aimed to identify blood-based DNAm biomarkers for early detection of AD. RESULTS: We analysed blood-derived DNA from 48 patients with AD (from Biobank Japan) and 48 age- and sex-matched controls (from the Tohoku Medical Megabank Biobank) using Apolipoprotein ε type 4 (APOE)-associated genotype analysis and targeted-bisulfite sequencing. High-risk APOE genotypes were more frequent in AD patients (23/48, [47.9%]) than in controls (6/48, [12.5%]). A typical case-control and APOE genotype-stratified epigenome-wide association study (EWAS) did not identify any genome-wide significant CpG sites. Although the primary findings were negative, some top CpG sites appeared in both analyses, including loci on the Cell Adhesion Molecule 1 (CADM1), Tubulin alpha 1b (TUBA1B), and Exocyst complex component 2 (EXOC2) genes, which have previously been linked to AD-related pathways. The relatively early clinical stage and uncertainty of disease onset might have limited detection sensitivity. Longitudinal studies with refined staging and multi-omics integration might clarify the biomarker potential of blood DNAm in AD.
Chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) is a major pathway of lysosomal proteolysis critical for cellular homeostasis and metabolism, and whose defects have been associated with several human pathologies. While CMA has been well described in mammals, functional evidence has only recently been documented in fish, opening up new perspectives to tackle this function under a novel angle. Now we propose to explore CMA functions in the rainbow trout (RT, Oncorhynchus mykiss), a fish species recognized as a model organism of glucose intolerance and characterized by the presence of two paralogs of the CMA-limiting factor Lamp2A (lysosomal associated membrane protein 2A). To this end, we validated a fluorescent reporter (KFERQ-PA-mCherry1) previously used to track functional CMA in mammalian cells, in an RT hepatoma-derived cell line (RTH-149). We found that incubation of cells with high-glucose levels (HG, 25 mM) induced translocation of the CMA reporter to lysosomes and/or late endosomes in a KFERQ- and Lamp2A-dependent manner, as well as reduced its half-life compared to the control (5 mM), thus demonstrating increased CMA flux. Furthermore, we observed that activation of CMA upon HG exposure was mediated by generation of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species, and involving the antioxidant transcription factor Nfe2l2/Nrf2 (nfe2 like bZIP transcription factor 2). Finally, we demonstrated that CMA plays an important protective role against HG-induced stress, primarily mediated by one of the two RT Lamp2As. Together, our results provide unequivocal evidence for CMA activity existence in RT and highlight both the role and regulation of CMA during glucose-related metabolic disorders.Abbreviations: AREs: antioxidant response elements; CHC: α-cyano -4-hydroxycinnamic acid; Chr: chromosome; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; CT: control; DMF: dimethyl fumarate; Emi: endosomal microautophagy; HG: high-glucose; HMOX1: heme oxygenase 1; H2O2: hydrogen peroxide; KFERQ: lysine-phenylalanine-glutamate-arginine-glutamine; LAMP1: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; LAMP2A: lysosomal associated membrane protein 2A; MCC: Manders' correlation coefficient; Manders' correlation coefficient Mo: morpholino oligonucleotide; NAC: N-acetyl cysteine; NFE2L2/NRF2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; PA-mCherry: photoactivable mCherry; PCC: Pearson's correlation coefficient; ROS: reactive oxygen species; RT: rainbow trout; siRNAs: small interfering RNAs; SOD: superoxide dismutase; Tsg101: tumor susceptibility 101; TTFA: 2-thenoyltrifluoroacetone; WGD: whole-genome duplication.
Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has caused an epidemic and spread rapidly all over the world. Because the analysis of host factors other than receptors and proteases has not been sufficiently performed, we attempted to identify and characterize host factors essential for SARS-CoV-2 infection using iPS cells and airway organoids (AO). Based on previous CRISPR screening and RNA-seq data, we found that exocyst complex component 2 (EXOC2) is one important host factor for SARS-CoV-2 infection. The intracellular SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid (N) expression level was decreased to 3.7% and the virus copy number in cell culture medium was decreased to 1.6% by EXOC2 knockdown. Consistently, immunostaining results showed that N protein-positive cells were significantly decreased by EXOC2 knockdown. We also found that EXOC2 knockdown downregulates SARS-CoV-2 infection by regulating IFNW1 expression. In conclusion, controlling the EXOC2 expression level may prevent SARS-CoV-2 infection and deserves further study.© 2022 The Author(s).
A large number of retroviruses, such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and prototype foamy virus (PFV), recruit the endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT) through the late domain (L domain) on the Gag structural protein for virus budding. However, little is known about the molecular mechanism of bovine foamy virus (BFV) budding. In the present study, we report that BFV recruits ESCRT for budding through the L domain of Gag. Specifically, knockdown of VPS4 (encoding vacuolar protein sorting 4), ALIX (encoding ALG-2-interacting protein X), and TSG101 (encoding tumor susceptibility 101) indicated that BFV uses ESCRT for budding. Mutational analysis of BFV Gag (BGag) showed that, in contrast to the classical L domain motifs, BGag contains two motifs, P56LPI and Y103GPL, with L domain functions. In addition, the two L domains are necessary for the cytoplasmic localization of BGag, which is important for effective budding. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the functional site of Alix is V498 in the V domain and the functional site of Tsg101 is N69 in the UBC-like domain for BFV budding. Taken together, these results demonstrate that BFV recruits ESCRT for budding through the PLPI and YGPL L domain motifs in BGag.
Chloroquine (CQ), a lysosomotropic agent, is commonly used to inhibit lysosomal degradation and macroautophagy/autophagy. Here we investigated the cell-extrinsic effects of CQ on secretion. We showed that lysosomal and autophagy inhibition by CQ altered the secretome, and induced the release of Atg8 orthologs and autophagy receptors. Atg8-family proteins, in particular, were secreted inside small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) in a lipidation-dependent manner. CQ treatment enhanced the release of Atg8-family proteins inside sEVs. Using full-length ATG16L1 and an ATG16L1 mutant that enables Atg8-family protein lipidation on double but not on single membranes, we demonstrated that LC3B is released in two distinct sEV populations: one enriched with SDCBP/Syntenin-1, CD63, and endosomal lipidated LC3B, and another that contains LC3B but is not enriched with SDCBP/Syntenin-1 or CD63, and which our data supports as originating from a double-membrane source. Our findings underscore the context-dependency of sEV heterogeneity and composition, and illustrate the integration of autophagy and sEV composition in response to lysosomal inhibition.Abbreviations: ACTB: actin beta; ANOVA: analysis of variance; ATG4B: autophagy related 4B cysteine peptidase; Atg8: autophagy related 8; ATG16L1: autophagy related 16 like 1; ATP5F1A/ATP5a: ATP synthase F1 subunit alpha; CALCOCO2: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CASP3: caspase 3; CASP7: caspase 7; CQ: chloroquine; CD9: CD9 molecule; CD63: CD63 molecule; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DQ-BSA: dye quenched-bovine serum albumin; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ERN1/IRE1a: endoplasmic reticulum to nucleus signaling 1; EV: extracellular vesicles; FBS: fetal bovine serum; FDR: false discovery rate; GABARAP: GABA type A receptor-associated protein; GABARAPL2: GABA type A receptor associated protein like 2; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; GFP: green fluorescent protein; GO: gene ontology; HCQ: hydroxychloroquine; HSP90AA1: heat shock protein 90 alpha family class A member 1; IP: immunoprecipitation; KO: knockout; LAMP2: lysosomal associated membrane protein 2; LIR: LC3-interacting region; LMNA: lamin A/C; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MS: mass spectrometry; NBR1: NBR1 autophagy cargo receptor; NCOA4: nuclear receptor coactivator 4; NTA: nanoparticle tracking analysis; PE: phosphatidylethanolamine; PECA: probe-level expression change averaging; SDCBP/syntenin-1: syndecan binding protein; SD: standard deviation; SE: secreted; sEV: small extracellular vesicles; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TAX1BP1: Tax1 binding protein 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TMT: tandem-mass tag; TSG101: tumor susceptibility 101; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; WC: whole cell.
Oral submucosal fibrosis (OSF) is a potentially malignant oral disorder that requires the further development of advanced treatment strategies. TGF-β1 has been reported to be the main trigger for the increased collagen production and reduced activity of matrix degradation pathways in OSF. Exosomes are key mediators of paracrine signaling that have been proposed for direct use as therapeutic agents for tissue repair and regeneration. The present study aimed to investigate the effects of human adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cell (ADSC) exosomes (ADSC-Exos) on TGF-β1-treated oral fibroblasts in vitro and to unravel the potential underlying mechanism of action. Oral mucosal fibroblasts were obtained from the buccal tissues of patients without OSF during extraction of the third molar. ADSCs were obtained from three healthy female individuals during liposuction procedures. ADSC-Exos were isolated by ultracentrifugation and identified by electron microscopy, nanoparticle tracking and western blotting. Immunofluorescence and immunocytochemistry staining were performed to measure the expression levels of vimentin and α-smooth muscle actin in the fibroblasts. Reverse transcription-quantitative PCR and western blotting were used to determine the expression levels of mRNAs and proteins associated with collagen production. The p38 MAPK activator anisomycin was used to identify the underlying mechanisms of the effects of ADSC-Exos on TGF-β1-induced collagen synthesis in oral mucosal fibroblasts. The results of the present study revealed that ADSC-Exos exhibited a cup- or sphere-shaped morphology, with a mean diameter of 58.01±16.17 nm. ADSC-Exos were also found to be positive for CD63 and tumor susceptibility 101 expression. ADSC-Exos treatment reversed the TGF-β1-induced upregulation of collagen I and III protein expression. In addition, in the presence of TGF-β1, the expression levels of collagen type I α 1 chain and collagen type III α 1 chain mRNA were downregulated, whilst the expression levels of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)1 and MMP3 were upregulated following ADSC-Exos treatment. The TGF-β1-induced upregulation in the phosphorylation of p38 in addition to the increased protein expression of collagens I and III were also reversed in fibroblasts following ADSC-Exos treatment. However, anisomycin treatment alleviated these ADSC-Exos-induced changes. In conclusion, findings from the present study suggest that ADSC-Exos may represent a promising strategy for OSF treatment by targeting the p38 MAPK signaling pathway.Copyright: © Liu et al.
Upon starvation, cells rewire their metabolism, switching from glucose-based metabolism to mitochondrial oxidation of fatty acids, which require the transfer of FAs from lipid droplets (LDs) to mitochondria at mitochondria-LD membrane contact sites (MCSs). However, factors responsible for FA transfer at these MCSs remain uncharacterized. Here, we demonstrate that vacuolar protein sorting-associated protein 13D (VPS13D), loss-of-function mutations of which cause spastic ataxia, coordinates FA trafficking in conjunction with the endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT) protein tumor susceptibility 101 (TSG101). The VPS13 adaptor-binding domain of VPS13D and TSG101 directly remodels LD membranes in a cooperative manner. The lipid transfer domain of human VPS13D binds glycerophospholipids and FAs in vitro. Depletion of VPS13D, TSG101, or ESCRT-III proteins inhibits FA trafficking from LDs to mitochondria. Our findings suggest that VPS13D mediates the ESCRT-dependent remodeling of LD membranes to facilitate FA transfer at mitochondria-LD contacts.
Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell-derived small extracellular vesicles (BMSC-sEVs) can be used as a potential cell-free strategy for periodontal tissue regeneration, and we aim to investigate the effect and possible mechanism of BMSC-sEV in periodontal tissue regeneration in this study. The BMSC-sEV was isolated by the Exosome Isolation™ reagent and identified by transmission electron microscopy, nanoparticle tracking analysis, and Western blotting. The human periodontal ligament cells (hPDLCs) were cocultured with BMSC-sEV in vitro to detect the effects of BMSC-sEV on hPDLC migration, proliferation, and differentiation. The BMSC-sEV loaded by hydrogel was injected into experimental periodontitis rats to verify the therapeutic effect and possible mechanism. The results showed that BMSC-sEVs were 30-150 nm vesicles and expressed the exosome protein CD63 and tumor susceptibility 101 (TSG101), which could promote the migration, proliferation, osteogenic differentiation of hPDLCs. The BMSC-sEV-hydrogel had a therapeutic effect on periodontitis rats. After administration for 4-8 weeks, microcomputed tomography and histological analysis showed that alveolar bone loss, inflammatory infiltration, and collagen destruction in the BMSC-sEV-hydrogel group were less than that in the phosphate-buffered saline (PBS)-hydrogel group and periodontitis group. Further immunohistochemical and immunofluorescent staining revealed that the number of tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase-positive cells and the expression ratio of osteoprotegerin (OPG) and receptor-activator of nuclear factor kappa beta ligand (RANKL) in the BMSC-sEV-hydrogel group were lower than that in the PBS-hydrogel group and periodontitis group, while the expression of transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) and the ratio of macrophage type 2 and macrophage type 1 (M2/M1) were opposite. Therefore, BMSC-sEV can promote the regeneration of periodontal tissues, and that may be partly due to BMSC-sEV involvement in the OPG-RANKL-RANK signaling pathway to regulate the function of osteoclasts and affect the macrophage polarization and TGF-β1 expression to modulate the inflammatory immune response, thereby inhibiting the development of periodontitis and immune damage of periodontal tissue. Impact statement Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell-derived small extracellular vesicles (BMSCs-sEVs) have been proven to have similar functions to BMSCs, such as promoting the regeneration of heart, liver, kidney, and bone tissue and regulating immune responses. BMSCs are candidate seed cells of periodontal regeneration, but it is unclear about the role of BMSC-sEV on periodontal regeneration. In this study, we explored the effects and possible mechanism of BMSC-sEV on periodontal regeneration. The results of this study provide the evidence of BMSC-sEV as a cell-free strategy for periodontal regeneration.
CAV1 (caveolin 1) expression and secretion is associated with prostate cancer (PCa) disease progression, but the mechanisms underpinning CAV1 release remain poorly understood. Numerous studies have shown CAV1 can be secreted within exosome-like vesicles, but antibody-mediated neutralization can mitigate PCa progression; this is suggestive of an inverted (non-exosomal) CAV1 topology. Here we show that CAV1 can be secreted from specific PCa types in an inverted vesicle-associated form consistent with the features of bioactive CAV1 secretion. Characterization of the isolated vesicles by electron microscopy, single-molecule fluorescence microscopy and proteomics reveals they represent a novel class of exosomes ~40 nm in diameter containing ~50-60 copies of CAV1 and, strikingly, are released via a non-canonical secretory macroautophagy/autophagy pathway. This study provides novel insights into a mechanism whereby CAV1 translocates from a normal plasma membrane distribution to an inverted secreted form implicated in PCa disease progression.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; APEX: a modified soybean ascorbate peroxidase; ATG5: autophagy related 5; ATG9A: autophagy related 9A; ATG12: autophagy related 12; BHK: baby hamster kidney; C-exosomes: caveolin-exosomes; CAMKK2/CAMKKβ: calckum/calmodulin dependent protein kinase kinase 2; CAV1: caveolin 1; DAB: 3,3'-diaminobenzidine; DAPK: death associated protein kinase; EEA1: early endosome antigen 1; EM: electron microscopy; FCS: fluorescence correlation spectroscopy; GBP: GFP/YFP-binding peptide; GFP: green fluorescent protein; GOLGA2: golgin A2; ILVs: intralumenal vesicles; LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MBP: maltose binding protein; MTORC1: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase complex 1; MVBs: multivesicular bodies; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PCa: prostate cancer; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; PM: plasma membrane; SFM: serum-free medium; TSG101: tumor susceptibility 101; WCL: whole cell lysates; WT: wild type; YFP: yellow fluorescent protein; βoG: β-octylglucoside.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563243 is a review article
As a key component of the cytoskeleton, microtubule dynamics provide structural support for neurite growth. Spastin plays a critical role in reshaping microtubule arrangement, which is essential for axon development and regeneration. However, the mechanism by which spastin is activated and functions remains unclear. In this study, we discovered that phosphorylation of spastin at Ser210 promotes dendrite growth and surface expression of GluA1 in neurons, enhancing synaptic transmission. Conversely, dephosphorylation of spastin inhibits dendrite growth and surface expression of GluA1, weakening synaptic transmission. PTEN interacts with the MIT domain of spastin through its C-terminal region, resulting in reduced spastin phosphorylation expression levels. This process suppresses the transport of the AMPA receptor GluA1 subunit, thereby modulating neurite outgrowth and weakening synaptic transmission. In conclusion, our research indicates that PTEN is the pathway that regulates the phosphorylation of spastin, providing an important reference for the treatment of neurological diseases characterized by microtubule dysregulation.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Severing enzymes nanodamage microtubules by extracting tubulin subunits. This extraction is accompanied by spontaneous repair with soluble tubulin. Here, we show that GTP-, and not GDP-tubulin, incorporates preferentially at nanodamage sites where it recruits end binding protein-1 (EB1). Using GTP hydrolysis-defective recombinant tubulin mutants we show that the tubulin GTPase is a timer for EB1 association at repair sites. Tubulin on-rate controls both the size and lifetime of the spastin-catalyzed GTP-islands which promote rescues. Consistent with this, first, rescue rates in the presence of repair vary steeply with tubulin concentration, unlike in the absence of repair, and second, spastin-catalyzed lattice remodeling, and not passive binding of the enzyme alone, increases rescue rates. Furthermore, we show that, when overexpressed at low levels in cells, spastin catalyzes microtubule repair and affects microtubule growth. Thus, microtubule severing proceeds through GTP-tubulin repair intermediates both in vitro and in cells. Our work demonstrates that severing enzymes exert their effects on microtubule function through tubulin extraction and repair and strongly supports microtubule dynamics regulation through tubulin dimer exchange along the lattice.
The SPAST gene encodes spastin, a microtubule-severing protein. Pathogenic variants in this gene are commonly associated with autosomal dominant Spastic paraplegia type 4 (SPG4), a neurodegenerative disorder presenting with progressive lower limb spasticity. Severe phenotypes involving more extensive neurological impairment are rare.We report the first known case of an adolescent with a rare pathogenic SPAST variant (NM_014946.4: c.1507C > T; NP_055761.2: p. [Arg503Trp]) presenting with spastic quadriplegia. Additional features included severe intellectual disability, absent speech, dysphagia, and epilepsy, manifestations infrequently reported in association with SPAST mutations. He was born prematurely at 32 weeks of gestation after a complicated antenatal period due to the development of preeclampsia at 23 weeks and gestational diabetes mellitus at 26 weeks.The patient's clinical presentation represents one of the most severe phenotypes described in the literature for SPAST-related disorders. The identification of a genetic cause provided a more satisfactory and specific diagnosis than the previously presumed etiology of perinatal asphyxia. This case broadens the phenotypic spectrum of SPAST-related disease and highlights the role of genetic testing in the diagnostic workup of complex neurological conditions.We report the first case of a pathogenic variant in the SPAST gene and quadriplegia and one of the most severe clinical phenotypes described in the literature in association with variants in this gene. This report underscores the importance of considering SPAST mutations in patients with atypical or severe neurodevelopmental presentations. Genetic diagnosis enables more accurate prognosis, individualized medical care, and appropriate genetic counseling for families.Copyright © 2026 Eirini Kostopoulou et al. Case Reports in Neurological Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41956992 is a review article
Cardiac ischemia-reperfusion injury frequently induces malignant arrhythmias because of connexin 43 (Cx43) mislocalization and impaired cardiomyocyte coupling; yet, effective therapies targeting this mechanism remain scarce. Here we show that ischemic cardiomyopathy in humans and ischemia-reperfusion in mice promote the accumulation and stabilization of glutamylated microtubules, disrupting targeted Cx43 trafficking. This remodeling of the glutamylated microtubule network is mediated by the microtubule-severing enzyme spastin. Spastin overexpression in cardiomyocytes reduced microtubule density, whereas its deficiency caused accumulation of glutamylated, stabilized microtubules. Although cardiomyocyte-specific spastin knockout mice displayed normal cardiac structure and function at baseline, they were highly susceptible to stress-induced malignant arrhythmias. Mechanistically, spastin deficiency impaired microtubule plus end dynamics and Cx43 transport. Notably, genetic or pharmacological reduction of microtubule glutamylation before ischemia-reperfusion preserved Cx43 localization and mitigated oxidative stress-induced injury. Together, these findings identify microtubule glutamylation as a key regulator of cardiac electrical stability and a promising therapeutic target in ischemia-reperfusion injury.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Mutations in the SPAST gene, encoding the microtubule-severing protein Spastin, cause the most common type of hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP): SPG4, a disorder primarily characterized by length-dependent axonal degeneration. Clinically, most SPG4 patients present with a pure phenotype marked by progressive spasticity in the lower extremities. It has also been reported that complex cases exhibit demyelination and cognitive deficits. Additionally, some SPAST variants have been determined in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), indicating potential shared pathological mechanisms. Spastin is known to promote axonal regeneration by remodeling microtubules, whereas mutant Spastin disrupts microtubule dynamics and causes axonal transport defects in SPG4. However, whether Spastin dysfunction impairs regenerative processes such as myelination remains unknown. In this study, we investigated whether the SPG4-associated SPAST mutations affect axonal myelination. Using an in vitro cortical neuron-oligodendrocyte co-culture model, we found that pathogenic SPAST mutations result in a significant reduction in the myelination index. Furthermore, a cuprizone-induced demyelination mouse model revealed a decrease in Spastin protein levels in demyelinated white matter. Given Spastin's role in axonal regeneration, we hypothesized that Spastin may also protect against demyelination. Supporting this, wild-type Spastin expression protected neurons from demyelination in a cuprizone-induced cell culture demyelination model. Together, these results suggest a role for Spastin in axonal myelination, and its dysfunction may compromise myelin stability. Our findings highlight that impaired myelin stability may represent a secondary pathological feature of SPG4, contributing to disease complexity. This dual role of Spastin in axonal maintenance and myelin stability suggests its potential relevance for contributing to complex forms of SPG4.© 2026 International Society for Neurochemistry.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42091611
Exocyst Complex Component 6b (EXOC6B), a constituent of highly conserved octameric exocyst complex, plays a pivotal role in tethering and spatial targeting of post-Golgi vesicles to the plasma membrane, thereby facilitating exocytosis. Mutations in the EXOC6B gene has been associated with severe neurological and skeletal disorders, such as spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia with joint laxity type 3 (SEMDJL3) and Laurin-Sandrow Syndrome, highlighting its critical role in the development. SEMDJL3 patient fibroblasts showed impaired ciliogenesis. Thus, in this study, we investigated the functional importance of EXOC6B in cilium formation and the underlying molecular mechanisms. Here, we observed that cilia were shorter in EXOC6B knockout HEK 293T cells. On the other hand, forced expression of EXOC6B in HEK 293T cells augmented cilia length. Mechanistic analysis of EXOC6B-mediated cilia effects revealed that EXOC6B enhanced basal autophagy through the activation of AMPK and inhibition of mTOR signalling pathways. Analysis of clinically reported mutations in EXOC6B gene showed that the region beyond amino acid Tyr302 is critical for interaction with ciliary proteins, induction of basal autophagy and cilia length enhancement. Taken together, we show that EXOC6B promotes cilia length through the activation of basal autophagy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Macroautophagy/autophagy is a critical cellular process that maintains the cellular homeostasis by degrading and recycling cytotoxic material. Despite its importance, the intricate mechanisms governing this process remain partially elusive. Here, we designed and performed a genome-wide loss-of-function screen on a mouse haploid ESC mutant library and identified the actin-binding protein CORO1C (coronin 1C) as a previously unrecognized regulator of mammalian autophagy. Interactions between CORO1C and the ACTR2/ARP2 (actin related protein 2)-ACTR3/ARP3 complex are essential for branched actin network assembly, SQSTM1/p62 body formation, and maintaining autophagosome structural integrity. Unlike CORO1A and CORO1B, CORO1C possesses a unique second actin-binding site involved in regulating the branched actin network and autophagic process. Notably, coro1c-/- newborn mice died earlier in starvation than wild-type littermates and multiple tissues showed autophagy-deficient phenotypes. Moreover, the adult coro1c-deficient mice exhibit severe spatial learning memory impairment. Collectively, our research uncovered the surprising role of CORO1C in promoting the formation of branched actin network and its central role in the assembly of structures vital to autophagy.Abbreviations: ACTR2/ARP2: actin related protein 2; ACTR3/ARP3: actin related protein 3; ARPC2: actin related protein 2/3 complex, subunit 2; ATG: autophagy related; ATG5: autophagy related 5; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; CQ: chloroquine; FACS: fluorescence-activated cell sorting; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; haESC: haploid embryonic stem cell; HML: haploid-mutant library; IF: immunofluorescence; KO: knockout; MAP1LC3B/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3B; RB1CC1/FIP200: RB1-inducible coiled-coil 1; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STX17: syntaxin 17; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; WB: western blotting; WT: wild type.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, and understanding its molecular drivers is critical for improving therapeutic outcomes. SUMOylation is a form of post-translational modification that conjugates small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) to specific lysine residues of target proteins. The sole SUMO E2-conjugating enzyme UBC9 is upregulated in multiple malignancies, yet its functional role and specific substrate in LUAD remain poorly defined. Here, we demonstrate that UBC9 is significantly elevated in LUAD tissues, and its high expression is associated with adverse clinic outcomes. Functional assays revealed that genetic ablation of UBC9 robustly suppresses LUAD cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and tumorigenesis both in vitro and in vivo. Through immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry, we identified Coronin-1C (CORO1C), a master regulator of actin dynamics, as a key substrate of UBC9-mediated SUMOylation. Mechanistically, SUMOylation of CORO1C at lysine residues K19, K311, and K440 enhances its binding to actin-related protein 2 (Arp2) complex, promotes actin‑based cytoskeletal remodeling, and drives malignant cellular behaviors. Collectively, our work reveals a previously unrecognized regulatory axis in which UBC9‑dependent SUMOylation licenses CORO1C to orchestrate Arp2/3‑mediated cytoskeletal dynamics, thereby advancing LUAD progression. These findings reveal CORO1C as a novel SUMOylation target in lung adenocarcinoma and offer new mechanistic insights into tumor cell motility, but also highlight a promising therapeutic avenue for treating advanced LUAD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Epithelial protein lost in neoplasm (EPLIN), an actin-binding protein, has been described as both a tumor promoter and tumor suppressor in different cancers. The roles of EPLIN isoforms (α/β) remain largely unknown and could explain these opposing views. We observed distinct EPLIN isoform localization in breast cancer cells; EPLINα is recruited to actin in plasma membrane ruffles and endosomes, while EPLINβ resides on stress fibers. EPLINα localizes to early endosomes in an actin-dependent manner, where it interacts with Rab21, an established regulator of β1-integrin endosomal trafficking. This supports β1-integrin recycling and cell migration. Using proximity biotinylation (BioID), we identified coronin 1C as an EPLIN-proximal protein, which also localizes at Rab21-containing endosomes and controls integrin recycling downstream of EPLINα. EPLINα expression was linked to increased breast cancer cell motility, and a high EPLINα-to-EPLINβ ratio correlated with a mesenchymal phenotype in patient samples. Our work identifies previously unknown EPLIN-isoform-specific functions relevant to breast cancer and beyond.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
LIF maintains self-renewal growth in mouse embryonic stem cells (mESC) by activating STAT3, which translocates into nucleus for pluripotent gene induction. However, the ERK signaling pathway activated by LIF at large counteract with pluripotent gene induction during self-renewal growth. Here, it is reported that in mESC STAT3 undergoes multivesicular endosomes (MVEs) translocation and subsequent secretion, LIF-activated STAT3 is acetylated on K177/180 and phosphorylated on Y293 residues within the N-terminal coiled-coil domain, which is responsible for the interaction between STAT3 and Secl5b, an exocyst complex component 6B (EXOC6B). STAT3 translocation into MVEs resulted in the downregulation of T202/Y204-ERK1/2 phosphorylation and up-regulation of S9-GSK3β phosphorylation for maintaining mESC self-renewal growth. STAT3 with K177R/K180R or Y293F substitution fails to execute MVEs translocation and Secl5b-dependent secretion. Mice expressing K177RK180R substitution (STAT3mut/mut) are partially embryonic lethal. In STAT3mut/mut embryos, gene expressions related to hematological system function changed significantly and those living ones carry a series of abnormalities in the hematopoietic system. Furthermore, mice with Secl5b knockout exhibit embryonic lethality. Thus, Secl5b mediated STAT3 MVEs translocation regulates the balance of ERK and GSK3β signaling pathways and maintain mESC self-renewal growth, which is involved in regulating the stability of hematopoietic system.© 2024 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Crucial for skin homeostasis, synthesis and degradation of extracellular matrix components are orchestrated by dermal fibroblasts. During aging, alterations of component expression, such as collagens and enzymes, lead to reduction of the mechanical cutaneous tension and defects of skin wound healing. The aim of this study was to better understand the molecular alterations underwent by fibroblasts during aging by comparing secretomic and proteomic signatures of fibroblasts from young (<35years) and aged (>55years) skin donors, in quiescence or TGF-stimulated conditions, using HLPC/MS. The comparison of the secretome from young and aged fibroblasts revealed that 16 proteins in resting condition, and 11 proteins after a 24h-lasting TGF-β1-treatment, were expressed in significant different ways between the two cell groups (fold change>2, p-value <0.05), with a 77% decrease in the number of secreted proteins in aged cells. Proteome comparison between young and aged fibroblasts identified a significant change of 63 proteins in resting condition, and 73 proteins in TGF-β1-stimulated condition, with a 67% increase in the number of proteins in aged fibroblasts. The majority of the differentially-expressed molecules belongs to the cytoskeleton-associated proteins and aging was characterized by an increase in Coronin 1C (CORO1C), and Filamin B (FLNB) expression in fibroblasts together with a decrease in Cofilin (CFL1), and Actin alpha cardiac muscle 1 (ACTC1) detection in aged cells, these proteins being involved in actin-filament polymerization and sharing co-activity in cell motility. Our present data reinforce knowledge about an age-related alteration in the synthesis of major proteins linked to the migratory and contractile functions of dermal human fibroblasts.
Trastuzumab resistance is a serious clinical problem in the treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer (BC). The lncRNA ZNF649-AS1 was previously found to promote HER2-positive BC trastuzumab resistance. The study aims to explore the molecular mechanism of ZNF649-AS1 in HER2-positive BC trastuzumab resistance.Tumor tissue and peripheral blood samples were collected from 20 HER2-positive BC patients with trastuzumab-resistant and non-resistant, respectively. Trastuzumab-resistant BC cell lines SKBR-3-TR and BT474-TR were established. RIP was employed to confirm the binding of ZNF649-AS1, PRPF8 and exocyst complex component 7 (EXOC7). RNA expression of EXOC7-L (Full length of EXOC7) and EXOC7-S (Spliceosome of EXOC7) were detected using agarose gel electrophoresis. Expressions of macrophage markers CD68+ CD206+ were measured by flow cytometry.ZNF649-AS1 expression was upregulated in HER2-positive BC trastuzumab resistance. ZNF649-AS1 downregulation inhibited trastuzumab resistance in HER2-positive BC. ZNF649-AS1 regulated EXOC7 alternative splicing by binding with PRPF8. EXOC7-S knockdown suppressed trastuzumab resistance and TAM-dependent PD-L1 expression in HER2-positive BC. EXOC7-S overexpression abolished the effects of ZNF649-AS1 knockdown on trastuzumab resistance and TAM-dependent PD-L1 expression in HER2-positive BC.ZNF649-AS1 promoted trastuzumab resistance and TAM-dependent PD-L1 expression in HER2-positive BC via promoting alternative splicing of EXOC7 by PRPF8.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Thought of as a metastasis-associated gene, however, NME/NM23 nucleoside diphosphate kinase 4 (NME4) has rarely been described in the context of the tumour microenvironment. To understand the immunological implications of NME4 in oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC), we used multiplex immunohistochemistry to analyse the clinicopathological and prognostic importance of NME4 expression. Then, after establishing a syngeneic tumour model with a C57BL/6 mouse strain that can recapitulate the tumour microenvironment of humans, we examined the immunological involvement of NME4 expression. To explore the underlying molecular mechanism, via quantitative proteomics and protein microarray screening, we investigated the potential signalling pathways involved. The clinicopathological and prognostic importance of NME4 expression is limited in ESCC patients. In vivo, single-cell RNA sequencing showed that NME4 strikingly prevented CD8+ T cells from infiltrating the tumour microenvironment in murine ESCC. Mechanistically, we mapped out the NFκB2-CCL5 axis that was negatively controlled by NME4 in the murine ESCC cell line AKR. Collectively, these data demonstrated that regulation of NFκB2-CCL5 axis by NME4 prevents CD8+ T cells infiltration in ESCC.© 2024 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Externalization of the phospholipid cardiolipin (CL) to the outer mitochondrial membrane has been proposed to act as a mitophagy trigger. CL would act as a signal for binding the LC3 macroautophagy/autophagy proteins. As yet, the behavior of the LC3-subfamily members has not been directly compared in a detailed way. In the present contribution, an analysis of LC3A, LC3B and LC3C interaction with CL-containing model membranes, and of their ability to translocate to mitochondria, is described. Binding of LC3A to CL was stronger than that of LC3B; both proteins showed a similar ability to colocalize with mitochondria upon induction of CL externalization in SH-SY5Y cells. Besides, the double silencing of LC3A and LC3B proteins was seen to decrease CCCP-induced mitophagy. Residues 14 and 18 located in the N-terminal region of LC3A were shown to be important for its recognition of damaged mitochondria during rotenone- or CCCP-induced mitophagy. Moreover, the in vitro results suggested a possible role of LC3A, but not of LC3B, in oxidized-CL recognition as a counterweight to excessive apoptosis activation. In the case of LC3C, even if this protein showed a stronger CL binding than LC3B or LC3A, the interaction was less specific, and colocalization of LC3C with mitochondria was not rotenone dependent. These results suggest that, at variance with LC3A, LC3C does not participate in cargo recognition during CL-mediated-mitophagy. The data support the notion that the various LC3-subfamily members might play different roles during autophagy initiation, identifying LC3A as a novel stakeholder in CL-mediated mitophagy. Abbreviations: ACTB/β-actin: actin beta; Atg8: autophagy-related 8; CL: cardiolipin; CCCP: carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; DOPE: 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine; DTT: DL-dithiothreitol; FKBP8: FKBP prolyl isomerase 8; GABARAP: GABA type A receptor associated protein; GABARAPL1: GABA type A receptor associated protein like 1; GABARAPL2: GABA type A receptor associated protein like 2; GFP: green fluorescent protein; IMM: inner mitochondrial membrane; LUV/LUVs: large unilamellar vesicle/s; MAP1LC3A/LC3A: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 alpha; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MAP1LC3C/LC3C: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 gamma; NME4/NDPK-D/Nm23-H4: NME/NM23 nucleoside diphosphate kinase 4; O/A: oligomycin A + antimycin A; OMM: outer mitochondrial membrane; PA: phosphatidic acid; PC: phosphatidylcholine; PG: phosphatidylglycerol; PINK1: PTEN induced putative kinase 1; PtdIns4P: phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate; Rho-PE: lissamine rhodamine phosphatidylethanolamine; SUV/SUVs: small unilamellar vesicle/s.
Phosphatidylinositol transfer protein membrane-associated 1 (PITPNM1) contains a highly conserved phosphatidylinositol transfer domain which is involved in phosphoinositide trafficking and signaling transduction under physiological conditions. However, the functional role of PITPNM1 in cancer progression remains unknown. Here, by integrating datasets of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Molecular Taxonomy of Breast Cancer (METABRIC), we found that the expression of PITPNM1 is much higher in breast cancer tissues than in normal breast tissues, and a high expression of PITPNM1 predicts a poor prognosis for breast cancer patients. Through gene set variation analysis (GSEA) and gene ontology (GO) analysis, we found PITPNM1 is mainly associated with carcinogenesis and cell-to-cell signaling ontology. Silencing of PITPNM1, in vitro, significantly abrogates proliferation and colony formation of breast cancer cells. Collectively, PITPNM1 is an important prognostic indicator and a potential therapeutic target for breast cancer.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42494121 is a review article
Lipid transport plays a critical role in the distribution of lipids across subcellular compartments. This is pivotal during infection and other stress stimuli that increase metabolic demands. While lipid biosynthesis is regulated by immune stimuli, whether immune signalling also influences lipid transport mechanisms remains unexplored.We examined the effect of TLR and IFN-γ signalling on the gene expression of lipid transport proteins in human monocytic THP-1 cell line and compared these responses with those in primary bone marrow-derived mouse macrophages.Our data demonstrate that TLR4 signalling selectively modulates the expression of oxysterol-binding protein-related proteins (ORPs), a key family of proteins that transport lipids between organelles. Remarkably, TLR4 activation led to the downregulation of several ORP family members in human THP-1-derived macrophages. However, this response was less profound in mouse macrophages. In contrast, the expression of steroidogenic acute regulatory domain (STARD) proteins, many of which transport lipids between mitochondria and other compartments, exhibited no statistical difference. Moreover, IFN-γ, a cytokine that plays a key role in the immune response, did not considerably impact human ORP or STARD expression levels, either alone or in combination with LPS.Together, these results reveal that TLR signalling exerts selective and critical control over lipid trafficking pathways with important biological differences. These findings provide new insights into the crosstalk between immune signalling and lipid metabolism, which may offer novel targets to treat diseases characterized by dysregulated lipid pathways.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British Society of Immunology.
Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is highly prevalent and triples cardiovascular risk. Intermittent hypoxia during apneas impairs endothelial cell (EC) protection against complement, which initiates endothelial inflammation and increases cardiovascular risk. This process appears to be linked to altered cellular cholesterol metabolism. However, whether and how intermittent hypoxia alters endothelial cholesterol homeostasis and whether those changes affect endothelial inflammation in patients with OSA are unclear.ECs were harvested from the forearm vein from patients with OSA (n=24; age, 44±14 years; 38% female; body mass index, 36±10 kg/m2) and OSA-free controls (n=19; age, 39±14 years; 74% female; body mass index, 29±9 kg/m2). Cultured human umbilical vein ECs exposed to intermittent hypoxia (alternating 30-minute 21% O2 for normoxia/30-minute 2% O2 for hypoxia for 8 hours), 2% O2 for 8 hours (continuous hypoxia), or normoxia were used as the in vitro model.Intermittent hypoxia-induced endoplasmic reticulum stress increases interaction of endoplasmic reticulum-bound VAP-B (vesicle-associated membrane protein-associated protein B) with Derlin-1 (degradation in endoplasmic reticulum protein 1), which, in turn, impairs VAP-B interaction with endolysosomal compartment-bound ORP1L (oxysterol-binding protein-related protein 1 long form), leading to retention of cholesterol in the endolysosomal compartment in ECs in OSA. The consequent increase in cholesterol content in the EC plasma membrane promotes internalization of the complement inhibitor CD59, thereby increasing deposition of the terminal complement membrane attack complex on ECs and initiating inflammation. Low levels of positive airway pressure therapy reversed OSA-induced alteration in interactions of VAP-B with both Derlin-1 and ORP1L in patients with OSA.Using a direct approach to study endothelium, we have identified altered endothelial intracellular cholesterol trafficking and metabolism as mechanisms underlying reduced protection against complement activity and increased endothelial inflammation, which, over time, increases cardiovascular risk in OSA.
Lysosomal membrane damage triggers a multi-stage repair response essential for cellular homeostasis. Here we identify the oxysterol-binding protein-related protein ORP3 as a critical mediator of late-stage lysosomal membrane repair. Following lysosomal damage induced by L-leucine-leucine methyl ester (LLOME) or cationic amphiphilic drugs (CADs), ORP3 is phosphorylated and recruited to ER-lysophagosome contact sites via a signaling cascade initiated by lysosomal membrane ubiquitination, TAK1, p38 MAPK, and, to a lesser extent, IKK. p38-dependent phosphorylation promotes direct interaction between ORP3 and LC3B, which together with PI(4,5)P₂ binding, is required for autophagic lysosome recruitment. ORP3 depletion impairs late-stage lysosomal recovery, elevates lysosomal lipid peroxidation, and reduces cell survival. A lipid transfer-deficient ORP3 mutant fails to restore lysosome function despite normal recruitment, indicating that ER-to-lysophagosome transfer of phosphatidylcholine by ORP3 is functionally required. ORP3 activity is subsequently terminated by VCP/p97-mediated deubiquitination of lysosomes. These findings define ORP3 as a MAPK regulated lipid transfer protein during the late autophagic phase of the endolysosomal damage response.Lysosomal membrane damage triggers ubiquitination that activates a TAK1-p38 signaling cascade, phosphorylating the lipid transfer protein ORP3 and recruiting it to damaged lysosomes via LC3B interaction. ORP3-mediated phosphatidylcholine transfer from the ER is essential for late-stage lysosomal repair and cell survival.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42325196 is a review article
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is a chronic microvascular complication of diabetes mellitus and a leading cause of chronic kidney disease worldwide. Microalbuminuria remains the current gold standard for the diagnosis and staging of DKD; however, it often reflects established renal injury rather than early pathological changes. Fatty acid-binding protein 1 (FABP1), a cytoplasmic protein abundantly expressed in the renal proximal tubules, is released into the urine in response to tubular damage. FABP1 plays an essential role in intracellular fatty acid transport and metabolism and may serve as a potential biomarker for tubular involvement in pediatric diabetic kidney disease. A case-control study was performed on 90 children (30 T1DM with DKD, 30 T1DM without DKD [non-DKD], and 30 controls). Albumin-creatinine ratio (ACR) and serum FABP1 were ELISA measured. FABP1 was significantly higher in the DKD group versus non-DKD (p = 0.026) and controls (p = 0.009). FABP1 positively correlated with ACR (r = 0.25, p = 0.018), total cholesterol (r = 0.25, p = 0.019), and LDL-C (r = 0.25, p = 0.017). A cutoff > 189 ng/L discriminated DKD from non-DKD (AUC = 0.67, sensitivity 63%, specificity 73%).Conclusion: Serum FABP1 may represent a complementary biomarker of tubular involvement in pediatric diabetic kidney disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Selective removal of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is important for cell health. Macroautophagy is the primary mechanism for the removal of the ER, but the ER can be cleared in a macroautophagy-independent manner. However, the physiological relevance and mechanisms underlying macroautophagy-independent ER clearance remain largely unknown. Here we show that ER is cleared by lysosomes in a macroautophagy Atg gene-independent manner during development. This developmentally programmed Atg-independent ER clearance by lysosomes requires the ER protein Vap33 that promotes ER and lysosome contact. Oxysterol-binding protein (Osbp) is known to associate with Vap33, and Osbp lysosomal localization is required for ER clearance in cells lacking macroautophagy. Significantly, the cholesterol transport-associated protein Start1 regulates ER and lysosome contact, macroautophagy-independent ER clearance, and cholesterol transport from ER to the lysosome. These studies reveal that Vap33, Osbp, and Start1 promote ER clearance by lysosomes that is associated with cholesterol trafficking.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic (CKM) syndrome is an emerging integrative framework and a critical determinant of overall disease risk; however, its relationship with cancer risk and underlying mechanisms remains poorly understood.This study sought to investigate the association between CKM staging and incident cancer and elucidate mediators underlying this association, thereby uncovering pathways and potential targets for risk mitigation based on multiomics analysis.UK Biobank participants were categorized into CKM stages 0 to 4 according to the American Heart Association staging framework based on International Classification of Diseases, 10th Revision codes. Cox regression was conducted to evaluate associations between CKM staging and overall cancer incidence. Proteomic and metabolomic mediators linking adjacent stages and cancer were identified using Cox regression, logistic regression, and mediation analysis and underwent Gene Ontology enrichment and interaction network analyses.Overall cancer risk increased stepwise from CKM stages 1 to 3, with slight attenuation but persistent elevation in stage 4. Stage-specific mediators and mechanisms were identified: leukocyte/lymphocyte activation and cell-cell adhesion in stage 1; T cell-related immunity and emerging immune tolerance induction in stage 2; emerging natural killer (NK) cell tolerance induction and respiratory burst involved in the inflammatory response in stage 3; and dominant NK cell tolerance induction and tissue-resident chronic pathology in stage 4. Dominant metabolomic mediation evolved from high-density lipoproteins (HDLs) and triglyceride-rich lipoproteins (TRLs) to low-density lipoproteins (LDLs). Protein-metabolite interaction networks revealed distinct profiles for each stage, including angiopoietin-like protein 1/HDL and asialoglycoprotein receptor 1/TRL interactions in early stages and phospholipid transfer protein/HDL, apolipoprotein M/LDL, and fibroblast growth factor-binding protein 1/intermediate-density lipoprotein/LDL correlations in advanced stages.CKM staging is associated with incremental cancer risk and stage-specific immune-metabolic pathways, highlighting potential prevention targets.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Despite effective cholesterol-lowering medications, significant residual cardiovascular risk related to atherosclerosis remains. Here, we explore whether the cytokine-like protein FAM3D contributes to atherosclerosis. Clinical cohort data reveal that elevated circulating FAM3D levels are strongly associated with human atherosclerosis. Both global and intestinal epithelial cell-specific Fam3d deficiencies significantly inhibit intestinal cholesterol and triglyceride absorption and mitigate atherosclerosis in mice. Mechanistically, FAM3D upregulates microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTTP) expression and activity, promoting chylomicron assembly in intestinal epithelial cells. Meanwhile, endothelial FAM3D induces vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) dedifferentiation via a lipid-independent mechanism. Both effects are mediated by the formyl peptide receptor 1 (FPR1)-Gαi/Gαq signaling cascade. Importantly, two monoclonal antibodies targeting FAM3D effectively suppress intestinal MTTP-mediated chylomicron assembly and VSMC dedifferentiation, thereby mitigating atherosclerosis in mice. In conclusion, FAM3D exacerbates atherosclerosis through both lipid-dependent and lipid-independent mechanisms, representing a promising therapeutic target for combating residual cardiovascular risk unresolved by current cholesterol-lowering therapies.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Brain endocannabinoid (eCB) signaling, which includes CB1 cannabinoid receptors (CB1R) and the eCBs N-arachidonoylethanolamine (AEA) and 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG), modulates behavioral responses to stress and fear extinction. Sterol carrier protein 2 (SCP-2) is an intracellular lipid binding protein expressed in brain that binds AEA and 2-AG at nanomolar concentrations and facilitates their cellular accumulation. SCP-2 mRNA is present in mouse limbic brain regions and is increased in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and amygdalar complex in mice with impaired (129S1/Sv1mJ) fear extinction compared to mice with normal (C57BL/6J) fear extinction. In this study, we utilized mice with deletion of the gene for SCP-2 and an overlapping gene, SCP-X (SCP-2/X-/-), to examine the hypothesis that SCP-2 regulates behaviors associated with anxiety and fear. Compared to WT mice, SCP-2/X-/- mice exhibit enhanced fear extinction and reduced anxiety-driven behaviors in the elevated plus maze. These differences are abrogated by treatment with a CB1R antagonist and not recapitulated in mice with selective deletion of SCP-X. While baseline brain tissue concentrations of AEA and 2-AG are not different between WT and SCP-2/X-/- mice, amygdalar and PFC 2-AG concentrations are significantly higher in SCP-2/X-/- mice 24 h following foot shock. There are no differences between WT and SCP-2/X-/- mice in rectal temperature; or in tail flick and catalepsy assays. These findings support the hypothesis that as yet unproven functions of the lipid carrier protein SCP-2 regulate behaviors associated with fear memory and anxiety and suggest that pharmacological inhibitors of SCP-2 could reduce acute anxiety and enhance fear extinction.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42312550 is a review article
One of the major pathways to clear glycoproteins from circulation is via the liver-specific asialoglycoprotein receptor. Loss of asialoglycoprotein receptor 1 (ASGR1), the major subunit of asialoglycoprotein receptor in humans, was found to correlate with lower levels of plasma apolipoprotein B-containing lipoproteins and a profound reduction in cardiovascular disease risk. However, the cell and molecular biology underlying this effect was unclear. Given that rodents carry their cholesterol largely in High Density Lipoprotein, we selected the zebrafish model to better understand the mechanism(s) of action of ASGR1. We first characterized all possible zebrafish ASGR1 orthologs to identify zebrafish Asgr1 (asgr1a) from a collection of lectin-binding proteins. We then generated two independent mutations in asgr1a using CRISPR/Cas9. Neither mutation altered larval, juvenile, or adult B-lp numbers or sizes. However, when challenged with a Western Diet, asgr1a mutant zebrafish exhibited less hepatic steatosis and lower hepatic triglyceride levels compared to control animals. Asgr1a mutant animals also exhibited increased levels of fecal cholesterol, due to attenuated post-prandial absorption and upregulation of liver proteins known to be involved in B-lp metabolism (e.g., microsomal triglyceride transfer protein, ApoA4). These data are consistent with the atheroprotective role of ASGR1 and reveal a previously unappreciated role for ASGR1 in modulating whole animal cholesterol flux.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42241517 is a review article
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a progressive disorder correlated with hepatic lipid homeostasis, gut dysbiosis, and inflammation. In this study, we propose a novel dietary therapy for NAFLD utilizing a conjugate of chitooligosaccharide (COS) and epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), as the underlying mechanisms of NAFLD remain unclear. NAFLD was induced in male Wistar rats by administering a high-fat diet (HFD) for 16 weeks, followed by administration of COS-EGCG conjugate (150, 300, and 600 mg/kg) for an additional four weeks. The treatment alleviated metabolic parameters, liver steatosis, and injury. It also reduced hepatic lipid accumulation by downregulating the expression of CD36, fatty acid synthase (FASN), and sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1c (SREBP-1c), while upregulating peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα), carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 A (CPT1A), and microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTTP). Regarding the gut-liver axis, the conjugate modulated gut microbiota, reduced serum lipopolysaccharide (LPS) levels, and restored the expression of intestinal tight junction proteins (zonula occludens-1; ZO-1 and occludin). It also prevented liver inflammation induced by gut-derived LPS by suppressing the Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)/nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling pathway. The results suggest that the COS-EGCG conjugate exerts therapeutic effects against NAFLD by regulating hepatic lipid metabolism, modulating the gut microbiota, and attenuating gut-derived LPS-induced liver inflammation.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to University of Navarra.
Testicular Leydig cells produce testosterone. Decreases in serum testosterone reduce bone density, muscle mass, and sexual functions, and increase obesity and cardiovascular disease. Microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP) is critical for lipoprotein secretion by the liver and intestine. MTP is expressed in the Leydig cells of human and mouse testes, but its function is unknown. MTP inhibition, knockdown, and gene ablation in mouse Leydig cells significantly increased steroid secretion after stimulation with cyclic AMP. MTP deficiency enhanced the expression of cholesterol metabolism genes, luteinizing hormone receptor, and steroid biosynthesis genes. Furthermore, MTP deficiency enhanced the expression and activity of SREBP2. ATAC sequencing revealed enhanced binding of SREBP2 to the promoters of genes in cholesterol metabolism and steroid biosynthesis pathways. SREBP2 knockdown in MTP-deficient cells significantly attenuated the cholesterol and progesterone biosynthesis pathways. These studies show that MTP regulates cholesterol and sex hormone production by modulating SREBP2 activity.© 2026 The Author(s).
Phosphatidylinositol transfer proteins (PITPs) are essential lipid-binding proteins that regulate phosphoinositide signaling, membrane trafficking and autophagy through the transport of phosphatidylinositol and other phospholipids between intracellular membranes. Microcolin compounds have been identified as selective inhibitors of class I PITPs, revealing important roles of PITPs in Hippo signaling and autophagy. Here, we report the crystal structure of human PITPα in complex with microcolin H at 2.0 Å resolution. The structure enables a detailed description of the interaction between microcolin H and the lipid-binding cavity. Besides the expected covalent bond to the Cys94 residue, the structure also reveals an extensive network of hydrogen bonds, water bridges and hydrophobic interactions. Importantly, PITPα remains in the open conformation upon binding to microcolin H. Quantitative cavity analysis confirms that the microcolin-bound structure adopts a volume comparable to that of the unliganded PITPα and is markedly larger than that of the lipid-bound state. These findings demonstrate that microcolins selectively trap PITPα in an open conformation and provide a structural basis for their inhibitory mechanism. Furthermore, our results show that ligand binding can profoundly change protein conformation, which underscores the limitation of docking experiments.open access.
Return to sport (RTS) after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) remains a critical issue in sports medicine. Despite improvements in rehabilitation, many patients fail to return to their preinjury level of activity. Previous studies have primarily focused on clinical and biomechanical factors that influence RTS; however, the impact of intrinsic physiological changes, particularly urinary proteomic profiles, has not yet been fully explored. This study aimed to identify potential urinary protein biomarkers associated with RTS in ACLR patients.A total of 30 ACLR patients, at least 9 months post-surgery, were recruited. Patients were divided into RTS and non-RTS groups based on their ability to RTS, recovery to preinjury Tegner levels, and a leg symmetry index (LSI) of ≥ 85% on the single-leg hop (SLH) test. Furthermore, urine samples were analyzed using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry to identify differentially expressed proteins associated with RTS. Potential biomarkers and mechanism associated with RTS were identified by series of bioinformatics and machine learning methods such as pathway enrichment methods, protein-protein interaction (PPI) network, the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), receiver operating characteristic curve and correlation analysis.Significant differences in knee muscle characteristics, including limb circumferences and isokinetic strength, were observed between the RTS and Non-RTS groups. A total of 3433 proteins were identified, with 20 upregulated and 58 downregulated in the RTS group. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and Gene Ontology (GO) analyses revealed key pathways including regulation of actin cytoskeleton, calcium ion binding, and Pathways related to inflammation such as IL-17 signaling pathway and neutrophil extracellular trap formation. Five proteins, including Glypican-3 (GPC3), Phosphatidylinositol transfer protein alpha isoform (PIPNA), Rap guanine nucleotide exchange factor 3 (RPGF3), Histone H1.5 (H15), and Small proline-rich protein 3 (SPRR3), were identified as potential biomarkers for evaluating RTS.Muscle function was the primary factor influencing RTS after ACLR. The study revealed proteomic differences between those who RTS and those who do not. The identified potential biomarkers, such as GPC3, PIPNA, RPGF3, H15, and SPRR3, may serve as candidate targets to guide interventions designed to improve RTS outcomes following ACLR.This study was registered in the Chinese Clinical Trial Registry (ChiCTR2200061779) on 02/07/2022.© 2026. The Author(s).
Macroautophagy/autophagy is a highly conserved cellular process, spanning from yeast to humans, and plays a vital role in maintaining cellular homeostasis. Dysregulation of autophagy has been linked to a wide range of diseases. A hallmark of autophagy is the formation of double-membrane vesicles called autophagosomes. Autophagosome biogenesis requires a large number of phospholipids, with the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) being the main lipid source. The ATG2A-WDR45/WIPI4-ATG9A complex serves as the core machinery responsible for lipid transfer and equilibration during this process. In our recent study, we resolved the cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) structures of the ATG2A-WDR45/WIPI4 and ATG2A-WDR45/WIPI4-ATG9A complexes, providing critical insights into their architecture and function. Additionally, molecular dynamics simulations were employed to investigate the mechanism by which ATG2A mediates lipid extraction from donor membranes. Our findings offer structural and mechanistic insights into the spatially coupled processes of lipid transfer and re-equilibration, which are essential for phagophore membrane expansion.Abbreviation: ATG: autophagy related; ATG2A: autophagy related 2A; ATG2A[NR]: ATG2A N-terminal region; ATG9A: autophagy related 9A; cryo-EM: cryo-electron microscopy; cryo-ET: cryo-electron tomography; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; PtdIns3P: phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate; SpAtg2[NR]: Schizosaccharomyces pombe Atg2 N-terminal region; SUVs: small unilamellar vesicles; TGN: trans-Golgi network; TMEM41B: transmembrane protein 41B; VMP1: vacuole membrane protein 1; WDR45/WIPI4: WD repeat domain 45.
The identification of effective drug targets and the development of bioactive molecules are areas of high need in cancer therapy. The phosphatidylinositol transfer protein alpha/beta isoform (PITPα/β) has been reported to play an essential role in integrating phosphoinositide trafficking and lipid metabolism in diverse cellular processes but remains unexplored as a potential target for cancer treatment. Herein, data analysis of clinical cancer samples revealed that PITPα/β expression is closely correlated with the poor prognosis. Target identification by chemical proteomic methods revealed that microcolin H, a naturally occurring marine lipopeptide, directly binds PITPα/β and displays antiproliferative activity on different types of tumour cell lines. Furthermore, we identified that microcolin H treatment increased the conversion of LC3I to LC3II, accompanied by a reduction of the level of p62 in cancer cells, leading to autophagic cell death. Moreover, microcolin H showed preeminent antitumour efficacy in nude mouse subcutaneous tumour models with low toxicity. Our discoveries revealed that by targeting PITPα/β, microcolin H induced autophagic cell death in tumours with efficient anti-proliferating activity, which sheds light on PITPα/β as a promising therapeutic target for cancer treatment.© 2023. The Author(s).
Loss of phosphatidylinositol transfer protein alpha underlies pancreatic β cell failure.
Defects in insulin processing and granule maturation are linked to pancreatic beta-cell failure during type 2 diabetes (T2D). Phosphatidylinositol transfer protein alpha (PITPNA) stimulates activity of phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) 4-OH kinase to produce sufficient PtdIns-4-phosphate (PtdIns-4-P) in the trans-Golgi network to promote insulin granule maturation. PITPNA in beta-cells of T2D human subjects is markedly reduced suggesting its depletion accompanies beta-cell dysfunction. Conditional deletion of Pitpna in the beta-cells of Ins-Cre, Pitpnaflox/flox mice leads to hyperglycemia resulting from decreasing glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) and reducing pancreatic beta-cell mass. Furthermore, PITPNA silencing in human islets confirms its role in PtdIns-4-P synthesis and leads to impaired insulin granule maturation and docking, GSIS, and proinsulin processing with evidence of ER stress. Restoration of PITPNA in islets of T2D human subjects reverses these beta-cell defects and identify PITPNA as a critical target linked to beta-cell failure in T2D.© 2023. The Author(s).
Cellular distributions of the sphingolipid ceramide-1-phosphate (C1P) impact essential biological processes. C1P levels are spatiotemporally regulated by ceramide-1-phosphate transfer protein (CPTP), which efficiently shuttles C1P between organelle membranes. Yet, how CPTP rapidly extracts and inserts C1P into a membrane remains unknown. Here, we devise a multiscale simulation approach to elucidate biophysical details of CPTP-mediated C1P transport. We find that CPTP binds a membrane poised to extract and insert C1P and that membrane binding promotes conformational changes in CPTP that facilitate C1P uptake and release. By significantly disrupting a lipid's local hydrophobic environment in the membrane, CPTP lowers the activation free energy barrier for passive C1P desorption and enhances C1P extraction from the membrane. Upon uptake of C1P, further conformational changes may aid membrane unbinding in a manner reminiscent of the electrostatic switching mechanism used by other lipid transfer proteins. Insertion of C1P into an acceptor membrane, eased by a decrease in membrane order by CPTP, restarts the transfer cycle. Most notably, we provide molecular evidence for CPTP's ability to catalyze C1P extraction by breaking hydrophobic C1P-membrane contacts with compensatory hydrophobic lipid-protein contacts. Our work, thus, provides biophysical insights into how CPTP efficiently traffics C1P between membranes to maintain sphingolipid homeostasis and, additionally, presents a simulation method aptly suited for uncovering the catalytic mechanisms of other lipid transfer proteins.Copyright: © 2023 Rogers, Geissler. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Improvements in growth-related traits reduce fish time and production costs to reach market size. Feed deprivation and refeeding cycles have been introduced to maximize aquaculture profits through compensatory growth. However, the molecular compensatory growth signature is still uncertain in Nile tilapia. In this study, fish were subjected to two weeks of fasting followed by two weeks of refeeding. The growth curve in refed tilapia was suggestive of a partial compensatory response. Transcriptome profiling of starved and refed fish was conducted to identify genes regulating muscle atrophy and compensatory growth. Pairwise comparisons revealed 5009 and 478 differentially expressed (differential) transcripts during muscle atrophy and recovery, respectively. Muscle atrophy appears to be mediated by the ubiquitin-proteasome and autophagy/lysosome systems. Autophagy-related 2A, F-box and WD repeat domain containing 7, F-box only protein 32, miR-137, and miR-153 showed exceptional high expression suggesting them as master regulators of muscle atrophy. On the other hand, the muscle compensatory growth response appears to be mediated by the continuous stimulation of muscle hypertrophy which exceeded normal levels found in control fish. For instance, genes promoting ribosome biogenesis or enhancing the efficiency of translational machinery were upregulated in compensatory muscle growth. Additionally, myogenic microRNAs (e.g., miR-1 and miR-206), and hypertrophy-associated microRNAs (e.g., miR-27a-3p, miR-29c, and miR-29c) were reciprocally expressed to favor hypertrophy during muscle recovery. Overall, the present study provided insights into the molecular mechanisms regulating muscle mass in fish. The study pinpoints extensive growth-related gene networks that could be used to inform breeding programs and also serve as valuable genomic resources for future mechanistic studies.
Pancreatic cancer (PC) is a devastating solid malignancy with a dismal prognosis. The treatment of metastatic PC is a current challenge for medical oncologists due to a lack of early detection, drug resistance, and relapse. Therefore, potential biomarkers and effective therapeutic targets for PC are urgently required. Ceramide-1-phosphate transfer protein (CPTP) is a member of the glycolipid transfer protein family, which is associated with autophagy and inflammation regulation. The roles and mechanisms of CPTP in PC have not been clarified. In this study, by RT-qPCR and immunohistochemistry analysis, we found that CPTP is highly expressed in PC and is associated with a poor prognosis in PC patients. By using cell counting kit-8, colony formation, transwell and matrigel assays in vitro, as well as xenograft model assays in vivo, we further proved that CPTP enhanced PC cells growth and metastasis. In PC cells, human CPTP promotes growth and metastasis via sphingolipid metabolite ceramide and PI4KA/AKT signaling. Sp (specific protein)-1 and Sp3 transcription factors also act as upstream positive regulators of CPTP expression in PC cells. Collectively, these findings suggested that CPTP may function as a pro-tumorigenic gene in PC cells and could be a promising therapeutic target in PC.© The author(s).
Somatic gene therapy remains technically challenging, especially in the central nervous system (CNS). Efficiency of gene delivery, efficacy in recipient cells, and proportion of cells required for overall benefit are the key points needed to be considered in any therapeutic approach. Recent efforts have demonstrated the efficacy of RNA-guided nucleases such as CRISPR/Cas9 in correcting point mutations or removing dominant mutations. Here we used viral delivered Cas9 plasmid and two guide RNAs to remove a recessive insertional mutation, vibrator (vb), in the mouse brain. The vb mice expressed ∼20% of normal levels of phosphatidylinositol transfer protein, α (PITPα) RNA and protein due to an endogenous retrovirus inserted in intron 4, resulting in early-onset tremor, degeneration of brainstem and spinal cord neurons, and juvenile death. The in situ CRISPR/Cas9 viral treatment effectively delayed neurodegeneration, attenuated tremor, and bypassed juvenile death. Our studies demonstrate the potential of CRISPR/Cas9-mediated gene therapy for insertional mutations in the postnatal brain.© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the West China School of Medicine & West China Hospital of Sichuan University.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41098801 is a review article
Genome-wide association studies have identified loss-of-function variants in the hydroxysteroid 17-beta dehydrogenase 13 gene (HSD17B13) associated with reduced risk of chronic liver disease. In this phase I study, we evaluated the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of rapirosiran, an investigational, N-acetylgalactosamine-conjugated small-interfering RNA targeting liver-expressed HSD17B13 mRNA.ALN-HSD-001 was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study conducted in two parts. Part A evaluated single ascending subcutaneous doses of rapirosiran or placebo in 58 healthy adults. Part B evaluated two doses, administered 12 weeks apart, in 46 adults with metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH). Patients with MASH underwent liver biopsies during screening and once post-randomization for measurement of HSD17B13 mRNA. The primary endpoint was frequency of adverse events (AEs). Rapirosiran plasma and urine pharmacokinetics and change from baseline in liver HSD17B13 mRNA were secondary endpoints.In Part A, the only AE occurring in ≥10% of rapirosiran-treated individuals was injection-site reaction (11%); all occurrences were mild and transient. There were no treatment-related serious AEs. Plasma concentrations of rapirosiran declined rapidly by 24 h post-dose. Across doses, rapirosiran showed 17%-37% excretion in urine. In Part B, the only AE occurring in ≥10% of rapirosiran-treated patients was COVID-19 (14%; 5/36); all occurrences were deemed treatment-unrelated. There was no evidence of drug-induced liver injury in either part of the study. Rapirosiran was associated with a dose-dependent reduction in liver HSD17B13 mRNA in Part B, with a median reduction of 78% at 6 months in the highest-dose (400 mg) group.Rapirosiran exhibited an encouraging safety and tolerability profile, with a robust reduction in liver HSD17B13 mRNA expression.Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is a prevalent chronic liver disease associated with a high burden of disease. The hydroxysteroid 17-beta dehydrogenase 13 (HSD17B13) gene is implicated in the pathogenesis of MASH. Rapirosiran offers a novel mechanism to treat MASH by directly reducing hepatic HSD17B13 expression. In this phase I study, rapirosiran demonstrated an encouraging safety and tolerability profile and resulted in a robust reduction in liver HSD17B13 mRNA expression following two subcutaneous doses. The data support further development of rapirosiran as a potential treatment option for patients with MASH, a disease for which there is only one approved pharmacological treatment.EUDRA-CT: 2020-000847-29; NCT: 04565717.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40148030 is a review article
Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in PNPLA3 and hydroxysteroid 17-beta dehydrogenase 13 (HSD17B13) genes are associated with fatty liver disease (FLD) progression and carcinogenesis. In the present study, we evaluated the characteristics of Japanese FLD patients according to HSD17B13 polymorphisms.We enrolled 402 patients who were clinically and pathologically diagnosed with FLD (alcoholic: 63 cases, nonalcoholic: 339 cases) at our hospital in 1990-2018 (228 males; median age: 54.9 [14.6-83.6] years). FLD patients with HSD17B13 A/A (212 cases) and others (A/AA or AA/AA; 190 cases) were compared.Compared to patients with HSD17B13 A/A and others, those with the A/A genotype showed increased incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) (A/A vs. others; 18.4% vs. 9.5%, p = 0.01), cardiovascular diseases (14.2% vs. 4.2%, p < 0.01), and hypertension (56.6% vs. 47.4%, p = 0.06). In patients without A/A, the HCC incidence was significantly reduced in those with alcohol-related FLD, fibrosis-4 index <2.67, and the PNPLA3 CC genotype; however, there was no significant difference in nonalcoholic-FLD. Patients without HSD17B13 A/A showed severe steatosis (77% vs. 88.6%, p < 0.01). New HCC developed in 11 cases and the 5-year incidence rate of HCC was 3.3% in patients with both PNPLA3 GG/GC and HSD17B13 A/A, which was significantly higher than the rate for those with other SNP profiles (0.6%, p = 0.03).Inhibiting HSD17B13 activity may prevent HCC development, particularly in alcohol-related FLD and low-risk patients. Therefore, combinations of SNPs and other risk factors can be used for screening FLD-HCC.© 2023 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Liver cirrhosis development is a multifactorial process resulting from a combination of environmental and genetic factors. The aim of the study was to develop accurate non-invasive diagnostic and prognostic models for alcoholic cirrhosis. Consecutive subjects with at-risk alcohol intake were retrospectively enrolled (110 cirrhotic patients and 411 non-cirrhotics). At enrollment, the data about lifetime drinking history were collected and all patients were tested for Patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing protein 3 (PNPLA3) rs738409, Transmembrane 6 Superfamily 2 (TM6SF2) rs58542926, and hydroxysteroid 17-beta dehydrogenase 13 (HSD17B13) rs72613567 variants. In cross-sectional analyses, models for the diagnosis of cirrhosis were developed using multivariate logistic regression. A predictive score for cirrhosis development over 24 years was built by evaluating time-dependent AUC curves. The best diagnostic accuracy was demonstrated by the model, which also includes daily alcohol consumption, duration of hazardous alcohol use, and genetic variants, with AUCs of 0.951 (95% CI 0.925-0.977) and 0.887 (95% CI 0.925-0.977) for cirrhosis and compensated cirrhosis, respectively. The predictive model for future cirrhosis development (AUC of 0.836 95% CI: 0.769-0.904) accounted for age at onset of at-risk alcohol consumption and the number of PNPLA3 and HSD17B13 variant alleles. We have developed accurate genetic and alcohol consumption models for the diagnosis of alcoholic cirrhosis and the prediction of its future risk.
Hydroxysteroid 17-beta-dehydrogenase 13 (HSD17B13) is a hepatic lipid droplet-associated enzyme that is upregulated in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Recently, there have been several reports that predicted loss of function variants in HSD17B13 protect against the progression of steatosis to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis with fibrosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Here we report crystal structures of full length HSD17B13 in complex with its NAD+ cofactor, and with lipid/detergent molecules and small molecule inhibitors from two distinct series in the ligand binding pocket. These structures provide insights into a mechanism for lipid droplet-associated proteins anchoring to membranes as well as a basis for HSD17B13 variants disrupting function. Two series of inhibitors interact with the active site residues and the bound cofactor similarly, yet they occupy different paths leading to the active site. These structures provide ideas for structure-based design of inhibitors that may be used in the treatment of liver disease.© 2023. Springer Nature Limited.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common chronic liver disease, in which prognosis is determined by liver fibrosis. A common variant in hydroxysteroid 17-beta dehydrogenase 13 (HSD17B13, rs72613567-A) is associated with a reduced risk of fibrosis in NAFLD, but the underlying mechanism(s) remains unclear. We investigated the effects of this variant in the human liver and in Hsd17b13 knockdown in mice by using a state-of-the-art metabolomics approach. We demonstrate that protection against liver fibrosis conferred by the HSD17B13 rs72613567-A variant in humans and by the Hsd17b13 knockdown in mice is associated with decreased pyrimidine catabolism at the level of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase. Furthermore, we show that hepatic pyrimidines are depleted in two distinct mouse models of NAFLD and that inhibition of pyrimidine catabolism by gimeracil phenocopies the HSD17B13-induced protection against liver fibrosis. Our data suggest pyrimidine catabolism as a therapeutic target against the development of liver fibrosis in NAFLD.
The severity of hepatic steatosis is modulated by genetic variants, such as patatin-like phospholipase domain containing 3 (PNPLA3) rs738409, transmembrane 6 superfamily member 2 (TM6SF2) rs58542926, and membrane-bound O-acyltransferase domain containing 7 (MBOAT7) rs641738. Recently, mitochondrial amidoxime reducing component 1 (MTARC1) rs2642438 and hydroxysteroid 17-beta dehydrogenase 13 (HSD17B13) rs72613567 polymorphisms were shown to have protective effects on liver diseases. Here, we evaluate these variants in patients undergoing bariatric surgery. A total of 165 patients who underwent laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy and intraoperative liver biopsies and 314 controls were prospectively recruited. Genotyping was performed using TaqMan assays. Overall, 70.3% of operated patients presented with hepatic steatosis. NASH (non-alcoholic steatohepatitis) was detected in 28.5% of patients; none had cirrhosis. The increment of liver fibrosis stage was associated with decreasing frequency of the MTARC1 minor allele (p = 0.03). In multivariate analysis MTARC1 was an independent protective factor against fibrosis ≥ 1b (OR = 0.52, p = 0.03) and ≥ 1c (OR = 0.51, p = 0.04). The PNPLA3 risk allele was associated with increased hepatic steatosis, fibrosis, and NASH (OR = 2.22, p = 0.04). The HSD17B13 polymorphism was protective against liver injury as reflected by lower AST (p = 0.04) and ALT (p = 0.03) activities. The TM6SF2 polymorphism was associated with increased ALT (p = 0.04). In conclusion, hepatic steatosis is common among patients scheduled for bariatric surgery, but the MTARC1 and HSD17B13 polymorphisms lower liver injury in these individuals.
Genome-wide association studies in adults have identified variants in hydroxysteroid 17-beta dehydrogenase 13 (HSD17B13) and mitochondrial amidoxime reducing component 1 (MTARC1) as protective against nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). We aimed to test their association with pediatric NAFLD liver histology and investigate their function using metabolomics. A total of 1450 children (729 with NAFLD, 399 with liver histology) were genotyped for rs72613567T>TA in HSD17B13, rs2642438G>A in MTARC1, and rs738409C>G in patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing protein 3 (PNPLA3). Genotype-histology associations were tested using ordinal regression. Untargeted hepatic proteomics and plasma lipidomics were performed in a subset of children. We found rs72613567T>TA in HSD17B13 to be associated with lower odds of NAFLD diagnosis (odds ratio, 0.7; 95% confidence interval, 0.6-0.9) and a lower grade of portal inflammation (p < 0.001). rs2642438G>A in MTARC1 was associated with a lower grade of hepatic steatosis (p = 0.02). Proteomics found reduced expression of HSD17B13 in carriers of the protective -TA allele. MTARC1 levels were unaffected by genotype. Both variants were associated with down-regulation of fibrogenic pathways. HSD17B13 perturbs plasma phosphatidylcholines and triglycerides. In silico modeling suggested p.Ala165Thr disrupts the stability and metal binding of MTARC1. Conclusion: Both HSD17B13 and MTARC1 variants are associated with less severe pediatric NAFLD. These results provide further evidence for shared genetic mechanisms between pediatric and adult NAFLD.© 2022 The Authors. Hepatology Communications published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.
The three-dimensional (3D) conformation of chromatin is integral to the precise regulation of gene expression. The 3D genome and genomic variations in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) are largely unknown, despite their key roles in cellular function and physiological processes. High-throughput chromosome conformation capture (Hi-C), Nanopore sequencing, and RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) assays were performed on the liver of normal and NAFLD mice. A high-resolution 3D chromatin interaction map was generated to examine different 3D genome hierarchies including A/B compartments, topologically associated domains (TADs), and chromatin loops by Hi-C, and whole genome sequencing identifying structural variations (SVs) and copy number variations (CNVs) by Nanopore sequencing. We identified variations in thousands of regions across the genome with respect to 3D chromatin organization and genomic rearrangements, between normal and NAFLD mice, and revealed gene dysregulation frequently accompanied by these variations. Candidate target genes were identified in NAFLD, impacted by genetic rearrangements and spatial organization disruption. Our data provide a high-resolution 3D genome interaction resource for NAFLD investigations, revealed the relationship among genetic rearrangements, spatial organization disruption, and gene regulation, and identified candidate genes associated with these variations implicated in the pathogenesis of NAFLD. The newly findings offer insights into novel mechanisms of NAFLD pathogenesis and can provide a new conceptual framework for NAFLD therapy.© 2021 Chinese Pharmaceutical Association and Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences. Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V.
OBJECTIVE: Breast cancer continues to be a major contributor to cancer-associated deaths among the female population globally. This study aims to investigate the functional role, underlying mechanisms, and clinical relevance of Cell death-inducing DFFA-like effector C (CIDEC) in breast cancer pathogenesis. METHODS: Integrated bioinformatics analysis of three gene expression datasets identified hub genes via protein-protein interaction network and multiple machine learning algorithms. The tumor-suppressive effects of CIDEC were evaluated in vitro using breast cancer cell lines by assessing viability, proliferation, migration, invasion, and apoptosis, and in vivo via a xenograft model. Mitochondrial function, autophagy, and the cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)/protein kinase G (PKG) signaling pathway were assessed using a pathway agonist and an autophagy inhibitor. RESULTS: A marked reduction in CIDEC expression was observed in breast cancer tissues and cellular models. CIDEC effectively curtailed tumor progression by impeding proliferation, migration, and invasive capacity, coupled with the induction of apoptotic cell death. Mechanistically, CIDEC impaired mitochondrial fitness, characterized by reduced adenosine triphosphate (ATP) production, dissipated mitochondrial membrane potential, and elevated reactive oxygen species. Concurrently, CIDEC blocked protective autophagy. These effects were mediated through the suppression of the cGMP/PKG pathway. Activating this pathway with 8-Br-cGMP reversed the tumor-suppressive phenotypes and mitochondrial dysfunction induced by CIDEC, whereas inhibiting autophagy attenuated this rescue. CONCLUSION: Our findings demonstrate that CIDEC functions as a novel tumor suppressor in breast cancer by disrupting mitochondrial fitness and inhibiting protective autophagy via the cGMP/PKG pathway. The CIDEC-cGMP/PKG axis represents a promising therapeutic target for breast cancer intervention. CLINICAL TRIAL NUMBER: Not applicable.
Excessive lipolysis and inflammatory response are critically involved in the pathogenesis of ketosis in periparturient dairy cows. Evidence has been growing for participation of the growth hormone (GH) in the metabolic regulation of adipose tissue. However, the potential role of GH in promoting lipolysis and proinflammatory signaling activation in bovine adipocytes remains to be elucidated. The objective of this study was to investigate the regulatory effects of GH on the lipolysis and inflammatory response of bovine adipocytes. Subcutaneous adipose tissue and blood samples were collected from 10 healthy cows (blood BHB concentration <1.2 mM) and 10 cows with clinical ketosis (CK; blood BHB concentration >3.0 mM). For in vitro experiments, adipocytes were isolated from healthy Holstein cows. Differentiated adipocytes were used for (1) treatment with 0, 5, 10, or 15 ng/mL of GH for 8 h, or 15 ng/mL of GH for 0, 4, 8 or 12 h; (2) co-treatment with 15 ng/mL GH and 0.1 ng/mL tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α); (3) pretreatment with 10 μM BAY 11-7082, a nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) inhibitor, and then treatment with 15 ng/mL GH. The CK cows displayed higher serum GH concentration. The protein abundance of phosphorylated lipolysis-limiting enzyme hormone sensitive lipase (HSL) was higher and mRNA abundance of lipid droplet coating proteins cell death-inducing DFFA-like effector c and perilipin 1 was lower in adipose tissue of CK cows versus healthy cows. The protein abundance of phosphorylated inhibitor of kappa B α (IκBα) and NF-κB, mRNA abundance of proinflammatory cytokines TNFA, NLR family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3), IL-18 (IL18), caspase 1 (CASP1) and IL-1B (IL1B), and the activity of caspase 1 were greater in adipose tissue of CK cows, but protein abundance of IκBα was lower. In bovine adipocytes, GH induced lipolysis and inflammatory response, as evidenced by increased glycerol content in the supernatant and decreased cellular triglyceride content, as well as elevated phosphorylation levels of IκBα and NF-κB, decreased protein abundance of IκBα, upregulated mRNA abundance of TNFA, NLRP3, IL18, CASP1, and IL1B, and enhanced caspase 1 activity. Furthermore, TNF-α exacerbated GH-induced lipolysis and inflammation, whereas inhibition of NF-κB signaling pathway partially reverses these metabolic alterations of GH-treated adipocytes. These findings suggested that GH promote lipolysis in bovine adipocytes by activating inflammatory pathways.The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of the American Dairy Science Association®. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
Chorea-Acanthocytosis (ChAc) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by progressive neurodegeneration and acanthocytosis in the bloodstream. Biallelic mutations in the Vacuolar Protein Sorting 13 homolog A (VPS13A) gene have been identified as the cause of ChAc. This study aims to report a novel mutation in VPS13A associated with ChAc in two Iranian brothers. Two brothers from an Iranian family, aged 31 and 32, presented with clinical features suggestive of ChAc, including progressive chorea, cognitive decline, and seizures. Whole exome sequencing revealed a novel homozygous frameshift mutation in exon 47 of VPS13A (NM 0018037. 2: c. 6348delA, p. K2117Nfs*16) in both brothers. However, both parents resulted heterozygous carriers. This report describes a previously unreported homozygous frameshift mutation in VPS13A associated with ChAc. This finding broadens the known mutational landscape of VPS13A in the Iranian population and underscores the value of genetic screening in patients with suspected neuroacanthocytosis syndromes.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a life-threatening condition with high morbidity and mortality, characterized by inflammation linked to organelle stress. Despite its clinical significance, effective therapies remain limited. Although organelle dysfunction is recognized as a driver of inflammation in AKI, the role of interorganelle communication in this process remains poorly understood. PDZ domain-containing 8 (PDZD8), a tethering protein on the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), facilitates ER-endolysosome contact that is essential for endolysosomal maturation. The mature endolysosome is a prerequisite for activating the DNA-sensing innate immune receptor, Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9). Here, we investigated the role of PDZD8 in the TLR9-NF-κB pathway during AKI using Pdzd8 knockout (KO) mice and in vitro knockdown in human proximal tubular cells (PTCs). Pdzd8 KO mice showed reduced severity of cisplatin-induced AKI and reduced activation of the NF-κB pathway. Mechanistically, PDZD8 knockdown in PTCs impaired endolysosomal maturation and acidification. This functional disruption impeded the proper translocation of TLR9 to endolysosomes, thereby inhibiting the signaling cascade leading to NF-κB activation. Notably, PDZD8 knockdown did not alter mitochondrial morphology or the cytosolic leakage of mitochondrial DNA, an endogenous ligand for TLR9. These findings indicate that PDZD8 is crucial for maintaining endolysosomal homeostasis and regulating the TLR9-NF-κB pathway in cisplatin-induced tubular injury.NEW & NOTEWORTHY This study reveals the critical role of PDZD8 in maintaining endolysosomal homeostasis and regulating the TLR9-NF-κB inflammatory pathway in cisplatin-induced acute kidney injury (AKI). Loss of PDZD8 impaired endolysosomal function, suppressing TLR9 activation and downstream inflammation, leading to reduced tubular damage.
Lysosomal vacuolation is commonly found in many pathophysiological conditions, but its molecular mechanisms and functions remain largely unknown. Here, we show that the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-anchored lipid transfer protein PDZ domain-containing 8 (PDZD8), which we propose to be renamed as lysosomal vacuolator (LYVAC), is a general mediator of lysosomal vacuolation. Using human cell lines, we found that diverse lysosomal vacuolation inducers converged on lysosomal osmotic stress, triggering LYVAC recruitment through multivalent interactions. Stress-induced lysosomal lipid signaling contributed to both the recruitment and activation of LYVAC. By directly sensing lysosomal phosphatidylserine and cholesterol, the lipid transfer domain of LYVAC mediated directional ER-to-lysosome lipid movement, leading to osmotic membrane expansion of lysosomes. These findings uncover an essential mechanism for lysosomal vacuolation with broad implications in pathophysiology.
Sheep litter size is a critical trait in mutton production. While litter size regulation in relation to DNA transcription have been rigorously investigated, the function of RNA editing remains less explored. To elucidate the mechanisms controlling sheep fecundity at the RNA editing level and identify pivotal RNA editing sites, this study scrutinised RNA editing sites (RESs) in follicular and luteal phases of ovaries from sheep with high and low fecundity, and the functions of population-specific RESs were subsequently analysed. A total of 2 182 475 RESs, 74.61% of which were A-to-I and C-to-U sites, were identified. These RESs were fairly evenly dispersed over the chromosomes, with 46.8% showing close clustering (inter-site distance < 300 bp). Notably, 93% were primarily situated in intronic and intergenic regions. In the follicular phase, pivotal RESs were found in the introns of genes including LPS responsive beige-like anchor, MCC regulator of Wnt signalling, and RWD domain containing 3, among others, and in the exon region of EvC ciliary complex subunit 2. In the luteal phase, RESs were observed in the introns of genes such as H/ACA ribonucleoprotein assembly factor and SDA1 domain-containing 1, and the exon and 3'UTR regions of polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 15 and ilvB acetolactate synthase-like, respectively. High-fecundity sheep showed RESs in the follicular phase in genes such as fibrillin 1, cyclin-dependent kinase 6, and roundabout 1, and in genes such as autophagy-related 2B and versican in the luteal phase. Thirteen RESs specific to the follicular phase and eight specific to the luteal phase were identified in high-fecundity sheep ovaries. These RESs offer promising molecular targets and enhance understanding of multiple births in sheep from the perspective of posttranscriptional alterations.Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Recent evidence suggests that the mesenteric adipose tissue (MAT) near the affected intestine may play a role in Crohn's disease (CD) pathophysiology. Modulation of several transcripts has already been identified in the MAT of CD in the literature. Therefore, our aim was to validate the microRNA (miRNA) transcript levels and their target genes in the MAT of active CD patients and correlate them with clinical and epidemiological data.Samples from the MAT of surgical specimens from 25 active CD patients were obtained. The control group comprised fifteen patients who underwent surgery for other diseases, except inflammatory bowel diseases. Transcriptional levels of miRNA and their target genes were assessed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. The correlation between transcripts and clinical characteristics was obtained using multiple linear regression. The mathematical models (M) underwent a statistical filter to ensure robustness and reliability (P value < .05; adjusted R-squared (Rˆ2)> .99; correct predictions of more than 60%).miRNA-650 and miRNA-29c were upregulated in the MAT of CD compared to the control group (P < .0001 and P = .0032, respectively), besides presenting decreased levels of their target genes. Two were target genes of the miRNA-650: glutamine-fructose-6-phosphate transaminase 2 (P = .012) and aldehyde dehydrogenase 4 family (P = .0035); and 4 were targets of the miRNA-29c: cell death-inducing DFFA-like effector c (P = .001), E2F transcription factor-1 (P = .007), hypoxia-inducible factor 3 subunit alpha (P = .0029), and pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4 (P = .0054). We found 2 M with statistical strength and robustness. The performance test identified one model with 100% accuracy for predicting the month of recurrence and determining patients with less risk of early relapse after surgery.We demonstrate that miRNA-650 and miRNA-29c and some of their target genes, besides clinical and epidemiological variables, may be useful in a model to predict when disease relapse may occur in CD patients who underwent surgery. These findings constitute a potential tool to guide postoperative clinical management.© 2024 The Authors.
Organelle stress exacerbates podocyte injury, contributing to perturbed lipid metabolism. Simultaneous organelle stresses can occur in the kidney in the diseased state; therefore, a thorough analysis of organelle communication is crucial for understanding the progression of kidney diseases. Although organelles closely interact with one another at membrane contact sites, limited studies have explored their involvement in kidney homeostasis. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) protein, PDZ domain-containing 8 (PDZD8), is implicated in multiple-organelle-tethering processes and cellular lipid homeostasis. In this study, we aimed to elucidate the role of organelle communication in podocyte injury using podocyte-specific Pdzd8-knockout mice. Our findings demonstrated that Pdzd8 deletion exacerbated podocyte injury in an accelerated obesity-related kidney disease model. Proteomic analysis of isolated glomeruli revealed that Pdzd8 deletion exacerbated mitochondrial and endosomal dysfunction during podocyte lipotoxicity. Additionally, electron microscopy revealed the accumulation of abnormal, fatty endosomes in Pdzd8-deficient podocytes during obesity-related kidney diseases. Lipidomic analysis indicated that glucosylceramide accumulated in Pdzd8-deficient podocytes, owing to accelerated production and decelerated degradation. Thus, the organelle-tethering factor, PDZD8, plays a crucial role in maintaining mitochondrial and endosomal homeostasis during podocyte lipotoxicity. Collectively, our findings highlight the importance of organelle communication at the 3-way junction among the ER, mitochondria, and endosomes in preserving podocyte homeostasis.
Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a chronic metabolic disease that poses serious threats to human physical and mental health worldwide. The PDZ domain-containing 8 (PDZD8) protein mediates mitochondria-associated endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane (MAM) formation in mammals. We explored the role of PDZD8 in DM and investigated its potential mechanism of action.High-fat diet (HFD)- and streptozotocin-induced mouse DM and palmitic acid (PA)-induced insulin 1 (INS-1) cell models were constructed. PDZD8 expression was detected using immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), and Western blotting. MAM formation, interactions between voltage-dependent anion-selective channel 1 (VDAC1) and inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor type 1 (IP3R1), pancreatic β-cell apoptosis and proliferation were detected using transmission electron microscopy (TEM), proximity ligation assay (PLA), terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay, immunofluorescence staining, and Western blotting. The mitochondrial membrane potential, cell apoptosis, cytotoxicity, and subcellular Ca2+ localization in INS-1 cells were detected using a JC-1 probe, flow cytometry, and an lactate dehydrogenase kit.PDZD8 expression was up-regulated in the islets of HFD mice and PA-treated pancreatic β-cells. PDZD8 knockdown markedly shortened MAM perimeter, suppressed the expression of MAM-related proteins IP3R1, glucose-regulated protein 75 (GRP75), and VDAC1, inhibited the interaction between VDAC1 and IP3R1, alleviated mitochondrial dysfunction and ER stress, reduced the expression of ER stress-related proteins, and decreased apoptosis while increased proliferation of pancreatic β-cells. Additionally, PDZD8 knockdown alleviated Ca2+ flow into the mitochondria and decreased cyclophilin D (Cypd) expression. Cypd overexpression alleviated the promoting effect of PDZD8 knockdown on the apoptosis of β-cells.PDZD8 knockdown inhibited pancreatic β-cell death in DM by alleviated ER-mitochondria contact and the flow of Ca2+ into the mitochondria.
Following publication, concerns were raised regarding the peer-review process related to the publication of this article [...].
Sustained activation of the spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) arrests cells in mitosis, resulting in mitotic cell death; therefore, SAC-activating drugs have been developed and clinically used as anti-cancer agents. However, some mitotic cells exhibit mitotic slippage, an event of mitotic exit without SAC satisfaction, and less sensitivity to these drugs. For developing efficient anti-cancer therapy, it is required to reveal the mechanism underlying the cell fate determination between cell death and mitotic slippage. In this study, we found that oxysterol-binding protein-like 11 (OSBPL11) is important for cell fate determination during mitotic arrest. OSBPL11 knockdown accelerates mitotic slippage and instead represses cell death during mitotic arrest by treatment with the Eg5 inhibitor S-trityl-l-cysteine (STLC), although the duration from mitotic entry to slippage or death is not altered. OSBPL11 knockdown exhibits a similar phenotype in paclitaxel-treated cells. Cyclin B1 levels are decreased in OSBPL11-knockdown mitotic cells. Treatment with the APC/C inhibitor proTAME mitigates both the decrease in the cyclin B1 levels and the acceleration of mitotic slippage caused by OSBPL11 knockdown. Although the OSBPL11 wild type could mitigate the acceleration of mitotic slippage and the repression of cell death induced by OSBPL11 knockdown, mutants lacking the lipid transport and lipid binding activities could not. Furthermore, OSBPL11 knockdown promotes survival upon STLC and paclitaxel treatments. These results suggest that OSBPL11 represses mitotic slippage and accelerates cell death during mitotic arrest in a manner dependent on both lipid transport and lipid binding activities, promoting the cytotoxic effect of SAC-activating drugs.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Vitamin D deficiency is prevalent in Africa, but its genetic determinants are understudied. We report a genome-wide analysis of 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) concentrations in 3670 children from five countries across Africa with replication in four diaspora African ancestry populations (n=21,610). We identify a previously unreported locus at genome-wide significance in West African populations: OSBPL11 (Oxysterol Binding Protein Like 11, lead variant, rs2979356, p=8.01 × 10-9). In vitro and molecular docking assays showed that OSBPL11 is a vitamin D binding protein likely involved in the intracellular binding of vitamin D metabolites. OSBPL11 knockdown mice have increased fat, reduced triglycerides and improved glucose tolerance, and rs2979356 was associated with cardiometabolic health in adults of African ancestry. We also identify previously reported loci determining vitamin D status. Our study advances understanding of vitamin D genetics in Africa and indicates a novel function for OSBPL11 in intracellular binding and transport of vitamin D metabolites.
Cholesterol derived from high-density lipoprotein (HDL) is rapidly redistributed to intracellular compartments in steroidogenic and bile-producing cells, but the molecular mechanisms governing this essential transport process remain poorly understood. Here we uncover a signalling cascade coordinating HDL-derived cholesterol transport through membrane contact sites between the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and plasma membrane (PM). We find that HDL-resident sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) activates S1P receptor 3 and its associated G protein αq, leading to phospholipase-C-β3-mediated hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate and an elevation in cytosolic calcium. This calcium signal triggers the rapid recruitment of Extended-Synaptotagmin 1 to ER-PM membrane contact sites. Genetic or pharmacological disruption of this pathway impairs the non-vesicular transfer of HDL-derived cholesterol to intracellular compartments. Our findings reveal how HDL binding to the cell surface alters ER-PM membrane contact site dynamics through S1P signalling. This ensures efficient offloading and redistribution of HDL cholesterol to support steroid and bile acid synthesis.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Vesicle Amine Transport-1 (VAT1) is a protein that is overexpressed in many cancers, including breast cancer, glioblastoma, and angiosarcoma. High VAT1 expression correlates with poor overall survival, and genetic knockout models of VAT1 indicate potent antimigratory activity, suggesting that VAT1 is a promising antimetastasis target. Recently, the natural product neocarzilin A (NCA) from Streptomyces carzinostaticus was reported to be the first validated small-molecule inhibitor of VAT1, having strong activity in metastasis models of angiosarcoma and breast cancer. While knockdown of VAT1 has no effect on cell viability, NCA has significant cytotoxicity, suggesting that NCA is not selective for VAT1. Additionally, NCA has poor aqueous solubility, making in vivo administration of NCA challenging and thus limiting its therapeutic potential. Here, we report the design, synthesis, bioactivity, and pharmacokinetics of novel NCA derivatives with improved drug-like properties. Specifically, we have developed derivatives with altered warheads, replacing chlorines on the trichloroketone with fluorines. Using a modified synthetic route, we accessed NCA derivatives with greater than 25-fold improvements in solubility and 30-fold improvements in the antimigratory to antiproliferative bioactivity ratio. The two best derivatives, along with the parent, were analyzed for oral bioavailability, with the two more soluble derivatives showing greatly improved bioavailability. Overall, these studies have resulted in the development of VAT1 inhibitors with improved properties, which will enable further study of the pharmacological inhibition of VAT1 as an antimetastatic strategy. Additionally, these studies provide insights into novel trihalomethyl ketone warheads and identify chlorodifluoroketone as a potent and selective new warhead.© 2024 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
In aging and metabolic disease, sarcopenic obesity (SO) correlates with intramuscular adipose tissue (IMAT). Using bioinformatics analysis, we found a potential target protein Extended Synaptotagmin 1 (E-syt1) in SO. To investigate the regulatory role of E-syt1 in muscle metabolism, we performed in vivo and in vitro experiments through E-syt1 loss- and gain-of-function on muscle physiology. When E-syt1 is overexpressed in vitro, myoblast proliferation, differentiation, mitochondrial respiration, biogenesis, and mitochondrial dynamics are impaired, which were alleviated by the silence of E-syt1. Furthermore, overexpression of E-syt1 inhibited mitophagic flux. Mechanistically, E-syt1 overexpression leads to mitochondrial calcium overload and mitochondrial ROS burst, inhibits the fusion of mitophagosomes with lysosomes, and impedes the acidification of lysosomes. Animal experiments demonstrated the inhibition of E-syt1 increased the capacity of endurance exercise, muscle mass, mitochondrial function, and oxidative capacity of the muscle fibers in OVX mice. These findings establish E-syt1 as a novel contributor to the pathogenesis of skeletal muscle metabolic disorders in SO. Consequently, targeting E-syt1-induced dysfunction may serve as a viable strategy for attenuating SO.Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Oxysterol-binding protein-like 10 (OSBPL10) gene has been associated with reduced susceptibility to severe dengue in individuals of African descent. The aim of this study was to determine the possible effect of OSBPL10 on dengue virus (DENV) replication as well as the impact of African and European haplotypes of six OSBPL10 small nuclear polymorphisms (SNPs) on dengue multiplication and innate immune response.We conducted gene knockdown experiments targeting OSBPL10 in THP-1 and Huh-7D12 cell lines, followed by a DENV-2 replication assay. Extracellular viral load was determined using qRT-PCR. To investigate the impact of SNPs haplotypes on viral replication and gene expression we cultured peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from individuals with homozygous African and European haplotypes of OSBPL10 with DENV-2. Individual genotyping was performed using High Resolution Melt (HRM) analysis. The level of viral replication was assessed through plaque assay, while RT-PCR was employed to determine the expression levels of RXR-α, IFN-γ, IL-10 and IL-8 genes.In vitro OSBPL10 knockdown significantly reduced DENV-2 replication. Individuals carrying European haplotypes showed higher DENV titers along with elevated levels of RXR-α and IL-8 mRNA compared to those carrying African haplotypes, who exhibited lower viral loads alongside increased IFN-γ and IL-10 expression.Our findings further explore the role of OSBPL10 in DENV multiplication, immune response to infection. The European haplotypes of OSBPL10 appear to increase DENV replication and promote RXR-α and IL-8 mRNA expression which correlates with the suppressive effect of these mediators on type I IFN, promoting viral replication and a deficient antiviral response. In contrast, the African haplotype showed a reduction in DENV replication and enhanced IFN-γ and IL-10 mRNA expression, which could be related to the better management of dengue infection and the low frequency of severe disease in this ethnic groupe.© 2024 The Authors.
Corticotropic cells of the anterior pituitary gland release adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) in a regulated manner to promote the production of cortisol and androgens. The process of ACTH secretion is partly mediated by the phosphofurin acidic cluster sorting protein 1 (PACS-1); however, the underlying mechanisms behind this regulation remain unclear. Herein, we demonstrated PACS-1 interactions with the short transient receptor potential channel 3 (TRPC3) calcium transporter and the extended synaptotagmin-1 (ESyt1) endoplasmic reticulum-plasma membrane tethering protein. Importantly, PACS-1 promoted interactions between TRPC3 and ESyt1 and regulated their plasma membrane localization. Lastly, we demonstrated that PACS-1 is required for a proper store-operated calcium entry (SOCE) response and that ESyt1 regulates ACTH secretion through an unknown mechanism regulated by PACS-1. Overall, our study provides new insights into the physiological role PACS-1 plays in modulating intracellular calcium levels and regulating ACTH secretion in corticotropic cells.© 2024 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Loss of connectivity between spinal V1 inhibitory interneurons and motor neurons is found early in disease in the SOD1G93A mice. Such changes in premotor inputs can contribute to homeostatic imbalance of motor neurons. Here, we show that the Extended Synaptotagmin 1 (Esyt1) presynaptic organizer is downregulated in V1 interneurons. V1 restricted overexpression of Esyt1 rescues inhibitory synapses, increases motor neuron survival, and ameliorates motor phenotypes. Two gene therapy approaches overexpressing ESYT1 were investigated; one for local intraspinal delivery, and the other for systemic administration using an AAV-PHP.eB vector delivered intravenously. Improvement of motor functions is observed in both approaches, however systemic administration appears to significantly reduce onset of motor impairment in the SOD1G93A mice in absence of side effects. Altogether, we show that stabilization of V1 synapses by ESYT1 overexpression has the potential to improve motor functions in ALS, demonstrating that interneurons can be a target to attenuate ALS symptoms.© 2024. The Author(s).
Lung cancer is the first leading cause of cancer death worldwide. oxysterol-binding protein-like 2 (OSBPL2), is a lipid transport protein regulating cholesterol homeostasis. Here, we clarified the previously unreported role of OSBPL2 in lung cancer stemness properties. We observed that OSBPL2 reduced cholesterol content by HPLC-MS. It inhibited the accumulation of lipid droplets (LDs) in lung cancer. OSBPL2-mediated lipid transportation significantly suppressed tumor sphere formation, stemness markers expression and in vivo tumorigenesis and tumor metastasis. In clinical specimens, we also demonstrated that OSBPL2 repressed the expression of Lung cancer stem-like cells (LCSCs) markers-ALDH1A1, CD133 and Nanog. The level of OSBPL2 was negatively correlated with malignant of lung cancer, such as tumor stage progression and lymph node metastasis. Taken together, these findings illustrated that OSBPL2-mediated lipid transportation inhibited the stemness and aggressiveness of lung cancer cells. OSBPL2 was a potential therapeutic target to develop novel cancer-preventive compound.© 2026. The Author(s).
Demyelination is associated with behavioral disorder and cognitive impairment in neuropsychiatric diseases, including major depressive disorder (MDD). However, the mechanism underlying myelin damage remains unclear, despite stress maybe a major risk factor.Here, we demonstrate that hippocampal neurons in the chronic stress-induced depressive mice are prone to demyelination due to disrupted cholesterol transport to myelin sheaths in oligodendrocyte.Single-nucleus RNA sequencing of lipid metabolism-related signaling pathway revealed significant reduced levels of oxysterol binding protein-like 6 (OSBPL6) in hippocampal oligodendrocytes of depression mouse model. Consistently, specific knockdown of OSBPL6 in oligodendrocytes induced loss of myelin structure, while upregulating OSBPL6 or enhancing OSBPL6 transcription improved these impairments in depressive mice. Furthermore, restoring cholesterol transport with β-cyclodextrin decreased cholesterol accumulation, improved damaged myelin structure, and rescued depression-related behaviors in depressive mice.These findings suggest that OSBPL6-mediated cholesterol homeostasis in oligodendrocytes can promote myelin production against chronic stress-induced cerebral demyelination and depression with behavioral disorders.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Dysfunction of the neuronal macroautophagy/autophagy-lysosome system is a critical contributor to neuronal death following spinal cord injury (SCI), but the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Our study demonstrated that SCI induced impaired autophagic flux and lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP) in neurons. By combining in vivo bulk RNA sequencing with validation experiments, we observed the transient upregulation of the membrane repair factor PI4K2A, which was specifically enriched in lysosomes, after SCI. Crucially, ER-MS and IP-MS analyses revealed an interaction between PI4K2A and the endoplasmic reticulum lipid transfer protein OSBPL6/ORP6. This interaction led to the transport of phosphatidylserine (PS) to damaged lysosomal membranes, promoting LMP repair and subsequently reducing lipid droplet accumulation, which suppressed neuronal death. Furthermore, overexpression of neuronal PI4K2A in vivo, through an OSBPL6- and PS-dependent mechanism, reduced LMP-mediated lipid droplet accumulation and increased neuronal survival, thereby improving functional recovery after SCI. Collectively, our findings establish the PI4K2A-OSBPL6/ORP6-PS axis as a novel and essential mechanism for lysosomal membrane repair in neurons. This pathway is crucial for maintaining neuronal lipid homeostasis and represents a promising therapeutic target for reducing neuronal loss and improving functional recovery after central nervous system trauma.Abbreviations: AIF1/IBA1: allograft inflammatory factor 1; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; BMS: Basso Mouse Scale; CNS: central nervous system; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; DEGs: differentially expressed genes; DS5: DS55980254; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complex required for transport; GFP: green fluorescent protein; HSPA5/GRP78: heat shock protein family A (HSP70) member 5; HT22: hippocampal neuronal cell line; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LD: lipid droplet; LC-MS: liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; LGALS3/GAL3: lectin, galactoside binding, soluble 3; LLOMe: L-leucyl-L-leucine methyl ester; LMP: lysosomal membrane permeabilization; LPC: lysophosphatidylcholine; LPE: lysophosphatidylethanolamine; MFGE8/lactadherin: milk fat globule EGF and factor V/VIII domain containing; MS: mass spectrometry; NAGLU: alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase (Sanfilippo disease IIIB); NEFH/NF200: neurofilament, heavy polypeptide; OSBPL6/ORP6: oxysterol binding protein-like 6; OSBPL8/ORP8: oxysterol binding protein-like 8; PC: phosphatidylcholine; PLA2G4A/cPLA2: phospholipase A2, group IVA (cytosolic, calcium dependent); PITT: phosphoinositide-initiated membrane tethering and lipid transport; PI4K2A: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 alpha; PLS-DA: partial least squares discriminant analysis; PS: phosphatidylserine; PtdIns: phosphatidylinositol; PTDSS1: phosphatidylserine synthase 1; PUFAs: polyunsaturated fatty acids; RBFOX3/NeuN: RNA binding protein, fox-1 homolog (C. elegans) 3; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SCI: spinal cord injury; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TGs: triglycerides.
Ascites syndrome is a multifactorial metabolic disorder in broiler chickens, characterized by pulmonary hypertension, fluid accumulation, and high mortality, leading to significant economic losses. The oxysterol-binding protein-like 6 gene (OSBPL6) has been associated with ascites susceptibility, but its molecular role remains unclear. Therefore, this study was aimed to perform a comprehensive in-silico analysis of chicken OSBPL6, including analyses of physicochemical properties, structural features, post-translational modifications, protein-protein interactions, promoter motifs, and tissue-specific expression to elucidate its involvement in ascites syndrome pathogenesis in broiler chickens. OSBPL6 encodes a 978-amino acid protein with a molecular mass of 110,905.88 Da, exhibiting predominantly hydrophilic characteristics (GRAVY = -0.583), moderate thermostability (aliphatic index = 76.45), and predicted instability in vitro (instability index = 65.47). Analysis revealed 134 phosphorylation sites and 6 glycosylation sites, indicating extensive post-translational regulation. Subcellular localization predictions suggested cytoplasmic residence with peripheral membrane associations and potential nucleocytoplasmic shuttling capability. Conserved PH, ORD, and FFAT domains were identified, supporting roles in sterol transport and lipid binding functions. Among structural models generated, trRosetta showed the highest reliability (QMEANDisCo =0.66, ERRAT = 94.3 %). Protein-protein interaction analysis linked OSBPL6 to pathways related to cardiac hypertrophy, muscle metabolism, and oxidative stress responses. Promoter analysis identified transcription factor binding sites linked to vascular remodeling, myocardial hypertrophy, and muscle development. Expression profiling showed highest OSBPL6 expression in skeletal muscle and elevated levels in cardiac tissue, consistent with ascites-associated pathophysiology. This integrative analysis highlights OSBPL6 as a candidate regulator of muscle growth and cardiopulmonary remodeling, with potential as a biomarker for genetic selection against ascites in broiler chickens.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Immune-related adverse events (irAEs) remain largely unpredictable, potentially affecting multiple organ systems and occurring at almost any point during and even occasionally after immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) treatment. To identify populations at risk for these immune-mediated toxicities, we analyzed genetic characteristics and immune markers associated with clinically significant irAEs.We carried out a genome-wide association study on 373 white patients receiving ICI treatment. We identified single nucleotide polymorphisms associated with irAEs. Blood cytokine profiling and peripheral blood mononuclear cell RNA sequencing were performed at pretreatment baseline and 6-8 weeks after ICI initiation. Findings were validated in two external cohorts.We identified genetic haplotypes in VWA8 (Von Willebrand Factor A Domain Containing 8), OSBPL6 (Oxysterol Binding Protein Like 6), and ADAMTS9-AS2 (ADAM Metallopeptidase With Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif 9 Antisense RNA 2) associated with grade ≥2 irAEs. Patients carrying risk haplotypes for one or more genes exhibited significantly greater rates of grade ≥2 (OR 3.02; 95% CI 1.83 to 5.02; p<0.001), grade ≥3 (OR 3.59; 95% CI 1.93 to 6.64; p<0.001), and multiple type irAE (OR 2.60; 95% CI 1.53 to 4.39; p<0.001). Serum CCL3 levels were significantly elevated in individuals carrying risk haplotypes (p=0.03). Gene expression analysis demonstrated activated autoimmune and inflammatory pathways in the genetic risk group.Novel polymorphisms in VWA8, OSBPL6, and ADAMTS9-AS2 may impact immune pathways, promote inflammation, potentiate autoimmune phenotypes, and convey risk of irAE in ICI-treated patients.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
The mammalian brain is the most cholesterol-rich organ of the body, relying on in situ de novo cholesterol synthesis. Maintaining cholesterol homeostasis is crucial for normal brain function. Oxysterol-binding protein (OSBP)-related proteins (ORPs) are highly conserved cytosolic proteins that coordinate lipid homeostasis by regulating cell signaling, interorganelle membrane contact sites, and non-vesicular transport of cholesterol. Here, we show that ORP6 is highly enriched in the mammalian brain, particularly within neurons and astrocytes, with widespread expression across distinct brain regions, including the hippocampus, which is essential for learning and memory. Whole-body ablation of ORP6 (Osbpl6-/-) in mice resulted in dysregulation of systemic and brain lipid homeostasis, with elevated levels of brain desmosterol and amyloid-beta oligomers (AβOs). Mechanistically, ORP6 knockdown in astrocytes altered the expression of cholesterol metabolism genes, promoting the accumulation of esterified cholesterol in lipid droplets, reducing cholesterol efflux and plasma membrane cholesterol content, and increasing amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP) processing. Our findings underscore the role of ORP6 in systemic and brain lipid homeostasis, highlighting its importance in maintaining overall brain health.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The silkworm Bombyx mori is an economically important insect for silk production. Its silk glands are responsible for the synthesis and secretion of silk proteins. The naked pupa (Nd), a fibroin heavy chain mutant strain of silkworm, was found to exhibit severe atrophy, degeneration of the posterior silk gland (PSG), and abnormal secretion of fibroin proteins, thereby producing little or no silk. Here, we found that the autophagic marker Atg8-PE was upregulated through the target of rapamycin complex 1 signaling pathway in Nd. However, as autophagy substrates, SQSTM1/p62 and ubiquitinated protein levels increased in Nd. Furthermore, treatment with BafA1 showed no effect on the protein levels of SQSTM1/p62, indicating impaired autophagic flux in Nd. Abnormal acidification of lysosomes was further detected, which resulted in a decreased proportion of matured CtsL1 (cathepsin L1). Thus, the substrate in autolysosomes cannot be degraded within a rapid time frame, resulting in the accumulation of protein aggregates, which cause atrophy and degeneration of the PSG. We also found that acidic nanoparticles rescued lysosomal acidification and relieved the degenerative changes of Nd-PSG. The findings of this study suggest that the Nd mutant silkworm can be used as an animal model for studying protein aggregation diseases.Abbreviations: AD: Alzheimer disease; aNP: acidic nanoparticle; APP: amyloid beta precursor protein; Atg8: autophagy related 8; BACE1: beta-secretase 1; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; CtsL1: cathepsin L1; CRY: crystallin; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; FibH: fibroin heavy chain; FibL: fibroin light chain; FUS: FUS RNA binding protein; HD: Huntington disease; HRP: horseradish peroxidase; Nd: naked pupa; OSBPL2: oxysterol binding protein like 2; PD: Parkinson disease; PE: phosphatidylethanolamine; p-EIF4EBP: phosphorylated eukaryotic initiation factor 4E binding protein; PROM1: prominin 1; p-RPS6KB: phosphorylated ribosomal protein S6 kinase B; PSEN: presenilin; PSG: posterior silk gland; SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; SEM: standard error of the mean; SOD1: superoxide dismutase 1; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TARDBP: TAR DNA binding protein; TORC1: target of rapamycin complex 1; UBQLN2: ubiquilin 2; V-ATPase: vacuolar-type ATPase.
Colorectal cancer progression involves dysregulated signaling pathways such as Hippo-YAP, but upstream regulators remain poorly defined. Here we demonstrate that oxysterol-binding protein-like 3 (OSBPL3) modulates Hippo-YAP signaling to drive tumor aggressiveness. Analysis of clinical specimens and experimental models shows that elevated OSBPL3 levels in colorectal cancer tissues correlate with shortened patient survival. Depleting OSBPL3 impairs cancer cell proliferation and invasion and induces cell cycle arrest, while its overexpression accelerates tumor growth. Mechanistic studies reveal that OSBPL3 binds 14-3-3 proteins to promote YAP1 nuclear translocation, activating downstream oncogenic pathways. Notably, tumors with high OSBPL3 expression exhibit resistance to MEK inhibitors, but this resistance is overcome by YAP1 suppression or combined YAP/MEK inhibition in patient-derived organoids. These results establish OSBPL3 as a critical Hippo-YAP pathway regulator and propose targeting OSBPL3-mediated signaling as a therapeutic strategy for colorectal cancers with Hippo pathway alterations.© 2026. The Author(s).
The progression of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) involves multiple molecular determinants, among which Oxysterol-binding protein-like 3 (OSBPL3) has been suggested to contribute to tumorigenesis, though its functional significance in LUAD remains poorly characterized. In this study, we elucidate the oncogenic functions and underlying mechanisms of OSBPL3 in LUAD pathogenesis. Analysis of clinical specimens revealed upregulated OSBPL3 expression in LUAD, which correlated with unfavorable patient outcomes. Genetic depletion of OSBPL3 in vitro impeded cellular proliferation, migratory capacity, and cell cycle progression, while inducing apoptotic cell death. Mechanistically, OSBPL3 was found to interact with the transcription factor NFE2L2, promoting its nuclear translocation and enhancing the transcriptional activation of PLAU, a downstream target gene. Upregulation of PLAU subsequently stimulated expression of key glycolytic enzymes through PI3K/AKT pathway activation, resulting in increased glucose consumption and lactate secretion. This metabolic reprogramming toward aerobic glycolysis facilitated malignant progression. Both genetic inhibition of PLAU and pharmacological blockade of AKT signaling abrogated the tumor-promoting phenotypes induced by OSBPL3. In vivo, OSBPL3 silencing significantly attenuated tumor growth and promoted apoptosis. Collectively, these findings identify an OSBPL3-NFE2L2-PLAU-AKT signaling axis that drives glycolytic metabolism and LUAD progression, showing its potential as a therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Ceramides are essential skin lipids for maintaining the mammalian skin permeability barrier, which protects against external stimuli. The precursor of epidermal ceramides, glucosylceramides (GlcCer), is synthesized within granular keratinocytes while its precise cellular transport mechanisms remain poorly characterized. Here, we identified 3 pathogenic variants in the GLTP gene, which encodes glycolipid transfer protein, in 5 unrelated families with nonsyndromic epidermal differentiation disorder presenting with generalized skin scaling. The biallelic GLTP variants resulted in loss of competent GLTP expression. CRISPR/Cas9-generated Gltp-knockout mice exhibited lethal barrier defects, partially recapitulating the clinical features of our patients. We demonstrated that GLTP facilitated GlcCer transport in differentiated keratinocytes, with its deficiency causing impaired GlcCer trafficking and consequent aberrant retention in lysosomes, thereby disrupting lysosome function. The lysosomal dysfunction impaired autophagy flux, resulting in delayed keratinocyte terminal differentiation, which is expected to compromise the skin barrier integrity and ultimately lead to abnormal scaling. Pharmacological inhibition of GlcCer synthesis effectively rescued both autophagy and keratinocyte differentiation defects. Our findings establish GLTP as a novel underlying gene for nonsyndromic epidermal differentiation disorders and unravel its essential role in maintaining skin homeostasis during terminal differentiation by mediating epidermal GlcCer transport.
Oxysterol-binding protein-like 3 (OSBPL3) is a member of the intracellular lipid receptor and transporter protein family involved in regulating lipid metabolism. Altered OSBPL3 expression has been observed in various cancers, where it has been associated with both oncogenic and tumor-suppressive roles. However, its precise functions and underlying mechanisms in colorectal cancer (CRC) remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the role of OSBPL3 in CRC cells and evaluate its prognostic significance.A small interfering RNA vector targeting OSBPL3 was employed to silence its expression in CRC cell lines. OSBPL3 levels in CRC tissues were assessed using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry. Tumor cell apoptosis, proliferation, and angiogenesis were evaluated via a terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling assay, and immunohistochemical staining for Ki-67 and CD34.OSBPL3 silencing inhibited tumor cell migration and invasion in CRC. OSBPL3 knockdown reduced proliferation and induced apoptosis through caspase activation and cell cycle arrest mediated by the regulation of cyclins, cyclin dependent kinases (CDKs), and CDK inhibitors. OSBPL3 suppression impaired the invasion and tube formation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells by down-regulating angiogenic factors and up-regulating angiostatic factors. OSBPL3 expression correlated significantly with tumor size, tumor stage, invasion depth, lymph node involvement, distant metastasis, and reduced survival. The apoptotic index was lower and microvessel density was higher in OSBPL3-positive tumors than in OSBPL3-negative tumors.OSBPL3 contributes to CRC progression by regulating tumor cell apoptosis and angiogenesis.Copyright © 2025, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Glycolipid transfer protein (GLTP) genes are recognized for their role in stress adaptation in animals. In this study, for the first time, seventy-four GLTP genes were identified across ten Oryza species, with each species containing 6-9 genes. These genes exhibited strong synteny and collinearity, maintaining conserved chromosomal positions across all Oryza species. Gene duplication events were frequent, accounting for 61.9 % of the GLTP genes, and their Ka/Ks ratios (<1) suggested purifying selection and evolutionary conservation. All identified genes encoded proteins with a single GLTP domain and clustered into three major clades: two clades containing distinct sets of GLTP genes and the third comprising ACD11-like genes. Notably, the GLTP2-miR414 regulatory module was supported by both bioinformatic predictions and experimental validation. Structural and functional analyses revealed ACD11 and GLTP3 as the most promising candidate genes for stress responses. Functional validation of GLTP3 by candidate gene analysis using a rice minicore diversity panel revealed 14 significant marker-trait associations, including two markers specifically associated with malondialdehyde content-a key indicator of lipid peroxidation-under heat stress conditions. This is the first report on the GLTP genes in rice with promising leads for their utilization in stress breeding.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Oligodendrocytes extend numerous cellular processes that wrap multiple times around axons to generate lipid-rich myelin sheaths. Myelin biogenesis requires an enormously productive biosynthetic machinery for generating and delivering these large amounts of newly synthesized lipids. Yet, a complete understanding of this process remains elusive. Utilizing volume electron microscopy, we demonstrate that the oligodendroglial endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is enriched in developing myelin, extending into and making contact with the innermost myelin layer where growth occurs. We explore the possibility of transfer of lipids from the ER to myelin, and find that the glycolipid transfer protein (GLTP), implicated in nonvesicular lipid transport, is highly enriched in the growing myelin sheath. Mice with a specific knockout of Gltp in oligodendrocytes exhibit ER pathology, hypomyelination and a decrease in myelin glycolipid content. In summary, our results demonstrate a role for nonvesicular lipid transport in CNS myelin growth, revealing a cellular pathway in developmental myelination.© 2024. The Author(s).
Type 2 diabetes triggers an inflammatory response that can damage red blood cells. M2 macrophages have inhibitory effects on inflammation, and play an important role in tissue damage repair and fibrosis. Autologous blood transfusion has the potential to inhibit red blood cell damage by mediating macrophage polarization.Swiss mice were used to establish a suitable type 2 diabetes model, and autologous blood transfusion was carried out. The mice were killed, the blood of the mice was collected and CD14+ monocytes were sorted. The expression levels of phenotypic molecules CD16, CD32 and CD206 in CD14+ monocytes were analyzed by flow cytometry. The proportion of M1 and M2 macrophages were analyzed by flow cytometry. The Q value, P50 , 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and Na+ -K+ -ATPase of red blood cells were detected. The red blood cell osmotic fragility test analyzed the red blood cell osmotic fragility. Western blot analysis was used to analyze the expression changes of erythrocyte surface membrane proteins or transporters erythrocyte membrane protein band 4.1, sphingosine-1-phosphate, glycolipid transfer protein and signal peptide peptidase-like 2A.Autologous blood transfusion induced a significant increase in the number of macrophages. The state and capacity of blood cells improved with autologous blood transfusion. Reinfusion of fresh autologous blood in type 2 diabetes mice made erythrocytes shrink. The expression of erythrocyte-related proteins proved that the erythrocyte injury in the reinfusion of fresh autologous blood + type 2 diabetes group was significantly reduced.The reinfusion of fresh autologous blood into the body of patients with type 2 diabetes can induce macrophage polarization to M2, thereby inhibiting red blood cell damage.© 2023 The Authors. Journal of Diabetes Investigation published by Asian Association for the Study of Diabetes (AASD) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Lipid Transfer Proteins (LTPs) play a crucial role in synthesizing lipid barrier polymers and are involved in defense signaling during pest and pathogen attacks. Although LTPs are conserved with multifaceted roles in plants, these are not yet identified and characterized in Cicer arietinum. In this study, a genome-wide analysis of LTPs was executed and their physiochemical properties, biochemical function, gene structure analysis, chromosomal localization, promoter analysis, gene duplication, and evolutionary analysis were performed using in silico tools. Furthermore, tissue-specific expression analysis and gene expression analysis during pest attack was also conducted for the LTPs. A total of 48 LTPs were identified and named as CaLTPs. They were predicted to be small unstable proteins with "Glycolipid transfer protein" and "Alpha-Amylase Inhibitors, Lipid Transfer and Seed Storage" domains, that are translocated to the extracellular region. CaLTPs were predicted to possess 3-4 introns and were located on all the eight chromosomes of chickpea with half of the CaLTPs being localized on chromosomes 4, 5, and 6, and found to be closely related to LTPs of Arabidopsis thaliana and Medicago trancatula. Gene duplication and synteny analysis revealed that most of the CaLTPs have evolved due to tandem or segmental gene duplication and were subjected to purifying selection during evolution. The promoters of CaLTPs had development-related, phytohormone-responsive, and abiotic and biotic stress-related cis-acting elements. A few CaLTP transcripts exhibited differential expression in diverse tissue types, while others showed no/very low expression. Out of 20 jasmonate-regulated CaLTPs, 14 exhibited differential expression patterns during Helicoverpa armigera-infestation, indicating their role in plant defense response. This study identified and characterized CaLTPs from an important legume, C. arietinum, and indicated their involvement in plant defense against H. armigera-infestation, which can be further utilized to explore lipid signaling during plant-pest interaction and pest management.Copyright © 2023 Saxena, Negi, Keshan, Chitkara, Kumar, Chakraborty, Roy, Singh and Singh.
Ly6Chigh monocytes, previously recognized as a pro-inflammatory subset, play critical roles in secondary neuroinflammation in the stroke brain. Growing evidence reveals increased infiltration of myeloid cells with substantial heterogeneity, raising the question of how Ly6Chigh monocyte-derived macrophages in the stroke brain adapt to the ischemic environment. Here, by combining analysis of stroke patient samples with in vivo and in vitro murine studies and single-cell transcriptomic profiling, we identify hypoxia-inducible lipid droplet-associated protein (Hilpda)/hypoxia-inducible protein 2 (HIG2) as a critical mediator of anti-inflammatory property of Ly6ChighLy6Glow monocyte-derived macrophages in the stroke brain. Mechanistically, HIG2 promotes phosphatidylcholine synthesis via Hif1α-dependent transcriptional regulation of choline kinase α, initiating lipid metabolism reprogramming that underpins the anti-inflammatory phenotype of Ly6ChighLy6Glow monocyte-derived macrophages in the ischemic brain after stroke. Intranasal delivery of recombinant HIG2 protein improves neurological outcomes after stroke. These findings suggest that targeting HIG2 might represent a novel immunometabolic strategy to mitigate poststroke neuroinflammation.© 2026 Chen et al.
Emerging evidence highlights the pivotal role of ferroptosis in the pathophysiology of diabetic nephropathy (DN). This study aimed to identify potential ferroptosis-related genes (FRGs) in DN through bioinformatics and experimental validation.Datasets for diabetic nephropathy (DN) and ferroptosis-related gene sets were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and the Ferroptosis Database, respectively. Differential expression analysis identified ferroptosis-related genes (DE-FRGs) in DN, and machine learning was applied to screen key genes. The risk model's accuracy was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. Potential small chemical compounds associated with DE-FRGs and DN were also explored. Expression of DE-FRGs was measured by Quantitative Reverse Transcription PCR (qRT-PCR) in kidneys of DN mice and by Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in serum from DN patients versus non-DN controls.Analysis identified 125 DE-FRGs enriched in ferroptosis and DN-related pathways. Machine learning pinpointed nine diagnostic biomarkers, which were validated by ROC curves, and 13 potential therapeutic compounds. Among the DE-FRGs, qRT-PCR verified dysregulation of interleukin-33 (IL-33), retinoic acid receptor responder protein 2 (RARRES2), enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2), gap junction protein alpha 1 (GJA1), and hypoxia-inducible lipid droplet associated (HILPDA) in DN kidneys. Importantly, serum levels of EZH2 and IL-33 were significantly elevated in DN patients, underscoring their critical role in pathogenesis and potential as therapeutic targets.In conclusion, this study identified IL-33 and EZH2 as key DE-FRGs in DN, offering new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the disease.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Early-onset preeclampsia (EOPE) is a severe pregnancy disorder characterized by placental dysfunction. Ferroptosis, an iron-dependent form of regulated cell death, has emerged as a key pathogenic mechanism in EOPE. This study investigated the role of the hypoxia-inducible factor-2α (HIF-2α) and its downstream target, Hypoxia-Inducible Lipid Droplet-Associated protein (HILPDA), in regulating ferroptosis in EOPE placentas.Placental tissues from EOPE patients and normotensive controls were analyzed for ferroptosis markers (MDA, GSH, ACSL4, Ferroportin-1, GPX4) and HILPDA/HIF-2α expression. In vitro models employed HTR-8/SVneo trophoblasts and primary human trophoblasts. HILPDA was manipulated via siRNA knockdown or CRISPR-Cas9 knockout. HIF-2α was pharmacologically activated using agonists (HIF-2α agonist 2, AKB-6899). Erastin was used to induce ferroptosis. Assessments included CCK-8 assays for viability, C11-BODIPY581/591 staining and flow cytometry for lipid peroxidation, MDA/GSH quantification for ferroptosis levels, qRT-PCR and Western blotting for HILPDA/HIF-α expression.EOPE placentas exhibited significantly elevated ferroptosis, with increased MDA, ACSL4, Ferroportin-1; decreased GSH, GPX4, and upregulated expression of both HILPDA and HIF-2α (but not HIF-1α) compared to controls. In vitro, HIF-2α activation triggered HILPDA expression and robust ferroptosis (increased lipid peroxidation, MDA; decreased GSH; reduced viability) in trophoblasts. Crucially, HILPDA knockdown/knockout significantly attenuated ferroptosis sensitivity and protected trophoblast viability against both Erastin and HIF-2α agonist-induced ferroptotic stress. HIF-2α-induced ferroptosis was substantially rescued by HILPDA deficiency.Our findings identify the HIF-2α/HILPDA axis as a critical regulator of trophoblast ferroptosis in EOPE. HIF-2α, upregulated in EOPE placenta, transcriptionally induces HILPDA, which sensitizes trophoblasts to ferroptotic death. Targeting this signaling pathway represents a promising therapeutic strategy for mitigating placental dysfunction in EOPE.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is the most aggressive subtype of renal cancer, characterized by profound metabolic reprogramming and lipid accumulation. Despite therapeutic advancements, reliable prognostic biomarkers remain limited. This study investigates the prognostic and functional relevance of nicotinamide N-methyltransferase (NNMT), and hypoxia inducible lipid droplet associated (HILPDA) in ccRCC.RNA sequencing was performed on tumor and matched normal tissues from 14 ccRCC patients. Differential gene expression and pathway enrichment analyses were conducted. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were generated to assess diagnostic value. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis using The Cancer Genome Atlas data evaluated prognostic significance. NNMT knockdown experiments were conducted in ccRCC cell lines (SNU1272 and Caki-1) to assess functional relevance.NNMT and HILPDA were significantly upregulated in tumor tissues. Pathway analyses revealed associations with lipid metabolism and biosynthesis. ROC analysis showed high diagnostic accuracy (NNMT area under the curve [AUC], 0.923; HILPDA AUC, 0.943). Kaplan-Meier analysis demonstrated that high NNMT expression correlated with worse overall and disease-specific survival (P < 0.001), whereas HILPDA expression showed no prognostic impact. NNMT knockdown significantly reduced cell viability (P < 0.001), supporting its role in tumor progression.NNMT is a promising prognostic biomarker and potential therapeutic target in ccRCC, supported by transcriptomic, clinical, and functional validation. While the prognostic relevance of HILPDA remains inconclusive, its metabolic associations suggest potential biological significance. Further studies with larger cohorts and in vivo validation are warranted.© 2025 The Korean Academy of Medical Sciences.
Caloric restriction (CR) induces tumor resistance in mammals, but its mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here, we found that CR altered the proportions and gene expression profiles of tumor-infiltrating neutrophils (TINs). Depletion of neutrophils largely abrogated CR-induced tumor inhibition across multiple murine cancer models, underscoring their critical role in CR's broad anti-tumor effect. CR-induced gene expression changes in TINs were associated primarily with lipid-related processes, notably downregulating hypoxia-inducible lipid droplet-associated (HILPDA). This downregulation reduced lipid accumulation in TINs, limiting tumor growth and enhancing anti-tumor immunity by decreasing lipid transfer to tumor and immune effector cells. Upstream, CR reduced hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1α) mRNA expression in circulating neutrophils by decreasing insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), thereby limiting HILPDA expression in TINs. Patients with lung cancer who had low baseline neutrophil HIF-1α mRNA exhibited improved responses to combined immunotherapy. These findings identify a novel neutrophil- and lipid-centered mechanism for CR-induced tumor inhibition, suggesting the IGF-1/HIF-1α/HILPDA axis as a therapeutic target.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Radiotherapy presents a curative approach for nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC); however, the cellular radiosensitivity heterogeneity limits its efficacy. Thus, investigating the specific mechanisms of radioresistance in NPC is crucial for identifying and employing effective radiosensitizing agents to enhance treatment success.Radioresistant NPC cell lines HONE1-RR and SUNE1-RR were established. Quantitative reverse transcription-PCR (qRT-PCR), western blot, and enzyme-linked immuno sorbent assay (ELISA) were employed to detect the activation of the angiotensinogen (AGT) and local angiotensin II (Ang II). Transmission electron microscopy, ferrous ion detection, and lipid oxidation levels were utilized to detect radiation-induced ferroptosis in NPC. Bioinformatics analysis, along with qRT-PCR, western blotting, co-immunoprecipitation, and dual-luciferase assays were employed to explore downstream mechanisms. Colony formation assay, Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay, and a nude mouse xenograft model were utilized to assess NPC radiosensitivity. The expression of AGT, hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF-1α), hypoxia-inducible lipid droplet-associated protein (HILPDA), and glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) in NPC tissues was detected through immunohistochemistry.Activation of local Ang II was revealed to play a critical role in driving radioresistance in NPC cells modulating ferroptosis. This local Ang II established a positive feedback loop with HIF-1α through two parallel pathways; Ang II stabilizes HIF-1α by activating the MAPK pathway, and AGT directly binds HIF-1α to prevent its degradation. This AGT-HIF-1α loop regulated NPC cell ferroptosis via transcriptional regulation of HILPDA expression. Moreover, the co-administration of Ang II receptor antagonist (ARB) and ferroptosis inducers markedly increased NPC radiosensitivity.Additionally, the expression of AGT, HIF-1α, and HILPDA was closely correlated with the intensity of ferroptosis, radiosensitivity, and prognosis in NPC.Our findings suggest that the AGT-HIF-1α-HILPDA pathway promotes radioresistance in NPC by enhancing lipid droplet accumulation, thereby suppressing ferroptosis. Targeting local Ang II alongside ferroptosis induction offers a promising strategy to improve radiosensitivity in NPC.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Goat milk is abundant in nutrients, particularly in milk fats, which confer health benefits to humans. Exploring the regulatory mechanism of fatty acid synthesis is highly important to understand milk composition manipulation. In this study, we used chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) on goat mammary glands at different lactation stages which revealed a novel lactation regulatory factor: cell death-inducing DFFA-like effector B (CIDEB). RT-qPCR results revealed that CIDEB was significantly upregulated during lactation in dairy goats. CIDEB overexpression significantly increased the expression levels of genes involved in fatty acid synthesis (ACACA, SCD1, p < 0.05; ELOVL6, p < 0.01), lipid droplet formation (XDH, p < 0.05), and triacylglycerol (TAG) synthesis (DGAT1, p < 0.05; GPAM, p < 0.01) in goat mammary epithelial cells (GMECs). The contents of lipid droplets, TAG, and cholesterol were increased (p < 0.05) in CIDEB-overexpressing GMECs, and knockdown of CIDEB led to the opposite results. In addition, CIDEB knockdown significantly decreased the proportion of C16:0 and total C18:2. Luciferase reporter assays indicated that X-box binding protein 1 (XBP1) promoted CIDEB transcription via XBP1 binding sites located in the CIDEB promoter. Furthermore, CIDEB knockdown attenuated the stimulatory effect of XBP1 on lipid droplet accumulation. Collectively, these findings elucidate the critical regulatory roles of CIDEB in milk fat synthesis, thus providing new insights into improving the quality of goat milk.
Dysregulated lipid oxidation occurs in several pathological processes characterized by cell proliferation and migration. Nonetheless, the molecular mechanism of lipid oxidation is not well appreciated in liver fibrosis, which is accompanied by enhanced fibroblast proliferation and migration.We investigated the causes and consequences of lipid oxidation in liver fibrosis using cultured cells, animal models, and clinical samples.Increased ecto-nucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase (ENPP1) expression caused increased lipid oxidation, resulting in the proliferation and migration of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) that lead to liver fibrosis, whereas fibroblast-specific ENPP1 knockout reversing these results. Elevated ENPP1 and N6-methyladenosine (m6A) levels were associated with high expression of Wilms tumor 1 associated protein (WTAP). Mechanistically, WTAP-mediated m6A methylation of the 3'UTR of ENPP1 mRNA and induces its translation dependent of YTH domain family proteins 1 (YTHDF1). Additionally, ENPP1 could interact with hypoxia inducible lipid droplet associated (HILPDA) directly; overexpression of ENPP1 further recruits HILPDA-mediated lipid oxidation, thereby promotes HSCs proliferation and migration, while inhibition of ENPP1 expression produced the opposite effect. Clinically, increased expression of WTAP, YTHDF1, ENPP1, and HILPDA, and increased m6A mRNA content, enhanced lipid oxidation, and increased collagen deposition in human liver fibrosis tissues.We describe a novel mechanism in which WTAP catalyzes m6A methylation of ENPP1 in a YTHDF1-dependent manner to enhance lipid oxidation, promoting HSCs proliferation and migration and liver fibrosis.© 2024. The Author(s).
Membrane pearling, the transformation of a smooth tubule into a chain of bead-like swellings connected by narrow membrane tethers, is a widely observed shape change. While it has been well studied for synthetic lipid and unilamellar intracellular membranes, the mechanism underlying the pearling of the peculiar double-membrane architecture of tubular mitochondria remained elusive. Here, we addressed the role of the strongly convoluted inner mitochondrial membrane (IMM) in pearling driven by stretching. Using a light-gated, mitochondria-specific mechanostimulator to apply stretching forces to mitochondria in live cells, we demonstrated that stretching triggers pearling of whole tubular mitochondria. Moreover, we found that pearling requires the presence of the IMM, as unilamellar tubules derived solely from the mitochondrial outer membrane elongate uniformly under stretching and never undergo pearling. To understand the physical mechanism by which IMM controls pearling, we developed a theoretical model that considers the lumen, effectively spanned and volumetrically stiffened by cristae, as an elastic continuum. Our computations show that pearling requires the luminal volume to be sufficiently resistant to change, with its effective bulk rigidity modulus exceeding a critical value. Our experimental observations further revealed the functionally important consequences of stretching-induced pearling. mtDNA nucleoids partitioned into the bulges of pearled configurations, suggesting a role for pearling in the reorganization of luminal components. In addition, the membrane fission GTPase DRP1 accumulated at the constrictions of pearled shapes, leading to membrane scission and mitochondrial fragmentation. Our work uncovers the unique biophysical mechanism of mitochondrial pearling and its functional significance for organelle dynamics.
CtBP1-S/BARS (C-terminal binding protein 1-S/Brefeldin A ADP-Ribosylation Substrate) is a moonlighting protein with key roles in membrane trafficking and gene regulation. We show that CtBP1-S/BARS couples enzymatic lipid remodeling [lysophosphatidic acid (LPA)-to-phosphatidic acid (PA) conversion] with membrane deformation to drive fission and that this activity is directly controlled by metabolic ligands. CtBP1-S/BARS exists as a monomer or dimer. The monomeric, acyl-CoA-bound form drives membrane fission by coupling acyltransferase-dependent LPA-to-PA conversion with amphipathic helix insertion into PA-enriched membranes. Under metabolic stress, reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) binding triggers dimerization and structural rearrangements that disable fission, enabling the binding of transcription factors regulating apoptosis and energy metabolism. This NADH/acyl-CoA competition likely coordinates trafficking shutdown with gene expression programs through a single conformational change. In intact cells, increased NADH promotes nuclear accumulation of dimeric/tetrameric CtBP1-S/BARS, whereas elevated acyl-CoA favors the cytosolic, membrane-associated monomer, indicating that cofactor availability determines protein function under physiological and stress conditions. This work reveals the structural basis for integrating membrane transport with transcriptional control, demonstrating how evolution embeds distinct cellular functions into a unified molecular pathway.
Endosomes generate tubulo-vesicular carriers to redistribute proteins between plasma membrane, Golgi, and lysosomes. These transport routes employ distinct combinations of sorting nexins with complexes such as Retromer or Retriever. We now show that, while Retromer associates with the PROPPIN WIPI1 to form the previously described CROP complex, Retriever associates with WIPI2, forming CROP2. WIPI2 integrates into Retriever-dependent coat complexes since it interacts both with the Commander subunit CCDC93 and its cognate sorting nexin SNX17. CROP and CROP2 are exclusive in their physical associations and pathway selective. Whereas CROP2 is required for endosomal exit of Integrin β1, it does not affect CROP-dependent cargos such as EGFR or GLUT1. Vice versa, CROP is not required for Integrin β1 trafficking. WIPI1 and WIPI2 rely on similar molecular features. Their activity depends on the same FSSS motif to integrate into Retromer and Retriever complexes, respectively, and on an amphipathic membrane-inserting α-helix, which conveys membrane fission activity to PROPPINs. This suggests that Retromer and Retriever coats integrate distinct PROPPIN isoforms to promote fission of the respective endosomal carriers formed by them.© 2025, De Leo and Mayer.
The trafficking of cargo between endosomes and the Golgi apparatus uses both retromer-dependent and retromer-independent routes. Disruptions to these routes lead to the mis-sorting of lysosomal cargo, and associated metabolic and neurological disorders. The yeast dynamin Vps1 is essential for these trafficking pathways; however, it is not clear whether it directly causes membrane fission. Using cell-free reconstitution and live-cell assays, here we demonstrate that Vps1 assembles into scaffolds on membrane tubules, and uses GTP hydrolysis to force tubule constriction and fission. Vps1 mutants that are unable to assemble or to hydrolyze GTP fail to achieve fission in vitro and cause cargo mis-sorting in vivo. Furthermore, we identify two essential motifs, a lysine-rich phosphoinositide-binding motif and a phenylalanine-rich self-assembly motif, which, when mutated, render Vps1 dysfunctional. Finally, quantitative proteomics revealed a broad range of Golgi and plasma membrane proteins that mis-sort to the vacuole without Vps1. These findings define the Vps1-dependent retrograde pathway's cargo repertoire and confirm Vps1's mechanochemical role in membrane fission.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lysosomes clear unwanted cellular material delivered by constant membrane fusion. Membrane fission is thus required to balance lysosome size, number, and composition. PIKfyve is a lipid kinase that converts phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate [PtdIns(3)P] to phosphatidylinositol-3,5-bisphosphate [PtdIns(3,5)P2] and promotes lysosome fission since lysosomes coalesce into larger, but fewer, organelles in its absence. Here, we reveal a role for PIKfyve in regulating ER dynamics. We show the ER is less reticulated and motile in cells inhibited for PIKfyve. Partly, this arises because lysosomes cluster perinuclearly and are less motile, which appears to arrest ER hitchhiking, a process in which lysosomes pull and form ER tubules. Secondly, the ER morphology is distorted because of hyper-tethering of protrudin, an ER transmembrane protein, to lysosomes via excess PtdIns(3)P and protrudin's FYVE domain. Our findings reveal that PIKfyve balances phosphoinositides at ER-lysosome contact sites to govern ER properties and have significant implications for our understanding of PIKfyve function and of diseases linked to its dysfunction.© 2026 Jenkins et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42322139 is a review article
Function of CENPJ/CPAP is essential for centriole duplication and cilia biogenesis. Recently, we showed that CPAP is also an integral Endosomal Sorting Complexes Required for Transport (ESCRT)-0-like protein that recruits ESCRT-I protein TSG101 to early endosome (EE) and positively regulates multi-vesicular body (MVB) formation. Sequential recruitment of the ESCRT protein complexes and AAA+ ATPase VPS4B to EE facilitates MVB biogenesis. VPS4B is critical for ESCRT-III disassembly/recycling and contributes to membrane fission in several cellular processes. Here, we report that CPAP is critical for the protein stability and EE localization of VPS4B, and this function is independent from its role as an ESCRT-0. Other VPS4B-dependent cellular processes such as exosome release, cytokinesis, and retroviral budding are also compromised under CPAP deficiency. Interaction with CPAP prevents the proteasome degradation of VPS4B. The stability and EE localization of VPS4B can be attributed to two different C-terminal domains in CPAP. Overall, these observations provide evidence that CPAP is critical for VPS4B function and suggest that distinct pools of CPAP may be involved in its ESCRT-0 and VPS4B stabilization roles.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42214480 is a review article
The terminal step of cytokinesis in animal cells is the abscission of the midbody, a cytoplasmic bridge that connects the two prospective daughter cells. Here we show that two members of the SNARE membrane fusion machinery, syntaxin 2 and endobrevin/VAMP-8, specifically localize to the midbody during cytokinesis in mammalian cells. Inhibition of their function by overexpression of nonmembrane-anchored mutants causes failure of cytokinesis leading to the formation of binucleated cells. Time-lapse microscopy shows that only midbody abscission but not further upstream events, such as furrowing, are affected. These results indicate that successful completion of cytokinesis requires a SNARE-mediated membrane fusion event and that this requirement is distinct from exocytic events that may be involved in prior ingression of the plasma membrane.
Skipped: PubMed ID 29903934 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 20823909 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 24220498 is a review article
Glycolipid transfer proteins (GLTPs) originally were identified as small (~24 kDa), soluble, amphitropic proteins that specifically accelerate the intermembrane transfer of glycolipids. GLTPs and related homologs now are known to adopt a unique, helically dominated, two-layer 'sandwich' architecture defined as the GLTP-fold that provides the structural underpinning for the eukaryotic GLTP superfamily. Recent advances now provide exquisite insights into structural features responsible for lipid headgroup selectivity as well as the adaptability of the hydrophobic compartment for accommodating hydrocarbon chains of differing length and unsaturation. A new understanding of the structural versatility and evolutionary premium placed on the GLTP motif has emerged. Human GLTP-motifs have evolved to function not only as glucosylceramide binding/transferring domains for phosphoinositol 4-phosphate adaptor protein-2 during glycosphingolipid biosynthesis but also as selective binding/transfer proteins for ceramide-1-phosphate. The latter, known as ceramide-1-phosphate transfer protein, recently has been shown to form GLTP-fold while critically regulating Group-IV cytoplasmic phospholipase A2 activity and pro-inflammatory eicosanoid production.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 37229238
