Although hydrophobic drugs demonstrate the promising therapeutic efficacy for peripheral artery disease in vitro, their in vivo performance is often hindered by low bioavailability due to inherent hydrophobicity. To address this, an injectable, self-healing and curcumin-sustained-release hydrogel (CGP hydrogel) using a gelatin/polyvinyl alcohol hydrogel (GP hydrogel) was developed. The CGP hydrogel effectively preserved the DPPH radical-scavenging activity of curcumin at room temperature. Meanwhile, in the murine hindlimb ischemia model, a single intramuscular injection of CGP following femoral artery ligation significantly improved the motor function of the ischemic limb compared to curcumin suspension. This superior therapeutic outcome is attributed to the sustained release of curcumin from the CGP hydrogel. Mechanistically, we found that CGP, but not GP, inhibited the expression of Atp6v0d2 in ischemic skeletal muscle cells and suppressed ischemia-induced autophagy. The inhibition of autophagy may mitigate tissue and cellular necrosis and promote the expression of Myogenin. Furthermore, CGP reduced the expression of pro-fibrotic factors such as Tgfb1 and Ctgf and prevented skeletal muscle fibrosis. In summary, the CGP hydrogel, through its sustained release of curcumin, inhibits ischemia-induced autophagy, alleviates necrosis and fibrosis in skeletal muscle tissue and preserves motor function in the ischemic limb.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
The current evidence suggests that the formation of pulp stones (PS) has a genetic background. Therefore, the present study aimed to evaluate the association between PS in orthodontically treated patients and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the mineralization-related genes (bone morphogenetic protein 2 [BMP2], BMP4, SMAD6, and runt-related transcription factor 2 [RUNX2]).This cross-sectional study analyzed genomic DNA and panoramic radiographs from patients with a history of orthodontic treatment. Panoramic radiographs were analyzed and PS were identified as well- or poorly defined radiopaque opacities located within the pulp chamber of the maxillary and mandibular first and second permanent molars. Genomic DNA obtained from all participants was analyzed. The genetic analysis focused on seven specific SNPs located in genes involved in mineralization pathways: BMP2 (rs235768 and rs1005464), BMP4 (rs17563), SMAD6 (rs3934908 and rs2119261), and RUNX2 (rs59983488 and rs1200425). Comparisons of allele and genotype (codominant, dominant, and recessive models) distributions between patients with and without PS were performed using the chi-square test. Logistic regression analyses were performed to control for potential confounders such as age and sex for the SNPs located in the RUNX2 gene. One-way ANOVA was applied to evaluate differences in the mean number of teeth with PS across genotypes. The significance level was established at α = 0.05.The final sample comprised 235 patients: 120 presented with PS, and 115 served as controls. For the SNP rs59983488 in RUNX2, a statistical association was observed for genotype distribution in the dominant model (p = 0.033) and for allele distribution (p = 0.022). For the SNP rs1200425 in RUNX2, a statistical association was observed for genotype distribution in the recessive model (p = 0.046; odds ratio [OR] = 2.0, confidence interval [CI] 95% 1.0-3.8). No statistically significant association was observed in the logistic regression analysis.Our study suggests that RUNX2 could have a small effect on the susceptibility of orthodontic patients to develop PS.Copyright © 2026 Daniel Hemming et al. International Journal of Dentistry published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Thyroid cancer (TC) is the most common endocrine malignancy. While papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) generally has a favorable prognosis, anaplastic thyroid cancer (ATC) is rare but highly aggressive, with limited treatment options, highlighting the urgent need for novel therapeutic targets. Macrophages are a major component of the immune infiltrate in TC, and their abundance is associated with poor prognosis. We recently identified upregulation of the immune checkpoint TIM3 (T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin-domain containing protein 3) on M2-like macrophages both in vitro and in ATC xenografts. In addition, we have shown that transforming growth factor β1 (TGFβ1) promotes macrophage polarization toward an M2-like phenotype. However, the role and clinical significance of TGFβ1 in regulating TIM3 expression in TC-associated macrophages remains unclear. We found that TGFβ1 secreted by ATC cells significantly increased HAVCR2 (TIM3) mRNA expression in human monocytes. Analysis of patient samples demonstrated elevated TIM3 expression in both PTC and ATC tissues compared with adenoma and normal thyroid counterparts. Analysis of publicly available single-cell RNA sequencing datasets further showed increased TIM3 expression in T cells from both tumor types. Notably, TIM3 upregulation was also localized to M2-like macrophages within the thyroid tumor microenvironment (TME), and positively correlated with TGFB1/CD163 expression, suggesting the involvement of a TGFβ-TIM3 axis in macrophages in TC. Combined targeting of the TIM3 and PD1 pathway in an immunocompetent mouse model of ATC led to a significant reduction in tumor growth. Together, these findings highlight TIM3 as a promising immunotherapeutic target in TC, with the potential to suppress macrophage-mediated pro-tumor activity while enhancing T-cell-driven anti-tumor immunity within the thyroid TME. © 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. This article has been contributed to by U.S. Government employees and their work is in the public domain in the USA.© 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. This article has been contributed to by U.S. Government employees and their work is in the public domain in the USA.
Fibroblasts are linked to stress responses in a broad number of diseases. Here, we used immortalized mouse embryonic fibroblasts (iMEFs) to elucidate their signaling behavior in response to proinflammatory lipopolysaccharides (LPS) and angiotensin II (Ang-II). To test for the role of the mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC), iMEFs were cultured in glucose- and galactose-containing media promoting glycolysis and mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, respectively. In addition, we used alternative oxidase (AOX), a ubiquinol oxidoreductase that serves as a naturally evolved rescue mechanism in case of ETC disruption. We found that within 24 h of treatment, LPS upregulated a number of proinflammatory genes, namely Tlr4, Il6, Tgfb1, Nlrp3, Casp1, and Il1b; largely, the effect was more pronounced in galactose-containing media and attenuated by AOX. The increase in transcripts resulted partly in elevated cytokine secretion. Twenty-four hours of Ang-II treatment also induced these genes, albeit to a lesser degree and less sensitive to AOX. Cellular oxygen consumption rates (OCRs) were higher in galactose media but remained unaffected by either stimulus. Our results suggest that fibroblasts undergo a similar proinflammatory phenotypic shift in response to different stressors. This response is shaped by ETC activity, which, surprisingly, is not reflected in altered OCRs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Classic Hodgkin lymphoma (CHL) is a highly curable disease. However, a subset of patients develops relapsed/refractory disease, underscoring the need for predictors of treatment response. Although immune-checkpoint inhibitors have improved outcomes, many patients still experience suboptimal responses. A deeper understanding of the CHL transcriptomic landscape may improve patient stratification and guide treatment approaches. Targeted mRNA-NGS was performed on formalin-fixed paraffine-embedded CHL-tissue using the HTG EdgeSeq Precision Immune-Oncology Panel (1,392 genes) in treatment-naive and post-chemotherapy relapsed treated with nivolumab-based protocols. Differential gene expression and pathway enrichment analyses were conducted to characterize tumor-intrinsic, and microenvironmental features associated with disease biology and treatment response. Across all CHL samples (n = 25) we observed overexpression of immune-checkpoint and immunoregulatory genes (CD274, CTLA-4, IL6, IL13), and markers of macrophage-rich/matrix-remodeling microenvironment (CD163, MMP2, TIMP1), alongside loss of B-cell identity and tumor suppression programs. Pathways analysis revealed activation of IL6/JAK/STAT3, TNF-α/NF-κB, KRAS-UP, and Inflammatory response, with reduced proliferative and metabolic activity. Immunotherapy non-responders, both in the overall (n = 5; 20%), and the treatment-naïve CHL (n = 2; 12%) displayed a proliferative, cytokine-activated, and immunologically cold phenotype. This includes shared overexpression of FADD, NFKB1, and TGFB1 and downregulation of SMAD7, together with activation of E2F, G2M, MYC, and PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathways and negative enrichment of TNF-α/NF-κB, IL6/JAK/STAT3, and Inflammatory response. Post-chemotherapy relapsed (n = 8) exhibited adaptative immunoregulatory and stress response signatures (IL15, TNFSF18, MAPK8, FUT4), along with reduced immune activation and loss of tumor-suppressor signaling. This study highlights the biological complexity and transcriptional diversity underlying CHL and its tumor microenvironment. Immunotherapy non-responders exhibited an "oncogene-driven" transcriptional profile independent of previous treatment status, whereas responders showed an "inflammatory immune-scape" phenotype, offering insight into mechanisms of resistance. Despite the limited sample size, these findings provide a foundation for larger precision-focused studies aimed at improving outcomes in CHL.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the predominant subtype of lung malignancy. Accumulating epidemiological evidence demonstrates that environmental lead (Pb) exposure as a critical driver of its initiation and progression.This study integrated network pharmacology, molecular docking, and in vitro assays to investigate the oncogenic effects of low-concentration Pb on A549 cells and explore the potential therapeutic mechanisms of osthole and matrine.Network pharmacology identified key potential signaling pathways, and molecular docking screened genes with higher binding affinity to the target. MTT assay was used to determine CC50, maximum safe concentration (MNTC) and cellular proliferative capacity of Pb, matrine and osthole. Scratch test and Matrigel invasion test detected A549 cell migration and invasion; flow cytometry detected apoptosis, ∆Ψm, ROS and cell cycle. qRT-PCR and Western blot measured gene expression levels.Network pharmacology analysis showed that the shared targets of osthole, Pb and NSCLC were mainly enriched in the PI3K/AKT and apoptosis pathways, while matrine, Pb, and NSCLC targets were primarily enriched in cancer metabolism, key hub genes included CDK2, CASP9, IKBKB, PDPK1 and MDM2. Molecular docking demonstrated that osthole showed strong binding to HSD11B1 and CDK2, while matrine exhibited high affinity for DRD4 and CDK2. Considering the essential functions of CDK2 in G1 phase transition, PDPK1, IKBKB, and CASP9 in cell survival, inflammatory signaling, and mitochondrial apoptosis, and MDM2 in p53-mediated cell cycle regulation, phenotypic validation experiments were conducted. Pb exposure significantly enhanced malignant characteristics of A549 cells, including increased migratory and invasive abilities, decreased apoptosis, and a significant reduction in mitochondrial membrane potential. At the molecular level, Pb exposure disrupted cellular homeostasis, as reflected by altered expression of SIRT-1, NRF-1, TGF-β1, Smad, STAT3, STAT1, and mtTFA. Treatment with osthole or matrine effectively reversed all lead-induced abnormalities.Taken together, osthole or matrine exerts anti-cancer effects against Pb- promoted NSCLC progression by restoring disrupted cellular homeostasis through modulating cell cycle progression, inhibiting Pb-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and stress-related signaling imbalance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Urate transporter 1 (URAT1, encoded by SLC22A12) is a key mediator of renal urate reabsorption and an important pharmacological target for urate-related disorders. Sodium butyrate (BuNa), a gut microbiota derived short-chain fatty acid, has been implicated in host metabolic regulation, but its role in renal urate transport remains unclear. Here, using molecular docking, cellular thermal shift assays, immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry and multi-omics analyses, we identified free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2) as a direct target of BuNa in renal proximal tubular HK2 cells . BuNa binding upregulated FFAR2 and promoted URAT1 expression and urate uptake via an FFAR2-dependent pathway. Mechanistically, BuNa/FFAR2 signaling acts via GNAQ to activate PLCβ, generating diacylglycerol and engaging a PKC-dependent p38 MAPK/ELK1 cascade that upregulates arrestin beta 2 (ARRB2). ARRB2 directly binds to IκB, preventing its phosphorylation-dependent degradation, thereby stabilizing IκB and inhibiting NF-κB nuclear translocation. Within the SLC22A12 promoter, NF-κB (RELA/p50) and hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 beta (HNF1β) compete for overlapping binding sites. By blocking NF-κB nuclear entry, BuNa relieves this competition, permitting HNF1β-driven SLC22A12 transcription. Thus, BuNa enhances URAT1-mediated urate reabsorption in HK2 cells via an FFAR2/GNAQ/p38 MAPK/ELK1/ARRB2 axis that stabilizes IκB, suppresses NF-κB, and relieves the competitive binding between NF-κB and HNF1β on the SLC22A12 promoter. These findings establish a previously unrecognized gut microbiota-kidney axis linking microbial BuNa to renal urate homeostasis through a novel transcriptional regulatory circuit.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
BACKGROUND Allergic rhinitis (AR) is a common inflammatory disorder of the nasal mucosa triggered by allergens and characterized by sneezing, nasal congestion, and itching. This study aimed to identify and validate potential biomarkers associated with immune dysregulation in AR via bioinformatics analyses initiated with chemokine-related genes. MATERIAL AND METHODS AR-related datasets (GSE75011 and GSE50223) and 69 chemokine-related genes were analyzed via differential expression analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis to identify candidate genes. Random forest analysis was used to select optimal features. Expression analysis identified potential immunoregulatory biomarkers that were downregulated in AR samples. A nomogram incorporating these biomarkers was constructed as an exploratory tool to estimate individual AR probability and support future diagnostic model development. RESULTS Early growth response protein 2 (EGR2) and transforming growth factor-ß1 (TGFB1) were identified as chemokine-related biomarkers in AR. Immune infiltration analysis showed significant correlations between TGFB1 and M2 macrophages, as well as activated memory CD4+ T cells. Drug prediction identified tretinoin as a potential therapeutic agent targeting both biomarkers; molecular docking confirmed stable binding of the 3 top-ranked predicted drugs with TGFB1. Pilot reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis demonstrated downregulation of EGR2 and TGFB1 in AR samples, providing preliminary supportive evidence. Gene set enrichment analysis indicated involvement in the MAPK and p53 signaling pathways, suggesting roles in cell proliferation, apoptosis, cell cycle regulation, and stress responses. CONCLUSIONS EGR2 and TGFB1 offer potential immunoregulatory biomarkers for AR diagnosis and may provide preliminary insights into AR pathogenesis and potential treatment strategies.
The heterogeneity and complex tumor microenvironment of lung adenocarcinoma lead to poor prognosis. Autophagy, as a key cellular process, interacts with tumor immune infiltration and jointly affects the progression of lung adenocarcinoma, but its core regulatory genes and mechanisms are still unclear.This study integrated three lung adenocarcinoma transcriptome datasets from the GEO database and performed cross-analysis with the human autophagy gene set to screen for differentially expressed autophagy-related genes. Identify core prognostic genes by constructing protein interaction networks and combining them with machine learning algorithms (Cox regression, SHAP analysis). Use the independent dataset GSE68465 to validate the model through a combination of 100 algorithms. Further elucidate the function, cellular localization, and association with smoking risk of core genes through enrichment analysis, immune infiltration assessment, single-cell transcriptome analysis, and network toxicology.A total of 276 shared autophagy‑related differentially expressed genes were identified. Using machine learning, five core genes-ENG, CDH1, KLF4, IL6, and MMP9-were selected. In the independent validation cohort, the prognostic model based on these genes demonstrated strong diagnostic performance (AUC > 0.9). Enrichment analysis revealed that the core genes were significantly enriched in pathways such as cellular senescence, autophagy, and FoxO signaling. Immune infiltration analysis showed that M1 macrophages and naïve B cells were significantly upregulated in tumor tissues, whereas resting dendritic cells were downregulated. Single‑cell analysis identified specific expression of genes including CDH1 and TGFB1 in type II alveolar cells and immune cells. Network toxicology and molecular docking confirmed that nicotine, a major component of cigarette smoke, exhibits high‑affinity binding to the core genes CDH1, HIF1A, KLF4, TGFB1, and BCL2.This study successfully identified and validated a robust prognostic feature consisting of five autophagy-related genes. These genes play a key role in the development of lung adenocarcinoma by regulating the tumor immune microenvironment, cell communication, and responding to external risk factors, providing new potential targets for prognosis prediction and targeted therapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Investigating the molecular mechanism of granulosa cell dysfunction is vital to understand the pathogenesis of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).Based on bioinformatics analysis, we analyzed the differentially expressed genes and their enrichment pathways between PCOS patients and normal samples. We also analyzed the levels of CD14 and miR-296-3p in PCOS patients. Pearson correlation coefficient was used to analyze the correlation between CD14 expression and PCOS-related inflammatory factors. CCK-8 assay, flow cytometry, qRT-PCR and western blotting were performed to explore the mechanism of CD14 modulated via miR-296-3p in KGN cells in vitro.The gene expression data of PCOS and normal individuals in the GEO database, as well as the experimental data in KGN cells.KGN cells were subjected to the following interventions: Transfection with miR-296-3p inhibitor to suppress miR-296-3p expression; Transfection with small interfering RNA targeting CD14 (si-CD14) to knock down CD14; Co-transfection with si-CD14 and miR-296-3p inhibitor to evaluate the rescue effect. The detections included CCK-8, flow cytometry, qRT-PCR and Western blotting.The expression of CD14 in patients with PCOS and KGN cells, and its correlation with inflammatory factors; The expression of MiR-296-3p in patients with PCOS, and its regulatory relationship with CD14; The effect of MiR-296-3p/CD14 on the viability and apoptosis of KGN cells; The influence of MiR-296-3p/CD14 on the NF-κB pathway.CD14 was up-regulated in PCOS patients and KGN cells, and the expression of CD14 was positively correlated with the expression of inflammatory factors (CAT, CCL2, ICAM1, IL10, MMP9 and TGFB1) related to PCOS. miR-296-3p was the upstream regulatory factor of CD14, and miR-296-3p inhibitor could promote cell apoptosis and inhibit cell viability. On the contrary, knockdown of CD14 in KGN cells inhibited apoptosis and promoted cell viability. Importantly, KGN cells co-transfected with si-CD14 and miR-296-3p could reverse the effects of miR-296-3p inhibitor and si-CD14 on the biological behavior of KGN cells. Moreover, miR-296-3p/CD14 axis mediated activation of NF-κB pathway in KGN cells.Down-regulation of CD14 attenuated the miR-296-3p inhibitor-induced increase in apoptosis and decrease in cell viability by suppressing NF-κB signaling pathway. Our findings contribute to further understanding of the pathogenesis of PCOS and provide potential biomarkers for PCOS.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Background: Discoidin domain receptor 1 (DDR1) is a collagen-activated receptor tyrosine kinase that plays an important role in epithelial cell regulation; its function in cancer appears to be dependent on tumour type. Methods: This study investigated DDR1 expression in large numbers of breast (n = 1416) and ovarian (n = 450) tumours using immunohistochemistry. In addition, RNA sequencing was conducted on DDR1 knockdown breast and ovarian cancer cell lines. Results: In breast cancer, high DDR1 expression was significantly associated with poor patient survival in ER-positive disease and low expression was associated with poor patient survival in ER-negative disease. In ovarian cancer, high DDR1 expression was associated with improved patient survival. In DDR1 knockdown IGROV1 ovarian cancer cells, 770 transcripts were differentially expressed, whilst in DDR1 knockdown T47D breast cancer cells, 3647 transcripts were differentially expressed. Only 149 genes were shared, suggesting that DDR1 drives distinct transcriptional programmes across cancer types. Shared genes between T47D and IGROV1 DDR1 knockdown cells include key regulators of signalling, metabolism, and cytoskeletal organisation such as YWHAE, NCK2, FN1, and ITGB4. Gene Ontology analysis revealed significant enrichment of epithelial cell migration pathways in both cell lines. Conclusions: Current protein expression and transcriptomic data highlight the important prognostic role of DDR1 expression in breast and ovarian cancer and provide hypothesis-generating insights into the contextual and transcriptomic differences between the two cancer types.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a common and highly refractory malignancy; however, biomarkers and therapeutic targets associated with its progression remain incompletely understood. Crotonylation is an emerging lysine acylation modification that has been implicated in multiple diseases.In this study, we aimed to identify crotonylation-related prognostic genes in CCA.First, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) with consistent expression patterns were identified using the TCGA-CHOL and GSE26566 datasets. Key module genes associated with the expression patterns of known lysine crotonylation-related gene (LCRG) scores were subsequently identified through weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), and candidate genes were obtained by intersection analysis.Three prognostic genes, complement factor H (CFH), phosphatidylcholine N-methyltransferase (PEMT), and tyrosine 3-monooxygenase/tryptophan 5-monooxygenase activation protein epsilon (YWHAE), were ultimately selected to construct and validate a prognostic risk model. In addition, immune infiltration analysis revealed significant differences in mast cell abundance between the high- and low-risk groups. Moreover, the expression levels of the immune checkpoints FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3) and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) also differed between the two risk groups.These findings may have important implications for CCA immunotherapy and provide a theoretical basis for improving diagnostic and prognostic assessment in CCA.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42359936
Alzheimer's disease (AD) plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) proteomics can distinguish AD from cognitively normal controls, but the generalizability of machine learning performance and the recurrence of biological signals across datasets require cautious interpretation. We developed an explainable artificial intelligence framework spanning two fluids and four ADNI proteomic datasets, covering 2082 modality specific samples, all analysed internally within ADNI. Phase 1 analysed plasma using a 119 analyte NULISA and targeted UPENN panel (n = 727; 216 CE, 511 controls). Phase 2 extended the analysis to CSF using SOMAscan7k, TMT-MS and targeted SET2, with Elecsys Aβ42, Aβ40, total tau and p-tau181 as anchor biomarkers. Only SOMAscan was subject-independent relative to Phase 1 plasma; TMT-MS and SET2 overlapped with Phase 1 for 96.0% and 97.7% of subjects and therefore are not independent replication cohorts. Under subject-level splits with fold internal preprocessing, we compared Elastic Net, Explainable Boosting Machines and gradient boosted trees with SHAP-based explanations. Among the candidate pipelines, we selected the pipeline with the highest held-out test ROC AUC for each platform; the selected values were 0.927 in plasma and 0.954-0.973 across the three CSF datasets. Because the same held out test performance was used for pipeline selection and headline reporting, these are optimistically selected single-holdout estimates, not unbiased estimates of generalizable or clinical performance. Explanations identified five recurring biological axes within ADNI: cholinergic (ACHE), tau/14-3-3 (YWHAG, YWHAZ, YWHAB, YWHAE), neuro-axonal (NEFL, NEFH), microglial/complement (CHIT1, SMOC1, CHI3L1, C7, CFH) and synaptic (NPTXR, NPTX2, DLG4, SYT5, VSNL1, ELAVL2). CSF analyses showed synaptic vesicle-cycle enrichment (q = 2 × 10-6), and CSF YWHAG correlated strongly with total tau (ρ = 0.87). Cross-fluid directional concordance was modest overall (54-57%) but increased to 73-80% among mapped analyte/protein rows reaching q < 0.05 in CSF. These findings provide hypothesis-generating, internally supported evidence within ADNI. Independent external cohorts with locked pipelines are required to evaluate generalizable performance and biological reproducibility; the overlapping TMT-MS and SET2 analyses should not be interpreted as independent replication.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.
High-grade endometrial stromal sarcoma (HGESS) is a rare tumor that typically occurs over a wide age range, from 14 to 71 yr, often presenting with nonspecific clinical symptoms. This tumor group displays heterogeneous tumor morphology and a growing number of molecular alterations. The most common alterations are YWHAE::NUTM2 fusion and BCOR gene alterations, including fusions and internal tandem duplications. Here, we report a HGESS with a novel ING3::BCOR fusion. A 74-yr-old female presented with vaginal bleeding and underwent myomectomy. Hematoxylin & eosin (H&E) sections revealed a spindle cell proliferation with both hypocellular and hypercellular areas. Cytologic atypia was mild to moderate, with a mitotic count of 5/10 high-power fields; the background stroma had focal myxoid and collagenous changes. Focal necrosis and pleomorphism were observed. Ancillary studies showed CD10 and diffuse cyclin D1 positivity by immunohistochemistry (IHC). Estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), ALK1​, S100​, HMB45,​ and CD34​ were negative and p53 showed a wild-type staining pattern​. RNA-based next-generation sequencing showed an ING3::BCOR fusion, confirming the diagnosis of HGESS with ING3::BCOR fusion. HGESS is an evolving entity with an increasing number of genetic alterations, including genetic fusion involving the BCOR gene. HGESS with BCOR fusion should be considered in tumors with a combination of spindle cell growth, myxoid background, foci of coagulative necrosis, diffuse cyclin D1 positivity, and a negative hormone receptor status. Accurate diagnosis requires an integrated approach that combines histopathologic evaluation, IHC, and molecular testing.Copyright © 2025 by the International Society of Gynecological Pathologists.
FET::ETS-rearranged Ewing sarcoma (ES) and non-Ewing undifferentiated small round-cell sarcomas (SRCSs) comprise a morphologically overlapping yet molecularly diverse group of aggressive sarcomas. They differ in genotype, anatomic distribution, age profile, and clinical behavior. Clarifying genotype-anatomic correlations-particularly distinctions between ES and non-Ewing SRCSs, as well as between skeletal and extraskeletal presentations within the Ewing group-is essential for accurate diagnosis and treatment planning, especially in morphologically ambiguous cases.Ninety undifferentiated SRCSs of bone and soft tissue diagnosed between 2016 and 2025 at a tertiary cancer center were retrospectively reviewed. Clinical, histopathologic, and molecular data were analyzed using targeted RNA next-generation sequencing (Archer FusionPlex Sarcoma Panel) and break-apart fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for EWSR1 and FUS rearrangements. ES (FET::ETS-rearranged SRCSs) and non-Ewing SRCSs were compared across skeletal and extraskeletal sites using univariate analysis, and survival outcomes were assessed.Among 90 cases (47 males, 43 females; median age 18.5 years), 76 (84%) harbored FET::ETS fusions and/or EWSR1/FUS rearrangements on FISH, consistent with the ES family in the appropriate morphologic context. Of 44 fusion-confirmed tumors, EWSR1::FLI1 predominated (39/44; 89%), followed by EWSR1::ERG (4/44; 9%) and FUS::ERG (1/44; 2%). Fourteen tumors (16%) were classified as non-Ewing SRCSs, including CIC::DUX4 (n=5), BCOR-altered (n=1), EWSR1::ATF1 (n=1), EWSR1::CREB1 (n=1), YWHAE::NUTM2B (n=1), and five fusion-negative SRCSs. ESs peaked during adolescence and showed a strong osseous predilection (48/76; 63%), particularly within the axial skeleton (p < 0.001). Extraskeletal and visceral ESs occurred in relatively older patients. Although ES still represented most extraskeletal tumors (28/40; 70%), non-Ewing SRCSs were significantly more often extraskeletal (p < 0.001) and demonstrated a broader age distribution, including infantile cases. Skeletal versus extraskeletal presentation had no significant impact on stage, progression, or overall survival. In contrast, metastatic disease at presentation was the strongest adverse prognostic factor (p = 0.007).ES and non-Ewing SRCSs exhibit morphologic overlap but differ in genotype, anatomic distribution, and age pattern. Within the Ewing group, skeletal versus extraskeletal presentation did not influence outcome, despite clear age differences. Integrating molecular diagnostics with site-specific and histopathologic assessment enhances diagnostic accuracy and guides management of these biologically diverse tumors.Copyright © 2026 Ali, Al-Otaibi, Abdulmoneim, Mohammed, Alsaber, Hassan, Khalifa, Ali, Ahmed, Bahzad, Alenezi, AlNassar and AlJassim.
Comorbidity and mutual transformation between psychiatric disorders (including autism spectrum disorder, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, bipolar disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, major depressive disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, schizophrenia, and anxiety disorders) and sleep disorders are common, with circadian rhythm disruption considered a potential biological basis, and neurodevelopmental abnormalities seemingly playing a key role. However, the extent to which shared genetic determinants contribute to these associations remains unclear. Extensive genetic correlations and overlaps were observed between sleep-related phenotypes and psychiatric disorders, with Mendelian randomization analysis further suggesting vertical pleiotropy in 21 of these pairs. Pleiotropic analysis identified 71,733 pleiotropic single nucleotide variants, 718 pleiotropic loci, and 226 co-located loci, with 1,225 candidate pleiotropic genes enriched in phenotypes related to neurodevelopment and brain tissues. A total of 187 candidate pleiotropic genes were screened through Polygenic Priority Score or summary data-based Mendelian Randomization. Pathway enrichment analysis further highlighted biological pathways primarily involving neurodevelopment, synaptic structure, and rhythmic behaviors. Additionally, key hub genes such as HNRNPK, GNL3 and YWHAE exhibited peak expression during early prenatal stages, followed by a decline or plateau throughout life. This study reveals a broad spectrum of pleiotropic genes shared between psychiatric disorders and sleep-related phenotypes, highlighting neurodevelopment as a key mechanism underlying their comorbidity. These findings provide new insights into potential therapeutic targets for these conditions.
Uterine mesenchymal neoplasms comprise a heterogeneous group of tumours with distinct morphological and molecular features. High-grade endometrial stromal sarcomas (HG-ESS) are typically defined by YWHAE::NUTM2 or BCOR alterations; however, a subset lacks these canonical rearrangements. We report a 59-year-old woman with a HG-ESS-like uterine mesenchymal neoplasm, composed of atypical oval cells with infiltrative growth, brisk mitotic activity, and tumour necrosis. Immunohistochemistry showed diffuse SMA and p16 expression with partial CD10 and cyclin D1 positivity while ER, PR, desmin, ALK, and panTRK were negative. RNA sequencing identified an AKAP9 exon 8 to BRAF exon 9 fusion, but no canonical ESS-associated rearrangements or additional alterations (including p53). This finding expands the molecular spectrum of uterine mesenchymal neoplasms and defines a novel kinase-driven subset. The BRAF fusion indicates MAPK pathway activation and raises the possibility of a distinct entity or a novel pathogenetic pathway in HG-ESS, with potential therapeutic implications.© 2026. The Author(s).
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) represents the most prevalent form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma, distinguished by its aggressive clinical presentation and poor patient outcomes. This study investigated the role of nuclear receptor subfamily 2 group F member 2 (NR2F2) and 14-3-3 epsilon (YWHAE) in DLBCL progression. NR2F2 and YWHAE were highly expressed in DLBCL cell lines and tumor tissues of patients with DLBCL. Elevated expression of both genes correlated with advanced Ann Arbor stage and higher International Prognostic Index scores in DLBCL patients. Functional assays demonstrated that knockdown of NR2F2 or YWHAE suppressed DLBCL cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, as well as tumor growth in xenograft models. Mechanistically, NR2F2 transcriptionally activated YWHAE by binding to its promoter, thereby promoting phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (AKT) signaling. Notably, treatment with a PI3K activator in YWHAE-silenced cells, or YWHAE overexpression in NR2F2-silenced cells, partially reversed the inhibitory effects on malignant behaviors of DLBCL cells. Collectively, these findings indicate that NR2F2 promotes DLBCL progression through transcriptional activation of YWHAE and subsequent activation of the PI3K/AKT pathway, suggesting a potential therapeutic target for DLBCL.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Calcium is an important substance to maintain the normal life activities of erythrocytes, and calcium overload has a damaging effect on erythrocytes. Multiple myeloma (MM) has a strong role in secreting microRNA (miRNA), but whether the miRNA produced by MM can affect the calcium regulation function of erythrocytes needs to be further studied.The intracellular calcium content was detected by atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS). The oxidative stress level of cells was assessed by the determination of ROS/H 2 O 2 /GSH content of erythrocytes and the detection of antioxidant capacity. QRT-PCR and Western Blot were used to determine the expression of gene and protein. The binding relationship between miR-4261 and target genes was determined by a dual-luciferase gene reporter assay. Targeted drugs detect the effects of plasma membrane Ca 2+ -ATPase 4 (PMCA4) and calpain-1 on calcium regulation in erythrocytes.This study found that erythrocytes in MM had calcium overload and high levels of oxidative stress, which were associated with reduced plasma membrane Ca2+-ATPase4 (PMCA4) expression in erythrocytes. Expression of 14-3-3ε (Gene: YWHAE)/calpastatin (Gene: CAST)/glutathione peroxidase-1 (Gene: GPX1), which affected PMCA4 function, was also reduced. After database screening and in vitro studies, it was found that miR-4261 is the only miRNA in MM that can simultaneously downregulate the expression of 14-3-3ε/calpastatin/GPX1.MiR-4261 can target down-regulation of 14-3-3ε/calpastatin/GPX1 to affect erythrocyte PMCA4, resulting in erythrocyte calcium overload and peroxidative damage. MiR-4261 may serve as one of the potential markers to measure erythrocyte damage in MM.Copyright © 2026 Indian Journal of Pathology and Microbiology.
Avian influenza A virus (IAV) is a major global health threat. Not only does it cause significant economic losses to the agricultural industry, but it also presents a risk of spillover into the human population. However, several obstacles must be overcome for a successful cross-species transmission event to occur. One of these obstacles is the innate immunity of the host. While the innate immune response to IAV in humans has been well-studied, the innate immune response to IAV in birds is not as well understood. Here, we explore the interferon-induced immune response by identifying interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) in chicken, quail, and duck cells, and find that they are largely species-specific. Using this data, we performed a CRISPR knockout ISG screen against two strains of IAV, the mouse-adapted PR8, and the low pathogenicity avian IAV isolate WF10. We find that for PR8, IFITM3 is the dominant restrictor of viral replication with several additional hits with modest effects, consistent with previous work in mammals. For avian WF10, IFITM3 was also a hit however there were two additional hits absent for PR8, the HSP70 co-chaperone protein BAG5 and deubiquitinase OTUD4. Overall, these findings confirm the divergence of interferon-mediated immunity between species and establish a screening system that can be used to identify ISGs important for viral restriction in avian species.Wild birds, especially waterfowl and shore birds, are the primary natural reservoir for influenza A viruses. These birds can transmit IAV to domestic poultry, where the spillover risk to humans increases. Chickens are the most common species of domestic poultry world-wide and are frequently infected with avian influenza viruses. Despite this, relatively little is known about how their immune system responds to influenza infection. This lack of knowledge creates a barrier to finding ways of preventing or mitigating IAV infection in chicken flocks. In this study, we characterized the interferon-induced immune response to IAV in chickens and found that only a small subset of ISGs were responsible for restricting IAV in chicken cells.
Dual-specificity protein kinase CLK4 plays a pivotal role in regulating alternative mRNA splicing, DNA repair, and various cellular processes through precise phosphorylation. In this study, we analyzed 3825 global human cellular phosphoproteome studies, identifying 430 qualitative profiles and 55 quantitative differential datasets featuring high-confidence Class-1 phosphosites (localization probability ≥ 75%; A-score ≥ 13). Notably, S136 and S138 emerged as predominant phosphorylation sites outside the kinase domain. These sites showed frequent detection and differential expression in liver, lung, and head and neck cancers, as documented in PhosphositePlus. We identified a high-confidence set of co-regulated phosphoproteins, including SQSTM1, SRRT, RPS6, TP53BP1, TNKS1BP1, THUMPD1, OTUD4, and TCEA1. These proteins link CLK4 to critical pathways, including RNA splicing, autophagy, DNA damage response, and cancer progression. Binary interactors, including SRRM2, Interacts with SPT6 1 (IWS1), RBBP6, ZC3H18, BUD13, and DYRK1A, further connect CLK4 to RNA processing and splicing. Predicted downstream substrates, such as CCNL2, CDK11B, PRDX6, YTHDC1, RBM15, SRRM1, SFSWAP, HNRNPU, and DOCK7, highlight CLK4's broad regulatory scope. Upstream kinases were also predicted for S136 and S138. Site-resolved analyses revealed tumor-specific dysregulation of CLK4 phosphorylation at key residues. Co-occurring phosphosite alterations and nearby somatic mutations suggest disrupted CLK4 regulation in cancer. Overall, this study provides a comprehensive phosphoproteomic resource that maps CLK4's co-regulatory networks, paving the way for mechanistic investigations and targeted cancer therapies.
Viruses, lacking an intrinsic metabolic network, exploit host cell metabolism in order to hijack resources for their own replication. However, the regulatory relationship between foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) and energy metabolism remains incompletely elucidated. Here, metabolomic analysis was performed on PK-15 cells and tonsils infected with FMDV. Metabolites involved in glycolysis were significantly upregulated, whereas metabolites associated with the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle were markedly downregulated in vivo and in vitro, which indicated that FMDV induced reprogramming of host cell energy metabolism, shifting it from oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) to glycolysis. Furthermore, FMDV infection promoted glucose uptake and its subsequent utilization in FMDV-infected PK-15 cells, facilitating viral replication. Mechanistically, on the one hand, FMDV infection activated the AKT-MTOR-dependent macroautophagy/autophagy pathway to suppress the expression of OTUD4 (OTU deubiquitinase 4), upregulating HK2 (hexokinase 2) to facilitate glycolysis. On the other hand, FMDV infection decreased the level of mitochondrial SIRT3 (sirtuin 3) through PINK1-PRKN-dependent mitophagy, leading to the increase of HIF1A (hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit alpha), HK2, phosphofructokinase 1 (PFK1), and PKM/PKM2 (pyruvate kinases M1/2), promoting glycolysis. Overall, this study elucidates how FMDV modulates glycolysis through two different autophagic pathways, which would contribute to our understanding of how the autophagy-glycolysis axis regulates viral replication, providing new avenues for developing antiviral strategies targeting metabolism.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ACTB: actin beta; ATG: autophagy related; CQ: chloroquine; dpi: days post-infection; EV71: enterovirus 71; FMDV: foot-and-mouth disease virus; HK2: hexokinase 2; HIF1A: hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit alpha; hpt: hours post-transfection; MOI: multiplicity of infection; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; OTUD4: OTU deubiquitinase 4; OXPHOS: oxidative phosphorylation; PFK1: phosphofructokinase 1; PFKFB3: 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase 3; PKM/PKM2: pyruvate kinase M1/2; SIRT3: sirtuin 3; siRNA: small interfering RNA; TCID50: 50% tissue culture infectious doses; TCA: tricarboxylic acid; TUNEL: terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling; WT: wild type.
Prostate cancer is the second most common fatal cancer in men. Identifying new biological therapeutic targets is crucial to effectively improve the prognosis of prostate cancer patients. Ovarian tumor family deubiquitinase 4 (OTUD4) is a member of the ovarian tumor-associated protease domain (OTUDs) family. Although previous studies have shown that the expression and function of OTUD4 vary across different tumors, its role in prostate cancer remains unknown. The aim of this study is to explore new therapeutic targets and diagnostic markers for prostate cancer and investigate their mechanisms of action.Cell culture, Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay, colony formation assay, Transwell assay, 5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assay, immunofluorescence, Western blot, Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), protein mass spectrometry, nude mouse xenograft models, immunohistochemistry (IHC), and hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining were utilized.We found that OTUD4 expression was reduced in prostate cancer and negatively correlated with poor prognosis in both in vivo and in vitro experiments. Subsequent mechanistic studies revealed that OTUD4 directly inhibits the degradation of myosin-9 (MYH9) protein via deubiquitination. Although MYH9 has been previously reported to act as a tumor suppressor in prostate cancer, no experimental evidence had demonstrated that MYH9 inhibits prostate cancer growth. Our results indicate that MYH9 overexpression effectively suppresses prostate cancer through interactions with cell adhesion molecules.Collectively, these results suggest that OTUD4 functions as a tumor suppressor in prostate cancer. Specifically, OTUD4 inhibits MYH9 degradation via deubiquitination, thereby enabling MYH9-mediated suppression of prostate cancer.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease driven by oxidative stress. Current therapies, including aminosalicylates and immunosuppressants, are limited by adverse effects. Natural product-derived compounds offer promising alternatives. Maclekarpine E (ME) is a dihydrobenzophenanthridine alkaloid with anti-inflammatory properties, but its efficacy and mechanism in UC are unclear.This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic effect of ME against UC and to elucidate its underlying molecular mechanism and potential target.ME was prepared on a gram scale via a semi-synthetic and biomimetic route. Its biological activities were evaluated both in vitro using an LPS-induced RAW264.7 macrophage model, and in vivo using a DSS-induced murine model of ulcerative colitis. To elucidate the underlying mechanism, TMT-based proteomic profiling and an RSL3-induced ferroptosis model in RAW264.7 macrophages were employed. Potential targets associated with the biological activities of ME were identified by DIA-based SPIA proteomic analysis. The initial hit was subsequently validated using CETSA assay. Further validation was then conducted through CHX chase and ubiquitination assays in HEK-293T cells with overexpression or knockdown of the target protein, in order to confirm its functional relevance.ME demonstrated potent anti-inflammatory effects in both RAW264.7 cellular and C57BL/6 mice UC models. Proteomic and functional analyses identified ferroptosis inhibition as a key mechanism. ME up-regulated the NRF2/GPX4 antioxidant axis, down-regulated ACSL4, and mitigated lipid peroxidation, thereby counteracting RSL3-induced RAW264.7 cell ferroptosis. Furthermore, ME bounds to the deubiquitinase ovarian tumor domain-containing protein 4 (OTUD4) and reduced GPX4 ubiquitination and enhanced protein stability.ME could target OTUD4 to stabilize the core ferroptosis defense factor GPX4 and activate NRF2/GPX4 signaling pathway as a novel ferroptosis inhibitor to alleviate UC. These findings could suggest ME to be a promising lead compound for further modification and highlight OTUD4 as a potential new target for anti-inflammatory drug development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
The deubiquitinating enzyme OTUD4 functions as an oncogene in various cancers, but its role in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) remains unclear. Through bioinformatics analysis and experimental validation, we demonstrate that OTUD4 is overexpressed in TNBC and correlates with poor prognosis. OTUD4 downregulation reduces TNBC invasiveness, highlighting its oncogenic role. Mechanistically, OTUD4 promotes TNBC progression by stabilizing EGFR expression and activating the PI3K/AKT pathway. This stabilization occurs through two mechanisms: direct interaction between OTUD4 (568-1114aa) and EGFR (958-1210aa) and OTUD4-mediated cleavage of K48-linked polyubiquitin chains. Additionally, OTUD4 is recruited by NRP1 to deubiquitinate and further stabilize EGFR. These findings enhance our understanding of EGFR signaling in TNBC and may inform novel therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
The over-activation of Hippo/YAP axis was often observed in pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PAAD), while the detailed mechanism is not totally understood. Recent studies demonstrated that the ubiquitin modification, which controlled the protein stability of YAP, played important roles in Hippo signaling and PAAD progression. In order to understand the underlying link between YAP protein stability and Hippo activity in PAAD progression, we carried out GSEA bioinformatic analysis coupled with siRNA screening and identified OTUD4 as an important effector for Hippo signaling in PAAD. OTUD4, which was highly expressed in PAAD tissue, correlated with Hippo target gene expression in PAAD tissues. Depletion of OTUD4 significantly reduced the activity of Hippo/YAP axis and hampered PAAD progression. Mechanism studies revealed that OTUD4 could interact with YAP and promote YAP K48-linked poly-ubiquitination and degradation in PAAD. In conclusion, our study identified an interesting regulation mechanism between OTUD4 and Hippo signaling in PAAD, while targeting OTUD4 could be a plausible strategy for PAAD therapy. Abbreviation: OTUD4, OTU Domain-Containing Protein 4; YAP, Yes-Associated Protein; TEAD, Transcriptional Enhanced Associate Domain transcriptional factor; TCGA, The Cancer Genome Atlas; ATCC, American Type Culture Collection; DMEM, Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium; DUB, Deubiquitinase; GSEA, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis; NES, Normalized Enrichment Score; ECL, Enhanced Chemiluminescence; PVDF, Polyvinylidene Fluoride; PMSF, Phenyl Methane Sulfonyl Fluoride; PFA, Paraformaldehyde; Co-IP, Coimmunoprecipitation; IHC, Immunohistochemistry; CHX, Cycloheximide; IF, Immunofluorescence; GEO, Gene Expression Omnibus.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
EZH2 (enhancer of zeste homologue 2) inhibitors are an emerging class of drugs that target epigenetic regulation. However, their efficacy in solid tumours has been limited, partly due to drug-induced upregulation of fatty acid synthesis. Combining lipid metabolic modulation with EZH2 inhibition may offer a promising strategy to enhance antitumor activity.We conducted a screen of clinically approved lipid-lowering drugs to identify candidates that could enhance the efficacy of EZH2 inhibitors and found that fenofibrate significantly potentiated the antitumor effects of EZH2 inhibition. Mechanistic studies revealed that this synergistic effect was associated with the degradation of EZH2 protein. To uncover the underlying regulatory pathway, we performed mass spectrometry analysis, which identified the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM21 and the deubiquitinase OTUD4 as key mediators of fenofibrate-induced EZH2 degradation.Fenofibrate significantly enhanced the antitumor effects of EZH2 inhibitors in melanoma, independent of its conventional lipid-lowering function. TRIM21 and OTUD4 were identified as critical mediators of this synergistic effect. Fenofibrate disrupted the non-canonical functions of EZH2 by promoting its destabilization, thereby exerting dual effects-inhibiting EZH2 enzymatic activity and accelerating its degradation. Combination therapy with fenofibrate and EZH2 inhibitors resulted in a potent synergistic suppression of tumour growth.Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized role for fenofibrate in augmenting EZH2-targeted therapy. This study provides a novel strategy to improve the efficacy of epigenetic therapies in cancer by combining EZH2 inhibitors with fenofibrate, offering potential clinical benefits for precision oncology.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Pharmacology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Pharmacological Society.
To characterize whole-brain cortical thickness alteration in Kallmann syndrome (KS), assess its correlation with cognitive impairment, and explore the genetic association and extrapolated transcriptional underpinning.We prospectively recruited 100 patients with KS and 100 age- and sex-matched healthy controls. All participants underwent high-resolution structural MRI and a comprehensive neuropsychological assessment targeting global cognition (Montreal Cognitive Assessment, MoCA), executive function and inhibitory control (Stroop Color and Word Test, SCWT), cognitive flexibility (Trail Making Test, TMT), working memory (Digit Span Test, DST), and visuospatial memory (Visual Reproduction task, VR). Cortical thickness and subcortical volumes were quantified using FreeSurfer. In the KS cohort, we examined brain-cognition correlations, performed exploratory genetic association analysis using whole-exome sequencing, and conducted extrapolated neuroimaging-transcription analysis using the Allen Human Brain Atlas (http://human.brain-map.org/) to identify underlying biological pathways.Compared to the healthy controls, patients with KS exhibited significant cognitive deficits, with 36% MoCA scoring below the clinical cutoff for cognitive impairment. Domain-specific analysis revealed impairments in SCWT-C, DST-Backward, TMT-B, and VR (all P-value < .05). Structurally, patients showed bilateral increased cortical thickness predominantly in the fronto-limbic circuit (orbitofrontal and subgenual cingulate cortices) and default mode network (voxel P-value < .001, cluster random field theory corrected P-value < .05), alongside bilateral hippocampal enlargement (P-FDR = .048). Crucially, the cortical thickness in these fronto-limbic regions was negatively correlated with SCWT-C and DST. Exploratory genetic analysis linked variants in genes such as OTUD4 and FGFR1 to cognitive variability (TMT-A and VR). Furthermore, the spatial pattern of cortical thickening was significantly associated with extrapolated gene expression profiles enriched for neurodevelopment, neuronal migration, and synaptic function.This study identified cortical thickening involved in fronto-limbic and default mode network as key neuroanatomical signatures of the patients with KS, which was associated with cognitive impairment. Specific genetic variants may further modulate the structural alterations and cognitive functioning in patients with KS.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Endocrinology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
The development of acute lung injury (ALI) can induce an immune imbalance, and inflammatory response syndrome can induce clinical acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), which has a high mortality rate of 35–40% in intensive care units. At present, there is a lack of specific therapeutic measures, so it’s urgent to explore new effective therapeutic methods and drug targets. Our group previously found that Rab43 can inhibit immune response disorders and promote inflammation resolution by regulating phagocytosis of macrophages. In particular, Rab43 shows promising potential in preventing and treating ALI/ARDS. However, its precise role and signaling mechanisms in the pathologic success of ALI development have not been elucidated. Myeloid-specific Rab43 knockout (Rab43-KO) mice were generated and used to construct a mouse model of acute lung injury after airway administration by LPS. HE staining was used for observing pathological changes in the lungs of ALI mice. The levels of systemic and local inflammation in mice were analyzed by flow cytometry. Activation of the TLR4-MyD88 signaling pathway was analyzed by Western blot and flow cytometry. MyD88 ubiquitination was determined by co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP), and expression of ubiquitinase-related genes was measured by quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR). Herein, descending Rab43 has been found in alveolar macrophages (AMs) and bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) upon LPS stimulation. Furthermore, Rab43 deficiency exacerbated LPS-induced ALI, and plasma levels of proinflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β) were 1.7-, 2.3-, and 1.5-fold higher in Rab43-KO mice, whose mortality at 72 h post-lethal LPS increased by 40%. Mechanistically, Rab43 deficiency elevated MyD88 protein levels by 80% without affecting MyD88 mRNA, leading to overactivation of the MAPK-NF-κB pathway. Co-IP assays confirmed Rab43 regulated the interaction of MyD88 with ubiquitin protein, a 58% reduction of MyD88-ubiquitin level in Rab43-KO BMDMs, accompanied by downregulated 40–55% expression of ubiquitinase genes A20, SPOP, HOIL-1, and OTUD4. Taken together, these results demonstrate that Rab43 alleviated the inflammation response by controlling MyD88 ubiquitination and degradation. Rab43 acts as a novel negative regulator of LPS-induced inflammation in ALI mice and macrophages by promoting MyD88 ubiquitination and degradation. This study identifies Rab43 as a potential therapeutic target for ALI/ARDS, filling the gap in our understanding of Rab GTPase-mediated regulation of MyD88-dependent inflammatory signaling.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are membrane-bound particles that mediate intercellular communication and are being explored as carriers for antigen delivery in cancer immunotherapy. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the uptake of antigen-carrying EVs by dendritic cells (DCs) remain unclear. EV uptake is influenced by the recognition of EV surface components by receptors on recipient cells. Phospholipids, including phosphatidylserine (PS), are common structural components of EV membrane. We therefore focused on the TAM receptor tyrosine kinases Tyro3, Axl, and Mertk, which are expressed in antigen-presenting cells and engage PS-exposing membranes through the bridging ligands Growth arrest-specific 6 (Gas6) and Protein S (Pros1). Using the DC2.4 dendritic cell line as a model system, we investigated the involvement of TAM receptors in the uptake of small EVs (sEVs) and subsequent antigen presentation. We found that Tyro3 binding to sEVs was enhanced by Gas6 and Pros1, and that Tyro3 also associated with phosphatidylserine (PS) and phosphatidylglycerol (PG) through these bridging ligands. Among TAM receptors, only Tyro3 markedly enhanced sEV internalization in DC2.4 cells. Deletion analysis indicated that the immunoglobulin C2-type domain (IG2c domain) of Tyro3 is required for efficient sEV association and uptake. Moreover, Tyro3-mediated internalization enabled cross-presentation of sEV-delivered antigens and activation of CD8+ T cells. This function required a 46-amino acid intracellular region of Tyro3, which we designated the Tyro3 antigen presentation-related domain (TAPD); deletion of TAPD impaired cross-presentation of sEV-delivered antigens. Finally, we observed an increase in the frequency of Tyro3 ⁺ DCs in the spleens of tumor-bearing mice. These findings suggest that Tyro3 mediates sEV uptake and antigen cross-presentation in DCs and may represent a candidate molecular target for EV-based cancer immunotherapy.Copyright: © 2026 Koyama et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the accumulation of amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques and chronic neuroinflammation, which together drive progressive neuronal loss and cognitive decline. In recent years, monoclonal antibodies targeting Aβ have demonstrated encouraging clinical benefits in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, their therapeutic efficacy remains limited by insufficient and unsustained clearance of Aβ, as well as treatment-associated neuroinflammatory responses. These limitations highlight the need for alternative strategies that can achieve efficient Aβ elimination while maintaining immune homeostasis. To overcome these challenges, we developed a novel anti-inflammatory CAR-Microglia (CAR-Mic) incorporating a construct based on the TAM receptor family (TYRO3, AXL, and MERTK), which are key regulators of efferocytosis and anti-inflammatory responses. The resulting Aβ-targeted CAR-Mics showed enhanced Aβ engulfment and reduced proinflammatory cytokines release. Among the constructs tested, AXL-CAR demonstrated the most favorable overall performance and was therefore selected for the generation of human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived CAR microglia-like cells (CAR-iMGLs). In an AD mouse model, AXL-CAR-iMGLs exhibited enhanced Aβ clearance without evidence of severe adverse effects. Collectively, these findings establish TAM receptor-based CAR-iMGLs as a promising cell therapy model for AD and potentially other neurodegenerative disorders characterized by chronic neuroinflammation and defective pathological protein clearance.Copyright © 2026 Ding, Hu, Xue, An, Cheng, Zhang, Lei and Zhang.
(1) Background: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory rheumatic disease associated with immune dysregulation. The TYRO3, AXL, and MER (TAM) signaling pathway, comprising AXL receptor tyrosine kinase (AXL), MER tyrosine kinase (MERTK), growth arrest-specific 6 (GAS6), and Protein S, is a key regulator of immune homeostasis. This study investigated these receptor-ligand components in patients with AS. (2) Methods: A total of 45 patients with AS and 44 healthy controls were enrolled. Serum GAS6 and Protein S levels were measured by ELISA, and AXL and MERTK expression levels were analyzed by RT-qPCR. Clinical and inflammatory parameters were also evaluated. (3) Results: ESR, CRP, and IL-6 levels were significantly higher, whereas Protein S levels were significantly lower in patients with AS than in controls. No significant differences were observed in GAS6, AXL, or MERTK expression levels, although lower expression trends were detected in patients. Logistic regression analysis identified CRP, IL-6, Protein S, and AXL expression as variables independently associated with AS. ROC analysis demonstrated significant discriminatory performance for AXL expression. (4) Conclusions: Alterations in the TAM signaling pathway, particularly reduced Protein S levels and altered AXL expression, may contribute to immune dysregulation and persistent inflammation in AS.
Ostreid herpesvirus 1 (OsHV-1) is a major pathogen associated with summer mortality in bivalve mollusks, but the host-side determinants of susceptibility remain poorly characterized outside oysters. In this study, we compared the responses of Chinese (CS) and Korean (KS) populations of the ark clam Scapharca broughtonii to experimental OsHV-1 challenge. The results showed that OsHV-1 established a markedly strong infection in the CS population but not the KS population, as indicated by high viral DNA loads, severe tissue pathology, detection of viral particles by transmission electron microscopy, broad viral transcription, and substantially high mortality. To explore the molecular basis of this contrasting outcome, we further performed comparative transcriptomic and proteomic analyses. Transcriptomic analysis identified two membrane-associated genes, atrial natriuretic peptide receptor A (NPR-A) and tyrosine-protein kinase receptor (TYRO3-like), that were more highly expressed in the susceptible CS population, suggesting that early host-virus interaction may differ between populations as a result of differentially expressed membrane molecules. Proteomic analysis identified 94 differentially abundant proteins between CS and KS populations; notably, ferritin and superoxide dismutase (SOD) were highly expressed in the less susceptible KS population, leading to stronger basal antioxidant and stress-defense capacity. Taken together, these findings definitively confirmed the significant differential susceptibility to OsHV-1 infection between the two S. broughtonii geographic populations and revealed that this divergent phenotype might involve both population-biased expression of candidate membrane-associated factors and differences in defense-related protein abundance. This study provides candidate markers for future disease-resistance evaluation and breeding in ark clam and offers a basis for further investigation of population-level variation in bivalve-virus interactions.
Objective: Preeclampsia (PE) is a leading cause of maternal and perinatal morbidity; however, reliable first-trimester biomarkers are limited. Growth arrest-specific protein 6 (Gas6), a vitamin K-dependent ligand for the TAM receptor family (Tyro3, AXL, and MerTK), is crucial for trophoblast invasion and placental remodeling. This study evaluated whether first-trimester serum Gas6 levels differed between women with PE and controls and assessed the predictive utility across phenotypes. Methods: Participants were enrolled prospectively during routine first-trimester screening at 11 + 0 to 13 + 6 weeks, and cases and controls were selected using a nested case-control design after pregnancy outcomes were known. ROC-derived cut-off values for Gas6 were selected retrospectively using the Youden index and were considered exploratory. The PE group was divided into early (n = 15, <34 weeks) and late onset (n = 65, ≥34 weeks) subgroups. ELISA measured serum Gas6. Mann-Whitney U, Kruskal-Wallis, Spearman's correlation, ROC analysis, and multivariate logistic regression were applied. Results: Gas6 levels were significantly lower in PE than controls (15.73 vs. 38.08 ng/mL, p < 0.001); control reference median (38.08 ng/mL, IQR 27.62 to 49.14), decreasing progressively to late (20.07 ng/mL) and early onset PE (6.45 ng/mL; all p < 0.001). ROC analysis showed the highest exploratory discrimination for early onset preeclampsia (AUC = 0.959, 95% CI: 0.923-0.995; sensitivity 93.3%, specificity 84.1% at a retrospectively selected cut-off of ≤13.82 ng/mL), with more modest discrimination for overall PE (AUC = 0.762) and late onset PE (AUC = 0.708). Lower first-trimester Gas6 levels remained significantly associated with early onset PE after adjustment for maternal age and BMI (OR = 0.555, 95% CI: 0.412-0.748, p < 0.001). Conclusions: Serum Gas6 levels in the first trimester are lower in PE, particularly in cases of early onset disease, highlighting its potential as a candidate biomarker that requires further prospective and external validation before any screening application can be considered.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42505400 is a review article
Synovitis, a core pathological feature of knee osteoarthritis (KOA), drives pain and disease progression via sustained inflammation and disrupted tissue homeostasis. Electroacupuncture (EA) shows clinical benefits in KOA management, yet its specific molecular mechanisms against synovitis remain incompletely defined. The Protein S-Tyro3, Axl, MerTK (TAM) pathway-particularly Axl/MerTK and downstream Rac1-constitutes a key efferocytosis-related and inflammation-resolving signaling axis. We hypothesized that EA alleviates KOA synovitis and is associated with restoration of this dysregulated pathway.Male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to Control, KOA (anterior cruciate ligament transection, ACLT), and KOA-EA groups. After 1 month of model induction, the KOA-EA group received EA at GB34, SP10, ST36, and KI3 (30 min/day, 5 days/week for 12 weeks; sparse-dense waves: 3/15 Hz, 1 mA). We assessed cartilage histopathology (Mankin's/OARSI scores), synovitis (Krenn score), synovial apoptosis (TUNEL, Cleaved Caspase-3/F4/80 co-staining), serum cytokines (IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-10, TGF-β1 via ELISA), and MMP13 expression (IHC). qRT-PCR was used to measure Pros1, Axl, Mertk, and Rac1 mRNA expression in synovium, while Western blot was used to measure Protein S, Axl, MerTK, and Rac1 protein expression; MMP13 in cartilage was assessed by both methods.ACLT successfully induced KOA, with severe cartilage degradation, synovial inflammation, elevated pro-inflammatory cytokines, and increased synovial apoptosis. EA significantly ameliorated cartilage damage (reduced Mankin's/OARSI scores, P < 0.01), decreased MMP13 expression (P < 0.05), attenuated synovitis (lower Krenn score, P < 0.01), reduced synovial apoptosis (P < 0.001), and shifted the cytokine profile toward an anti-inflammatory pattern (reduced IL-1β/TNF-α and increased IL-10/TGF-β1, P < 0.05). EA was also associated with reversal of the KOA-induced downregulation of Protein S-TAM-Rac1 axis-related molecules, with significantly increased synovial mRNA expression and partial restoration of protein expression.EA showed anti-inflammatory and chondroprotective effects in this KOA model and was associated with changes in synovial Protein S-TAM (Axl/MerTK)-Rac1 axis-related molecules, with stronger evidence at the mRNA level than at the protein level. These molecular changes may be related to apoptotic cell clearance-related processes and inflammation resolution.Copyright © 2026 Li, Jia, Tang, Wen, Huang, Yin, Xiao, Qu and Zhou.
Kinase inhibitors (KIs) are essential in targeted cancer therapy but frequently cause cardiotoxicity, limiting their clinical utility. A systematic resource to explore the underlying causal mechanisms is urgently needed.We developed the Kinase Inhibitor Cardiotoxicity Database (KICDB ), an interactive web platform integrating large-scale transcriptomic meta-analysis with causal inference to identify molecular determinants of KI-induced cardiotoxicity.Meta-analysis of 5291 samples revealed a convergent disruption of the cellular mitotic machinery, specifically chromosome segregation and nuclear division, as a shared mechanism of toxicity across multiple KI classes. Furthermore, Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis identified 26 robust causal associations, linking specific kinase targets (e.g. RING finger protein 13 [RNF13] and tyrosine kinase with immunoglobulin like and EGF like domains 1 [TIE1]) to increased risks of cardiomyopathy and myocardial infarction, while identifying TYRO3 protein tyrosine kinase [Tyro3] and Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) as potential cardioprotective factors.KICDB provides a mechanistic framework linking transcriptomic perturbations with genetically validated causal drivers. By linking transcriptomic perturbations with causal validation, it serves as a resource to advance biomarker discovery, mechanistic exploration and the design of cardioprotective strategies.© 2026 British Pharmacological Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42429079 is a review article
Brain metastases (BrM) remain a major cause of mortality in breast cancer (BC), yet the spatial organization and molecular circuitry of the metastatic immune microenvironment are poorly defined.To address this gap, we integrated high-plex imaging mass cytometry (IMC) performed on human primary breast tumors (n=20 regions of interests (ROIs)) and human brain-metastasis tissues (n=40 ROIs) with publicly available datasets, including single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) from BC (n=10) and BrM (n=12) and spatial transcriptomic (ST) data from BC (n=7) and BrM (n=1), enabling single-cell resolution of tissue architecture, functional states, and intercellular signaling.IMC resolved nine major cell classes and diverse epithelial, myeloid, and T-cell subtypes, and revealed a striking shift in macrophage polarization: CD163-CD11b- macrophages were markedly depleted in brain metastases, whereas CD163+ subsets persisted. Spatial analysis demonstrated the loss of the immune-permissive CN1 neighborhood in brain metastases, which is enriched in memory T cells, B cells, and dendritic cells, and the expansion of the immunosuppressive CN9 niche in brain metastases, containing CD163+ macrophages, invasion-like epithelial cells, and exhausted T cells. ScRNA-seq integration corroborated these findings by refining the annotation of major immune and stromal lineages and confirming CD163 expression patterns across macrophage subsets. ST deconvolution further reproduced these CN1-like and CN9-like domains in situ, validating their anatomical organization across BC and BrM. Ligand-receptor inference highlighted specific inhibitory pathways-including programmed cell death protein 1/programmed death-ligand 1, growth arrest-specific 6-Tyro3, Axl, and Mer receptor tyrosine kinase family, nectin cell adhesion molecule 2 (NECTIN2)-T-cell immunoreceptor with Ig and ITIM domains, and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2)-prostaglandin E2 receptor 4-that are associated with immune evasion and metastatic growth. Functional validation in an in vivo brain metastasis model further supported the therapeutic relevance of targeting these immunoregulatory pathways.Together, these findings show a shift from permissive to suppressive immune niches, accompanied by pronounced macrophage reprogramming, as central features of BC adaptation to the brain. This spatially resolved framework provides mechanistic insight into the poor responsiveness of brain metastases to current immunotherapies and identifies defined inhibitory ligand-receptor axes as actionable targets for combination immunotherapy.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Mitochondria relay their functional state to the nucleus via retrograde signaling, yet whether the spatial organization of the mitochondrial network plays a role in this process remains unclear. Here, we show that stress-induced clustering of mitochondria around the nucleus is a crucial part of the retrograde response. Perinuclear clustering facilitates the formation of mitochondria-nucleus contact sites (MNCS) and the nuclear entry of GPS2, a key mediator of mitochondrial retrograde signaling essential for activating nuclear-encoded mitochondrial and stress-response genes in response to various mitochondrial stressors. Unexpectedly, TSPO-driven MNCS are dispensable for GPS2-based retrograde signaling. Instead, we identify the mitochondrial import receptor TOMM70 and the nucleoporin RanBP2/NUP358 as components of a stress-induced nuclear pore-associated tethering complex required for promoting GPS2 nuclear translocation and activation of downstream programs. These findings establish MNCS as a functional gateway for mitochondrial retrograde signaling, highlighting that organelle positioning and tethering at the nuclear pore provide an unexpected layer of stress regulation.
In osteoarthritis (OA) treatment, synovial mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (SMSC-EVs) hold therapeutic potential; however, the mechanisms coordinating mitochondrial and epigenetic repair remain unclear.Chondrocyte proliferation, apoptosis and migration were assessed in vitro. Mitochondrial function was evaluated via membrane potential, oxygen consumption, ATP and reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and network morphology. RNA sequencing and proteomics identified altered pathways. Key molecules (MFN2, S1PR1, GPS2, mTOR components) were investigated using siRNA knockdown. Protein localisation and interactions were examined by immunofluorescence, co-immunoprecipitation and in silico modelling. Efficacy was validated in a monosodium iodoacetate-induced rat OA model.SMSC-EVs enhanced chondrocyte proliferation, reduced apoptosis and restored mitochondrial fusion and bioenergetics through activation of the S1P-S1PR1-mTORC2 axis, leading to MFN2 upregulation (mean difference: 0.676 [95% CI: 0.572-0.778]). EV treatment also induced GPS2 nuclear translocation (mean difference: 0.403 for GPS2/lamin B [0.318-0.489]), facilitating interaction with HDAC1 and increased HDAC1 expression (mean difference: 0.474 [0.398-0.552]). In vivo, SMSC-EVs mitigated cartilage degradation and improved functional outcomes, reflected by decreased OARSI scores (mean difference: -9.000 [-10.518 to -7.482]).SMSC-EVs ameliorate OA through coordinated mitochondrial and epigenetic mechanisms, restoring mitochondrial integrity via the S1P-S1PR1-mTORC2-MFN2 pathway and promoting proliferation through GPS2-HDAC1-mediated epigenetic regulation. These findings highlight a synergistic therapeutic strategy targeting mitochondrial-epigenetic dysfunction in OA.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
To investigate the role of G protein pathway suppressor 2 (GPS2) nuclear translocation in hepatic stellate cell (HSC) activation and its underlying mechanisms in liver fibrosis.RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed to analyze differential gene expression among experimental groups. Fatty acid oxidation (FAO) was evaluated using FAO Blue staining. Co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) assays were conducted to investigate the interaction between GPS2 and its potential binding partners. In addition, HSC activation was induced by PDGF-BB, and cell proliferation, activation markers, and mitochondrial FAO levels were systematically assessed.GPS2 nuclear translocation was significantly increased during HSC activation. Inhibition of GPS2 nuclear translocation attenuated liver fibrosis and reduced HSC activation. Mechanistically, blocking GPS2 nuclear translocation weakened its interaction with PPARα. PPARα was found to regulate mitochondrial FAO, which in turn promoted HSC proliferation and activation. Suppression of PPARα reduced FAO and alleviated HSC activation.This study identifies a novel mechanism whereby GPS2 nuclear translocation promotes HSC activation through interaction with PPARα and regulation of mitochondrial FAO. Targeting GPS2 nuclear translocation may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for liver fibrosis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Backfat thickness is an economically important trait in pig production, yet the functional regulatory variants underlying it remain poorly characterized. Here, we performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) for backfat thickness at 100 kg (BF100) in a large Landrace population (n = 5923) using 13.46 million imputed SNPs. We identified two significant quantitative trait loci (QTLs) on SSC2 (1.21-3.69 Mb; explaining 2.3% of phenotypic variance) and SSC12 (51.70-52.88 Mb; explaining 0.8% of phenotypic variance). While nonsynonymous SNPs were limited (16 variants), we prioritized functional non-coding variants by integrating high-resolution Hi-C interaction maps, epigenomic marks, and previously published enhancer and promoter annotation results from public backfat datasets. This multi-omics strategy revealed that the SSC2 QTL functions as an active three-dimensional regulatory hub, with over 20 enhancer-promoter loops physically engaging the promoters of IGF2, CTSD, TSPAN32, and TSSC4. Similarly, the SSC12 QTL formed more than 10 long-range interactions with the promoters of ASGR1, YBX2, GPS2, MDPU1, and TP53. Focusing on SSC2, we prioritized two tightly linked SNPs (2-1280617 and 2-1280654) located within a putative enhancer, representing two major haplotypes. Dual-luciferase reporter assays in PK15 and 3T3-L1 cells confirmed that the GG haplotype drives significantly higher transcriptional activity than the AT haplotype (p < 0.001). Consistently, pigs carrying the GG haplotype exhibited significantly lower backfat thickness. By integrating multi-omics and functional assays, this study not only decodes the regulatory architecture of two backfat QTLs but also provides new molecular markers for genetic improvement in Landrace breeding.© 2026 Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.
Obesity exacerbates metabolic alterations, increasingly linked to male reproductive dysfunction through oxidative stress and inflammatory signaling. β-caryophyllene (BCP) has shown several biological activities due to its antioxidant potential. This study addressed the efficacy of BCP treatment in ameliorating testicular dysfunctionality in obese male rats. Forty male rats were used as follows: G1 as a negative control, fed on a balanced diet; Gps2-5 were fed on a high-fat diet (HFD) for 12 weeks. G2 acted as a positive control. Subsequently, Gps3-5 were administered intraperitoneally (i.p.) with BCP at doses of 25, 50, and 75 mg/kg, respectively for 8 weeks following 12 weeks of HFD induction. After 20 weeks, spermatological parameters, hormone profiles, oxidative stress markers, inflammatory cytokines, expression of JNK/ERK-1 and JAK-1/ STAT-3 pathway components, and testicular histopatholog were assessed. The HFD significantly impaired reproductive parameters, with decreased sperm count, motility, and testosterone levels and increased oxidative stress markers, including malondialdehyde (MDA), and pro-inflammatory cytokines. BCP treatment dose-dependently ameliorated these alterations, with the highest dose restoring sperm count and motility and significantly elevating testosterone levels. BCP downregulated the overexpression of JNK/ERK-1 and JAK-1/STAT-3 signaling pathways. Histopathological examination confirmed marked improvement in testicular architecture in BCP-treated groups. Collectively, BCP treatment effectively mitigates HFD-induced testicular dysfunction via antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and targeted testicular JNK/ERK-1 and JAK-1/ STAT-3 pathways in obese rats. These findings highlight its potential as a therapeutic candidate for obesity-associated male reproductive impairment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Plants rely on chromatin-mediated transcriptional control to fine-tune stress responses; however, the evolutionary conservation and functional diversification of repressor complexes remain incompletely understood. Here, we identify GPS2-like protein (GPL) as the missing component of the plant counterpart of the animal nuclear receptor-corepressor complex. GPL interacts with HOS15, PWR, and HDA6/HDA9 to form a chromatin repressor module that suppresses abscisic acid (ABA)-responsive genes. Loss-of-function gpl mutants exhibit ABA hypersensitivity and enhanced drought tolerance, whereas GPL overexpression confers ABA insensitivity. Mechanistically, GPL promotes histone H3K9 deacetylation and dimethylation at stress-responsive loci and stabilizes HOS15 to ensure its nuclear retention. Global RNA sequencing reveals widespread derepression of ABA-responsive transcriptional networks in gpl mutants. Under stress conditions, ABA destabilizes the GPL-HOS15 complex, relieving repression and activating defense-related genes. These findings establish GPL as the plant homolog of GPS2 and reveal that the GPL-HOS15 repressor complex functions as a chromatin-mediated rheostat to dynamically balance growth and drought adaptation. Our work provides mechanistic insight into stress-responsive chromatin remodeling and identifies GPL as a potential target for engineering climate-resilient crops.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Inhibition of endothelial cell (EC) death is essential for normal angiogenesis. The E3 ubiquitin ligase HOIP, the catalytic subunit of the linear ubiquitin chain assembly complex (LUBAC), is particularly important for EC survival during embryogenesis. The stability of HOIP is critical for LUBAC function. However, the mechanisms underlying the regulation of HOIP stability are largely unknown. Here, we uncovered a novel role of G protein pathway suppressor 2 (GPS2) in regulating EC survival and embryonic vascularization via control of HOIP stability. EC-specific GPS2 deletion mice (Gps2ECKO) are embryonic lethal at embryonic day 16.5 (E16.5) due to defective vascularization. Deficiency of GPS2 in ECs results in aberrant TNFR1-mediated cell death. TNFR1 deletion in Gps2ECKO mice restores normal vascularization and rescues embryonic lethality. At the molecular level, GPS2 binds to the NZF domain of HOIP and inhibits K48-linked polyubiquitination of HOIP at K579, K737, and K988 residues. GPS2 prevents HOIP proteasomal degradation and thus maintains LUBAC stability and activity. GPS2 deficiency in ECs leads to HOIP degradation and LUBAC instability, which in turn attenuates TNF-induced NF-κB activation and exacerbates the formation of the cell-death-inducing complex-II, ultimately increasing EC death. Overall, our data demonstrate that GPS2 is required for maintaining vascular integrity during embryogenesis by inhibiting TNFR1-mediated EC death via stabilizing HOIP.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
Transcription is tightly regulated by epigenetic modifications that control the expression of specific genes. One such modification is 5-methylcytosine (5mC) that is formed by cytosine methylation via DNA methyltransferases and functions as a transcriptional silencer of gene promoters. Dynamically regulated subsequent modifications by ten-eleven translocation (TET) enzymes catalyze the sequential oxidation of 5mC for generating 5-hydroxymethylcytosine, 5-formylcytosine (5fC), and 5-carboxylcytosine. Recently, these oxidized cytosine derivatives were indicated as not merely intermediates in the demethylation process; however, each derivative plays a unique biologically relevant role. A photo-crosslinkable oligonucleotide probe for detecting these cytosine modifications could support the spatiotemporal functional analysis of cytosine derivatives via a light stimulus. Herein, we designed novel photoreactive nucleosides by conjugating a psoralen (Ps) derivative, trioxsalen, to the C2' position of guanosine (GPs and GPs2) and developed photo-crosslinkable oligonucleotides (GPs-Oligo and GPs2-Oligo). In particular, GPs-Oligo demonstrated an intriguing and unique ability of photo-crosslinking with 5fC. GPs-Oligo was employed to detect 5fC using a DNA chip glass plate, which demonstrated the potential of GPs-Oligo for future investigation of the function of 5fC inside cells.
OBJECTIVE: Auricular point acupressure (APA) has shown promise for pain relief, but its biological mechanisms remain unclear. This study examined the effects of APA on inflammatory cytokines and explored the relationships between changes in inflammatory markers and clinical outcomes in older adults with chronic low back pain (cLBP). METHOD: This secondary analysis utilized plasma samples from a three-arm randomized controlled trial (RCT) (NCT03589703) with 272 participants aged 65 years and older with cLBP. The participants were randomly assigned (1:1:1) to the targeted APA (T-APA), nontargeted APA (NT-APA), or education control (CG) groups for four weeks. Cytokine levels were measured at baseline, post-intervention, and at the one- and three-month follow-ups using multiplex assays. RNA sequencing and quantitative PCR (qPCR) were performed to assess changes in inflammatory gene expression. The primary outcome was the change in inflammatory cytokine levels, and the secondary outcomes included self-reported pain and physical function. RESULTS: A total of 272 participants were randomized (T-APA: 92, NT-APA: 91, CG: 89), with 43.4% completing follow-up. The participants in the T-APA group showed significant reductions in the levels of proinflammatory cytokines (IL-2, IL-8, and TNF-α) and increases in the levels of the anti-inflammatory cytokine TGF-β. These changes correlated with improvements in pain and physical function.Gene expression analysis suggested the modulation of CXCL8 and GPS2, indicating the potential influence of APA on neuroimmune signaling. The NT-APA and CG groups did not show similar benefits. No serious adverse events were reported. CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that APA has immune-modulating effects on reducing inflammation and improving pain outcomes in older adults with cLBP. However, the discrepancies between the RNA sequencing and qPCR results warrant further investigation into the molecular mechanisms of APA. Future studies should incorporate longer follow-up periods and larger sample sizes to validate these findings. TRIAL REGISTRATION: Trial ID: NCT03589703 (registration date: May 22, 2018).
The early growth traits including birth weight (BW), weaning weight (WW), pre-weaning average daily gain (ADG) and yearling weight (YW) are crucial productivity indicators that directly influence growth rates of cashmere goats and economic income of herdsmen in the cashmere goat breeding programs. However, the genetic mechanism of these traits in Inner Mongolia Cashmere Goats (IMCGs) has not been elucidated.Copy number variation (CNV), as a prevalent form of genomic structural variation and a significant contributor to the genetic diversity, has emerged as a valuable molecular marker for analysis of complex traits.In this study, Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) data of 461 IMCGs were used to detect CNVs on autosomes and the Genome-Wide Association Study (GWAS) analysis based on CNVs was performed for early growth traits (BW, WW, ADG and YW) of IMCGs.The identified CNVs were further validated through PCR verification. In addition, t-test was performed on the phenotypes of individuals of IMCGs with significant CNVs.The 26,003 non-redundant CNVs and 5,014 non-redundant CNVRs were detected, covering a total of 1,015.4 Mb (38.97 %) of the autosomal goat genome. The 11 CNVs were significantly associated with early growth traits through GWAS analysis, including two pleiotropic CNVs simultaneously influencing ADG and WW. Through integrated bioinformatics analysis, seven key candidate genes (ZN845, SOX15, FGF11, GPS2, DVL2, SPRY4 and STAT2) were identified as being associated with early growth traits.Gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses demonstrated that these genes were primarily involved in biological pathways related to cell proliferation, differentiation and protein phosphorylation.Among the 11 significant CNVs, 9 CNVs were demonstrated to show significant associations with individual phenotypes.This study significantly expands the genomic CNV map of IMCGs through large-scale genotyping.The findings demonstrate the utility of CNV-based GWAS analysis in elucidating the genetic mechanisms underlying complex traits, providing valuable insights for molecular marker-assisted breeding and molecular genetic research of economically important traits in cashmere goats.Copyright © 2025 Liu, Xi, Xu, Zhou, Li, Su, Lv, Zhang, Wang and Wang.
Blood metabolomes have been linked to osteoporosis, yet the precise causal relationship with osteopenia, its preventable early stage, remains unclear. This study aimed to uncover the genetic causality between blood metabolomes and osteopenia, pinpointing potential targets for mechanomedicine. Utilizing genome-wide association study summary statistics, we analyzed 1091 metabolites and 309 metabolite ratios from 8299 individuals, correlating them with total body bone mineral density (BMD) from 56,284 individuals in the IEU GWAS database and osteopenia data from 408,961 European populations. Through two-sample Mendelian randomization, we investigated the association between blood metabolomes and skeletal characteristics. We then conducted summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis and colocalization analyses to identify causal genes related to skeletal phenotypes, predicting therapeutic targets for osteopenia. Expression of potential targets in osteocytes under fluid shear stress (FSS) stimulation was tested using qRT-PCR to explore mechanical sensitivity and bone health mechanisms. Our findings revealed five metabolites affecting total body BMD and osteopenia, with biliverdin emerging as a potential protective factor against osteopenia (OR ​= ​0.93, 95 ​%CI ​= ​0.88-0.98, P ​= ​0.009). Additionally, three genes-LRRC14, SLC22A16, and TNFRSF1A-were identified as potential therapeutic targets for osteopenia. Notably, LRRC14 and TNFRSF1A are also associated with other musculoskeletal diseases. In vitro experiments showed that FSS significantly increased LRRC14 expression in osteocytes, suggesting its potential as a mechanosensitive factor. This study identifies candidate blood metabolites and mechanomedicine targets for osteopenia, offering a scientific basis for new diagnostic and treatment strategies and deepening our understanding of bone mechanics response characteristics.© 2025 The Authors.
Ochratoxin A (OTA) is a mycotoxin that causes renal carcinogenicity following the induction of karyomegaly in proximal tubular cells after repeated administration to rats. Here, we performed gene profiling regarding altered DNA methylation and gene expression in the renal tubules focusing on the mechanism of OTA-induced carcinogenesis. For this purpose, OTA or 3-chloro-1,2-propanediol (3-MCPD), a renal carcinogen not inducing karyomegaly, was administered to rats for 13 weeks, and DNA methylation array and RNA sequencing analyses were performed on proximal tubular cells. Genes for which OTA altered the methylation status and gene expression level, after excluding genes showing similar expression changes by 3-MCPD, were subjected to confirmation analysis of the transcript level by real-time reverse-transcription PCR. Gene Ontology (GO)-based functional annotation analysis of validated genes revealed a cluster of hypermethylated and downregulated genes enriched under the GO term "mitochondrion," such as those associated with metabolic reprogramming in carcinogenic process (Clpx, Mrpl54, Mrps34, and Slc25a23). GO terms enriched for hypomethylated and upregulated genes included "response to arsenic-containing substance," represented by Cdkn1a involved in cell cycle arrest, and "positive regulation of IL-17 production," represented by Osm potentiating cell proliferation promotion. Other genes that did not cluster under any GO term included Lrrc14 involved in NF-κB-mediated inflammation, Gen1 linked to DNA repair, Has1 related to chromosomal aberration, and Anxa3 involved in tumor development and progression. In conclusion, a variety of genes engaged in carcinogenic processes were obtained by epigenetic gene profiling in rat renal tubular cells specific to OTA treatment for 13 weeks.© 2023 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552630 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42547808 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42527514
Perioperative neurocognitive disorders (PND) are common postoperative complications, particularly in elderly patients, marked by learning and memory deficits with limited treatment options. Human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hUC-MSCs) hold promise due to their neuroprotective and immunomodulatory effects, but their underlying mechanisms remain unclear.This study established a PND model in aged mice using tibial fracture intramedullary fixation surgery, followed by intravenous hUC-MSCs administration. Subsequently, behavioral tests, pathological examination, proteomic analysis, and other experiments were performed to verify the therapeutic effect and underlying mechanism of hUC-MSCs on PND in mice.hUC-MSCs significantly improved cognitive function in PND mice, reduced hippocampal neuronal apoptosis and neuroinflammation, and restored dendritic spine density. Mechanistically, hUC-MSCs secreted β-NGF to activate the TrkA signaling pathway, upregulate STMN2 and NMNAT2 expression, and inhibit the SARM1/NF-κB pathway, thereby alleviating neuroinflammation and dendritic degeneration. Overexpression of SARM1 in the hippocampal CA1 region and β-NGF knockdown in hUC-MSCs both reversed the therapeutic effects of hUC-MSCs, confirming their critical roles.hUC-MSCs ameliorate PND pathology through the β-NGF-mediated STMN2/NMNAT2-SARM1-NF-κB pathway, offering a novel cell-based therapeutic strategy for PND. Future research may focus on optimizing the secretory function of hUC-MSCs or developing small-molecule drugs targeting β-NGF to enhance therapeutic efficacy.© 2026 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is a malignancy that faces challenges such as chemotherapy resistance and side effects. There is an urgent need for effective, low-toxicity compounds to treat OSCC. Here, we examined whether quercetin induces ferroptosis in OSCC cells and explored the potential molecular mechanisms.The role of LGR4/NF-κB/GPX4 in OSCC cells (CAL27 and SCC9) was studied through gene overexpression or RNA interference. Additionally, OSCC cell lines were treated with quercetin to examine its effects and underlying mechanisms in OSCC.Quercetin dose-dependently reduced the viability of OSCC cells, while co-treatment with the ferroptosis inhibitor liproxstatin-1 significantly counteracted quercetin-induced cell death. RNA-seq analysis showed that quercetin's inhibitory effect on OSCC cells is linked to ferroptosis induction. Quercetin concentration-dependently decreased GPX4 expression in OSCC cells by suppressing the LGR4/NF-κB signaling pathway. LGR4-induced ferroptosis inhibition was counteracted by either quercetin or an NF-κB inhibitor. Mechanistically, LGR4 could induce upregulation of IKKβ, leading to IκBα ubiquitination and degradation, which promotes NF-κB activation and GPX4 transcription, ultimately inhibiting ferroptosis in OSCC cells.Our findings indicate that ferroptosis may play a role in quercetin's anti-OSCC activity by blocking the LGR4/NF-κB/GPX4 axis, which supports the potential use of quercetin as a therapeutic agent for OSCC.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Zhang, Gao, Shao and Chen.
Gastric adenocarcinoma lacks robust circulating biomarkers and tractable targets. We assessed whether genetically predicted plasma protein levels influence disease risk and sought druggable candidates using a proteome-wide Mendelian randomization (MR) framework.We integrated deCODE plasma protein quantitative trait loci (pQTLs) with gastric cancer GWAS in a proteome-wide two-sample MR framework to identify circulating proteins causally associated with gastric cancer. Protein-protein interaction topology was used to prioritize eight hub proteins, which were further evaluated in an eight-gene artificial neural network (ANN) classifier. Single-cell and spatial transcriptomics, together with multiplex immunofluorescence, mapped hub-gene expression across tumor, stromal and immune compartments. Finally, we focused on TGFB3 as a genetically and spatially prioritized target, combining in silico ligand screening with in vitro perturbation of the TGFB3-PI3K survival axis using proflavine hemisulfate as a chemical probe.Proteome-wide MR highlighted 29 circulating proteins with putative causal effects on gastric cancer, of which eight (ERBB3, LGR4, BMP4, CD248, MGP, TGFB3, GRP and ETS2) occupied central positions in the interaction network. The corresponding eight-gene ANN showed robust discrimination between gastric cancer and non-tumor tissue across multiple cohorts and improved diagnostic performance beyond clinical variables. Single-cell, spatial and multiplex immunofluorescence analyses localized these hubs to epithelial, fibroblast and endothelial compartments, with TGFB3 enriched at tumor-stroma interfaces and associated with poor survival. Virtual screening nominated TGFB3-binding ligands and proflavine hemisulfate formed a stable complex with TGFB3 in silico while attenuating TGFB3-driven proliferation, migration and PI3K-dependent survival signaling in AGS cells.Our proteome-wide MR framework identifies genetically supported circulating proteins that contribute to gastric carcinogenesis and converges on TGFB3 as a tractable stromal signaling axis. Proflavine hemisulfate functions as a mechanistically informative chemical probe of TGFB3-PI3K survival signaling in gastric cancer cells, providing a starting scaffold for future TGFB3-targeted therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026 Zhao, Mao, Xu, Zhou, Liang, Han, Zhang, Hong, Hu and Wu.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42501855
Cellular senescence is a stable cell cycle arrest program with important therapeutic implications in cancer, yet how metabolic perturbations are translated into redox-dependent senescence remains incompletely understood. Here, we identify triosephosphate isomerase 1 (TPI1) as a critical regulator of senescence in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) through a customized CRISPR-Cas9 metabolic screen. TPI1 depletion induces a robust senescence phenotype characterized by mitochondrial redox imbalance, DNA damage, and stable growth arrest. Mechanistically, loss of TPI1 leads to accumulation of dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP), which engages a SARM1-dependent signaling pathway, resulting in increased cyclic ADP-ribose (cADPR) production and intracellular Ca2+ release. This cADPR-Ca2+ axis drives mitochondrial ROS (mtROS) generation, thereby promoting DNA damage and activation of the p53-p21 pathway to enforce senescence. Pharmacological or genetic attenuation of calcium signaling, or mitochondrial ROS partially rescues these phenotypes, indicating that calcium-dependent redox stress is required for senescence induction. Importantly, this metabolic-redox signaling cascade is conserved across multiple cancer types. Collectively, our findings define a previously unrecognized TPI1-SARM1-cADPR-Ca2+ axis that links glycolytic metabolite accumulation to mitochondrial redox stress and cellular senescence, highlighting a metabolite-driven redox vulnerability that may be therapeutically exploitable in cancer.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Provided herein are novel pyrrolidinone derivatives as SARM1 inhibitors, pharmaceutical compositions, use of such compounds in treating axonal degeneration, and processes for preparing such compounds.Published 2026 by American Chemical Society.
Monocyte-derived macrophages play a significant role in the initiation and progression of atherosclerosis by transforming into lipid-laden foam cells and regulating vascular inflammation. However, the molecular mechanisms that regulate macrophage lipid accumulation, phenotype, efferocytic capacity, and atherosclerosis are incompletely understood. Our preliminary studies revealed increased expression of LGR4 (leucine-rich repeat-containing G protein-coupled receptor 4) in human atherosclerotic arteries. Additional experiments demonstrated increased LGR4 levels in atherogenic oxidized low-density lipoprotein-treated macrophages. However, the macrophage-specific role of LGR4 in atherogenesis has never been investigated.To investigate the role of myeloid cell Lgr4 in atherosclerosis development, myeloid cell-specific Lgr4 knockout (Lgr4f/fLysM Cre+/-, Lgr4ΔM) and littermate control Lgr4f/f (Lgr4WT) mice were injected intraperitoneally with adeno-associated viral vector (serotype 8) for hPCSK9 and fed a Western diet for 16 weeks. Various in vitro cell-based assays, molecular biology techniques, and immunohistological approaches were used to evaluate the functional roles of macrophage Lgr4 and underlying signaling mechanisms.Oil red O staining of whole aortas and aortic root sections demonstrated reduced atherosclerosis in Lgr4ΔM mice compared with sex-matched Lgr4WT mice. However, no changes in circulating monocyte frequencies were detected. Histochemical staining performed on aortic root sections revealed smaller necrotic cores and higher collagen content in Lgr4ΔM mice. Additionally, Lgr4ΔM mice exhibited lower fat mass and blood glucose levels, while plasma total cholesterol was comparable to that of control mice. Further in vitro and ex vivo studies demonstrated reduced lipid accumulation, enhanced efferocytic capacity, a suppressed proinflammatory phenotype, and attenuated expression of different low-density lipoprotein uptake genes in Lgr4-deficient macrophages. Moreover, Lgr4 knockout macrophages displayed increased cholesterol efflux capacity and reduced activation of oxidized low-density lipoprotein-induced Wnt (Wingless-related integration site)/β-catenin signaling.These findings suggest that myeloid cell Lgr4 contributes to atherosclerotic lesion formation via stimulating macrophage lipid accumulation, impairing efferocytic capacity, and promoting a proinflammatory phenotype. Collectively, these results identify macrophage LGR4 as a novel therapeutic target for atherosclerosis.
Diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) is associated with impaired calcium handling and downregulation of sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum Ca²⁺-ATPase 2a (SERCA2a), though the underlying regulatory mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here, we identify KCNE2, an auxiliary β-regulatory subunit of multiple ion channels, as a key regulator of SERCA2a protein stability in the diabetic heart. KCNE2 expression was significantly reduced in high fat diet/streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice and palmitic acid-treated cardiomyocytes. Using LC-MS/MS and co-immunoprecipitation, SERCA2a was identified as a direct binding partner of KCNE2. Knockdown of KCNE2 decreased SERCA2a protein levels without affecting its transcription. Cardiac-specific overexpression of KCNE2 via adenovirus-associated virus 9 delivery restored SERCA2a expression, improved sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca²⁺ cycling, and ameliorated systolic and diastolic dysfunction in diabetic mice. Mechanistically, KCNE2 competitively inhibited the interaction between SERCA2a and the E3 ubiquitin ligase Smurf1, thereby suppressing Smurf1-mediated polyubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of SERCA2a. These results reveal a novel protective role of KCNE2 in diabetic hearts and propose KCNE2 upregulation as a potential therapeutic strategy for DCM. Upregulation of KCNE2 ameliorates cardiac dysfunction by reducing Smurf1-mediated SERCA2a polyubiquitination and degradation, and re-establishes SR Ca²⁺ homeostasis in DCM.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a common pediatric skin disorder with early onset and complex pathophysiology. Tape-strip sampling has enabled minimally invasive molecular profiling of skin lesions in children, yet approaches that verify and standardize stratum corneum (SC) sampling depth have remained limited.To evaluate the utility of imaging-guided tape stripping of SC, combined with transcriptomic and cytokine profiling, for characterizing molecular changes associated with disease severity and treatment response in pediatric AD.By coupling real-time imaging-guided tape stripping with RNA sequencing and cytokine profiling, we examined SC molecular signatures in healthy children (n = 15) and lesional and non-lesional skin of pediatric AD patients (n = 39) with heterogeneous disease severity, both at baseline and following 2 weeks of topical corticosteroid treatment.Using imaging-verified SC sampling, we identified robust molecular signatures, including > 1100 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between healthy and AD skin, and 144 DEGs between lesional and non-lesional AD skin (fold-change ≥2, FDR <0.1). Lesional skin showed enrichment of type 17- and type 2-associated immune pathways, tissue remodeling, and cell cycle control. Thirteen transcripts were significantly associated with clinical severity or itch, including CXCL8/IL8, CD300A, and FPR1. Most of these transcripts decreased after corticosteroid treatment, whereas CD300A and FCGR2B/CD32 remained elevated in a subset of children.These findings support the use of real-time imaging-guided tape stripping as a standardized, minimally invasive approach for verifying SC sampling depth and monitoring molecular changes associated with disease activity and treatment response in pediatric AD.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
rAAV2.5T was identified through directed evolution of an AAV capsid library in polarized human airway epithelium (HAE) cultured at an air-liquid interface (ALI). The capsid gene of rAAV2.5T is a chimera of the N-terminal unique region of AAV2 VP1 (VP1u) and the VP2 and VP3 regions of AAV5 with a single A581T substitution at the variable region (VR) VIII of the capsids. GPR108, a G protein-coupled receptor, is known as an essential host factor for the transduction of rAAV2 but not of rAAV5. Both AAV2 and AAV5 VP1u colocalized well with GPR108 and, to a lesser extent, with the trans -Golgi network (TGN). GPR108 knockout (KO) abolished rAAV2.5T transduction in both HeLa cells and HAE-ALI cultures. Remarkably, short-term treatment with doxorubicin (DOX) at 2 µM completely restored transduction, indicating that DOX can compensate for the loss of GPR108 function. DOX enhanced rAAV2.5T transduction by 50-100-fold in wild-type HAE-ALI cultures and by over 300-fold in the GPR108-deficient cultures. Mechanistic studies demonstrated that this enhancement resulted from altered intracellular trafficking that promoted efficient vector nuclear import, rather than increased vector internalization, proteasome inhibition, or activation of the DNA damage response. Importantly, we identified that the N-terminal 15 amino acids of AAV2 VP1u as the primary determinant of rAAV2.5T dependence on GPR108 for transduction. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that productive transduction of rAAV2.5T in polarized HAE cultures depends on GPR108-mediated intracellular trafficking that limits efficient nuclear entry, and that DOX can relieve this constraint by promoting efficient vector import.AAV2.5T is an airway-tropic vector with considerable promise for pulmonary gene therapy. We found that host factor GPR108 is required for rAAV2.5T trafficking from the TGN to the nucleus and that this step constitutes a major bottleneck to productive transduction in polarized HAE. In contrast, KIAA0319L (AAVR) plays a key role in AAV intracellular trafficking from the endosome to the TGN but not in internalization into polarized HAE during apical transduction. Transient treatment with low-dose doxorubicin (DOX, 2 µM) enhanced rAAV2.5T transduction in HAE by 50-100-fold through a significant increase in vector nuclear import. Notably, DOX can overcome the transduction deficit caused by GPR108 deficiency, but not that caused by AAVR deficiency. Mechanistically, the N-terminal 15 amino acids of the VP1u confer GPR108 dependence during rAAV2.5T apical transduction of polarized HAE. DOX bypasses this requirement by promoting efficient nuclear import without affecting vector internalization, inhibiting proteasomes, or inducing DNA damage response.
Resistance to cisplatin-based chemotherapy remains a major barrier to effective systemic treatment of bladder cancer, underscoring the need for predictive biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Here, we identify YAP1-K90la as a functional post-translational modification that causally drives cisplatin resistance. Across multi-center clinical cohorts, elevated YAP1-K90la levels were associated with poor therapeutic outcomes and outperformed total YAP1 expression in predicting cisplatin responsiveness. Mechanistically, YAP1-K90la enhances YAP1 nuclear localization and transcriptional activity to induce a FOSL1-dependent program that suppresses ferroptosis and promotes cell survival under cisplatin stress. Notably, AARS1 and SIRT1 function as the "writer" and "eraser" of YAP1-K90la, respectively, with SMURF2-mediated ubiquitination of SIRT1 stabilizing YAP1-K90la and driving resistance. Targeting YAP1-K90la using a cell-penetrating peptide restored ferroptotic vulnerability and sensitized bladder cancer cells to cisplatin. Collectively, these findings reveal the YAP1-K90la/FOSL1 pathway that drives cisplatin resistance and position YAP1-K90la as a clinically actionable biomarker and therapeutic target in bladder cancer.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a frequent complication of interstitial lung diseases (ILD) that worsens morbidity and mortality. Cigarette smoking has a detrimental effect on transplant-free survival of patients with ILD, including patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). However, smoking-related molecular alterations in patients with ILD-PH are not well understood. We performed analysis of 226 patients with ILD with and without PH (59.3% smokers, 40.3% with IPF) from the University of California, Davis cohort. Supporting previous findings, smokers with ILD had significantly shorter transplant-free survival than ILD non-smokers. Using a multivariable Cox regression model, we identified cigarette smoking as a significant independent predictor of mortality of patients with ILD. Smokers with IPF-PH have significantly lower diffusing capacity of the lungs for carbon monoxide (DLCO) compared to non-smokers. Transcriptomic analysis of whole blood of IPF-PH patients identified 616 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in smokers compared to non-smokers with most deregulated fat cell differentiation and protein ubiquitination pathways. Three DEGs belonging to these pathways (BBS1, BARD1, and SMURF1) showed moderate negative correlation with mean pulmonary arterial pressure (mPAP) in patients with IPF-PH. These data show that, in patients with IPF-PH, smoking is associated with reduced DLCO, and suggest that BBS1, BARD1, and SMURF1 could be considered as potential biomarkers of PH severity in smokers with IPF-PH.© 2026 The Author(s). Pulmonary Circulation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Pulmonary Vascular Research Institute.
The m6A demethylase FTO is implicated in epigenetic regulation, yet its specific mechanism in diabetic nephropathy (DN) remains unclear. This study investigates whether FTO mitigates DN progression by regulating the CYP2J3/Smurf2 axis. Mouse glomerular mesangial SV40-MES-13 cells were treated with high glucose (HG). Gene and protein expressions were assessed via qPCR and Western blot. MeRIP-qPCR and RIP assays evaluated m6A modifications and FTO-CYP2J3 mRNA binding. The CYP2J3-Smurf2 interaction was detected via immunofluorescence and co-Immunoprecipitation. Following FTO and CYP2J3 overexpression (OE), cell viability and fibrotic markers (p-Smad7/Smad7, TGF-β1, α-SMA, Fibronectin) were measured. In vivo validation was performed in DN mice, with evaluation of renal function alongside histological and immunohistochemical analyses. FTO was significantly downregulated in HG-treated cells. FTO directly interacted with CYP2J3 mRNA, and FTO OE decreased both the m6A modification level and the overall expression of CYP2J3. This reduction successfully suppressed the targeted binding between CYP2J3 and Smurf2. Functionally, FTO OE reversed HG-induced cell viability changes and inhibited the expression of downstream fibrotic proteins. Rescue experiments confirmed that CYP2J3 OE reversed the anti-fibrotic protective effects of FTO. In vivo, FTO OE significantly improved renal function parameters and attenuated pathological tissue injury and extracellular matrix accumulation in DN mice, effects which were counteracted by the co-overexpression of CYP2J3. FTO alleviates HG-induced renal fibrosis and overall DN progression by downregulating CYP2J3 via m6A modification, thereby reducing the CYP2J3-Smurf2 interaction.© 2026. The Author(s).
Acquired resistance to sorafenib remains a major obstacle to effectively treating advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Ferroptosis has emerged as a key mechanism influencing therapeutic response. EGF-containing fibulin extracellular matrix protein 1 (EFEMP1) contributes to sorafenib resistance in HCC cells by regulating ferroptosis, but its upstream regulatory mechanisms remain elusive.Potential E3 ligases for EFEMP1 were screened using the UbiBrowser database. Protein interactions were validated by co-immunoprecipitation. The effects of SMAD ubiquitination regulatory factor 1 (SMURF1) and EFEMP1 on sorafenib sensitivity were assessed via IC50, colony formation, apoptosis, and migration/invasion assays. Assessment of ferroptosis was based on measuring levels of ROS, MDA, and iron, along with the expression of SLC7A11 and GPX4. The in vivo efficacy was demonstrated employing a xenograft mouse model.SMURF1 could bind to and ubiquitinate EFEMP1, promoting its proteasomal degradation. Overexpression of SMURF1 in sorafenib-resistant HCC cells decreased EFEMP1 protein stability, reversed drug resistance, and suppressed malignant phenotypes, but these effects were rescued following EFEMP1 upregulation. Mechanistically, SMURF1-mediated EFEMP1 degradation activated ferroptosis, evidenced by increased ROS/MDA/iron and decreased SLC7A11/GPX4, which was also reversed by EFEMP1. In vivo, SMURF1 overexpression synergized with sorafenib to inhibit tumor growth, which was again reversed by EFEMP1.This study demonstrates a novel SMURF1-EFEMP1-ferroptosis regulatory axis, wherein SMURF1 overcomes sorafenib resistance by ubiquitinating and degrading EFEMP1 to relieve its inhibition on ferroptosis. Targeting this axis presents a promising strategy for combating acquired resistance in HCC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Dengue virus serotype-3 (DENV-3) infection remains a clinical problem for which no specific antiviral agent has yet been identified. The rhizome of Alpinia purpurata (red galangal) is rich in natural glycosides with antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. However, studies related to antidengue from A. purpurata using in vitro and in silico methods have not been widely conducted.This study aims to describe the anti-dengue mechanism of natural glycosides from A. purpurata rhizomes through their antiviral ability in vitro in Vero E6 cell cultures induced by DENV-3 and molecular docking to the DC-SIGN (CD209), CD300a, IL-1β, and SOD receptors.In vitro quantification of the viral replication inhibition value was performed using dengue virus antibodies (4G2) through ELISA. Meanwhile, molecular docking was performed to assess the binding affinities and complex interactions. Molecular dynamics simulations confirmed the stability of the docking complexes within the root mean square fluctuation value. Further screening was conducted using the pkCSM webserver to obtain the ADMET property values and the ProTox 3.0 webserver to obtain the toxicity prediction values.In vitro DENV-3-induced Vero E6 cell cultures induced with DENV-3 showed a viral replication inhibition value of 105.8107 µg/mL. Molecular docking experiments revealed that quercetin-3-O-rutinoside has the best potential to inhibit virus binding to DC-SIGN receptors (-7.8 kcal/mol), balance immune signals through CD300a regulation (-7.1 kcal/mol), suppress the production of IL-1β during cytokine storm (-7.2 kcal/mol), and activate endogenous antioxidant superoxide dismutase (-7.0 kcal/mol) compared with quercetin control. The validation of docking results through molecular dynamics proved that the quercetin-3-O-rutinoside complex has an RMSF value < 3 Å, which means that the complex tends to be stable. ADMET characteristics and toxicity also indicate that quercetin-3-O-rutinoside is safe for cells.This study reports the first evidence of the potential of natural glycosides from A. purpurata as antidengue agents in vitro and in silico through viral entry inhibition, cytokine storm modulation, and endogenous antioxidant activation to reduce free radicals in cells during infection. These findings support the potential of A. purpurata as an antiviral, anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant agent.
This study investigated the therapeutic potential and mechanism of Bushen Huoxue Acupuncture (BSHXA) against Alzheimer's disease (AD) using integrated in vivo and in vitro approaches. In eight-month-old SAMP8 mice, BSHXA treatment significantly improved cognitive performance, alleviated hippocampal neuronal damage and neuroinflammation, and downregulated LAPTM5 expression. Complementary in vitro experiments in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated BV2 microglia demonstrated that LAPTM5 knockdown reduced apoptosis, pathological protein accumulation, and pro-inflammatory M1 polarization. Through bioinformatic prediction and Co-IP assays, SMURF2 was identified as an E3 ubiquitin ligase directly interacting with LAPTM5 and promoting its ubiquitin-dependent degradation. SMURF2 overexpression in vitro reproduced protective effects similar to LAPTM5 knockdown. Importantly, in vivo knockdown of SMURF2 abolished the therapeutic benefits of BSHXA. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that BSHXA ameliorates AD progression by upregulating SMURF2, which promotes the ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of LAPTM5, thereby suppressing microglial M1 polarization, inhibiting neuroinflammatory responses, and attenuating AD pathologies. The SMURF2-LAPTM5 axis is established as a key mechanistic pathway underlying the neuroprotective effects of BSHXA.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Nonunion means failed fracture healing. Clusterin (CLU) was reported to be upregulated in callus tissues of nonunion patients. This study aims to investigate the roles of CLU in fracture healing and its function details. Our clinical data exhibited that CLU was increased in serum and callus tissues from nonunion patients, compared with control cases with normal healing after fracture. Experimental nonunion was induced by a transverse osteotomy of the femoral shaft combined with periosteum removing in rats, and X-ray showed that silencing of CLU facilitated fracture healing. Overexpression of CLU delayed mineralization and osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs), and deactivated Wnt/β-catenin signaling in vivo and in vitro. Immunoprecipitation-liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry assay revealed that CLU bound to DEAD-box helicase 5 (DDX5), which was required for activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling and lowly expressed in callus tissues from nonunion patients. IP results demonstrated that CLU acted as a chaperone to aggravate SMAD specific E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 (SMURF1)-mediated ubiquitination of DDX5. The regulation of DDX5 by CLU was abrogated when SMURF1 was silenced, and the effects of CLU on osteogenic differentiation and Wnt/β-catenin signaling was abolished by DDX5 overexpression. In conclusion, we demonstrate that CLU delayed fracture healing of rats and suppressed osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs by enhancing SMURF1-mediated DDX5 ubiquitination and degradation as a chaperone, and deactivating Wnt/β-catenin signaling. These findings may provide novel potential therapeutic targets fracture and nonunion in clinic.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs), including semaglutide, produce robust and sustained weight loss, yet the central mechanisms supporting their long-term efficacy remain incompletely understood. Agouti-related peptide (AgRP) neurons of the arcuate nucleus are classically activated by negative energy balance and promote feeding and energy conservation. Based on this framework, GLP-1RAs have generally been expected to suppress or bypass AgRP neuron activity. Here, we report that AgRP neuron activation is required for the full weight-lowering effects of GLP-1RAs in female mice. Across complementary AgRP loss-of-function models, disruption of AgRP circuit integrity reduced the full weight-lowering effects of GLP-1RAs. This requirement varies with sex, diet, and mode of AgRP disruption. We found that GLP-1RA treatment is associated with increased markers of neuronal activation, mitochondrial engagement, and synaptic remodeling in AgRP neurons. We further identify a glucocorticoid-to-AgRP signaling axis as an important pathway mediating this functional recruitment of AgRP neurons. Together, these findings reveal that contrary to prevailing assumptions, GLP-1RA engages AgRP neurons to sustain weight loss, highlighting an unexpected role for these neurons in coordinating adaptive metabolic responses to pharmacologically induced negative energy balance.
The timing of diagnosis is a critical factor that significantly impacts medical treatment and patient outcomes in individuals with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). The study primarily aimed to evaluate the diagnostic potential of four brain-specific biomarkers, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), neurofilament light chain (NfL), tau, and ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase-L1 (UCH-L1) to differentiate CT-confirmed ICH patients from healthy controls. Secondary aims included comparing results between younger (18-59 years) and older (≥60 years) ICH patients and exploring neuroendocrine hormone levels (adrenocorticotropic hormone [ACTH], agouti-related peptide [AgRP], ciliary neurotrophic factor [CNTF], and growth hormone [GH]) as potential diagnostic tools.Serum samples were collected from consecutive adult patients with CT-confirmed ICH diagnoses on days 1 (first 24 hours), 2, 3, 7, and 14 for biomarker analyses in a pilot study. A total of 71 patients and 30 healthy controls were included in the analysis.Serum concentrations of four brain-specific biomarkers demonstrated significant differentiation between ICH patients and controls at all assessed time points (Days 1, 2, 3, 7, and 14; all p<0.05), with similar significant elevations observed for NfL, tau, and UCH-L1. Day 1 GFAP levels were markedly higher in ICH patients (median 9598 pg/mL compared with healthy controls (39.2 pg/mL; p<0.05). No significant differences were found between young and aged adult ICH subgroups. Neuroendocrine ACTH and AgRP levels were significantly higher in ICH patients compared to controls on both measured time points (Days 1 and 7).The study's findings suggest that GFAP, NfL, tau, UCH-L1, ACTH, and AgRP exhibit potential as biomarkers for differentiating spontaneous ICH patients from healthy controls. However, given the limitations of the current study design, these findings should be interpreted with caution and cannot be expected to translate directly into clinical practice. Further research is needed to assess these biomarkers' roles in distinguishing stroke types and predicting ICH outcomes.© The Author(s) 2026.
Feeding behavior, which is crucial for all mammals, is regulated by a delicate equilibrium between the orexigenic and anorexigenic activities of hypothalamic neurons. This exquisite control of the neuropeptides that govern the feeding behavior could be a focal point in the pathogenesis of obesity. We reported that inactivation of C-terminal binding protein 2 (CtBP2), a transcriptional corepressor with metabolite-sensing capabilities, contributes to the pathogenesis of obesity in liver tissues and pancreatic β-cells. Here, we describe a transcriptional system regulated by CtBP2 in the hypothalamus. Our global mapping of CtBP2 binding sites using ChIP-seq combined with functional analyses revealed that CtBP2 functions as a corepressor for orexigenic neuropeptide promoters. In response to the metabolic abnormalities associated with obesity, CtBP2 undergoes allosteric inactivation and dissociates from these promoters, thereby resulting in the derepression of orexigenic neuropeptide expression. Consistently, the loss of CtBP2 in hypothalamic neurons in mice increases the expression of orexigenic neuropeptides, thus leading to increased feeding behavior. These findings highlight how obesity disrupts homeostatic mechanisms that normally maintain body weight within a healthy range.© 2026 The Author(s). The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42515672 is a review article
During pregnancy mammals increase their food intake to accommodate the elevated metabolic demands associated with fetal growth and development. However, the molecular and neural circuit mechanisms mediating increased feeding during pregnancy are largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that arcuate nucleus agouti-related peptide (AgRP) neurons are activated and pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons are inhibited during pregnancy in mice. These changes are acutely required for promoting hyperphagia during pregnancy as chemogenetic inhibition of AgRP neurons or activation of POMC neurons both reduced the feeding of pregnant mice to non-pregnant levels. Finally, we utilized single cell resolution spatial transcriptomics in the arcuate nucleus of non-pregnant and pregnant mice to characterize pregnancy-induced changes in the transcriptomic state of arcuate nucleus neurons, including significant changes in many neurons controlling energy homeostasis, including AgRP and POMC neurons. Together, these findings outline a circuit mechanism regulating increased feeding during pregnancy, providing important mechanistic insights related to conditions at the intersection of reproduction and metabolism.© 2026. The Author(s).
Glucocorticoids (GCs) are key regulators of energy homeostasis. Clinically, patients with Cushing's syndrome exhibit obesity, whereas adrenal insufficiency is associated with weight loss. However, circulating biomarkers reflecting GC action have not been established. Agouti-related protein (AgRP), an orexigenic neuropeptide, is upregulated by GC in the rodent hypothalamus. Here, we investigated whether AgRP is a surrogate marker of GC action through in vitro and in vivo experiments as well as a clinical study.The GC-dependent transcriptional regulation of AgRP was examined using reporter assays in neuronal BE(2)C cells. In animal experiments, the effects of GC on hypothalamic AgRP mRNA expression in C57BL/6J mice were examined. Circulating AgRP levels were also analyzed in nine patients with adrenal Cushing's syndrome before and after surgery.Two functional glucocorticoid-responsive elements (GREs) were identified in the human AgRP gene promoter, through which GC enhanced AgRP transcriptional activity. In mice, corticosterone (CORT) administration induced hyperphagia and increased hypothalamic AgRP mRNA levels, which positively correlated with plasma CORT levels. In patients with adrenal Cushing's syndrome, circulating AgRP levels significantly decreased after surgery (118.7 ± 40.3 vs. 37.7 ± 9.5 pg/mL, p < 0.01) and positively correlated with serum cortisol levels (r = 0.79, p < 0.01).These findings demonstrate that GC positively regulates AgRP across molecular, animal, and clinical settings, supporting the hypothesis that circulating AgRP may serve as a surrogate indicator of GC action. Further studies are warranted to establish its clinical applicability.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42439006
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42439005
An appropriate stress response is essential for properly responding to, coping with, and subsequently recovering from disturbing environmental stimuli. However, how the brain dynamically encodes the scalability of stress responses remains poorly understood. Here, we found that, GABAergic neurons in the arcuate nucleus (Arc, denoted as ArcGABA neurons) send direct inputs to corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH, denoted as PVHCRH neurons), the primary regulators of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Although PVHCRH neurons exhibited time-locked activation in response to various environmental stressors, both GABA release onto PVHCRH neurons and the activity of PVHCRH-projecting ArcGABA neurons were selectively reduced during exposure to prolonged, high-intensity stressors, but not following exposure to transient, low-intensity stressors. Notably, GABA release onto PVHCRH neurons was positively correlated with PVHCRH-projecting ArcGABA neuron activity, yet anticorrelated with PVHCRH neuronal activity in response to the same prolonged, high-intensity stressors. Selective silencing of PVHCRH- projecting ArcGABA neurons was sufficient to elevate HPA axis activity and stress levels, phenocopying the effect of direct of PVHCRH neuron activation. Conversely, selective activation of PVHCRH-projecting ArcGABA neurons reduced both HPA axis activity and stress levels, this effect was completely abolished by concurrent excitation of PVHCRH neurons. Molecular identity screening further revealed that these PVHCRH-projecting ArcGABA neurons are not subsets expressing agouti-related peptide (AgRP) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) markers. Collectively, these findings indicate that the non-AgRP/TH ArcGABA→PVHCRH neurocircuit serves as a critical neural substrate that directly encodes the scalability of stress responses to environmental stressors by modulating inhibitory GABA release in a stimulus intensity-dependent manner.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is a prevalent urological malignancy in men, with bone metastasis occurring in the majority of patients, often leading to poor clinical outcomes. Despite its clinical significance, reliable prognostic biomarkers for metastatic PCa remain limited. Immunogenic cell death (ICD), a regulated form of cell death, has emerged as a key modulator of the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) and a potential determinant of the immunotherapy response. However, the functional role of ICD in PCa progression, particularly in bone metastasis, remains poorly understood. This study aimed to elucidate the prognostic implications of ICD in PCa and develop an ICD-correlated signature (ICDCS) model to improve risk stratification and therapeutic decision-making.We developed the ICDCS model by integrating multi-omics data, including single-cell transcriptomics, and leveraging computational approaches, such as AddModuleScore, WGCNA, ssGSEA, and 10 machine-learning algorithms (with 98 combinations). Its diagnostic and prognostic performances were rigorously assessed in the training cohort and two independent validation sets, offering a clinically applicable tool for outcome prediction. To gain deeper insights into prognostic features, we performed functional enrichment, immune infiltration, and immunotherapy response analyses. Additionally, we evaluated differential responses to immunotherapy across risk subgroups and identified potential personalized therapeutics. Finally, the vitro experiment validation of the key genes further strengthened the reliability of our findings.By integrating single-cell and bulk transcriptomic datasets, we identified 49 ICD-related genes, including nine linked to disease-free survival. By using genes common to both the training and validation sets, the final 8 key genes (MBNL1, IRAK3, CD59, LPP, TACC1, PRNP, CDC42EP3, and MYADM) were incorporated into 98 machine-learning computational frameworks for constructing ICDCS, and the Enet [α = 0.3] algorithm was finally chosen to build the model. In vitro validation confirmed the reduced expression of all eight genes in PCa cells, which was consistent with their putative protective roles. The ICDCS model exhibited robust prognostic accuracy for both the clinical outcomes and pathological features. Risk stratification based on ICDCS scores revealed distinct biological pathways, mutational profiles, and TIME characteristics between subgroups. Notably, patients in the high-risk subgroup showed an enhanced responsiveness to immunotherapy.In this study, we developed an ICDCS for PCa bone metastases. This model provides a valuable tool for characterizing TIME in metastatic PCa and demonstrates significant clinical utility for prognostic assessment and prediction of immunotherapy response.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The α 1A-adrenergic receptor, encoded by ADRA1A, couples to heterotrimeric Gq/11 proteins, promoting intracellular calcium mobilization and PKC activation. In human hepatocytes, it regulates acute metabolic responses and impacts gene expression. Although fundamental hepatic functions of ADRA1A have been described, its role in hepatocellular carcinoma remains elusive. We hypothesized that ADRA1A expressed in liver cancer tissue is part of a signaling repertoire potentially linked to patient outcomes. We analyzed The Cancer Genome Atlas liver cancer datasets and found ADRA1A gene deletion in 6% of patients and more prolonged survival of patients with high ADRA1A expression. Thus, we aimed to identify ADRA1A-signaling partners equally linked to more prolonged patient survival. Through a rational data mining strategy, based on the identification of the signaling repertoire linked to ADRA1A expression and statistical correlation with patient survival, we identified a transcriptional signature integrated by the adrenoceptor and five candidate signaling companions including two RhoGEFs: FGD4 and FARP2, a phospholipid phosphatase: PLPP6, a RabGAP: TBC1D2B, and an RTK adaptor: BAIAP2. Additionally, highly co-expressed GPCRs such as ACKR2, DRD1, ADRA1B, GPR17, S1PR1, and GPR182, and RTKs like KDR and TEK similarly integrated transcriptional signatures with ADRA1A that correlated with more prolonged survival. Most ADRA1A candidate signaling partners were well-co-expressed with hepatocyte markers, suggesting that integrating ADRA1A-associated signaling networks could improve liver cancer patients' prognosis.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40203-026-00706-4.© The Author(s) 2026.
Regulator of G protein signaling 5 (RGS5) modulates G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling and is markedly upregulated in angiogenesis. However, its function in endothelial cells and its role in mediating postnatal angiogenesis remain unclear. The purpose of this study is to define the role of endothelial RGS5 in regulating VEGF signaling and angiogenesis.In a hindlimb ischemia model, we found impaired postnatal angiogenesis, reduced perfusion recovery, and increased rates of auto-amputation in mice with either global or endothelial-specific deletion of Rgs5. Rgs5 deficiency in ECs led to reduced VEGFR2 phosphorylation at Tyr1175 and its downstream signaling pathways. This was accompanied by increased activity of the tyrosine phosphatase, SHP-1, which dephosphorylates and inactivates VEGFR2. In vitro, Rgs5-deficient ECs exhibited diminished migration, increased apoptosis, and reduced viability in response to VEGF stimulation. These findings indicate that RGS5 is essential for maintaining VEGF-mediated angiogenic signaling through inhibition of SHP-1 activity.Endothelial RGS5 is a critical regulator of VEGF signaling and postnatal angiogenesis. By attenuating SHP-1-mediated dephosphorylation of VEGFR2, RGS5 preserves VEGF signaling and angiogenesis. Targeting the RGS5-SHP-1 axis may be a useful therapeutic strategy for improving angiogenesis in response to ischemia.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury (HIRI) is a frequent and severe complication after liver transplantation and hepatectomy, driven by sterile inflammation and lacking effective therapies. Regulator of G-protein signaling 16 (RGS16) is an inflammatory modulator, but its role in HIRI remains unclear. We found that RGS16 expression was markedly increased in the livers of post-hepatectomy patients and positively correlated with neutrophil extracellular trap formation (NETosis). Using hepatocyte-specific Rgs16 knockout and transgenic mouse models, we demonstrated that Rgs16 deficiency attenuated hepatic inflammation and apoptosis after HIRI, whereas Rgs16 overexpression significantly exacerbated liver injury. Integrated multi-omics analyses, including RNA-seq, MeRIP-seq, and mass spectrometry, identified C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CXCL1) as a key downstream effector of RGS16. Mechanistically, RGS16 competitively binds YTH domain family protein 3 (YTHDF3), displacing poly(A)-nuclease deadenylation complex subunit 3 (PAN3) and stabilizing m6A-modified Cxcl1 mRNA, thereby enhancing CXCL1 expression. Elevated CXCL1 promotes hepatocyte apoptosis and inflammation through C-X-C chemokine receptor 2 (CXCR2) and drives neutrophil recruitment and NETosis. Pharmacological inhibition of CXCL1 or degradation of NETs with DNase I significantly alleviated RGS16-induced liver injury. Collectively, RGS16 aggravates HIRI by amplifying hepatocyte-intrinsic CXCL1-CXCR2 signaling and CXCL1-mediated neutrophil recruitment and NETosis, suggesting RGS16 and its downstream pathways as potential therapeutic targets for HIRI.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
In the occurrence and progression of breast cancer, tumor angiogenesis and metastasis play a central role. This indicates that anti-angiogenesis holds a significant position in anti-tumor therapy. Demethoxycurcumin is a bioactive diarylheptanoid compound extracted from Curcuma longa, a herb that serves both as food and medicine. As a member of the curcuminoid family, it exhibits anti-angiogenic and anti-tumor characteristics. But, the understanding of its potential mechanisms of action remains incomplete. Our experiments demonstrated that demethoxycurcumin significantly inhibited tumor growth (Ki67) and microvascular density (CD31) in the 4T1 breast cancer mouse model. Our in vitro experiments revealed that demethoxycurcumin inhibits the proliferation, migration, and angiogenesis of HUVECs in a dose-dependent manner. The underlying mechanism is characterized by a reduction in RGS5 expression in endothelial cells that proliferate as a consequence of tumor pathological features. The efficacy of high doses of demethoxycurcumin could be reversed by overexpression of RGS5, indicating that the effect of demethoxycurcumin is mediated through RGS5. These findings confirm that RGS5 is a key target for demethoxycurcumin in inhibiting angiogenesis in breast cancer, elucidating its anti-tumor mechanisms and providing new references for future research.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The roles of mitochondrial genes in the development of thyroid cancer (TC) and the associated tumor microenvironment remain to be elucidated. Based on 64 dysregulated mitochondrial genes, unsupervised consensus clustering analysis was performed using TC datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas and integrated gene expression databases. A dysregulated mitochondrial-based prognostic model was constructed using machine learning. Fourteen prognostic genes were identified, and the correlation between semaphorin 7A (SEMA7A) and immune cell infiltration was validated. The functions of SEMA7A were investigated through plate cloning, scratch wound healing, and Transwell invasion assays. This study constructed a prognostic model for predicting overall survival by identifying 14 mitochondrial dysregulated-based prognostic genes (APOD, ATP2C2, FAM111B, GJB4, GZMA, HHIPL2, IFIT3, IL18, MCEMP1, PRRT4, RGS16, SEMA7A, SLC2A3, and TDRD9). Its effectiveness was validated in an independent cohort. The model accurately predicted OS across cancer stages. SEMA7A expression was significantly upregulated in papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) tissues and PTC cell lines. Functional experiments showed that SEMA7A promoted TC progression, including cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Compared with the SEMA7A low-expression group, the high-expression group showed a larger FOXP3+ regulatory T cell (Treg) population. Although a higher ratio of SEMA7A + CD8-positive cells/SEMA7A + FOXP3-positive cells was observed, increased Treg abundance is known to shift the immune context toward a less cytotoxic and more exhausted state. Thus, oncogenic SEMA7A in TC promotes malignant functions in TC cells and may play an important role in shaping the immunosuppressive microenvironment. Consequently, our mitochondrial dysregulation-based prognostic risk model for TC may offer good clinical application value.© the author(s).
Excessive proliferation of crypt stem cells represents a crucial hallmark in colorectal tumorigenesis. G protein-coupled receptor 182 (GPR182), a recently partially "deorphanized" G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), has emerged as a pivotal modulator in gastrointestinal tumors. However, its roles and underlying mechanism in colorectal tumors remain unclear, primarily due to the absence of identified endogenous ligands. In this study, we identified Insulin like growth factor binding protein 5 (IGFBP5) as a novel endogenous ligand for GPR182. GPR182 mRNA and protein expression levels were significantly up-regulated in cancer stem cells of colorectal tissues or cell lines. Functional assays revealed that IGFBP5 inhibited growth of intestinal crypt organoids and cancer stem cell spheres. In APCMin/+ mice, IGFBP5 administration attenuated the tumor development while co-administration of GPR182 knockdown adeno-associated virus (AAV) abrogated this phenotype. Consistently, systemic IGFBP5 knockout markedly accelerated tumorigenesis and shortened survival time in APCMin/+ mice. Mechanistic investigations demonstrated that IGFBP5's engagement with GPR182 induced inhibition of AKT/P70S6K pathway via Protein kinase C alpha (PKCα) dephosphorylation. Together, these findings elucidate the suppressive role of IGFBP5 in colorectal cancer (CRC) stem cells via GPR182/PKCα/AKT/P70S6K axis, highlighting IGFBP5 implementation a promising strategy for CRC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Early-life exposure to fine particulate matter (PM₂.₅) is increasingly implicated in the developmental origins of chronic respiratory diseases; however, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly defined. This study employed Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) to investigate transcriptomic alterations associated with intrauterine and early neonatal PM₂.₅ exposure in the developing murine lung. Microarray data (GSE104656) spanning embryonic (E14.5, E18.5) and postnatal (P40) stages were processed using robust normalization and variance filtering to construct a scale-free co-expression network. Principal component analysis revealed that developmental maturation was the primary driver of global transcriptional variation, with no distinct separation attributable to PM₂.₅ exposure. WGCNA identified biologically relevant gene modules involved in immune and metabolic processes as well as cell cycle regulation, that exhibited strong correlations with developmental progression. Functional enrichment analysis confirmed significant involvement in immune activation, leukocyte adhesion, DNA replication, and chromosomal organisation. Although differential expression analysis under stringent thresholds did not detect significant PM₂.₅-responsive genes, integrative network analysis identified eleven exposure-associated genes embedded within key modules. These genes, including Vnn1, Gprc6a, Mfap1a, Rgs16, and Fpr1, represent highly connected hub nodes implicated in oxidative stress regulation, extracellular matrix remodelling, metabolic signalling, and immune modulation. It was concluded that early-life PM₂.₅ exposure did not globally disrupt lung transcriptomic architecture but selectively perturbs critical hub genes within developmental networks. This targeted sub-network vulnerability provided a mechanistic basis for the developmental programming of COPD susceptibility, linking early environmental insults to long-term respiratory dysfunction.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Sepsis-induced myocardial injury (SIM) is a common complication of sepsis that can cause high morbidity and mortality. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying SIM have still not been fully elucidated. Ferroptosis is a novel form of cell death associated with oxidative stress and is characterised by elevated iron levels. In the present study, mouse cardiomyocytes (H9c2 cells) and C57BL/6 mice were treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to establish an in vitro and an in vivo model of SIM, respectively. RNF113A, a member of the RING finger protein (RNF) family with E3 ligase activity, was downregulated in H9c2 cells treated with LPS compared to untreated cells. Overexpression of RNF113A reduced LPS-induced cardiac injury and ferroptosis both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, RNF113A directly targets Keap1 and promotes its ubiquitination and degradation. This results in the activation of Nrf2 signaling. Our findings suggest that RNF113A directly targets Keap1 to activate Nrf2 signalling, which plays an essential role in the pathogenesis of SIM.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Cellular adaptation to hypoxia is essential for maintaining function and survival. While most hypoxic responss are mediated by hypoxia‑inducible factor signaling, the oxygen‑dependent ADO-RGS (2‑Aminoethanethiol-Dioxygenase-Regulator of G‑Protein Signaling) pathway has recently been implicated in oxygen‑sensitive regulation of G‑protein signaling. The kidneys are particularly vulnerable to hypoxia, a major contributor to chronic kidney disease. Because a systematic characterization of ADO and its RGS substrates across renal cell types is lacking, this study examined their spatial expression patterns in mouse and human kidneys under (patho)physiological conditions. Ado and Rgs4, Rgs5, and Rgs16 expression was mapped in mouse kidney sections under normoxic, hypoxic, and fibrotic conditions using RNAscope™, complemented by RT‑qPCR. Mouse data were compared with ADO-RGS expression patterns in human biopsies. Ado expression was uniform across renal regions, cell types, and conditions. Besides its baseline presence in vascular cells, Rgs4 showed strong induction in cortical and outer medullary fibroblasts during anemia. It was also upregulated in fibroblasts and proximal tubules within fibrotic lesions. Rgs5 was highly expressed in vascular structures and demonstrated hypoxia‑induced upregulation in medullary fibroblasts and vasa recta, with moderate induction under fibrotic conditions. Tubular epithelial expression also occurred during fibrosis. Rgs16 was mostly expressed in Pdgfrb⁺ interstitial cells in fibrotic kidneys. Human kidney-disease biopsies also displayed distinct RGS4 and RGS5 expression patterns. Overall, these findings suggest that while ADO is consistently present, the functional impact of ADO-RGS signaling may be driven by dynamic, cell‑type‑specific regulation of RGS genes during acute and chronic hypoxic stress.© 2026. The Author(s).
Historically, research on chylomicron entry into intestinal lymphatic vessels (lacteals) has been polarized between paracellular and transcellular transport models. In this issue of the JCI, Sun et al. identified GPR182 as a lipoprotein receptor in lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs), profoundly advancing our understanding of intestinal lipid absorption. They observed poor fat absorption in GPR182-deficient mice and demonstrated the role of GPR182 in transporting chylomicrons across the LECs into the lacteal lumen. This discovery establishes a molecular basis for transcellular transport of chylomicrons, challenging the traditional view that lacteal lipid entry is predominantly paracellular. By linking receptor-mediated uptake to impaired fat absorption and protection against fat-induced obesity and steatosis, this study expands the biological and translational implications of lacteal transport. Consequently, rather than favoring a single model, future research should investigate the integration of both paracellular and transcellular transport models in vivo.
Early-life maternal high-saturated fat (HSF) exposure increases offspring susceptibility to type 2 diabetes, but mechanisms linking it to β-cell dysfunction remain poorly defined. This study aimed to identify key miRNAs mediating this programming and evaluate their therapeutic potential. Female mice were fed control, high-lard, or high-palm oil diets during gestation and lactation. Islets from adult male offspring were isolated for miRNA sequencing to identify candidates. β-cell-specific overexpression of miR-1a-3p was achieved via AAV8-Ins1 vector. Proteomics analysis was performed to screen its downstream targets. miR-1a-3p was the only miRNA showing interactive effects between maternal and offspring diets. It was upregulated in male offspring islets, further exacerbated by late-adulthood HFD re-exposure. Functionally, miR-1a-3p overexpression increased fasting glucose, impaired glucose and insulin tolerance, reduced ATP production and mitochondrial membrane potential, without affecting apoptosis. NBR1 was confirmed as a direct target of miR-1a-3p. NBR1 silencing mimicked miR-1a-3p's detrimental effects on β-cell mitochondria and function. Inhibition of miR-1a-3p alleviated HFD-induced β-cell dysfunction. miR-1a-3p mediates β-cell dysfunction programmed by early-life maternal HSF exposure through targeting NBR1 and disrupting mitochondrial function, representing a potential therapeutic strategy for preventing type 2 diabetes transmission.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study examined the influence of controlled temperature-time conditions on early biochemical deterioration of palm oil extracted from intact fruits. A broad thermal matrix (25-95 °C; 1-48 h) was applied to quantify changes in extractable oil recovery, free fatty acids, iodine value, carotenoids, conjugated dienes, conjugated trienes, fatty acid composition, and FTIR spectral characteristics. Increasing temperature and duration significantly reduced measured free fatty acid levels and decreased the calculated iodine value, while inducing predictable oxidation and relative changes in fatty acid composition. FTIR spectra indicated preservation of the triacylglycerol backbone, with gradual intensity changes consistent with mild thermoxidative modification. FTIR-PLSR models demonstrated analyte-dependent predictive performance, with the strongest prediction observed for extractable oil recovery (Q2 = 0.727; RPD = 1.94) and moderate predictive capability for free fatty acids (Q2 = 0.577; RPD = 1.56), while iodine value, carotenoids, conjugated dienes, and conjugated trienes showed limited predictive performance. These findings provide insight into thermal degradation pathways and suggest the potential of FTIR-PLSR as a rapid screening approach for evaluating the quality of extracted palm oil during post-harvest handling.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Oil palm (Elaeis guineensis Jacq.) is the world's leading vegetable oil crop in terms of oil production, with about 23 million ha of plantations. Maintenance of such a considerable surface area requires replanting of millions oil palm seedlings each year. Yet, producing oil palm germinated seeds remains slow and difficult, due to morphological and physical dormancies. Different techniques are being used to improve germination rates, amongst which the dry heat treatment is the most popular. However, the germination rate remains variable and depends on palm crosses, environmental conditions and most importantly, seed storage duration. To better understand biochemical events in germination and how seed ageing affects them, we conducted a metabolomics analysis of oil palm seeds during germination, using NMR and GC-MS techniques. We characterized metabolic changes in different tissues (embryo, endosperm, and haustorium) at several germination stages (from day 0 to 116), using seeds stored for either 4 or 16 months. As expected, germination was associated with early protein remobilization, sugar interconversions, stored lipid remobilization and biosyntheses to support early heterotrophic growth. Multivariate analyses show that metabolic trajectories were strongly influenced by both time (development stage) and storage duration. Storage duration affected lipid and protein metabolism differentially in embryo and endosperm. Furthermore, seeds that did not germinate also had tissue-specific metabolic patterns depending on whether they were stored for 4 or 16 months, suggesting that metabolic bottlenecks responsible for the developmental arrest changed with storage duration.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
This study evaluated the effects of pelleting and β-mannanase supplementation on nutrient digestibility and metabolizable energy of four alternative feed ingredients distillers dried grains with solubles (DDGS), copra meal, palm kernel meal (PKM), and jatropha meal (JM) using precision-fed Single Comb White Leghorn roosters. Two independent precision-fed rooster assays were conducted. In Experiment 1, each ingredient was offered in mash form or as pellets produced under controlled conditions (<65 °C) to minimize heat-induced nutrient damage. In Experiment 2, mash samples were supplemented with β-mannanase (0.25% as-fed basis). Apparent dry matter digestibility, nitrogen retention, and metabolizable energy values, including apparent metabolizable energy (AME), nitrogen-corrected AME (AMEn), true metabolizable energy (TME), and nitrogen-corrected TME (TMEn), were determined. Pelleting improved dry matter digestibility, nitrogen retention, and all metabolizable energy parameters across ingredients (p < 0.05), with more pronounced responses observed in DDGS and jatropha meal. β-mannanase supplementation also enhanced nutrient utilization and energy utilization, particularly in copra meal and palm kernel meal, which are rich in β-mannan-containing non-starch polysaccharides. Overall, the results demonstrate that both pelleting and β-mannanase supplementation can improve the nutritional value of fibrous alternative feed ingredients, thereby supporting their more efficient use in poultry diets.Copyright: © 2026 Keohavong et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565029 is a review article
The study aimed to develop polymeric films incorporating açaí oil for potential applications in food packaging, analyzing physicochemical, mechanical, and antifungal properties. The açaí palm tree, native to the Amazon region, is recognized for its oil rich in bioactive compounds, with beneficial health properties, including antimicrobial and antifungal activity. The preparation process involved dissolving sodium alginate in distilled water, mixing with açaí oil, adding glycerol and dihydrate calcium chloride, followed by solution deposition onto Petri dishes and drying in an oven. The films were evaluated for continuity, homogeneity, transparency, flexibility, moisture content, solubility, thickness, and water vapor permeability. Results indicated that the formulated films were suitable, with good continuity, homogeneity, and flexibility. Moisture content varied between 10.59% and 44.01%, correlating with glycerol concentration. Water solubility ranged from 4.89% to 52.94%, with positive quadratic effects of alginate concentration and linear effects of glycerol and açaí oil concentration. Higher glycerol concentrations increased moisture content, while higher açaí oil concentrations resulted in lower moisture content. Four formulations exhibited good antifungal parameters against the Curvularia fungus. In summary, polymeric films incorporated with açaí oil showed promise for applications in food packaging, with suitable physicochemical properties and antifungal action influenced by component concentration.
Integrating multiple waste streams into high-value energy carriers represents an important strategy for advancing circular economy principles. This study investigates the synergistic co-hydrothermal carbonization (co-HTC) of oil palm empty fruit bunches (EFB) using two chemically distinct waste-derived reactive media: OH-active bilimbi juice and N-functionalizing tofu wastewater. HTC was conducted at 180 and 210 °C to elucidate how the chemistry of these liquid wastes governs hydrochar evolution and energy recovery. Physicochemical characterization (SEM-EDX, BET, FTIR), thermogravimetric combustion analysis, and molecular modeling (HyperChem) were employed to reveal the underlying transformation mechanisms. The results demonstrated that the OH-active medium, rich in organic acids, promoted catalytic dehydration, decarboxylation, and carbon densification, resulting in hydrochars with enhanced thermal stability and combustion characteristics approaching those of sub-bituminous coal. In contrast, the amino acid-rich tofu wastewater facilitated in situ nitrogen incorporation and secondary char formation, yielding hydrochars with superior combustion reactivity and the highest higher heating value of 24.18 MJ kg-1. The highest energy densification ratio (1.43) and energy yield (103.01%) obtained for TR180 further indicate a synergistic transfer of energy-rich compounds from the liquid phase to the hydrochar matrix during co-HTC. Molecular analysis revealed that nitrogen functionalization reduced the HOMO-LUMO energy gap, thereby enhancing electronic reactivity and combustion performance, whereas acidic media favored the formation of more condensed aromatic structures with improved thermal resistance. These findings demonstrate that waste-derived reactive media can serve not only as process water substitutes but also as active chemical agents for selectively engineering hydrochar properties toward either stability or reactivity-oriented solid fuels. The proposed approach offers a sustainable pathway for the simultaneous valorization of agricultural residues and food-processing effluents.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
This study reports the optimization of a heterogeneous green catalyst derived from banana pseudostem ash (BPSA) of Musa paradisiaca var. Awak for biodiesel synthesis from crude palm oil (CPO). The catalyst was prepared by calcination at 600, 700, and 800 °C, characterized using standard analytical techniques, and applied in transesterification. Process optimization examined methanol to oil molar ratio (1:4-1:12), catalyst loading, and reaction time. Excess molar ratio (>1:6) reduced yield due to phase separation and limited catalyst-reactant contact. Optimal conditions 2 wt% catalyst, 1:6 oil to methanol ratio, and 120 min gave a maximum FAME yield of 99.84 wt%. GC MS identified major components as methyl oleate (59.48%), methyl palmitate (29.65%), methyl stearate (6.90%), methyl linoleate (2.27%), and methyl myristate (1.70%). The biodiesel showed density 866 kg m⁻³, kinematic viscosity 3.26 cSt, and cetane number 63.6, meeting SNI 7182:2015 and ASTM D6751 standards. BPSA from Musa paradisiaca var. Awak proves a promising, sustainable, and cost effective heterogeneous catalyst for green biodiesel production from CPO. • Musa paradisiaca var. Awak • Method for preparation and characterizing of Green Catalysts •Optimization and sustainability.© 2026 The Authors.
With the globalization of human activities, invasions of non-native organisms into new habitats have increased. The masked palm civet (Paguma larvata) is an invasive alien species in Japan, with previous mitochondrial DNA studies indicating that Taiwan might be the source of the Japanese population. In addition, nuclear microsatellite data have shown a large genetic difference between the populations on Honshu and Shikoku islands. To further clarify the migration and expansion histories of this species, we analyzed the population genetics of P. larvata in Japan and Taiwan by using genome-wide SNP (single nucleotide polymorphism) data generated through ddRAD-seq. We found the previously unstudied population in western Honshu to be genetically closely related to that in central Honshu, with low genetic diversity due to a recent range expansion. The populations in Japan were genetically differentiated among Shikoku, western and central Honshu, and eastern Honshu. By admixture analysis, the Honshu and Shikoku populations showed affinity with one or two of them. Overall, the genetic diversity in Japan was lower than that in Taiwan, suggesting a founder effect during introduction from Taiwan. Within Japan, relatively higher variation in the eastern Honshu (especially Gunma Prefecture) populations indicated multiple introductions and/or different genetic lineages from those in Taiwan. Our study provides insights into the introduction history and migration routes of this alien species that can enhance management plans.
Protein S-palmitoylation is a dynamic and reversible post-translational modification (PTM) that governs diverse cellular processes, yet its study remains constrained by the indirect and ensemble-averaging nature of classical biochemical assays. Here, we report a nanopore-based platform, PALM-Scan (palmitoylation analysis via label-free monitoring and signature capture on nanopore) that directly transduces physicochemical signatures of S-palmitoylated peptides into digital electrical signals. Using an engineered Mycobacterium smegmatis porin A (M2-MspA) nanopore, PALM-Scan enables sequence-independent identification of S-palmitoylation and simultaneously differentiates S-palmitoylation from other cysteine-directed PTMs, including S-nitrosylation and S-glutathionylation, without probes or enrichment. We further demonstrate its translational potential by successfully detecting and distinguishing S-palmitoylated subpopulations of disease-relevant biomarkers, including mouse beclin-1 (BECN1)- and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-derived peptides, in complex mixtures with minimal sample input. In summary, by integrating label-free operation, single-molecule resolution, and multiplex discrimination, PALM-Scan provides a transformative tool for interrogating S-palmitoylation dynamics in both basic research and biomedical applications.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study aims to demonstrate the efficacy of adalimumab (ADA) in reducing overall treatment burden in a cohort of patients with idiopathic multifocal choroiditis (MFC)/punctate inner choroidopathy (PIC).This is a retrospective case series of eyes classified as having idiopathic MFC/PIC using standard multi-modal imaging, including color fundus photography, fundus autofluorescence, and spectral-domain optical coherence tomography. LogMAR best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), doses of prednisone and other immunomodulatory therapies (IMT), injections of corticosteroids or anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (anti-VEGF), and breakthrough flares were collected at baseline (initiation of ADA), 12 months from baseline, and last follow-up.Twenty-five patients (21 females, 41 eyes) were included. Mean follow-up time was 51.4 ± 35.2 months (range 9.2-126.6). Mean LogMAR BCVA was 0.35 ± 0.48 at baseline and 0.34 ± 0.55 at last follow-up (p > 0.5). Mean prednisone dosage decreased significantly from 15.76 ± 18.69 mg/day at baseline to 0.23 ± 1.1 mg/day at the last follow-up (p < 0.0001). Thirty eyes received steroid or anti-VEGF injections at baseline; this decreased to one at the last follow-up (p < 0.0001). Similarly, eight patients received other IMT at baseline, but only one continued to receive supplemental IMT at the last follow-up (p < 0.05) at a decreased dosage. Six patients experienced disease flare-up within the first 12 months of treatment, and three patients flared between 12 months and last follow-up.Adalimumab therapy demonstrated a significant steroid-sparing effect in addition to vision preservation and reduction in both anti-VEGF injections and IMT.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566261 is a review article
The molecular engineering of the A-D-A'-D-A type non-fullerene acceptors (NFAs) at the core has generated a diverse of high-performance acceptor materials. Recently, transformation of the benzothiadiazole (BT) core to benzimidazole (Im), which is a widely used unit in constructing functional framework, cluster or carbene based materials, has been explored with a series of Im-based NFAs, which displayed attractive optoelectronic properties. However, the more general synthetic route remains necessary for further exploration of this kind of NFAs. Herein, we applied the typical approach for Im structures by using o-benzoquinone and aldehyde in the presence of ammonium acetate yielding the target NFAs effectively, and three new Im-based acceptors were obtained by adjusting the hanging groups with benzene, 4-fluorobenzene and 3.5-difluorobenzene. These NFAs displayed tunable molecular dipole moments, UV-vis absorption, and frontier energy levels. When used as the guest acceptor in the PM6:BTP-eC9 based organic solar cells, the fluorinated NFAs can effectively improve the device efficiency to 19.48%, which is significantly higher than 18.42% of the binary control and also among top efficiencies for cells using Im-based NFAs. This work provides an effective protocol for Im-based NFAs with tunable molecular scaffolds and properties, which can be of great potential for optoelectronics.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) exhibits heterogeneous responses to immune checkpoint blockade, highlighting the need to define tumor-intrinsic mechanisms driving resistance to PD-L1 inhibition. Here, we identified GTP-binding protein overexpressed in skeletal muscle (GEM) as a tumor cell-intrinsic regulator associated with poor response to anti-PD-L1 therapy in ESCC. GEM expression in tumor cells drove tumor-associated macrophage (TAM)-mediated immunosuppression, leading to reduced CD8⁺ T cell infiltration and impaired cytotoxic function. Mechanistically, GEM induced SERPINE1 expression that was secreted and acted on macrophage LRP1 to drive alternative activation and suppress antitumor immunity. GEM enhanced SERPINE1 expression through a MKK3-RACK1-p38-MEF2A cascade. GEM signaling was reinforced by a metabolically coupled feedback mechanism. Macrophages exposed to GEM-high tumor cells promoted tumor cell glycolysis and lactate production, which drove AARS1-dependent lactylation of GEM and strengthened its interaction with RACK1 to amplify downstream signaling. Disruption of the SERPINE1-LRP1 axis restored CD8⁺ T cell activity and enhanced response to PD-L1 blockade in vivo. Pharmacological perturbation of GEM-dependent signaling remodeled the tumor immune microenvironment and improved responses to PD-L1 blockade. Together, these findings define a GEM-SERPINE1-LRP1 signaling axis that drives macrophage-mediated immune suppression and suggest that targeting this pathway may enhance the efficacy of PD-L1 blockade in ESCC.
Fabry disease (FD), one of the most prevalent lysosomal storage disorders in Europe, is caused by mutations in the GLA gene leading to deficient α-galactosidase A activity with lysosomal accumulation of globotriaosylceramide (Gb3). Enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) and pharmacological chaperone therapy (PCT) are used in the clinic to treat FD but are limited in efficacy, underscoring the need for alternative therapeutic strategies. Inhibiting α-1,4-galactosyltransferase (A4GALT), the glycosyltransferase responsible for Gb3 biosynthesis, represents an attractive strategy. Here, we reveal the molecular mechanism of human A4GALT at atomic detail using QM/MM simulations. We reveal a conformational rearrangement involving a 310-helix that stabilizes the donor substrate and promotes a front-face SNi-like catalytic mechanism, in which a short-lived oxocarbenium-ion intermediate forms. The simulations informed the synthesis of a panel of glycosylceramide substrate analogues. Among these, AdaGalCer (Ada = adamantyl) proved able to reduce Gb3 production in fibroblasts while simultaneously being converted by A4GALT into the galactosylated product AdaGb2. These results provide a clear path towards inhibiting A4GALT, paving the way for potential new and effective FD therapeutics.© 2026 The Author(s). Angewandte Chemie International Edition published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Coagulation and inflammation play crucial roles in the initiation and progression of cancer, and they exhibit a synergistic effect. However, a hematological biomarker and risk model based on coagulation and inflammatory have not yet been established in breast cancer.This study retrospectively analyzed 749 breast cancer patients at our institution. We established a coagulation-inflammation-related genes (CIRGs) risk model using the TCGA-BRCA dataset as the training set and GEO datasets (GSE20685, GSE21653) as the testing sets. Immunohistochemical staining was performed on tumor tissues to validate protein-level expression of key genes. Additionally, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was applied to investigate the expression of the CIRGs and explore intercellular communication differences.All enrolled cases were stratified by median systemic coagulation-inflammation index (SCI) into high- and low-SCI groups. The low-SCI group had longer disease-free survival and overall survival than the high-SCI group, with higher SCI levels noted in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). SCI exhibited a linear correlation with survival outcomes and superior survival predictive performance compared to the platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio. LASSO regression selected 21 prognosis-related CIRGs to construct a prognostic model, which showed robust predictive efficacy across three datasets. Tumor microenvironment analysis indicated that the high-risk group was associated with immune suppression. Drug sensitivity analysis identified 6 potential candidate drugs for low- and high-risk groups. Four hub genes (ABCA1, IL1R1, SERPINE1, and HPN) were identified among CIRGs, showing strong correlations with tumor stage and prognosis. scRNA-seq analysis revealed high expression of the CIRGs in myeloid, endothelial, and epithelial cells, with higher AUCell scores of the CIRGs in TNBC. Significant intercellular communication differences were observed between the two risk groups, especially in fibroblast/endothelial cell-to-T/B cell signaling pathways.This study deeply explores the roles and clinical significance of coagulation and inflammation in breast cancer. The hematological indicator SCI and the CIRGs risk model can serve as reliable biomarkers for breast cancer personalized treatment.Copyright © 2026 Li, Gao, Xia, Wang, Su, Chen, Ba, Jia, Li, Wang and Xiao.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42554381
To evaluate serum adalimumab (ADA) levels in patients with non-infectious uveitis (NIU), identify factors associated with drug exposure-including anti-adalimumab antibodies (AAA)-and assess their relationship with control of intraocular inflammation.This retrospective, observational, single-center study included patients with NIU treated with ADA who underwent at least one proactive assessment of serum ADA levels and AAA between October 2019 and January 2024 at Hospital Clínic de Barcelona (Spain).A total of 135 measurements were obtained from 65 patients. Mean serum ADA levels were higher in patients with complete response (8.28 µg/mL) compared with partial responders (5.57 µg/mL; p = 0.016) and non-responders (6.21 µg/mL; p = 0.012). AAA were detected in 18/135 measurements (13.3%). Patients with detectable AAA had markedly lower serum ADA levels (1.44 µg/mL; p < 0.0001). Lower ADA levels were also associated with male sex (p = 0.011), obesity (body mass index >30 kg/m²; p = 0.006), panuveitis (p < 0.0001), presence of vitritis (p = 0.0002), and longer disease duration (p < 0.0001). No significant differences were observed between ADA monotherapy and combination therapy with conventional immunomodulators (p = 0.91).In NIU, patients achieving complete inflammatory control showed higher serum ADA levels than those with partial response or persistent disease activity, suggesting an association between drug exposure and inflammatory control. ADA exposure is influenced by patient- and disease-related factors, including body mass index, inflammatory burden, anatomical classification, immunogenicity, and dosing strategy. These findings support a potential role for proactive therapeutic drug monitoring to guide individualized treatment strategies.Copyright © 2026 Otal, Seco-Orriols, Miguel-Escuder, Moll-Udina, Sainz-de-la-Maza, Rodríguez-Pintó, Hereu, P. Codes, Adán and Llorenç.
Chronic stress is a major precipitating factor for anxiety disorders, yet current pharmacotherapies are limited by delayed onset of action and adverse effects, highlighting the need for safer and more effective alternatives. Tongren Niuhuang Qingxin Wan (NHQXW), a traditional Chinese medicine formulation, has been used clinically to alleviate symptoms including palpitations, insomnia, and anxiety-related discomfort; however, its potential to mitigate stress-induced anxiety-like behaviors in preclinical models, along with the underlying molecular mechanisms, remains largely unexplored. In this study, using the chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) mouse model, we assessed anxiety-like behaviors via the open field, elevated plus maze, and light-dark box tests. Neurotransmitter levels were measured by LC-MS/MS, and associated molecular alterations were investigated using non-targeted proteomics, followed by RT-qPCR and western blotting for validation. NHQXW attenuated the development of CUMS-induced anxiety-like behavioral alterations and reduced the stress-associated elevation of norepinephrine in the PFC. Proteomic analysis identified 107 differentially expressed proteins in the PFC of high-dose NHQXW-treated mice compared to CUMS controls, primarily enriched in adrenergic signaling, synaptic plasticity, and stress-related pathways. Subsequent validation showed that NHQXW upregulated the expression of α2A-adrenergic receptor (ADRA2A) and its coupled G protein subunit GNAI2, normalized glucocorticoid receptor expression, and protected synapse-related proteins. These findings suggest that the protective effects of NHQXW may be associated with modulation of prefrontal noradrenergic signaling and synaptic plasticity. This study provides a molecular rationale for the therapeutic potential of NHQXW as a novel, multi-targeted intervention for stress-related anxiety disorders, paving the way for future translational research and clinical applications.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This case series highlights three patients with unusual central nervous system (CNS) tuberculosis (TB) manifestations, diagnosed at the Department of Medicine and Neurology, Moti Lal Nehru Medical College, Prayagraj, India, between January and November 2024. The cases underscore the diagnostic challenges of atypical CNS TB and the importance of an integrated diagnostic approach combining clinical, radiological, and laboratory findings. A 35-year-old male presented with sudden-onset right-sided weakness. Imaging revealed intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) in the left parietal region without vascular anomalies. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis showed lymphocytic pleocytosis, elevated protein, and adenosine deaminase (ADA), while the interferon-gamma release assay was positive. He was diagnosed with CNS TB presenting as ICH secondary to vasculitis. A 49-year-old male developed left-hand weakness. Imaging showed a left parietal infarct. CSF analysis revealed lymphocytic pleocytosis with elevated protein and ADA. Pulmonary TB was suspected based on a chest X-ray. He was diagnosed with stroke secondary to tubercular CNS vasculitis presenting as pseudomedian nerve palsy. A 32-year-old male presented with sudden-onset bilateral lower limb weakness and sensory loss. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) spine findings were suggestive of a normal spine but with paraspinal muscle hyperintensity. CSF analysis was normal, and the interferon-gamma release assay was positive. Antitubercular therapy and steroids improved motor function, leading to a diagnosis of MRI-negative paraplegia secondary to tubercular myeloradiculitis. These cases demonstrate the varied and atypical manifestations of CNS TB, including ICH, stroke mimicking nerve palsy, and MRI-negative paraplegia. Prompt recognition and treatment are crucial to improve outcomes in such rare presentations.© Journal of the Association of Physicians of India 2026.
Migraine is one of the most disabling neurological diseases globally; however, a significant proportion of patients do not respond to current treatments, or treatment efficacy diminishes over time, highlighting the need to identify additional molecular candidates for further investigation. Recent studies have increasingly focused on the role of neuro-immune interactions in migraine. This study aimed to identify peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with NAD+ metabolism-related transcriptional features in migraine through integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses. Using the PRJEB40032 dataset, samples were stratified according to ssGSEA-derived NAD+ metabolism scores, followed by differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis and protein-protein interaction network construction. LASSO regression, SVM-RFE, and XGBoost were subsequently applied to prioritize candidate genes. CXCL8, CXCR4, CXCL1, and TNFAIP3 showed cross-algorithm consistency and were subsequently incorporated into an exploratory nomogram, which exhibited apparent discriminatory performance within the PRJEB40032 discovery cohort. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that these genes were associated with immune and inflammatory pathways, including IL-17, NF-κB, TNF, and Toll-like receptor signaling. Immune cell-composition analysis indicated significantly increased estimated abundances or activity scores for NK cells, mast cells, eosinophils, and neutrophils in migraine samples, with positive associations between the prioritized candidate genes and pro-inflammatory immune features. Single-cell RNA sequencing further showed that CXCL1 and CXCL8 were predominantly expressed in monocytes, while TNFAIP3 and CXCR4 were widely expressed across various immune cell types. qPCR assessment in a migraine mouse model showed group-dependent expression alterations in the functionally related murine CXCL1/CXCR2 axis. Overall, this study prioritized peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with migraine and NAD⁺ metabolism-related transcriptional features, providing exploratory evidence for a potential link among systemic immune alterations, NAD⁺ metabolism-related processes, and migraine.© 2026. The Author(s).
Liver cancer (LC) is one of the most prevalent and deadly malignancies worldwide, and early diagnosis together with accurate staging is critical for improving patient prognosis. Although surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) has shown strong potential for minimally invasive tumor detection, its broader clinical application remains limited by insufficient substrate stability, incomplete spectral coverage, and inadequate discriminative ability in complex classification and staging tasks.In this study, we developed a silver nanoparticle-composited three-dimensional porous SERS substrate (Ag@BTM) by combining the breath-figure method with a Marangoni effect-driven liquid-liquid interfacial self-assembly strategy, enabling uniform AgNP distribution within the porous scaffold and improving SERS sensitivity, uniformity, and reproducibility. To further expand biochemical information, we proposed a dual-substrate SERS detection strategy using two Ag@BTM substrates with complementary localized surface plasmon resonance characteristics, namely S-Ag@BTM and L-Ag@BTM, and fused their spectra into a dual-substrate SERS super-fingerprint. Combined with the AutoGluon automated machine learning framework and SHAP analysis, this strategy achieved 98.6% accuracy for classifying Normal, HBV, and LC samples and 80.4% accuracy for LC staging, representing improvements of 12.6 and 14.7 percentage points over the corresponding single-substrate models.This dual-substrate fusion framework provides a sensitive, low-cost, and scalable route for minimally invasive LC screening and precise staging, and highlights the potential of substrate-complementary SERS analysis for complex clinical classification tasks.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Intervertebral disc (IVD) degeneration is associated with severe clinical symptoms including chronic back pain. Galectins are a family of carbohydrate-binding proteins, some of which can induce functional disease markers in IVD cells and other musculoskeletal tissues. Galectin-4 and -8 were shown to trigger disease-promoting activity in chondrocytes, but their effects on IVD cells have not been investigated yet.IVD specimens from 36 patients with spondylosis, spondylolisthesis, and scoliosis were assessed immunohistochemically for the presence of galectin-4 and -8. The degrees of radiological (Pfirrmann grade) and histopathological (Rutges score) degeneration of all specimens were correlated with histological galectin scores. To assess galectin functions, separate cell cultures of annulus fibrosus (AF) and nucleus pulposus (NP) (n = 21) were established. Cell cultures were treated with recombinant galectin-4, -8 (24 μg/mL), or Interleukin-1β (IL-1β) (10 ng/mL) and analyzed using RT-qPCR and In-Cell Western (ICW). Potential binding sites for galectins including sialylated N-glycans and LacdiNAc structures were determined in AF and NP cells using liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS).The immunohistochemical presence of galectin-4 in IVD specimens correlated with histopathological and clinical degeneration scores of patients, whereas galectin-8 did not show significant correlations. Both galectins were detected across IVD compartments except for the endplate. In vitro, both galectins activated the nuclear factor-kB pathway and induced functional disease markers (Interleukin-8 (CXCL8) and matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP3) mRNA). NP cells were more responsive to galectins and IL-1β than AF cells, indicating region-specific differences in galectin sensitivity.This study identifies galectin-4 as a novel molecular player in the pathogenesis of IVD degeneration.© 2026 The Author(s). JOR Spine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Orthopaedic Research Society.
Helicobacter pylori (H.pylori) infection is a primary driver of chronic gastric inflammation and carcinogenesis, yet the molecular networks bridging bacterial infection and malignant transformation are not fully characterized. This study aimed to identify H.pylori-associated hub genes through integrated systems biology and to functionally validate their roles in gastric cancer progression.Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was applied to GEO datasets (GSE60427 and GSE60662) to identify phenotype-associated modules. Genomic alterations, promoter methylation, and immune infiltration patterns were analyzed using TCGA-STAD, cBioPortal, and UALCAN. Experimental validation was performed in AGS and MKN45 cells. Two independent 2 × 2 factorial designs were used to evaluate hub-gene knockdown and overexpression separately in the presence or absence of H. pylori infection. Mechanistic insights were gained through virulence factor mutants (Δ-cagA and Δ-vacA), pathway inhibitors, and dual-luciferase reporter assays for miRNA-targeting validation.WGCNA identified CXCL8, CXCL1, CCL20, and MMP1 as central hub genes, all of which exhibited significantly elevated mRNA expression in gastric cancer tissues and cell lines. These genes exhibited frequent copy number amplifications and significant promoter hypomethylation. Functional assays showed that hub-gene silencing attenuated H. pylori-associated proliferation, migration, and invasion, whereas hub-gene overexpression promoted these malignant phenotypes and further enhanced the effects associated with infection. Mechanistically, H.pylori infection upregulates these genes via a CagA-dependent activation of the NF-κB and MAPK signaling pathways. Furthermore, specific miRNAs (e.g., miR-302c-3p, miR-203a-3p) were identified as direct post-transcriptional regulators of this axis.CXCL8, CXCL1, CCL20, and MMP1 constitute a unified transcriptional axis driven by H.pylori infection that promotes malignant progression. This CagA-responsive gene set serves as a robust biomarker panel for gastric cancer prognosis and represents a promising therapeutic target for disrupting the infection-inflammation-cancer sequence.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Paraquat (PQ), a highly toxic herbicide that causes fatal pulmonary injury, has no specific clinical antidotes, mainly due to incomplete understanding of its pathogenic mechanisms. Inhalational exposure to PQ is the primary route of toxicity among agricultural workers. However, conventional experimental models fail to accurately replicate the physiological characteristics of the alveolar-capillary barrier and the air-liquid interface (ALI). In this study, we developed an Alveolar Microphysiological System (AMS) that co-cultures alveolar epithelial cells (EPCs) and pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (EDCs) with ALI, effectively mimicking PQ-induced lung injury. This injury is characterized by increased permeability of the alveolar-capillary barrier, compromised intercellular junction integrity, and ultrastructural alterations. Bulk RNA sequencing, public single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), and functional validation assays revealed that PQ triggers divergent, cell-type-specific responses: activating the RAGE/NF-κB signaling pathway and pro-inflammatory programs in EPCs, while suppressing these pathways in EDCs. Furthermore, PQ treatment results in the aberrant expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (e.g., IL-1α/β, TNF-α), chemokines (e.g., CCL3/5, CXCL8/10), and growth factors (e.g., PDGF, TGF-α) in EPCs, a pattern that significantly differs from the expression profile observed in EDCs. Additionally, FPS-ZM1, a specific inhibitor of RAGE, mitigated PQ-induced barrier dysfunction by restoring normalized AMS permeability, enhancing E-cadherin expression in EPCs, and improving adherens junction integrity in EDCs. Collectively, these findings suggest that the AMS serves as a valuable translational platform for developing therapeutic strategies. Moreover, the RAGE/NF-κB signaling pathway exhibits a cell-type-specific function in pulmonary injury induced by PQ exposure under air-liquid interface conditions, indicating that modulation of the RAGE/NF-κB axis may offer a promising therapeutic avenue for managing paraquat poisoning.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Despite emerging evidence indicating an increasing burden of invasive Streptococcus anginosus group (SAG) intracranial infections in children, their wider epidemiology remains inadequately explored. We aimed to describe the epidemiology of SAG infections in adults and children in the UK.We conducted a retrospective population-based surveillance study of microbiological laboratory samples, including all samples from which Streptococcus spp were identified, at Great Ormond Street Hospital (GOSH; London, UK), which processes local paediatric and national specimens from all ages, from Jan 1, 2000, to Dec 31, 2023, and at University College London Hospitals (UCLH; London, UK; all ages), from Jan 1, 2012, to Dec 31, 2023. Samples with missing data were excluded. We also analysed the nationally reported streptococcal bacteraemia data from Jan 1, 2015, to Dec 31, 2023, and calculated the annual rates of SAG sterile body site (SBS) infections per 1000 emergency admissions at each hospital. Temporal trends were analysed using negative-binomial regression with admission numbers as an offset. Descriptive statistics summarised infection characteristics by organism, species, body site, age, and sex. National bacteraemia trends were analysed relative to population denominators. Analyses included only records with complete routine laboratory data, and samples without sufficient information were excluded from relevant subgroup analyses.As we only included routinely collected laboratory data, comprehensive demographic and ethnicity data were not available. The median age of patients from whom Streptococcus spp of interest (SOI) were isolated was 44·41 years (IQR 12·327-64·32). 2215 (59·8%) of 3702 patients with SOI SBS infection (defined as an infection of an anatomical area expected to be devoid of microorganisms) were male. At both GOSH and UCLH, incidence of SAG sterile body site infections increased year-on-year from 2·12 per 1000 emergency hospital admissions in 2012 to 11·51 per 1000 emergency hospital admissions in 2023 at GOSH (p<0·0001) and from 0·97 per 1000 emergency hospital admissions in 2012 to 6·04 per 1000 emergency hospital admissions in 2023 at UCLH (p<0·0001). SAG diagnoses in external samples, which were referred to GOSH for molecular diagnostics, also increased markedly over time compared with other Streptococcus spp diagnoses. In all groups, SAG is the current dominant cause of streptococcal sterile body site infection. SAG sterile body site infections most frequently involved the CNS (222 [19·6%] of 1133), especially in children (87 [39·2%] of 222), intrathoracic sites (283 [24·9%] of 1133), and abdominal sites (202 [17·8%] of 1133). At the species level, all three SAG species contributed to the increase in infections. S intermedius was the dominant cause of CNS and intrathoracic infections, whereas S anginosus and S constellatus were the dominant causes of abdominal infections.SAG infections, predominantly deep pyogenic collections in SBSs, are increasing in both children and adults in the UK and represent a major cause of streptococcal SBS infections. This increase is unlikely to be explained solely by improved diagnostics or increased sampling and suggests a real change in epidemiology. Further work is urgently needed to understand whether this change is because of increasing virulence of SAG organisms, changes in carriage rates or dynamics, or the presence of alternative drivers.The European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases (Europäische Gesellschaft für klinische Mikrobiologie und Infektionskrankheiten; ESCMID).Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is one of the most common cancers in males, and its treatment remains challenging due to the tumor microenvironment (TME) with immunosuppressive properties and limited response to anti-PD-1 therapy. Gut microbiota-derived metabolites have recently emerged as modulators of cancer immunometabolism, however, their role in PCa progression and immunotherapy is poorly understood. Here we found that indole-3-lactic acid (ILA), a metabolite produced by Lactobacillus plantarum, exerted dual anti-tumor effects on PCa cells and the TME. Mechanistically, ILA activates the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR), and the resulting AHR/ARNT heterodimer translocates into the nucleus and binds to the promoter of ASF1B. This heterodimer then recruits the HDAC1/2-NuRD complex to reduce H3K27ac levels and suppress ASF1B expression. ASF1B binds to specific residues of ENO1 via its N-terminal core domain and enhances ENO1 enzymatic activity. ILA-induced downregulation of ASF1B impairs this interaction, reduces ENO1 activity, and suppresses the PI3K/Akt pathway, thereby inhibiting the malignant phenotypes of PCa cells. Concurrently, ILA decreased CXCL8 secretion by inhibiting the PI3K/Akt/NF-κB pathway, enhancing CD8+ T cell infiltration and M1 macrophage polarization, thereby remodeling the TME. Additionally, ILA synergized with anti-PD-1 therapy to more effectively suppress tumor growth. These findings reveal a novel mechanism by which gut microbiota-derived metabolites regulate PCa progression and immunometabolism, positioning ILA as a potential therapeutic agent to improve PCa treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic stress is increasingly recognized as a driver of cancer metabolism, highlighting the need to elucidate the mechanism linking chronic stress to metabolic reprogramming. Here, we performed untargeted metabolomics on serum samples from esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) patients and integrated the results with clinical and stress-related assessments, revealing pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) enrichment accompanied by elevated epinephrine levels in patients with stress-associated features. β2-adrenergic receptor (ADRB2) activated by chronic stress stabilized MYCBP by competitively displacing VHL, thereby enhancing MYC transcriptional activity and upregulating key PPP enzymes, including G6PD and TKT. Unexpectedly, stress-associated stimulation not only activated ADRB2 signaling but also increased ADRB2 protein abundance. Mechanistically, stress exposure enhanced RNMT-dependent N7-methylguanosine (m7G) cap modification of ADRB2 mRNA, thereby increasing its translational efficiency. Together, these findings define an RNMT-ADRB2-MYCBP-PPP axis that integrates epitranscriptomic regulation with adrenergic signaling to promote metabolic reprogramming and malignant progression in ESCC. The stress-associated RNA modification-metabolism circuitry comprises potential therapeutic targets to overcome stress-associated ESCC progression.
Methadone exerts analgesic effects through μ-opioid receptor affinity and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonism, which may benefit refractory cancer pain with neuropathic components. Methadone can be introduced by the 'stop-and-go' (SAG) method or the 'add-on' (AO) method, in which low-dose methadone is added to existing opioids. Observational studies suggest AO may improve pain control but no double-blind randomised controlled trial (RCT) has evaluated this approach. Therefore, the primary aim of this study is to assess the feasibility of conducting a double-blind RCT comparing methadone AO therapy with opioid dose escalation according to standard practice for refractory cancer pain while also exploring safety and preliminary efficacy signals.A two-centre, randomised, double-blind, two-arm feasibility trial will enrol 22 patients with advanced or recurrent cancer and inadequately controlled pain (oral morphine equivalent daily dose 60-300 mg). Participants will be allocated 1:1 to the methadone AO or opioid-escalation group using a web-based randomisation system with the minimisation method. The primary endpoint is the completion rate of the 2-week study treatment. Secondary outcomes include pain intensity (Brief Pain Inventory), time to adequate pain control, achievement of a personalised pain goal, adverse events (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)/Patient-Reported Outcomes version of the CTCAE) and quality of life (European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer-Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 15-PAL). Feasibility will be determined based on achieving a treatment completion rate of 70% or higher.The protocol was approved by the Certified Review Board of the National Cancer Centre Hospital (CRB3180008). Written informed consent will be obtained from all participants. The trial is registered in the Japan Registry of Clinical Trials. Results will be published in peer-reviewed journals and presented at international conferences.jRCTs031240220.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Advanced age and diabetes mellitus (DM) are major risk factors for severe COVID-19, associated with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), cytokine storm, and increased mortality. SARS-CoV-2 spike protein (SP) binding to angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) potentially disrupts the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), promoting angiotensin II (Ang II) accumulation and vascular dysfunction. In individuals with preexisting endothelial dysfunction (ED), such as older adults with type 2 DM (T2DM), COVID-19 may exacerbate inflammation, vascular permeability, and tissue damage. This study aimed to elucidate the mechanisms by which SP exacerbates diabetes-associated ED using an in vitro aortic endothelial-bronchial epithelial co-culture model. Serum from healthy adults and T2DM patients was used to stimulate human aortic endothelial cells (HAoECs), with or without SP. ED was assessed via reactive oxygen species (ROS), intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), and endothelial permeability. ACE2 expression and Ang II levels were measured in ACE2-transfected human bronchial epithelial cells (BEAS-2BACE2-eGFP). Combined effects on lung injury and cytokines (CXCL8, IL-1β, and IL-6) were evaluated using a co-culture system. T2DM serum significantly increased ROS (609.33 ± 108.23%; p = 0.0016), ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 expression (68.55 ± 5.47 copies/μL; p = 0.0011 and 84.77 ± 3.81 copies/μL; p < 0.0001, respectively), and permeability (3.86 × 107 ± 4.8 × 106 FU; p = 0.0119) in HAoECs. In BEAS-2BACE2-eGFP, T2DM serum significantly increased ACE2 expression (5.45 ± 1.99 copies/μL; p = 0.0089), whereas co-exposure to T2DM + SP markedly reduced ACE2 (0.97 ± 0.29 copies/μL; p = 0.0086) and elevated Ang II (111.60 ± 15.81 pg./mL; p = 0.1343). Co-treatment with T2DM + SP further exacerbated ED, driving heightened inflammation, lung epithelial injury, and cytokine release. Diabetes-associated ED synergizes with SP to aggravate vascular inflammation and lung injury, identifying adhesion molecules and pro-inflammatory cytokines as potential biomarkers, and RAS dysregulation and endothelial activation as therapeutic targets for severe COVID-19 in T2DM.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566987 is a review article
Emotional eating and alcohol consumption are complex and multifactorial behaviors which are influenced by biological and psychological factors. Genetic predisposition to eating- and alcohol-related behaviors has previously been derived from broad, self-reported phenotypes. However, the association between such genetic predisposition and more refined measures based on validated questionnaires and clinical assessment of pre-diagnostic symptoms remains unclear. We examined whether two broad, nonspecific polygenic risk scores for poor appetite or overeating (PAO-PGS) and alcohol use (AU-PGS) are associated with emotional eating and habitual alcohol consumption. The study included 1,252 adults with overweight or obesity from the ONTIME study. We used two different questionnaires (the Emotional-Eating Questionnaire, EEQ and the Eating-related Behaviors and Emotions questionnaire) and 24h recall for alcohol consumption. Higher PAO-PGS and AU-PGS were associated with greater emotional eating (β =0.41, p=0.025) and greater risky alcohol consumption (OR=1.22, p=0.044), respectively. Further subcomponents of the EEQ such as greater disinhibition and food craving were also associated with higher PAO-PGS. Interestingly, the "eating-related behaviors and emotions score" was associated with genetic predisposition to alcohol use. In addition, minor allele carriers of specific genetic variants (FTO, MC4R, DRD2, and CTNNA2) were associated with specific characteristics of emotional eating and alcohol risk. These results provide novel evidence that polygenic scores for poor appetite or overeating and alcohol use are associated with emotion-driven eating and habitual alcohol consumption. Exploratory results point to CTNNA2 as a new candidate gene for food craving. Integrating genetic profiles into behavioral nutrition research may help identify individuals with higher vulnerability to maladaptive eating and drinking patterns. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov: NCT02829619.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Diffuse Gastric Cancer (DGC) is an aggressive subtype with a poor prognosis and a lack of specific biomarkers, representing a critical unmet need in oncology. This study aimed to elucidate the key molecular drivers of DGC by integrating RNA-seq data with a multi-faceted bioinformatics approach.We analyzed RNA-seq data from young-onset DGC and normal tissues (GSE113255, GSE122401). Machine learning (ML) feature selection (ReliefF algorithm) was used to prioritize genes, followed by protein-protein interaction network analysis to identify hub genes. Their roles were further investigated through Gene Ontology, KEGG pathway analysis, tumor microenvironment immune infiltration, miRNA-regulatory network analysis, transcription factor prediction, and computational drug repurposing analyses.Our ML‑driven approach identified seven hub genes central to DGC pathogenesis including CCL5, CXCR4, MMP9, FOXP3, IL18, TNFSF11, and TNFSF13B. Among these, three prioritized core hub genes (CXCR4, MMP9, and TNFSF13B) were selected based on statistically significant overexpression and complementary functional roles. Specifically, CXCR4 showed a Fold Change of 3.12 (Log2FC = 1.64, FDR = 0.01), MMP9 exhibited the highest magnitude of upregulation (Fold Change = 16.58, Log2FC = 4.05), and TNFSF13B demonstrated the most statistically significant differential expression (Fold Change = 2.32, Log2FC = 1.21, FDR < 0.000001). High CXCR4 expression was identified as a potential prognostic indicator associated with poorer overall survival in the TCGA‑STAD cohort (HR = 1.5, p = 0.0072). We delineated a core regulatory circuitry where NF‑κB (NFKB1/RELA) masterfully regulates the hub gene network. Drug repurposing analysis nominated several FDA‑approved agents, including the VEGF‑A inhibitor Bevacizumab, which indirectly suppresses CXCR4 and MMP9.This pilot study establishes a robust integrative framework that synergizes ML with network biology. It nominates CXCR4 and TNFSF13B as candidate therapeutic targets and highlights the potential of ML‑based feature selection for discovering biologically relevant, context‑dependent prognostic indicators in DGC. However, we emphasize that these findings are exploratory and hypothesis‑generating, requiring independent validation through experimental studies and larger cohorts before any clinical translation.Copyright: © 2026 Azni et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Neonatal acute respiratory distress syndrome (NARDS) is a life-threatening respiratory disorder characterized by high mortality and significant long-term morbidity. Increasing evidence suggests that pyroptosis contributes to pulmonary tissue injury in ARDS. In this study, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was utilized to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying pyroptosis within the NARDS microenvironment. Our analysis identified chemokine (C-C motif) ligand (CCL5) expression in M2 macrophages as a potential regulator of pyroptosis associated with impaired tissue repair. Mechanistically, CCL5 was linked to the activation of the pyroptotic pathway through interactions with inflammasome components, promoting caspase-11-dependent gasdermin D (GSDMD) cleavage and interleukin-1β (IL-1β) release. Network pharmacology analysis identified artesunate, a clinically approved antimalarial drug, as a potential inhibitor of CCL5 expression in patients with NARDS. Functional validation showed that artesunate attenuated M2 macrophage pyroptosis, reduced pulmonary injury, and promoted tissue repair. Collectively, our findings identify CCL5 as a potential regulator of macrophage pyroptosis and support the therapeutic potential of artesunate for modulating pyroptosis-associated inflammation in NARDS. This study provides a mechanistic framework for the development of CCL5-targeted interventions and highlights the dual anti-inflammatory and pro-repair properties of artesunate in NARDS treatment.Copyright © 2026 Hai-Ran Ma et al. Journal of Immunology Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
This study was designed to evaluate the genetic association of three specific intronic Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) within the Dopamine Receptor D2 (DRD2) gene-rs2005313, rs4274224, and rs4938019-with schizophrenia susceptibility in a Pakistani population. The primary objective was to identify population-specific biomarkers that could inform early intervention and personalized treatment strategies.Genotyping was conducted on a matched case-control cohort of 208 participants (104 cases; 104 controls) using High-Resolution Melting (HRM) PCR. Genetic associations were quantified using Odds Ratios (OR) and 95% Confidence Intervals (CI), representing the standard coefficient and its margin of error to ensure statistical precision. Functional annotation of the investigated polymorphisms was performed using GTEx, FORGEdb and RegulomeDB to assess regulatory potential and tissue-specific expression effects.The research identified highly significant associations across multiple inheritance models, validating the technical robustness of the findings. The rs4938019 polymorphism emerged as the most potent genetic risk factor, particularly under the recessive model (OR: 9.60; 95% CI: 3.92-23.52; p < 0.0001), where the rare GG genotype was found in 44% of cases compared to only 7.2% of controls. Conversely, rs4274224 demonstrated a significant protective effect, with a co-dominant OR of 0.23 (95% CI: 0.09-0.59; p = 0.0022), suggesting that the T allele confers genetic resilience. Furthermore, among the investigated DRD2 variants, rs2005313 demonstrated significance primarily under the over-dominant inheritance model, whereas rs4938019 exhibited the strongest association under the recessive model (OR: 2.13; 95% CI: 1.15-3.94; p = 0.014). All variants in the control group maintained Hardy-Weinberg Equilibrium (p > 0.05), confirming the absence of population bias. Functional annotation revealed that rs4274224 showed the strongest direct regulatory evidence for DRD2 (FORGEdb score: 6; RegulomeDB Rank 1f), while rs4938019 demonstrated the highest overall regulatory potential (FORGEdb score: 9), with rs2005313 exhibiting substantial regulatory evidence (FORGEdb score: 7) supported by extensive GTEx cis-eQTLs across multiple tissues including brain regions.These findings establish DRD2 intronic polymorphisms as critical determinants of schizophrenia risk. The high-risk rs4938019 GG genotype provides a clear translational biomarker for rapid genetic screening, potentially improving clinical outcomes through genotype-guided therapeutic interventions.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Metabolic reprogramming and immune regulation are tightly interconnected processes that critically influence cancer progression. The efficacy of immunotherapy is limited in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) by metabolic abnormality and immunosuppressive microenvironment. However, the molecular mechanisms through which these alterations cooperate to drive immune evasion and tumor progression in TNBC remain poorly defined. Through transcriptomic profiling, we identified glycolysis and chemokine signaling as the dominant intersecting metabolic and immune pathways that distinguish TNBC from non-TNBC subtypes. Phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PGK1) is associated with poor prognosis and with myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), acting as a key metabolic node linking metabolic regulation to immune modulation. Functionally, PGK1 knockdown inhibited tumor growth in vitro and in vivo and reduced MDSC recruitment. Notably, PGK1 knockdown exerted a more pronounced antitumor effect under immune surveillance, accompanied by decreased infiltration of both monocytic and polymorphonuclear MDSCs and recovered CD8+ T cell function. Mechanistically, PGK1 increased lactate production and global lysine lactylation. Notably, histone H3 lysine 18 lactylation (H3K18la) at the CCL5 promoter served as a dominant and required epigenetic modification for PGK1-driven CCL5 transcription, thereby driving CCL5-dependent MDSC recruitment. P300 and class I HDACs were identified as candidate "writer" and "eraser" enzymes for PGK1-dependent H3K18la modification. Notably, combining the PGK1 inhibitor ABT-E79 with anti-PD-1 therapy synergistically decreased MDSC infiltration, recovered CD8+ T cell function, and elicited superior antitumor responses compared to monotherapy. Collectively, this study shows a mechanistic link between metabolic reprogramming and immune evasion, offering new therapeutic insights for TNBC. Starting from analyzing metabolic and immunological signaling pathways in cancers lacking clear therapeutic targets and treatment options, we aimed to identify metabolism-associated regulators of immune responses as potential therapeutic targets. Focusing on triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), through transcriptomic profiling, we identified glycolysis and chemokine signaling as the dominant intersecting metabolic and immune pathways that distinguish TNBC from non-TNBC subtypes. Functional assays demonstrated that PGK1-driven glycolysis in TNBC cells promotes lactate accumulation and H3K18la, which subsequently induce transcriptional activation of CCL5 and recruitment of MDSCs, thereby impairing CD8+ T cell function and fostering an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment that facilitates immune evasion. Furthermore, treatment with ABT-E79, a PGK1 inhibitor, enhances the antitumor immune efficacy of anti-PD-1 therapy.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
It remains elusive how various therapeutic approaches, including radiotherapy, chemoradiotherapy, and immunoradiotherapy, reshape malignant cells and the tumor microenvironments (TMEs) during esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) progression.A mouse model of ESCC induced by 4-nitroquinoline-1-oxide was constructed and handled by therapeutic regimens including radiotherapy, chemoradiotherapy and immunoradiotherapy, followed by single-cell and spatial transcriptomics sequencing. Besides, ESCC tumors were collected from patients during surgery after chemoradiotherapy or immunoradiotherapy. Immunohistochemical staining or immunofluorescence was applied to detect markers associated with a certain treatment.By combining single-cell and spatial transcriptomics, we have deciphered the aberrant gene expression program in epithelial cells and the cellular compositions in the ESCC mouse model following different therapeutic interventions, where chemoradiotherapy moderated epithelial cells essentially by circumscribing several oncogenes and limiting their crosstalk with Hgegf + macrophages. When radiotherapy, chemoradiotherapy, and immunoradiotherapy all lessened the immunosuppressive TMEs, including regulatory T cells and Col12a1 + cancer-associated fibroblasts, immunoradiotherapy might regulate immune responses, especially as evidenced by the frequencies of Ccl5 + Cd8 + T cells elevated.Here, we mapped a comprehensive single-cell and spatial transcriptional panorama of therapy-related ESCC in mouse models. Discovering these spatiotemporal clues might have clinical implications in establishing and improving effective therapy based on these molecules for ESCC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The purpose of this study was to investigate cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) and polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy (PCV) via single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), then focusing on caveolae-resident proteins based on identified negatively enriched caveolae via Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA).Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients with nAMD/PCV (n = 10) and healthy controls (n = 9) were collected. A total of 22,593 high-quality monocytes were analyzed for differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and GSEA. The key finding of negatively enriched caveola was recapitulated by in vitro mRNA transfections in THP-1 monocytes and human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), followed by validation using qPCR. Functional assays and cytokine profiling were also performed.A total of 122 significant pathways was identified from WikiPathways, Reactome, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and Gene Ontology. GSEA revealed significant negative enrichment of caveola in classical monocytes of PCV (NES = -1.769, P = 0.001, q = 0.026). Cytokine/chemokine profiling revealed that Caveolin (CAV)1/2-overexpressing monocytes secreted markedly higher levels of several proinflammatory mediators, including IL-1β, IL-2, IL-8, IL-17, TNF-α, PDGF-BB, and MIP-1α/β. CAV1 or CAV2 overexpression in THP-1 cells increased monocyte adhesion but inhibited transendothelial migration. In HUVECs, their overexpression induced moderate cytokine profiles, including downregulation of RANTES (CCL5), IL-10, and VEGF, and upregulation of IL-6 and MIP-1α. CAV1/2 overexpression also significantly inhibited tube formation, whereas knockdown of CAV1 or CAV2 enhanced tube formation.Caveolins appear to contribute to the pathogenesis of nAMD and PCV as modulators of inflammation and vascular function. Enhanced CAV1/2 expression in endothelial cells attenuates angiogenic activity, indicating a potential therapeutic strategy.
Allergic rhinitis (AR) is a prevalent condition characterized by an immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated immune response. T follicular helper (TFH) cells regulate B-cell differentiation and antibody production, and circulating TFH2 cells are closely associated with type 2 humoral immunity and IgE-related responses in AR. However, whether AR is marked by isolated TFH2 expansion or broader remodeling of circulating TFH (cTFH) subsets, including TFH1-related heterogeneity, remains unclear.A total of 56 participants were enrolled, including 39 patients with AR and 17 healthy controls (HC). Flow cytometry was performed in 36 patients with AR and 14 HC to quantify cTFH subsets and activation states. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was conducted in an independent exploratory cohort comprising 3 patients with AR and 3 HC to characterize TFH transcriptional heterogeneity, based on canonical transcriptional programs.Flow cytometry demonstrated that cTFH2 cell frequencies were significantly increased in patients with AR and positively correlated with disease severity. Activated CCR7^low PD-1^high cTFH cells were also elevated, indicating enhanced TFH activation. Further scRNA-seq analysis identified six transcriptionally distinct TFH clusters, with TFH2-like transcriptional signatures enriched in patients with AR, consistent with flow cytometric findings. Notably, a GZMK+ TFH1 subset, enriched in cytotoxic genes, including GZMK, CCL5, and GZMA, was more abundant in patients with AR, a result corroborated by flow cytometry.This study demonstrates the expansion of cTFH2 and GZMK+ TFH1 subsets in patients with AR and highlights the phenotypic and transcriptional heterogeneity of cTFH cells. These findings suggest that peripheral TFH profiling may aid in characterizing systemic immune alterations in allergic inflammation. The scRNA-seq results should be interpreted as exploratory due to the limited sample size.© 2026 He et al.
Molecular small cell lung cancer (SCLC) subtypes (ASCL1, NEUROD1, POU2F3, and inflamed) display distinct immune contextures, but preclinical modeling remains limited. We evaluated peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) humanized mice (hu-mice) as a platform to capture subtype-specific tumor-immune interactions and therapeutic sensitivity to the triplet regimen: AZD1390 (ATM inhibitor), radiotherapy (RT), and durvalumab (aPDL1). SCLC cell lines representing all molecular subtypes were engrafted into hu-mice, and while T cell infiltration varied across subtypes, SCLC-inflamed cell lines exhibited the highest levels of infiltration. Infiltrating CD8+ T cells rapidly acquired exhaustion markers PD1, CD39, and TOX. Although aPDL1 monotherapy achieved tumor control only in the inflamed SBC5 cell line, combination AZD1390 and RT upregulated chemokine expression (CCL5 and CXCL10) and increased surface PDL1 to sensitize previously non-responsive xenografts in vivo. Responding xenografts showed enrichment of CD39+CD103+ tumor-reactive T cells with reduced terminal exhaustion (TCF1-TOX+). Overall, PBMC hu-mice may effectively recapitulate SCLC immune contextures and guide development of combinatorial strategies to overcome aPDL1 resistance.© 2026 The Authors.
Multi-behavior recommendation leverages auxiliary behaviors as supplementary signals to identify the most commercially valuable latent target behaviors. While auxiliary behaviors provide valuable signals related to the target behavior, existing methods lack fine-grained alignment mechanisms between the target behavior and auxiliary behaviors. To address this limitation, we propose a Semantic-aligned Adversarial Diffusion Model for Multi-Behavior Recommendation (SADRec). Specifically, we first design an Adversarial Diffusion Model (ADM) with the target behavior as a discriminative anchor. ADM employs discriminative supervision to guide the reconstruction process, enabling auxiliary behaviors to adaptively identify key semantic dimensions and selectively preserve non-essential discrepancies when aligning with the target behavior, thereby achieving fine-grained and precise semantic calibration. Then, we introduce a Multi-level Negative Sampling mechanism (MNS) that extracts negative samples of multi-level hardness at specific time steps via the reverse process of the diffusion model and aligns them with the target behavior through multi-level graph contrastive learning, thereby jointly optimizing the reconstruction process and identifying auxiliary behavior signals that carry latent target behaviors. Finally, extensive experiments on three public multi-behavior datasets demonstrate that our SADRec outperforms state-of-the-art baselines, especially in alleviating data sparsity. Our datasets and source code are available https://github.com/sasdasdasdwew/SADRec.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This study evaluated long-term postoperative outcomes and complications after breast-conserving surgery (BCS) with acellular dermal matrix (ADM) insertion.We retrospectively reviewed the data of patients treated between July 2015 and August 2021. Patients who did not undergo postoperative follow-up were excluded. Clinical characteristics, treatment information, and postoperative complications were collected from the electronic medical records. Complications were classified as major (requiring hospitalization or surgical intervention) or minor (manageable in an outpatient setting). ADM removals were categorized as early (≤ 6 months postoperatively) or delayed (> 6 months).Among the 236 patients (median follow-up, 71.7 months), complications occurred in 119 (50.4%): 22 major (9.3%) and 97 minor (41.1%). Infection was the most common major complication (13/22, 59.2%), whereas seroma was the predominant minor complication (87/97, 89.7%). In univariate analysis, no clinicopathological or treatment-related factors were associated with major complications. ADM removal was performed in 28 patients (11.9%), including nine with local recurrence and 19 unrelated to recurrence (8.1%). Among the 19 nonrecurrent removals, 13 (68.4%) occurred > 6 months after surgery, most commonly due to infection (12/19, 63.2%).Complications after BCS with ADM insertion were common during the long-term follow-up. The 9.3% major complication rate and 8.1% reoperation rate for ADM removal are not negligible. These findings highlight the need for careful patient selection and long-term surveillance of patients undergoing BCS with ADM insertion.© The Authors 2026.
In patients with advanced cubital tunnel syndrome (CuTS), conventional surgical outcomes are often suboptimal due to the long distance required for nerve regeneration. The supercharged end-to-side anterior interosseous nerve to ulnar motor nerve transfer (referred to as SETS transfer) has been proposed to enhance reinnervation and accelerate recovery. This study aimed to evaluate the electrodiagnostic and clinical outcomes of SETS transfer in patients with advanced CuTS and to determine the time course of functional recovery.This prospective study included 11 patients with severe, non-traumatic CuTS (modified McGowan grade IIB or III) who underwent ulnar nerve decompression, subcutaneous anterior transposition, and SETS transfer. Electrodiagnostic studies were performed preoperatively and at 3, 6, and 12 months postoperatively, assessing compound muscle action potentials (CMAPs) of the abductor digiti minimi (ADM) and first dorsal interosseous muscles, sensory nerve action potentials (SNAPs) of the ulnar and dorsal ulnar cutaneous (DUC) nerves, and detection of nascent motor unit action potentials (MUAPs). Grip and key-pinch strength and Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (DASH) scores were assessed preoperatively and at 12 months.The CMAP amplitude of the ADM significantly improved at the 12-month follow-up compared to the preoperative assessment (p = 0.004). Postoperative nascent MUAPs were observed in 8 patients, all of which appeared within 6 months. In contrast, among patients with no preoperative SNAP who had a postoperative response, most recorded their first SNAP at 12 months after surgery (5 of 6 for ulnar SNAP and 5 of 7 for DUC SNAP). Key-pinch strength and DASH scores improved significantly (p = 0.014 and p = 0.003, respectively), while grip strength showed no significant change (p = 0.142).SETS transfer may promote early reinnervation and improve intrinsic muscle function in patients with severe CuTS. Serial electrodiagnostic studies suggest that SETS transfer may contribute to motor recovery within the first 6 months postoperatively.Copyright © 2026 by The Korean Orthopaedic Association.
C-C chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7) directs immune cell homing to secondary lymphoid organs and has been implicated in cancer metastasis through its ligands CCL19 and CCL21. Human CCR7 pre-mRNA undergoes alternative splicing to generate five transcripts that encode three protein isoforms with distinct N-termini, termed CCR7A, CCR7B, and CCR7C, but their comparative properties and cross-regulation are not well defined. Here, we cloned these three isoforms and systematically characterized their expression, localization, signaling, and mutual interactions in mammalian cells under both strong (CMV) and weaker (ubiquitin C, UbiC) promoter control to reduce overexpression-related artifacts. Variant-specific RT-PCR revealed that transcripts encoding CCR7A (V1) and CCR7B (V2) predominate in diverse human cell lines, whereas CCR7C-encoding variants (V3-V5) are weakly expressed. EGFP imaging and HiBiT-based assays showed efficient plasma-membrane targeting of CCR7A, partial membrane localization and prominent perinuclear accumulation of CCR7C, and largely cytosolic retention of CCR7B. Under UbiC-driven expression, CCR7A mediated robust CCL19- and CCL21-induced Gi/o and Gq-like activation, intracellular Ca² ⁺ mobilization, ERK phosphorylation, GRK3-dependent Gβ1 recruitment, and β-arrestin1 binding, whereas CCR7C displayed weaker and mainly CCL19-biased signaling. CCR7B did not respond to either chemokine in any signaling readout and thus behaved as a non-signaling isoform. NanoBiT-based assays and co-immunoprecipitation demonstrated that all three isoforms form homo- and heterodimers, with particularly strong association between CCR7A and CCR7B. Co-expression of CCR7B reduced CCR7A surface expression and markedly attenuated chemokine-induced Ca² ⁺ responses, mini-Gi interaction, and β-arrestin1 recruitment, while confocal microscopy revealed redistribution of CCR7A-EGFP from the plasma membrane to intracellular compartments. Moreover, MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells, which express CCR7A and CCR7B transcripts, did not migrate toward CCL19 or CCL21 despite preserved motility toward low-serum medium. These findings identify CCR7A as the dominant functional isoform, CCR7C as a weak CCL19-biased receptor with inefficient membrane targeting, and CCR7B as a non-signaling dominant-negative isoform that dampens CCR7A-mediated responses, suggesting that CCR7 splicing fine-tunes chemokine responsiveness in immune and cancer cells.Copyright: © 2026 Cho et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Background and objective Antipsychotic-associated metabolic abnormalities, including weight gain, dyslipidemia, hyperglycemia, obesity, and metabolic syndrome, vary among drugs. Receptor pharmacology offers mechanistic clues, while transcriptome-wide association studies identify genetically regulated expression signals linked to lipid traits. These evidence streams are usually evaluated separately. This secondary computational sensitivity analysis used previously generated Ki-DDD-TWAS outputs and was not a primary discovery or clinical validation study. The primary hypothesis was that removing literature-derived metabolic receptor weights would preserve overall drug ranking, with Spearman ρ approximately 0.9, while shifting receptor-level contributions from histaminergic and serotonergic systems toward dopaminergic and low-prior TWAS signals. Secondary objectives were to identify low-weight genes with strong TWAS signals, assess discordance with an author-defined clinical-liability comparator, and test sensitivity to gene removal and TWAS scaling. Methods Previously generated outputs were analyzed. Ki, the inhibition constant, and DDD, the defined daily dose, served as affinity and exposure-proxy inputs. Receptor-level and per-drug risk-score files were analyzed for 52 antipsychotics across LDL, HDL, log-transformed triglycerides, non-HDL, and total cholesterol. Analyses included reconstruction validation, pooled receptor contributions, TWAS signal versus literature weight, clinical-liability discordance, leave-one-gene-out and TWAS-scaling sensitivity, and receptor co-occurrence in high-risk drug sets. No patient-level data, independent TWAS resources, longitudinal outcomes, or outcome-based validation were used. Results Reconstruction reproduced saved risk ranks with Spearman correlation 1.000 for all 10 mode-trait combinations. V4 rankings remained concordant after removing literature weights, with trait-specific correlations of 0.900-0.923 and a mean of 0.913. The weighted model was dominated by HRH1, HTR2A, and HTR2C, contributing 25.7%, 21.6%, and 10.3% of pooled signal. Under uniform weighting, DRD2, DRD3, and HTR2A led, accounting for 22.1%, 12.9%, and 12.6%. ADRB1 was the strongest high-priority low-weight TWAS candidate, with an absolute HDL z-score of 13.53 and literature weight of 0.08. Other candidates included CHRM4, DRD2, DRD4, SLC6A4, and ADRB2. The model most strongly under-ranked paliperidone versus the supplied 12-drug comparator, while ziprasidone rose under uniform weighting. Removing HRH1 produced the largest rank shifts, particularly for levomepromazine, promazine, and acepromazine. Conclusions Removing literature-derived weights preserved overall drug ranking but substantially changed receptor-level score allocation. The weighted model emphasized histaminergic and serotonergic receptors prioritized in metabolic-liability literature, whereas the uniform model revealed broader dopaminergic and low-prior contributions. ADRB1 is a computational hypothesis-generating candidate, not a confirmed mechanism or established metabolic-risk contributor. HDL-association direction was not analyzed. The framework supports dual reporting of clinically anchored weighted and discovery-oriented uniform models as an internal sensitivity strategy only. It is not externally validated, does not predict patient-level outcomes, and should not be interpreted as estimating clinical metabolic risk or establishing receptor-level causality.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
F-waves are late motor responses traditionally elicited via supramaximal stimulation. However, submaximal stimulation may offer a more sensitive probe for assessing spinal motoneuron excitability. This study characterizes F-wave recruitment curves using graded submaximal stimulation across various intrinsic hand muscles.F-waves were recorded from the abductor pollicis brevis (APB), abductor digiti minimi (ADM), and first dorsal interosseous (FDI) in 15 healthy subjects (ages 35-78). Four stimulus intensities were employed-10%, 20%, 30%, and 100% of the maximal compound muscle action potential (CMAP) amplitude-with 20 stimuli delivered per intensity. Analysis focused on F-wave frequency, amplitude, and matched F-wave/CMAP ratios (F-wave/CMAPm), where the F-wave and CMAP were recorded at identical stimulus intensities.Most parameters correlated positively with stimulus intensity; however, F-wave/CMAPm consistently decreased as intensity increased. The ADM exhibited a distinct recruitment profile, with F-wave persistence rising steeply at low intensities and reaching near-saturation at 30%, while showing no significant amplitude differences between submaximal levels. In contrast, the APB and FDI displayed more linear recruitment patterns for both persistence and amplitude.Submaximal stimulation reliably elicits F-waves and reveals muscle-specific excitability profiles. The ADM's high excitability suggests a more readily recruitable motoneuron pool. Furthermore, the inverse relationship between F-wave/CMAPm and stimulus intensity suggests the early recruitment of larger, highly excitable Type II motoneurons. This refined recruitment curve approach may provide valuable insights into the "split-hand" phenomenon observed in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Congenital heart defects (CHDs) comprise the most common congenital malformation affecting nearly 1% of all newborns. In individuals with sex chromosome aneuploidy syndromes, however, the prevalence reaches up to 50% of all livebirths. One commonality to these syndromes is a marked reduction in sex hormones, particularly androgens. Androgen receptor (Ar) insufficiency represents a culprit in the pathophysiology of adult onset cardiovascular disease and arrhythmia, but there are no reports regarding Ar function during heart development. This is surprising as androgens along with its nuclear receptor exist already during early development, even before gonads develop and become functional.We evaluated the role of the Ar during vertebrate heart development by generating loss-of function in zebrafish embryos via pharmacological inhibition, transient CRISPR/Cas9 treatment, or interference of splicing as well as murine cell culture.Attenuation of Ar function in zebrafish embryos prevents normal cardiac morphology and physiology as apparent by edema, bradycardia and arrhythmia. Molecularly, we identified increased abundance of adrenomedullin (Adm) 2a as a likely cause for the observed defects. Cellularly, these phenomena may be linked to impaired formation of proepicardial cells, which are reported to intermingle with cells of the conduction system and influence cardiac pacing.A disrupted Ar - Adm2 axis possibly contributes to the increased frequency of CHD in individuals suffering from sex chromosome aneuploidy syndrome.© 2026. The Author(s).
Donor-site management after anterolateral thigh (ALT) flap harvest is a significant yet underaddressed concern in reconstructive surgery for oral cancer. While xenogeneic acellular dermal matrix (Xeno-ADM) is common in soft-tissue repair, its efficacy for fascia lata reconstruction at the ALT donor site remains insufficiently characterized. This study aimed to assess the efficacy of xeno-ADM in fascia lata repair, focusing on compartment pressure, inflammatory and muscle injury biomarkers, and functional recovery.In this prospective, randomized, single-blind trial, 200 patients undergoing ALT flap reconstruction were allocated to Xeno-ADM repair (n = 100) or primary closure (n = 100). Primary endpoints included compartment pressure, inflammatory markers in drainage fluid, serum muscle injury biomarkers, and functional outcomes.The xeno-ADM group showed significantly lower compartment pressures throughout postoperative days (POD) 1-5. Inflammatory markers in drainage fluid (CRP on POD 3 and 5) and serum muscle injury biomarkers (creatine kinase on POD 1 and 5) were significantly lower in xeno-ADM group. Functional outcomes were superior in the Xeno-ADM group, with faster gait recovery, lower pain scores at POD 7, and better lower-limb function at the 1- and 6-month follow-ups. Drainage duration did not differ between groups. Stratified analyses revealed that the benefits of xeno-ADM were more pronounced in patients with defect width >3 cm or a body mass index ≥24 kg/m2.Xeno-ADM provides a safe and effective approach for fascia lata repair, reducing biomechanical and inflammatory burdens while enhancing functional recovery. These findings support a transition from simple structural closure toward functional donor-site reconstruction.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
As effluent total nitrogen (TN) limits become increasingly stringent, dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) is emerging as a structural capacity constraint in highly optimized industrial wastewater treatment systems because conventional nitrification-denitrification primarily targets inorganic nitrogen species. The challenge is particularly acute in the biotech industries, where DON could originate from residual proteins in fermentation broths, downstream purification losses, biomass washing, and alkaline stabilization. This study develops and validates an integrated modeling framework to predict effluent dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and DON under full-scale industrial conditions while preserving COD, N, P, and metal (S, Al, Ca, Mg, Na, K) mass balance consistency. The largest industrial wastewater treatment system in Northern Europe was simulated using an upstream-plantwide mechanistic framework integrating anaerobic digestion (ADM), activated sludge (ASM), and physicochemical (PCM) models. Process extensions representing alkaline-induced solubilization and conservative transport of soluble inert DOC/DON fractions were implemented. Calibration used a dedicated short-term measurement campaign (DataS) and reconciled plant-wide mass balances. A complementary multiple linear regression (MLR) layer, developed from 22 years of operational data (DataH), was integrated to strengthen long-term predictive robustness. Ten operational scenarios (S0-S9) were evaluated, including upstream DOC/DON redirection in ultrafiltration/reverse osmosis (UF/RO) retentate and/or spent biomass, and sludge-line management to avoid DOC and DON recirculation. The integrated framework reproduced plant-wide mass balances with < 13 % deviation across treatment units. Model predictions show that DOC and DON discharge patterns are strongly controlled by upstream and biosolids-line reconfiguration, with concentrations decreasing from 200 to 50 mg COD/L for DOC and from 11 to 4 mg N/L for DON across scenarios. The regression layer further confirmed prediction reliability with R2 > 0.79 between DOC/DON effluent concentrations and key operational drivers, including flow rates, COD loads, and alkaline stabilization intensity. Economic assessment indicates that avoiding DOC/DON recirculation can reduce operational expenditures (OPEX) by up to 13% (S8), and external retentate treatment may increase costs by up to 90%. Sustainability indicators further show that operational reconfiguration reshapes plant-wide resource use and environmental performance. In total, DON represents a critical structural constraint on the expansion of industrial wastewater treatment capacity. Unless DON formation is reduced through upstream or sludge-line reconfiguration, compliance constraints (DON < 5 mg N/L) will limit the plant's effective treatment capacity and narrow it to a point where capital-intensive tertiary treatments such as granular activated carbon (GAC) polishing may become unavoidable. Such measures could increase OPEX with a factor of three and add approximately 1000 tons CO2-eq/year GHG emissions. The proposed framework provides a robust decision-support tool for designing expansion strategies that balance regulatory compliance, economic performance, and environmental sustainability.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Positive social comparative feedback during motor skill practice is hypothesized to enhance motor learning by triggering a dopaminergic response. Individual differences in dopamine-related genes impact dopamine neurotransmission and may influence responsiveness to motor practice conditions that target dopaminergic pathways. The purpose of this study was to examine the impact of dopamine genotype on learning of a motor sequence task under two different feedback conditions: response time only feedback or response time with positive social comparison. Fifty-two adults practiced a joystick-based motor sequence task over two consecutive days. On Day 1, participants were randomized to receive either 1) response time only feedback (i.e., "You completed the block in 80 seconds") or 2) positive social comparative feedback (i.e., "You completed the block in 80 seconds. You were faster than others"). Motor learning was assessed by retention performance, or the change in response time from the first block of Day 1 to the first block on Day 2. Saliva samples were used to genotype for dopamine receptors DRD1, DRD2 and DRD3 and COMT. Individual genes were scored (0-2) and summed to create a polygene score (0-8). Participants were then categorized as having Low (1-4) or High (5-8) dopamine neurotransmission. A significant interaction was found between time, summary polygene group and feedback group (p = 0.048). The Low dopamine group showed greater improvements with response time only feedback versus positive social comparative feedback. The High dopamine group showed similar improvements in response time regardless of feedback type. This suggests that feedback targeting dopaminergic pathways may not be beneficial for individuals with lower dopamine neurotransmission. Our findings suggest that dopaminergic genetics may impact the efficacy of positive social comparative feedback on motor learning in low dopamine genotypes.Copyright: © 2026 Lewis et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560011 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552063 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate how α-synuclein (α-syn) is associated with microglial activation and inflammatory amplification in Parkinson's disease (PD), particularly under pro-inflammatory conditions. In vitro, BV2 microglial cells were stimulated with α-syn preformed fibrils (PFFs) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS). In vivo, a composite PD mouse model was established using 6-OHDA, LPS, and SNCA-overexpressing adeno-associated virus (AAV). Inflammatory changes were assessed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and immunofluorescence. Midbrain transcriptomic profiles from model mice were analyzed using Affymetrix microarrays. Bioinformatic analyses included differential expression analysis with the limma package, Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis, and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA). Transcriptomic analysis showed coordinated upregulation and strong positive correlations (R > 0.73) among Snca, Tnfa, and Il1b in PD model mice. Enrichment analyses indicated prominent involvement of inflammation- and immune-related processes, including the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. In vitro, α-syn PFFs induced inflammatory responses in BV2 cells, and these responses were further enhanced by LPS co-stimulation. In vivo, the composite model showed increased α-syn aggregation, enhanced microglial activation, and elevated pro-inflammatory cytokine release under combined pathological conditions. Together, these findings indicate an amplified inflammatory response under combined pathological insults. Our findings suggest that α-syn aggregation is associated with enhanced microglial activation and inflammatory cytokine responses, and may exacerbate neuroinflammatory processes under inflammatory conditions in PD models.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Adipose tissue harbors a significant population of regulatory T (Treg) cells that enforce immune homeostasis, yet whether Tregs function as an immunometabolic checkpoint to directly regulate core adipocyte signaling programs remains incompletely defined. Here we show that adipose Tregs function as a dominant, time-dependent checkpoint on β-adrenergic signal-driven lipolytic program and signal transduction in adipocytes. Our integrated scRNA-seq, flow cytometry, and phosphoproteomics data show that prolonged adrenergic stimulation induces a progressive attenuation of activation of key lipase hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL) that coincides with Treg depletion in circulation and accumulation within white adipose tissue. Genetic perturbations establish Treg-derived interleukin-10 (IL-10) as the key mediator of this brake. IL-10 signaling through adipocyte IL-10Rα suppresses adrenergic HSL activation and rewires downstream signaling nodes that govern catecholamine responsiveness, lipolysis, and systemic energy homeostasis. Mechanistically, IL-10Rα engages a STAT3-dependent transcriptional program that induces the G-protein regulators RGS2 and RGS3, diminished PKA flux to HSL that reinforces suppression of the HSL activation state and lipolysis. Together, these findings define an adrenergic-immune feedback circuit in which Tregs fine tune the amplitude and duration of catecholamine responsiveness in adipocytes, establishing immune control of a core lipolytic pathway with implications for obesity-associated adipose dysfunction.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is established for levodopa-responsive Parkinson's disease (PD), but the outcomes of DBS in rare genetic early-onset parkinsonism remain incompletely defined. While its efficacy is documented in monogenic forms of parkinsonism (e.g., LRRK2, Parkin, PINK1, and SNCA), clinical data regarding the safety and efficacy of DBS in carriers of the SYNJ1 mutation remain scarce.We report two patients with SYNJ1-related early-onset parkinsonism treated with bilateral DBS and place their outcomes in a single-center gene-listed EOPD DBS cohort. Case 1 carried a novel homozygous SYNJ1 c.1969A > G (p. Thr657Ala) missense variant and 46, XY disorder of sex development; GPi-DBS enabled the levodopa equivalent daily dose (LEDD) reduction from 775 to 300 mg/day, with improved dyskinesia and sleep, although motor fluctuations and neuropsychiatric symptoms persisted. Case 2 carried a SYNJ1 c.1627 + 13 T > A intronic variant; subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation (STN-DBS) reduced the LEDD from 955 to 605 mg/day and Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS-III) score from 51 to 32 at 1.5-year follow-up. In the contextual cohort, the median LEDD reduction after DBS was 35.2%. These observations support DBS as a feasible symptomatic strategy in selected genetic early-onset Parkinson's disease (EOPD) while emphasizing genotype-specific uncertainty.These cases illustrate heterogeneous clinical responses to DBS in patients with early-onset parkinsonism carrying SYNJ1 variants. DBS may provide symptomatic benefit in carefully selected patients, but the small sample size and variant-level uncertainty preclude conclusions regarding genotype-specific efficacy.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Zhang, Chen, Xu, Huang, Zhou and Zheng.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510724 is a review article
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder with diverse molecular signatures that extend beyond the central nervous system. Peripheral blood serves as a minimally invasive source of transcriptomic biomarkers reflecting systemic inflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction, lysosomal impairment, and disrupted RNA processing-key pathways involved in PD. Long-read RNA sequencing with Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT) offers unprecedented detail of full-length transcripts, alternative isoforms, and RNA modifications, enabling more accurate detection of disease-related transcriptional changes. We conducted high-throughput ONT long-read RNA sequencing on blood samples from 145 individuals, including PD patients and age-matched healthy controls. RNA libraries were prepared using a cDNA-based protocol optimised for high-accuracy PromethION sequencing. Transcriptomes were quantified with ONT-specific pipelines, and analyses of differential gene expression (DGE), differential transcript expression (DEX), differential transcript usage (DTU), and alternative splicing were performed using ONT-aware tools such as DRIMSeq, DEXSeq, and stageR. Pathway enrichment linked disease-related changes to mitochondrial, lysosomal, and vesicle-trafficking pathways. Our analysis identified highly significant PD-associated transcriptional signatures in peripheral blood (SNCA, VPS13C, LRRK2, GRN, STAU1, NPTN, PARK7). Long-read sequencing uncovered extensive isoform-level dysregulation, including novel transcript variants (e.g., BCL2L2-PABPN1, SQSTM1) in pathways relevant to PD, such as autophagy and endolysosomal trafficking. DTU analyses revealed shifts in isoforms of LRRK2 and GBA1, indicating widespread disturbances in RNA processing. Enrichment analysis showed activation of molecular pathways linked to neurodegeneration. This study provides the largest long-read blood transcriptomic dataset in PD to date, demonstrating that ONT sequencing can resolve isoform-level changes and reveal systemic molecular signatures of PD. Our findings support the development of blood-based RNA biomarkers and the establishment of long-read transcriptomics as a transformative approach for genomic pathology in PD.Copyright © 2026 Koks, Muldmaa, Price, Whiley, Jakobson, Singleton, Howting, Pfaff, Chopra, Watson, Sikk and Taba.
Photoaging is the major type of exogenous aging caused by chronic ultraviolet (UV) radiation, whose pathogenesis is complex and not fully understood. Recently, the involvement of ubiquitination in aging and aging-related disorders has aroused extensive attention. The present study aimed to investigate the relationship between ubiquitination and photoaging with bioinformatics. We utilized the GSE38308 dataset to screen the differentially expressed ubiquitination-related genes (UbR-DEGs), as well as immune infiltration and function, in the sun-exposed skin samples versus sun-protected controls. Based on the 46 UbR-DEGs, we performed enrichment analysis and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis. Subsequently, the top five hub genes including UCHL1, HSP90AA1, YWHAQ, CTNNB1, and SNCA were identified and exhibited associations with immunological characteristics related to photoaging. Furthermore, the expression levels of hub genes were validated in clinical skin samples using qRT-PCR. Additionally, candidate therapeutic agents targeting the UbR-DEGs, such as myricetin and valproic acid, were predicted through gene-drug and protein-chemical interaction analysis. In conclusion, this study uncovered the intricate correlation between ubiquitination and photoaging, providing novel directions for investigations into photoaging pathogenesis and intervention strate gies.© 2026 American Society for Photobiology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42476327 is a review article
α-fluoro-β-alanine (FBAL), a catabolite of the chemotherapeutic agent 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), has attracted significant attention due to its cardiotoxicity and neurotoxicity. However, its association with 5-FU resistance, a major obstacle in cancer treatment, has rarely been reported. In this study, FBAL was identified as a β-arrestin1-biased ligand of sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor 2 (S1PR2), which upregulates dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) expression and drives 5-FU resistance in colorectal cancer. Mechanistically, following exposure to FBAL, S1PR2, a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), is phosphorylated by recruiting G protein-coupled receptor kinase 6 (GRK6). Phosphorylated S1PR2 coupled with β-arrestin1, but not G proteins, to activate the MEK/ERK/AP-1 pathway and promote DPYD transcription. Ser343 was identified as the key phosphorylation site of S1PR2 using IP-MS analysis. This residue within the C-terminal domain mediates receptor interaction with β-arrestin-1 to activate the β-arrestin-1-dependent ERK pathway, as was confirmed in HCT116S1PR2KO-ΔC cells and HCT116S1PR2KO-S343A cells. In vivo, mice bearing orthotopic xenografts of HCT116S1PR2KO-S343A cells exhibited significantly enhanced higher sensitivity to 5-FU treatment compared to those HCT116S1PR2KO-WT cells following FBAL. Taken together, this study showed that exposure to FBAL induces S1PR2 phosphorylation at Ser343 within the C-terminal mediated by GRK6, activating the β-arrestin1-dependent ERK pathway to upregulate DPD expression. This study not only delineates a phosphorylation-dependent signaling pathway in chemoresistance but also establishes S1PR2 as a promising therapeutic target for overcoming 5-FU resistance in cancer.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556625 is a review article
The SNPs in the 5' regulatory region of the human RGS4 gene were reportedly associated with schizophrenia risk.To elucidate the impact of the rs12041948 on CDX4 binding and the subsequent regulation of RGS4 gene expression, the dual-luciferase reporter assays, EMSAs, qPCR and western blotting were performed.Haplotypes carrying the rs12041948 T allele exhibited significantly higher relative luciferase activity when compared with those carrying the C allele (P < 0.0001, 95% CI = 0.0133 to 0.0249). EMSAs indicated that recombinant CDX4 protein bound to DNA at region 1 (-1073 to - 1065, allele-specific for rs12041948) and region 2 (-307 to - 299) relative to TSS + 1. The pEGFP-N1-CDX4 vector co‑transfection significantly enhanced relative luciferase activity of all four recombinant vectors compared with pEGFP-N1-basic vector, with GTC haplotype vector showing the greatest increase, followed by GCC haplotype vector, mutant vector 1, and mutant vector 2 in descending order (GTC haplotype vector: adj. P = 0.0001, 95% CI [0.0173 to 0.0812]; GCC haplotype vector: adj. P = 0.0023, 95% CI [0.0092 to 0.0731]; mutant vector 1: adj. P = 0.0057, 95% CI [0.0067 to 0.0706]; mutant vector 2: adj. P = 0.0203, 95% CI [0.0029 to 0.0668]). Endogenous RGS4 mRNA and protein expression levels were also significantly increased following pEGFP-N1-CDX4 transfection when compared with pEGFP-N1-basic transfection (mRNA: adj. P < 0.0001, 95% CI = 1.137 to 1.542; protein: (adj. P = 0.0162, 95% CI = 0.2440 to 1.913).CDX4 upregulated RGS4 expression, and this effect was allele-specific for rs12041948.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study integrates long-timescale all-atom molecular dynamics (MD) simulations with multidimensional drug discovery strategies to identify potential allosteric sites of the GIPR and screen for allosteric modulators. Based on the constructed GIPR-GIP complex, we performed conformational sampling and combined dynamic pocket detection algorithms, MDpocket and FTMove, to identify six characteristic cryptic pockets within the dynamic trajectories. Subsequently, using representative conformations as templates, a structure-based virtual screening of 1.6 million compounds from the ChemDiv database was conducted, yielding 30 candidate compounds. Surface plasmon resonance (SPR) experiments showed binding responses. The cAMP accumulation assay demonstrated that compound C30 could dose-dependently antagonize GIP-induced receptor activation, displaying negative allosteric modulator (NAM) activity. MD simulations revealed that C30 primarily restricts the outward movement of the transmembrane helix TM6. This study provides potential lead compounds for the design of small-molecule allosteric drugs targeting class B1 GPCRs.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Peptide-based therapeutics such as tirzepatide and semaglutide target the neuroendocrine system to remediate both diabetes and obesity. In addition to integrating the complementary actions of two endogenous metabolically related hormones targeting glucagon-like peptide-1 and glucagon receptors (GLP-1R and GCGR), the synergistic targeting of a third G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), namely the gastric inhibitory polypeptide receptor (GIPR), may achieve optimal control of blood glucose levels and weight loss in patients with diabetes and obesity. In this work, we harness the predictive power of sequence-derived in silico mutagenesis to rationally design effective single-molecule peptides with triple-receptor-agonist activities. We model the binding profiles of our designed peptides to the GIP, GLP-1 and GCG receptor triad through multiple, long, repeat molecular simulations and effective binding enthalpy calculations to assess their predicted multi-receptor engagement profiles. Our data predict a balanced, highly favourable effective binding enthalpy profile of our newly designed peptides for the three receptors compared to endogenous peptides and the experimental reference peptides, with high targeted specificity for the receptors. The peptides are further engineered to structurally support metabolic stability by substituting sites prone to proteolytic cleavage. The predicted triple-hormone-receptor agonist peptide mechanism opens new avenues for the synthesis and activity testing of multi-targeting peptides with improved stability, offering a computational design strategy for testing the potential reduction of adverse gastrointestinal effects of peptide therapeutics and support future development of lower-dose oral formulations.© 2026. The Author(s).
Breast cancer (BC) is a heterogeneous malignancy with diverse molecular subtypes and variable clinical outcomes. Despite diagnostic and therapeutic advances, recurrence and metastasis contribute to poor prognosis in subsets of patients. Regulators of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins, negative modulators of G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) pathways, influence tumor progression, but their expression profiles, genomic alterations, immune associations, and prognostic roles in BC remain incompletely understood. This study systematically investigated the RGS family to identify potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets.Transcriptomic and clinical data from TCGA and seven independent GEO datasets were evaluated. A random-effects meta-analysis established cross-cohort expression consensus. Diagnostic value was assessed via ROC curve analysis. A prognostic signature was constructed using LASSO and multivariate Cox regression. Genomic alterations, DNA methylation, immune mapping, and pharmacogenomic profiling (DepMap/Broad Institute) were comprehensively analyzed.Meta-analysis identified eight robustly dysregulated RGS genes across BC cohorts. A combined 8-gene panel demonstrated diagnostic accuracy (AUC = 0.98). Furthermore, a LASSO-derived 6-gene signature successfully stratified patients into high- and low-risk prognostic groups (p < 0.0001). Immune infiltration profiling, validated by scRNA-seq, confirmed that RGS18 expression is robustly correlated with immune cells and originates predominantly from the tumor microenvironment rather than malignant cells.This study identifies the RGS gene family as a multidimensional framework for BC stratification. Through meta-analysis, we confirmed that RGS3 and RGS4 act as independent oncogenic risk factors, while RGS1 and RGS18 serve as key immunoregulatory biomarkers. We established a high-accuracy 8-gene diagnostic panel (AUC = 0.98) and a 6-gene prognostic signature (RGS1, 2, 3, 10, 16, 19) that independently predicts patient survival. Our findings reveal that these dysregulations are driven by genomic amplifications and CpG methylation. These results position the RGS family as robust clinical biomarkers and actionable targets for precision oncology.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Background: Glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide receptor (GIPR) and glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) activation exert anti-diabetic and anti-obesity effects. Tirzepatide, a dual GIPR/GLP-1R agonist, has demonstrated cardiovascular benefits in clinical studies. However, the direct vascular actions of tirzepatide and their potential advantages over selective GLP-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs) remain unclear. We investigated the vasoprotective effects of tirzepatide and compared them with those of GLP-1 receptor agonists in vivo and in vitro. Methods: Non-diabetic C57BL/6 and diabetic KK-Ay mice received tirzepatide, semaglutide, or vehicle. Arterial remodeling was induced by femoral artery wire injury. A subset of mice was co-treated with the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor Nω-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME). After 4 weeks, biochemical, morphometric, and immunofluorescence analyses were performed. In vitro, human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were stimulated with tirzepatide or liraglutide to assess nitric oxide (NO) production. Results: In non-diabetic mice, tirzepatide suppressed intimal hyperplasia, including at a low dose that did not affect metabolic parameters, whereas semaglutide had no significant effect on intimal hyperplasia at the same molar dose. The protective effects of tirzepatide were abolished by L-NAME. In diabetic mice, tirzepatide and semaglutide similarly improved metabolic parameters and attenuated intimal hyperplasia. In HUVECs, tirzepatide increased NO production in a dose-dependent manner, and this effect was preserved under hyperglycemic conditions. Tirzepatide and liraglutide induced comparable NO production at equivalent molar concentrations. Conclusions: Tirzepatide, but not semaglutide, exerted vasoprotective effects under non-diabetic conditions in a NO-dependent manner, whereas both agents exhibited comparable vasoprotective effects under diabetic conditions.
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a genetically and clinically heterogeneous neurodegenerative disorder with no disease-modifying treatments. Plasma proteomic signatures offer a promising avenue for uncovering disease mechanisms and developing targeted interventions.We conducted protein-wide Mendelian randomization meta-analysis to explore causal relationships between plasma proteins and FTD and four subtypes, utilizing comprehensive datasets of protein quantitative trait loci.We identified four plasma proteins significantly associated with FTD, namely RGS7 and ASAP2 (increased risk), as well as TMCC3 and VPS29 (decreased risk). Subtype-specific analyses revealed distinct protein signatures, including S100A13 and TREM1 in behavioral variant FTD, ING4 and TEX29 in FTD overlapping with motor neuron disease, SPINT2 in progressive non-fluent aphasia, and UGDH in semantic dementia.This study implicates specific plasma proteins in FTD pathogenesis, with subtype-dependent effects. The identified proteins represent potential biomarkers for stratification and therapeutic targets.© 2026. Fondazione Società Italiana di Neurologia.
The development of dual agonists for the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide receptor (GIPR) has been a landmark moment in the treatment of type 2 diabetes and obesity. However, for reasons that are incompletely understood, in preclinical and clinical studies, adding either a GIPR agonist or GIPR antagonist to GLP-1R agonism causes additional weight loss1. Here we show that distinct brain regions mediate the appetite-suppressing effects of GIPR agonists and the synergistic weight loss effects conferred by GIPR antagonists. We knock out Gipr in either the area postrema (AP) or hypothalamus of mice (GiprAP-KO and Giprhypo-KO, respectively) and compare body weight and food intake responses to GIPR agonists and antagonists, alone and in combination with the GLP-1R agonist liraglutide. GiprAP-KO mice exhibit partial protection against diet-induced obesity, reduced responsiveness to the appetite-suppressing effects of acyl-GIP and a reduced ability of acyl-GIP to prevent avoidance triggered by peptide YY. Weight loss effects of liraglutide are comparable in GiprAP-KO and control mice, and the co-administration of a GIPR antagonist peptide causes similar additional weight loss in both groups. Giprhypo-KO mice, by contrast, exhibit normal appetite suppression by acyl-GIP but enhanced weight loss on liraglutide compared with control mice. Giprhypo-KO also abolishes the synergistic effect of a GIPR antagonist when combined with liraglutide-an effect that is not mediated by nucleus tractus solitarius preproglucagon neurons. GIPR antagonism and Giprhypo-KO also sensitise to cagrilintide-induced weight loss. Overall, our results suggest that the AP is responsible for the appetite-suppressing effects of GIPR agonism but that GIP receptors in the hypothalamus underlie the ability of GIPR antagonism to enhance the weight loss effects of GLP-1R and amylin receptor agonists.© 2026. The Author(s).
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) agonists have transformed obesity pharmacotherapy, producing clinically meaningful weight loss and robust improvements in glycemic control. Yet their efficacy remains constrained by dose-limiting gastrointestinal adverse effects, including nausea and vomiting, that reduce adherence and limit escalation to maximally effective doses. Thus, the next-generation of obesity therapeutics must not only enhance weight loss but also expand the therapeutic window by dissociating metabolic efficacy from aversive side effects. The recent clinical success of dual GLP-1R/glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) receptor agonists has catalyzed renewed interest in GIP biology. However, this resurgence has exposed a fundamental paradox: both pharmacological activation and blockade of GIP receptor (GIPR) signaling reduce body weight and enhance the efficacy of GLP-1-based therapies. These seemingly opposing pharmacological strategies therefore converge on a shared therapeutic outcome through distinct biological mechanisms. GIPR agonism appears to promote weight loss in part through recruitment of anorectic neural circuits, increased thermogenesis, and attenuation of GLP-1-induced aversive effects, whereas GIPR antagonism may enhance GLP-1R signaling and counteract the lipogenic actions of endogenous GIP. In this review, we examine the mechanistic basis underlying the GIPR agonism-antagonism paradox and discuss how GIPR signaling may regulate the balance between metabolic efficacy and treatment tolerability. Understanding these mechanisms may guide the rational design of next-generation incretin-based therapies that maximize weight loss while minimizing adverse effects.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42487666 is a review article
In Alzheimer's disease (AD), amyloid beta (Aβ) plaques and hyperphosphorylated tau tangles drive neurodegeneration and cognitive decline. Disrupted calcium homeostasis-particularly via transient receptor potential canonical-1 (TRPC1) channels-contributes to tauopathy and disease progression. This study investigated the therapeutic potential of 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate (2-APB), a modulator of TRP channels, in a scopolamine-induced rat model of AD. Adult Wistar rats were assigned to six groups: normal control, disease control (scopolamine 2.5 mg/kg), three 2-APB treatment groups (2.5, 5.0 and 10.0 mg/kg) and a donepezil group (5.0 mg/kg), each with six animals. Treatments lasted three weeks. Cognitive performance was assessed using the Morris water maze, memory consolidation and open field tests. Biochemical assays measured acetylcholinesterase (AChE), calcineurin, oxidative stress markers (GSH, MDA) and inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β). Protein and gene expression analyses (Western blot, qRT-PCR) evaluated tau, GSK-3β, TRPC1, MARK2, and calcineurin A/PPP3CA, alongside histopathological and immunohistochemical studies. 2-APB treatment significantly reduced pro-inflammatory cytokines, alleviated neuroinflammation, and decreased oxidative stress. Cognitive function improved, correlating with normalized AChE activity and preserved neuronal structure. At the molecular level, 2-APB reduced tau hyperphosphorylation at Ser396 and Thr231, likely through suppression of TRPC1-associated calcium entry and consequent modulation of calcium-dependent kinases (MARK2) and phosphatases (calcineurin), as well as the GSK-3β pathway. However, given that 2-APB is a broad-spectrum calcium signaling modulator - known to act on IP₃ receptors, SOCE/ORAI pathways, and multiple TRPC subtypes in addition to TRPC1-the present findings provide supportive evidence linking TRPC1 modulation to the observed neuroprotective effects. Although, the involvement of additional interconnected signaling mechanisms cannot be excluded and these findings should be interpreted within the context of 2-APB's pleiotropic pharmacological profile. Downregulation of TRPC1 and calcineurin A/PPP3CA gene expression supported 2-APB's role in restoring calcium balance and mitigating tau pathology. These results highlight 2-APB's potential in addressing key AD features-tauopathy, oxidative stress, neuroinflammation and cognitive impairment-warranting further preclinical and clinical research as a potential therapeutic for AD and related tauopathies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Oral lichen planus (OLP) is a chronic inflammatory mucosal disease with a risk of malignant transformation and limited long-term therapeutic options. Paeoniflorin (PF), a natural monoterpene glycoside, exhibits multi-target anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory properties, but its systematic mechanisms against OLP remain elusive.We employed an integrative framework combining network pharmacology, transcriptomic cross-validation, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. Public databases were mined to identify PF targets and OLP-related genes. Core targets were prioritized via protein-protein interaction (PPI) network topology and further validated using OLP tissue transcriptomic datasets (GSE52130 and GSE213349). Functional enrichment analyses were performed, followed by structural validation of PF-target binding via molecular docking and 100-ns MD simulations.Sixty-eight overlapping targets between PF and OLP were identified. PPI network analysis and transcriptomic cross-validation pinpointed eight core targets: AKT1, IL6, MMP9, STAT3, TNF, IL1B, PTGS2, and PDE4B. Mechanistically, these targets converged on the TNF, PI3K-Akt, and MAPK signaling pathways, regulating inflammatory response, cell migration, apoptosis, and protease activity at membrane microdomain and extracellular matrix interfaces. Molecular docking showed PF binding affinities comparable to or exceeding reference inhibitors (e.g., STAT3: -9.27 vs. Stattic -9.16 kcal/mol). MD simulations confirmed stable conformational binding, with the STAT3 and PDE4B complexes exhibiting the most balanced rigidity and lowest ligand RMSD (0.09-0.10 nm).This study provides a systems-level map of PF's multi-target intervention in OLP, highlighting a composite anti-inflammatory-immune reprogramming-pro-repair axis centered on core inflammatory kinases and proteases. The structural validation of key targets establishes a mechanistic rationale for PF as a promising therapeutic candidate, warranting further preclinical and clinical development for OLP management.Copyright © 2026 Zhao, Chen and Yu.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex neurodegenerative condition marked by a gradual loss of cognitive function, impaired synaptic signalling, and sustained neuroinflammatory responses. Among the molecular pathways associated with disease progression, cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) signalling, plays a crucial factor in disruption of cellular homeostasis. Phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4), especially the PDE4B isoform, controls intracellular cAMP levels in neuronal and glial cells, which affects inflammatory signalling and synaptic plasticity in the brain. Therefore, selectively targeting PDE4B is a novel approach to identify the small molecule's therapeutic activity to restore the cAMP signalling, with parallel regulation of the dose-limiting side effects. GSK356278 and Rolipram are the known PDE4B modulators, which have been considered for the current study to generate significant pharmacophoric features and execute drug design as CNS-active PDE4B inhibitors. Six heterocyclic derivatives were designed and synthesised by altering the core scaffold in order to maximise hydrophobicity, CNS permeability, and Q-pocket engagement without depending on direct Zn2+ or Mg2+ coordination. Among these, molecule VCHH-19 and VCPH-19 demonstrated significant CNS compatibility and good binding stability. PC12 cell lines were chosen to verify the in vitro neuroprotective response, and the Drosophila model for in vivo for AD assessment. All of these results indicated the significance of pyridine-based heterocycles molecules as potential candidates for PDE4B-targeted AD treatment.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42490950 is a review article
Preferential phosphodiesterase 4B (PDE4B) inhibition with nerandomilast has demonstrated attenuation of forced vital capacity decline in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and progressive pulmonary fibrosis. Because PDE4 enzymes regulate cAMP-dependent inflammatory and endothelial signalling, class-level PDE4 inhibition has been consistently linked to vascular-immune pathways. Whether preferential PDE4B inhibition reproduces these effects remains uncertain.To map the available mechanistic and translational literature on extrapulmonary or systemic biological effects of PDE4/PDE4B inhibition and to place nerandomilast trial findings within that framework without inferring clinical efficacy outside pre-specified trial outcomes.We performed a the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews informed scoping review of PubMed/MEDLINE from database inception to 1 March 2026. Eligible studies included pre-clinical, translational and clinical reports addressing endothelial, immune, microvascular or organ-level effects of PDE4/PDE4B modulation. Evidence was charted and narratively synthesised rather than quantitatively pooled.71 studies were included. Experimental data (primarily derived from class-level PDE4 inhibition) consistently link these pathways to modulation of endothelial permeability, leukocyte-endothelial adhesion, thromboinflammatory signalling, and macrophage resolution programmes across pulmonary and extrapulmonary models. However, most extrapulmonary evidence derives from class-level PDE4 biology rather than nerandomilast-specific investigations, and clinical evidence for extrapulmonary benefit in fibrotic lung disease remains indirect.Because PDE4 enzymes regulate cAMP-dependent inflammatory and endothelial signalling, class-level PDE4 inhibition has been consistently linked to modulation of vascular-immune pathways. Whether preferential PDE4B inhibition reproduces these effects in humans remains to be established. While at present, extrapulmonary clinical benefit in fibrotic lung disease remains unproven, future studies should prospectively evaluate systemic biomarkers and organ-level outcomes rather than relying on post hoc interpretation of numerical signals.Copyright ©The authors 2026.
Problematic alcohol use (PAU) and anxiety disorders (ANX) frequently co-occur, implying shared genetic and neurobiological foundations. However, the directionality of potential causal relationships and the specific mechanisms underlying the overlap remain unclear. Thus, we investigated the shared genetic architecture and neurobiological pathways between PAU and ANX using a multimethod genomic approach. We analyzed summary statistics from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of PAU and ANX using Mendelian Randomization to assess causal associations between ANX and PAU. We used MiXeR to assess the overall shared genomic architecture, Local Analysis of (co)Variant Association to estimate regional genetic correlations, and conjunctional false discovery rate (conjFDR) to identify individual overlapping loci. We used FUMA to map single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) to independent loci, conduct differential gene expression analyses across 30 general and 54 specific tissue types, and perform cell-type specificity analyses using a human brain cell atlas. Druggability of identified targets was also evaluated. Mendelian Randomization analyses indicated bidirectional causal associations between ANX and PAU. MiXeR identified moderate polygenic overlap (52.5%) and genetic correlation (rg = 0.44) between the traits, with high effect direction concordance among shared estimated causal variants (86.4%). ConjFDR identified 97 shared lead SNPs, of which 89 had concordant and 8 discordant effects on PAU and ANX. These loci mapped to 97 genes, including DRD2 and PDE4B, genes linked to dopaminergic and cAMP signaling pathways, respectively. Concordant gene expression was enriched in brain, nerve, adrenal gland, esophagus, stomach, and colon, with enriched expression specifically in the prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus, substantia nigra and amygdala. FUMA cell-type enrichment analysis identified associations predominantly in neurons from the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and thalamus. We found substantial genetic and neurobiological overlap between PAU and ANX, highlighting reciprocal, causal relationships between the traits, with differentially expressed genes enriched in addiction- and anxiety-relevant brain regions. These findings support shared genetic and neurobiological mechanisms linking PAU and ANX, while acknowledging that some signals may reflect broader internalizing or psychiatric liability.© 2026. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
Caffeine, which is widely present in various medications and food products, has been epidemiologically associated with fetal growth restriction (FGR). Hydroxysteroid 11-beta dehydrogenase 2 (HSD11B2) is a key placental enzyme implicated in FGR induced by adverse prenatal exposures. This study investigates the regulation of placental HSD11B2 and explores potential modifiable mechanisms. Our findings demonstrated that environmentally relevant concentrations of caffeine inhibits the cyclic adenosine monophosphate/protein kinase A (cAMP/PKA) signaling pathway, leading to decreased specificity protein 1 (SP1) expression and increased early growth response factor 1 (EGR1) expression. These changes altered histone modifications in the HSD11B2 promoter (lower H3K9ac, higher H3K9me2), and decreased intracellular cortisol. Cortisol were observed to inhibit HSD11B2 expression. Under combined exposure, however, cortisol attenuated caffeine-induced inhibition of the cAMP/PKA/HSD11B2 pathway. This effect involved upregulation of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and miR-26a-5p and downregulation of phosphodiesterase 4B (PDE4B), thus modulating the SP1/HSD11B2 axis. Finally, oral administration of roflumilast (a PDE4 inhibitor) to mice with prenatal caffeine exposure restored fetal body weight and improved placental cAMP/PKA/SP1/HSD11B2 pathway activity. This study provides theoretical and experimental evidence for the self-regulatory function of the placental glucocorticoid barrier and suggests PDE4B-associated HSD11B2 regulation as a potential mechanistic target for FGR intervention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Psoriasis is a chronic autoinflammatory skin disease lacking curative options. Ronomilast is a novel PDE4i inhibitor with potent anti-inflammatory properties. To evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of topical ronomilast, alone and combined with clobetasol, in an imiquimod (IMQ)-induced psoriasis mouse model. Fifty BALB/c male albino mice were randomly assigned to five groups (n = 10): healthy control, imiquimod-induced, clobetasol-treated (0.05%), ronomilast-treated (0.3%), and combination-treated (ronomilast 0.15% + clobetasol 0.025%). Psoriasis-like lesions were induced by daily topical application of 5% imiquimod for five consecutive days. Treatments were applied topically 3 h after imiquimod. Skin samples were analyzed for IL-17A and IL-23 levels via ELISA, TNF-α expression via immunohistochemistry, and histopathological changes. In silico molecular docking with PDE4B and PDE4D targets was also conducted. Ronomilast significantly reduced IL-17A and IL-23 levels compared to the induction group. The combination therapy produced the greatest reduction in IL-17A and IL-23. TNF-α expression scores were also significantly decreased by ronomilast and the combination relative to the induction group, consistent with histopathological improvements. Molecular docking demonstrated that ronomilast has higher binding affinity than roflumilast for PDE4B and comparable affinity for PDE4D. Topical ronomilast alone or combined with clobetasol, substantially ameliorates psoriasiform dermatitis by inhibiting key inflammatory cytokines. These results strengthen its prospects as an antipsoriatic candidate; nonetheless, more clinical investigations are necessary to validate its effectiveness and safety in humans.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Colorectal cancer is one of the most prevalent cancers worldwide, and novel precision medicine approaches are rapidly improving patient outcomes. Phosphodiesterase 4B (PDE4B) is a member of an enzyme family (PDE4) that hydrolyses intracellular cAMP to control spatial and temporal signalling cues. The PDE4B family, particularly PDE4B shortforms, has been implicated in the progression of colorectal cancer and has emerged as a novel drug target. However, clinically available PDE4 inhibitors are limited therapeutically by their active site-directed action, which lacks subfamily selectivity, resulting in a broad range of adverse effects. Targeted protein degradation may provide a novel strategy for designing more potent and selective PDE4B blockers.A novel proteolysis-targeting chimaera (PROTAC) was studied to determine the effect of PDE4B shortform degradation on several hallmarks of cancer in the KRAS-mutant cell line HCT116.We developed a novel PROTAC, KTX207, which selectively degrades PDE4B shortforms in HCT116 cells. KTX207 significantly increased cAMP levels and decreased PDE4 activity in HCT116 cells, relative to the effects of a small-molecule PDE4 inhibitor at the same concentration. Furthermore, KTX207 decraesed cell migration and invasion, replicative immortality and angiogenic potential of HCT116 cells.This research showed that the selective degradation of PDE4B shortform significantly improved attenuation of certain hallmarks of cultured colorectal cancer models. This novel therapeutic approach has greater potential than existing PDE4 inhibitors, as the potency/selectivity we engineered into the PDE4 PROTAC may eliminate side-effects exhibited by conventional PDE4 inhibitors.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Pharmacology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Pharmacological Society.
Phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4) facilitates the enzymatic breakdown of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), through its four distinct isotypes, namely PDE4A to PDE4D, along with more than 25 splice variants. It plays a crucial role in cancer development, respiratory issues such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), autoimmune diseases like psoriasis, and neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. Various methods are being developed to enhance clinical efficacy and reduce side effects. Some of these methods include drug delivery via inhalation and the development of non-emetic PDE4 inhibitors and mixed PDE inhibitors. These inhibitors offer several advantages over traditional formulations, including selectivity for specific inhibitors, targeted tissue distribution, and oral effectiveness. All these efforts have led to the emergence of novel PDE4 inhibitors, with some having progressed to clinical trial stages and others approved as medications. This review summarises PDE4 inhibitors currently in clinical trials, highlighting their therapeutic potential, limitations, and future prospects.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a common fatal genetic disorder with a high carrier rate. For the prevention program and treatment plan of this disease, a comprehensive assay is practically needed to gain multigenetic information, enabling effective molecular screening and accurate clinical classification. In this study, a novel single-tube matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry assay was developed to simultaneously analyze the copy numbers of survival motor neuron (SMN), neuronal apoptosis-inhibitory protein (NAIP), small EDRK-rich factor 1A (H4F5), and general transcription factor IIH subunit 2 (GTF2H2); identify six common loss-of-function variants in SMN1; and identify hybrid SMN. The results of this assay were 100% consistent with the predetermined values in 158 genotype-known samples. Furthermore, a cohort of 162 clinical samples was double-blind detected to evaluate this assay, and the results showed a 100% overall concordance with comparative methods. Herein, this novel MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry assay was found to be practical and cost-effective and to have multigenetic information available, which is suitable for large-scale molecular screening and routine clinical diagnosis of spinal muscular atrophy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a cluster of interconnected cardiometabolic risk factors with a substantial but incompletely characterized genetic basis. To identify novel genetic determinants, particularly rare variants, we here conducted a large-scale exome-wide association study in 367,188 individuals from the UK Biobank (78,300 cases and 288,888 controls). Single-variant analysis identified 74 independent loci, three of which correspond to rare variants in CARMIL2, ACTR6, and PLA2G12A without prior documented MetS association. Furthermore, gene-based burden testing pinpointed three key genes: ABCA1, APOC3, and PDE3B. Integrative follow-up analyses - including colocalization across molecular traits (mRNA, protein, microbiota) and association testing with proteomic/metabolic biomarkers - collectively suggest that these rare variants influence MetS susceptibility through coordinated effects on protein expression, metabolite concentrations, and microbial abundance. Importantly, ABCA1, APOC3, and PDE3B are established or promising drug targets for related metabolic disorders. In summary, our study not only elucidates the significant contribution of rare variants to MetS susceptibility, distinct from common variant signals, but also highlights the central role of lipid metabolism pathways, thereby nominating plausible targets for therapeutic intervention. Clinical trial number:Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Jiao-tai-wan (JTW) is a classic formula for Heart-Kidney Disharmony insomnia, yet its mechanism in hippocampal neurons remains unclear.To investigate whether JTW ameliorates insomnia-induced hippocampal neuronal damage by inhibiting ferroptosis and elucidate the underlying mechanisms.UPLC-Q-TOF/MS analyzed JTW constituents. Network pharmacology and molecular docking predicted core targets. A mouse insomnia model was established using PCPA combined with MMPM. Behavioral tests, pathological examinations, and ferroptosis markers were evaluated. In vitro, HT22 cells underwent IKE-induced ferroptosis to validate Jiao-tai-wan drug-containing serum (JTWS) and the PDE4D inhibitor Zatolmilast (ZAT).413 compounds were identified in JTW, with 47 predicted to penetrate the blood-brain barrier. Network pharmacology, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations predicted PDE4D and BDNF as core targets. In vivo, JTW ameliorated cognitive deficits, attenuated hippocampal neuronal damage, and restored mitochondrial ultrastructure. Mechanistically, JTW downregulated Ptgs2 expression, upregulated Gpx4, Fth1, and Acsl3 expression, reduced lipid peroxidation and iron accumulation, while simultaneously suppressing Pde4d and restoring Bdnf levels. In vitro, ZAT mimicked the anti-ferroptotic effects of JTW.JTW inhibits hippocampal neuronal ferroptosis through multi-target regulation, ameliorating insomnia-related neuronal damage and providing a molecular basis for its traditional efficacy in restoring Heart-Kidney communication.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Pachymic acid (PA) is a natural active component of Poria cocos(Schw.)Wol. Although PA exhibits antitumor activity in multiple cancers, its effects and mechanisms against glioma remain elusive. This study aimed to investigate the anti-glioma effects of PA and identify its potential candidate core targets and pathways. Functional experiments demonstrated that PA significantly inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of glioma cells and induced apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner. Using network pharmacology, machine learning, and bioinformatics analysis, we screened six candidate targets: PDE4D, CAPN2, MAPK9, EPHB6, CCKBR, and FAAH. TCGA analysis confirmed that CAPN2 and PDE4D were upregulated in glioma, while the others were downregulated. Molecular docking, an in silico predictive approach, suggested that PA may potentially form favorable binding conformations with these core targets based on calculated binding energies. Further verification revealed that PA treatment was associated with reduced AKT and mTOR phosphorylation, suggesting that the PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway may be involved in mediating its anti-glioma activity. In conclusion, PA exerts dose-dependent anti-glioma cellular effects through multi-gene regulation, and the suppressed activation of the PI3K-AKT pathway may correlate with its anti-tumor function. These results provide a theoretical basis for developing PA as a potential therapeutic agent for glioma.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fvets.2026.1821251.].Copyright © 2026 Widjiati, Luqman, Darsini, Aulanni'am, Hendrawan, Kurniawati and Jaafar.
Alcoholic dementia (AlD) is a severe neurological disorder with no effective treatment. Development of pan-phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) inhibitors for clinical treatment of neurological conditions has been hampered by emetic side effects primarily mediated by PDE4D, one of the four subtypes of PDE4. Although PDE4A was shown to be upregulated by chronic alcohol exposure, its therapeutic relevance to AlD remains unclear.A stable mouse model of AlD was established in 3-month-old 3xTg-AD mice using a free-choice two-bottle protocol (25% alcohol) for 19 weeks. Mice received either rolipram injections for 3 weeks or PDE4A knockdown for 6 weeks. Cognitive function was assessed using the Morris water maze, novel object recognition, and Y-maze tests. Hippocampal neuropathology-including Aβ deposition, synaptic integrity, Tau phosphorylation (at Ser214/Ser404), and neuronal apoptosis-was evaluated by immunofluorescence or immunohistochemistry. Changes in key proteins of the cAMP/PKA/CREB signaling pathway were analyzed by Western blotting.This study demonstrated that selectively targeting PDE4A rescued cognitive and neuropathological deficits in a validated mouse model of AlD. Behavioral tests showed that PDE4A knockdown significantly improved spatial memory and cognition in the Morris water maze, novel object recognition, and the Y maze in the AlD mice. Pathological analysis revealed that PDE4A knockdown reduced amyloid-beta (Aβ) deposition and phosphorylated Tau levels. Furthermore, it restored synaptic integrity, as evidenced by the upregulation of PSD95 and Synaptophysin, enhanced dendritic complexity, and increased spine density, while also exerting neuroprotective effects by suppressing neuronal apoptosis in AlD mice. Mechanistically, the therapeutic benefits of PDE4A knockdown were mediated through the reactivation of the critically impaired cAMP/PKA/CREB signaling pathway, leading to elevated cAMP levels, increased PKA activity, and enhanced phosphorylation of CREB.Our findings established PDE4A as one of the key AlD pathological drivers and identified its selective inhibition as a novel and promising therapeutic strategy for AlD, offering a viable approach to circumvent the adverse effects associated with broad-spectrum PDE4 inhibition.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the CINP.
The identification of cuproptosis offers novel insights into therapeutic strategies for neoplastic diseases. We explore whether cuproptosis and cuproptosis-related genes (CRGs) could provide novel perspectives for the prognosis and treatment of gastric cancer patients.RNA sequencing data of gastric cancer patients were retrieved from The Cancer Genome Atlas Program (TCGA), CRGs in gastric cancer were analyzed through bioinformatics methods. Subsequent experiments, including Western blotting (WB), quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), immunofluorescence, 5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine assay, Cell Counting Kit-8 assay, Transwell assay, transmission electron microscopy, and xenograft tumor formation in nude mice, were conducted to further validate the biological role of the key CRG PDE3B in gastric cancer.We confirmed CP, MAP2K2, and PDE3B as key genes for the prognostic classifier. Knockdown of PDE3B effectively suppressed the pro-tumorigenic functions in gastric cancer cell malignant proliferation and progression. Elesclomol-CuCl2 (ES-Cu) triggered canonical cuproptosis features in gastric cancer cells, and PDE3B expression was downregulated during this process. Notably, the inhibition of PDE3B significantly potentiated ES-Cu induced cuproptosis.We characterized the landscape of CRG dysregulation in gastric cancer, verified that ES-Cu exhibited a significant cytotoxic effect on gastric cancer, and elucidated the pivotal role of PDE3B in gastric cancer.© AME Publishing Company.
A major regulator of the intraoocyte levels of cAMP is the cGMP-inhibited PDE3A. This oocyte-specific PDE hydrolyses cAMP, counterbalancing its autonomous GPR3 production and gap junctional transfer from the follicle soma. The pituitary luteinizing hormone (LH) induces resumption of meiosis by reducing the somatic cGMP, which in concomitance with closure of gap junctions lowers its availability to the oocyte. Nevertheless, unlike cGMP, LH elevates the follicle cAMP. This apparent paradox questions whether and how the somatic cAMP elevation serves reinitiation of meiosis. To challenge this intriguing option, we used rat ovarian follicle clusters and cumulus-enclosed/cumulus-free, fully-grown oocytes. The oocytes were incubated with dbcAMP to elevate their cAMP. Follicles were incubated with LH to induce resumption of meiosis. Participation of NO-iNOS pathway was evaluated by either the NO-donor, SNAP or the iNOS inhibitor AG, and involvement of cGMP by a selective sGC inhibitor, ODQ. At the end of incubations, PDE3A activity as well as cAMP concentrations within oocytes were determined. We detected a LH-induced immediate elevation of intra-oocyte cAMP, followed by PKA-mediated activation of PDE3A. Both events were depended on open gap junctions. At this time window, the LH-induced decrease in granulosa-cells NO production followed by reduction in cGMP contributed to the relief of PDE3A inhibition. The later termination of cell-to-cell communication backed a sustained PDE3A activity by stopping the transfer of both, cAMP and cGMP. Our present study suggests that the transient increase in intraoocyte cAMP, which activates the oocyte PDE3A, may serve as a complementary mechanism, to increase the efficiency of LH-induced oocyte maturation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Many U.S. soldiers and support personnel stationed in the Middle East and Southwest Asia are exposed to hazardous combustion byproducts from military burn pits, which may produce chronic health effects. In addition, prolonged and irregular work schedules increase susceptibility to circadian rhythm disruption, worsening adverse health outcomes. This study aimed to examine the interaction between light at night and burn pit exposure and their effects on neuroinflammatory and behavioral outcomes in mice. Thirty-two male Swiss Webster mice were housed either in dark nights (LD) or dim light at night (DLAN) condition. During week 4, mice from each group were exposed to either filtered air (FA) or burn pit emissions (BPE) for 4 hr/ day over 6 days. For the BPE‑exposed mice, the average exposure concentrations were 6.9 mg/m3 (mass) and 4.03E6 #/cc (particle counts). The mice housed in LD conditions and exposed to FA served as an experimental control group. Behavioral testing conducted 24 hr after the last exposure resulted in no significant differences in distance traveled, spatial working memory, or anxiety-like behavior in open field, y-maze, and elevated plus maze. However, DLAN-FA mice exhibited reduced average speed in comparison to LD-FA. qRT-PCR analysis revealed decreased expression of proinflammatory cytokine genes in hippocampus (Il6, Tnfα, and Il1β) and cortex (Il6) of LD-BPE mice. Significant changes in gene expression were not observed in lungs and liver. Reduced Bmal1 expression was noted in hippocampus of LD-BPE mice, whereas DLAN-FA group increased Bmal1 and Cry1 expression in cortex. Our data demonstrate that light at night modulates neuroimmune and circadian responses following repeated BPE exposures.
Adequate sleep is essential for biological rhythmicity and metabolic homeostasis, but chronic sleep restriction (CSR), a common modern challenge, disrupts hypothalamic function and contributes to circadian dysregulation, oxidative stress, and metabolic disturbances. This study investigated the effects of AdipoRon (AR), an adiponectin receptor agonist, on CSR-associated changes in hypothalamic clock-gene expression, oxidative stress markers, and components of the SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 signaling axis. Male mice were assigned to control, CSR, CSR + Melatonin (Mel), and CSR + AR groups. Animals underwent 21 days of sleep restriction (18 h/day) using the multiple-platform approach and received intranasal AR (10 µg) or Mel (40 µg) daily for 21 days. Circadian clock genes (Clock, Bmal1, Per1, and Cry1), oxidative stress markers (malondialdehyde, superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, and total antioxidant capacity), and components of the SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 pathway were assessed in the hypothalamus. Serum lipid profile and liver enzymes were also measured. The results showed that CSR induced marked alterations in hypothalamic clock-related gene expression, accompanied by increased oxidative stress and reduced expression of SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 pathway-related proteins. In addition, CSR reduced body weight gain and triglyceride levels while increasing low-density lipoprotein (LDL), aspartate transaminase (AST), and alanine aminotransferase (ALT). In contrast, AR treatment partially reversed CSR-associated alterations in clock-related gene expression, attenuated oxidative stress, reduced LDL and ALT levels, and increased the expression of SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 pathway-related proteins. These findings suggest that AR may mitigate CSR-associated molecular and metabolic alterations and warrant further investigation into its underlying mechanisms.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In most Bacillus thuringiensis strains, the cry genes are transcribed by RNA polymerases containing sporulation-sigma factors E or K, leading to the formation of an insecticidal crystal within the mother cell along spore development. The kurstaki HD1 strain, a parent of commercial strains, also releases the insecticidal proteins Cry1I and Vip3A in the extracellular medium. vip3A expression is activated by the transcriptional regulator VipR at the onset of the stationary phase. Here, we expanded the VipR regulon in strain HD1 by identifying the VipR-binding box upstream from the cry2Aa, cry2Ab, and cry1Ia genes, and conducting transcription assays. Unexpectedly, a VipR box was located in the promoter of a putative N-acetylmuramoyl-l-alanine amidase (ami) gene upstream from cry1Ac in strain kurstaki HD73, closely related to the HD1 but devoid of vipR. Introduction of vipR in this strain led to the expression of the ami-cry1Ac operon, resulting in an early and increased production of Cry1Ac. We demonstrated that Cry1Ac was also produced in a VipR-dependent manner in an HD73 ∆spo0A mutant. Similarly, an HD1 ∆spo0A strain produces all the insecticidal proteins encoded in its genome, including cry2Ab, previously considered unexpressed. A genomic analysis also revealed the presence of putative VipR-binding sequences in lepidopteran-active strains, upstream from cry genes such as cry1E, cry1F, cry9D, and cry9E. Overall, our results break the dogma on the regulation of cry1A and cry2A genes and provide evidence of sporulation-independent Cry toxin production in biopesticidal Bt strains.IMPORTANCEBacillus thuringiensis is a remarkably efficient entomopathogen due to its ability to produce various insecticidal proteins, such as Cry or Vip. This property has made it a highly effective biopesticide used worldwide. Our work modifies the paradigm of cry1 and cry2 genes being regulated solely by sporulation-specific sigma factors and thus exclusively expressed during this process. Indeed, we demonstrated that the VipR regulator controls the transcription of vip3Aa, cry2Aa, cry2Ab, cry1Ia, and the ami-cry1A operons encoded by a strain closely related to that of commercial biopesticides and specifically turns on their expression from the onset of the stationary phase, leading to the production of insecticidal crystals independently of sporulation. By providing new knowledge on the regulation of insecticidal protein genes, these findings bring new insight for the genetic improvement of Bt strains used as commercial biopesticides.
Synaptic dysfunction and neurite remodeling are early features of many inherited retinal diseases, but whether synaptic function can be restored after circuit remodeling remains unclear. We evaluated the therapeutic potential of adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated α2δ4 gene supplementation in a mouse model of CACNA2D4-associated retinal synaptopathy.AAV8-GRK1-α2δ4 was delivered by subretinal injection to α2δ4 knockout mice at neonatal, young adult, or middle-aged adult stages. Retinal function was assessed by electroretinography. Synaptic organization and circuit remodeling were evaluated by immunohistochemistry.AAV-mediated α2δ4 expression restored synaptic localization of Cav1.4, ELFN proteins, and mGluR6 at all treatment ages. However, circuit structure and functional rescue were age- and circuit-dependent. Neonatal treatment restored rod and cone transmission and prevented photoreceptor terminal retraction and bipolar cell dendritic sprouting. Rescue in young adults improved rod and cone circuit function but did not reverse neurite remodeling. Rescue in middle-aged mice restored cone but not rod transmission. Notably, neonatal treatment produced the highest proportion of synapses within synaptic layer, whereas adult treatment generated increasing ectopic synapses in nuclear layer.Photoreceptor synaptic assembly remains plastic in remodeled retinas and can be restored by α2δ4 supplementation. However, rescue efficacy is influenced by age and circuits with rod circuits exhibiting a narrower therapeutic window. Synaptic molecular reassembly can occur without neurite restoration. These findings establish α2δ4 gene therapy as a promising treatment for CACNA2D4-associated retinal synaptopathy and reveal distinct intervention windows for synaptic assembly, neurite remodeling, and rod versus cone circuit recovery.
Hepatic fibrosis (HF) serves as a critical pathological process underlying the progression of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Despite its clinical relevance, effective anti‑fibrotic therapies remain scarce. Although total ginsenosides (GSS) can ameliorate hepatic oxidative damage and attenuate the development of HF, the molecular mechanism mediating their anti‑fibrotic effects remains incompletely elucidated. Notably, circadian clock gene dysregulation is associated with hepatic metabolic dyshomeostasis and the fibrotic process. As a core circadian gene in the liver, clock circadian regulator (CLOCK) serves a role in the progression of fibrosis. The present study hypothesized that GSS may exert anti‑fibrotic effects by restoring hepatic circadian rhythmicity through circadian clock‑dependent pathways. Using a well‑established carbon tetrachloride‑induced murine model of HF in C57BL/6 mice, GSS was administered intraperitoneally at graded doses of 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg. Subsequently, serum and liver tissues were collected from mice for histopathological examination. Furthermore, the expression levels of fibrotic markers (α‑smooth muscle actin and collagen type 1) and circadian rhythm genes [CLOCK, basic helix‑loop‑helix ARNT‑like 1, cryptochrome (CRY)1, CRY2, period circadian protein homolog (PER)1 and PER2 were assessed. At the cellular level, LX‑2 hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) were activated with TGF‑β1 and treated with GSS, after which, RNA sequencing was performed on GSS‑treated cells. In addition, the CLOCK inhibitor (CLK8) was used for in vitro experiments. The results of the present study revealed that GSS intervention effectively reversed the dysregulation of circadian gene expression and alleviated the progression of fibrosis. Molecular docking analysis further supported the interaction between GSS active components and the CLOCK protein. Thus, the current study focused on GSS and explored its role in ameliorating HF through regulation of the core circadian gene CLOCK. Collectively, the findings demonstrated that GSS may alleviate HF by rescuing circadian clock‑driven circadian homeostasis in hepatocytes and HSCs, thereby providing mechanistic insight into traditional Chinese medicine‑based interventions and identifying CLOCK as a druggable node for fibrosis therapy.
Red light promotes PsbS transcription through the PHYs-COP1 module, blue light through the CRY1/CRY2-COP1 pathway, and UV-B via the UVR8-COP1-HY5 cascade. ABA negatively regulates PsbS through the PYLs-SnRK2s-ABI5 signaling pathway. Non-photochemical quenching (NPQ) is a central photoprotective mechanism that enables plants to dissipate excess excitation energy under high light conditions, with PsbS functioning as a key regulatory protein. However, the environmental cues controlling PsbS transcription and the underlying regulatory mechanisms remain largely unclear. Analysis of the core promoter region of PsbS identified light-responsive element G-box and abscisic acid-responsive element (ABRE) cis-elements; dual-luciferase reporter assays confirmed that the core PsbS promoter can respond to light and abscisic acid (ABA) signals. Expression analyses showed that red, blue, and ultraviolet-B (UV-B) light significantly induced PsbS transcription, whereas ABA treatment repressed it. Genetic and signaling analyses revealed that red light promotes PsbS transcription through the PHYs-COP1 module, blue light through the CRY1/CRY2-COP1 pathway, and UV-B via the UVR8-COP1-HY5 cascade. In contrast, ABA negatively regulates PsbS through the PYLs-SnRK2s-ABI5 signaling pathway. Yeast one-hybrid (Y1H) screening identified 36 candidate transcription factors targeting PsbS. Dual-luciferase assays and electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA) further confirmed that bZIP2, bZIP16, bZIP43, CCA1, and IDD1 act as candidate transcriptional repressors of PsbS. This study systematically integrates known light and ABA signaling pathways that regulate PsbS expression, providing potential molecular targets for improving crop photosynthetic efficiency.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511510 is a review article
Circadian rhythm disruptions are increasingly recognized in disorders such as obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), yet analysis of 24 h gene expression patterns remains challenging due to the lack of reliable reference genes for normalization. Even commonly used housekeeping genes may exhibit circadian oscillations, which can confound rhythmic gene expression analyses and hinder biomarker identification. To address this limitation, we evaluated the gene expression stability of 11 commonly used housekeeping genes in blood collected every 6 h over 24 h period from 40 adults with varying OSA severity and controls. Stability ranking by analytical tools RefFinder and EndoGeneAnalyzer identified ACTB (β-actin) and RPL13A (ribosomal protein L13a) as the most consistent reference genes, with minimal intra- and inter-individual variability across sampling times and disease groups. Their suitability was assessed by personalized cosinor analysis of core clock genes (BMAL1, PER2, CRY1), demonstrating that appropriate normalization enables detection of circadian oscillations in clinical samples. Using the optimal normalization, CosinorPy analysis of the core clock genes revealed significant circadian oscillations of at least one clock gene in the studied participants. These findings establish ACTB and RPL13A as robust reference genes for blood-based circadian studies of OSA and provide an important methodological framework for future circadian biomarker research.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42504374 is a review article
Gymnema (G.) inodorum is a medicinal plant with anti-diabetic, anti-obesity, and anti-inflammatory properties traditionally consumed as tea in Southeast Asia. While bioactive stephanosides and gymnemic acids suppress adipocyte differentiation, their effects on skeletal muscle metabolism and circadian regulation remain unclear. This study investigated the effects of gymnemic acid (GiA-7) and stephanosides B and C in differentiated C2C12 myotubes.Differentiated C2C12 myotubes were treated with GiA-7 and stephanosides B and C, and gene expression was analyzed by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Stephanoside B selectively and concentration-dependently increased the expression of Pparg and Ppargc1a under basal conditions and after dexamethasone-induced circadian synchronization. It also increased the expression of the core clock genes Nr1d1, Per2, and Cry1, while decreasing Bmal1, consistent with known PPARγ-circadian interactions. To directly monitor circadian rhythmicity, we established a real-time Bmal1-luciferase reporter gene assay in differentiated myotubes. Continuous bioluminescence tracking over several days revealed that stephanoside B specifically lengthened the circadian period, demonstrating an effect on molecular clock function.Stephanoside B is associated with coordinated changes in metabolic gene expression and circadian parameters in skeletal muscle cells. These findings suggest a potential role of G. inodorum-derived compounds in modulating muscle circadian regulation at the cellular level. This study also provides a practical real-time analytical platform for evaluating dietary compounds that influence skeletal muscle circadian dynamics.© 2026. The Author(s).
Familial glucocorticoid deficiency type 2 (FGD2) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by pathogenic variants in the MRAP gene, typically characterized by isolated cortisol deficiency with markedly elevated ACTH levels. We report a term male neonate born to consanguineous parents who presented with striking scrotal hyperpigmentation at birth, despite an otherwise normal appearance and a normal newborn screening limited to classical congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH). Initial biochemical evaluations, including glucose and electrolytes, were unremarkable; however, due to severe hyperpigmentation, further endocrine workup was pursued. Laboratory findings revealed profoundly low serum cortisol and markedly elevated ACTH, supporting the diagnosis of primary adrenal insufficiency. Hydrocortisone therapy was initiated promptly, and during follow-up, transient hyperkalemia and low-normal aldosterone levels necessitated short-term fludrocortisone supplementation, suggesting partial mineralocorticoid involvement. Genetic analysis identified a homozygous MRAP in-frame deletion (c.88_90del; p.K30del), classified as likely pathogenic according to ACMG 2015 criteria and as a variant of uncertain significance according to the ClinGen SVI recommendations. Despite the dramatic initial presentation, the patient remained euglycemic and demonstrated normal neurodevelopment under appropriate hormone replacement, with gradual resolution of hyperpigmentation. This case highlights striking neonatal scrotal hyperpigmentation as a potential early clinical clue suggestive of familial glucocorticoid deficiency in a patient with a homozygous MRAP variant. Importantly, even when newborn screening for CAH is normal, marked hyperpigmentation should prompt evaluation for other causes of primary adrenal insufficiency to prevent life-threatening adrenal crises.
Chronic diabetic wounds remain a major clinical challenge owing to impaired angiogenesis, persistent inflammation and cellular dysfunction. In this study, we developed a bioadhesive composite hydrogel scaffold (gelatin methacryloyl/alginate methacrylate [GA]) fabricated using digital light processing three-dimensional (3D) bioprinting, in which human adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (ADSCs) or their conditioned medium (CM) was incorporated to generate 3D skin constructs, and compared the paracrine effects on skin regeneration. We characterized the microstructures of GA-ADSC and GA-CM scaffolds; profiled CM proteins and systematically compared the effects of GA-ADSCs and GA-CM on fibroblast proliferation, migration, angiogenesis and macrophage polarization in vitro. Their therapeutic efficacy was further evaluated in diabetic mouse wound models, including analyses of collagen deposition, angiogenesis and fibrosis markers. Furthermore, proteomic analysis was performed to understand the underlying mechanisms. In vitro, both GA-ADSCs and GA-CM promoted fibroblast proliferation, migration, angiogenesis and macrophage M2 polarization. Moreover, they accelerated wound closure in diabetic mice by enhancing collagen deposition and neovascularization (CD31) and suppressing α-smooth muscle actin and transforming growth factor-β1 expression. Notably, GA-ADSCs showed prolonged cell viability and exhibited stronger immunomodulatory and antifibrotic effects than GA-CM. Proteomic analysis revealed distinct mechanistic differences: GA-ADSCs markedly activated Toll-like receptor signaling, necroptosis and extracellular matrix remodeling pathways, suggesting their key roles in immune regulation and metabolic reprogramming. In contrast, GA-CM primarily activated the Hippo signaling pathway, consistent with its role in growth factor-mediated tissue repair. Furthermore, we compared the differentially regulated proteins between ADSCs and CM in diabetic wounds and showed that ADSCs significantly modulated RGL2, RSPH9 and CRTC3, which are associated with enhanced cellular function and energy metabolism. These findings provide mechanistic insights into ADSC- and CM-mediated effects and support the development of bioinspired stem cell-based therapeutic strategies for chronic diabetic wound repair.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Familial glucocorticoid deficiency (FGD) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by isolated cortisol deficiency and elevated adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) levels. Variants in TXNRD2, which encodes mitochondrial thioredoxin reductase 2, have recently been implicated in FGD; however, the phenotypic and mutational spectrum remain extremely limited.Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) was performed in a proband from a Saudi family who presented in early childhood with clinical and biochemical features consistent with FGD (Low basal and stimulated cortisol of < 5 nmol/l and extremely elevated ACTH levels of > 2500 pg/ml) and seizure disorder requiring medical treatment and with basal ganglia changes noted on brain MRI at presentation. WGS identified a novel likely pathogenic TXNRD2 variant with no other potential variant in FGD-associated genes. Population frequency, segregation analysis, evolutionary conservation, and in silico pathogenicity predictions were assessed for the identified variant.WGS identified a novel missense homozygous TXNRD2 (NM_001282512) variant (c.575C>T (p.Pro192Leu) in the proband, and in the heterozygous state in both parents, supporting autosomal recessive inheritance. This variant has not been reported in a local population database of > 18000 exomes, is extremely rare in international population databases (minor allele frequency 0.00000479), and affects a highly conserved residue. The variant was consistently predicted by multiple in silico tools to have deleterious effects on protein structure and function. No pathogenic, likely pathogenic, or VUS was found in other genes involved in FGD, including MC2R, MRAP, STAR, CYP11A1, NNT, MCM4, or SGPL1.This report adds another patient with a novel variant to the few previously described patients and expands the genetic spectrum of the very rare TXNRD2-associated FGD, supporting the role of mitochondrial redox dysregulation in adrenal insufficiency.Copyright © 2026 Al Alwan, Alhamoudi, Alzaben, Almulhem, Qawasmi, Alswailem, Alotaibi, Alsaihati, Jabaan, Mahzari, Flück and Alzahrani.
Increased right ventricular filling pressures (RVFP) are associated with increased mortality risk in children with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). We aimed to investigate the correlation of echocardiographic diastolic parameters with invasive measurements of RVFP in pediatric PAH.We retrospectively reviewed 95 patients and 48 controls from the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto and Children's Hospital Colorado. RV filling pressures (RVFP) were considered elevated when RV end-diastolic pressures (RVEDP) ≥8 mmHg or mean right atrial pressure (mRAP) >8 mmHg from the catheter. Echocardiographic measurements included hepatic vein A-wave reversal (HVA) velocity and duration, the ratio between HVA and HV systolic velocity (HV A/S), indexed right atrial volume (RAVi), and RV and RA diastolic strains. Logistic regression and receiver operating characteristic curve analysis were used to investigate the predictive value of echo parameters for elevated RVFP.PAH patients had significantly elevated HVA velocity, duration and HV A/S, enlarged RAVi, and decreased RA and RV strains. HVA velocity had the highest area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) for diagnosing elevated RVFP [AUC = 0.788 (0.570-1), p = 0.021]. The model with HVA velocity significantly predicted elevated RVFP [Nagelkerke R2 = 0.339, B(SE) = 0.121 (0.06), odds ratio = 1.129 (1.003-1.27), p = 0.044)].Of the echo parameters studied, HVA velocity was the best predictor of elevated RVFP in pediatric PAH. But in general, echocardiographic parameters were inadequate indicators of RVFP. Further prospective studies in a larger cohort are needed to determine the association between HV Doppler and changes in RVFP, and ultimately with clinical outcomes.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Serum activin A level is a promising prognostic biomarker for pulmonary artery hypertension (PAH). In this study, we aim to investigate serum activin A levels and their associations with 1-year mortality in atrial septal defect (ASD)-associated PAH patients.This was a case-control study of adult Indonesian patients diagnosed with ASD-PAH from the COHARD-PH registry. Cases were subjects deceased in a 1-year follow-up, whereas controls were those survived. Serum activin A was measured at the index of diagnosis. The demographics, clinical parameters, hemodynamic, and mortality data were retrieved from the registry database up to a 1-year follow-up period. These data were compared and analyzed between the case and control groups.From the 1-year follow-up data, 44 cases (deceased group) and 102 controls (survived group) were identified. The deceased group had significant lower bodyweight (p < 0.001), body mass index (BMI) (p < 0.01), with higher NT-proBNP level (< 0.0001), higher proportion of Eisenmenger syndrome (p < 0.05), higher right atrial (RA) area (p < 0.0001), lower tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE) (p < 0.01), and a significant increase in mean right atrial pressure (mRAP) (< 0.0001). There was no difference in the activin A level between deceased and survivors (506.3 ± 259.1 pg/mL vs. 536.1 ± 293.9 pg/mL, p > 0.05, respectively). Moreover, activin A level did not associate with the mortality risk among subjects (OR = 0.9996; 95% CI: 0.9982-1.00087; p > 0.05).Serum activin A level did not associate with 1-year mortality in adult patients with ASD-associated PAH.Copyright © 2026 Pranindya Rinastiti et al. International Journal of Vascular Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Treatment options for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain limited, and patient prognosis is generally poor. Therefore, elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying HCC initiation and progression is critical for identifying novel therapeutic targets. Our previous study demonstrated that BICD cargo adaptor 1 (BICD1) was upregulated in HCC and functioned as a tumor promoter. However, the upstream regulators of BICD1 expression and the molecular basis of its pro-tumorigenic effects remain unclear. In this study, we identified Yes-associated protein (YAP) as a positive regulator of BICD1 in HCC. Mechanistically, YAP directly bound to the BICD1 promoter and enhanced its transcriptional activity. BICD1 expression was positively correlated with YAP, connective tissue growth factor (CTGF), and cysteine-rich angiogenic inducer 61 (CYR61) in HCC tissues. Functionally, BICD1 knockdown significantly attenuated hypoxia-induced proliferation, sphere formation, and migration of HCC cells, whereas BICD1 overexpression enhanced these phenotypes. In addition, BICD1 depletion markedly suppressed tumor initiation and growth in a nude mouse model. Further mechanistic investigations revealed that BICD1 interacted with hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) via its C-terminal CC3 domain, thereby promoting HIF-1α nuclear translocation and transcriptional activity in HCC cells. Notably, AKT activation or knockdown of glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK3β) significantly enhanced the interaction between BICD1 and HIF-1α, thereby increasing HIF-1α transcriptional activity. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that YAP-driven BICD1 expression facilitates HIF-1α nuclear translocation and activation of downstream target genes, thereby promoting hypoxia-induced proliferation, stemness, and migration in HCC. This study highlights the YAP-BICD1-HIF-1α axis as a potential therapeutic target in HCC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Macroautophagy/autophagy is a critical process for maintaining cellular homeostasis and has emerging implications in cancer biology. DRAM2 (DNA damage regulated autophagy modulator 2), a transmembrane protein enriched at lysosomal membranes, has been implicated in autophagy regulation; however, the upstream mechanisms governing its trafficking and function remain unclear. In this study, we identified RPS6KA3/RSK2, a stress-responsive kinase downstream of the MAPK pathway, as a novel upstream kinase of DRAM2. RPS6KA3/RSK2 interacted with and phosphorylated DRAM2 at Ser263 within its cytosolic tail. This phosphorylation was required for AP3D1/AP-3-dependent trafficking of DRAM2 to the late endosomal-lysosomal pathway, thereby facilitating autolysosome formation and sustaining autophagic flux. In contrast, the non-phosphorylatable DRAM2S263A mutant failed to bind AP3D1/AP-3, exhibited defective lysosomal trafficking, and was partially redistributed toward plasma membrane-proximal compartments, where it enhanced exosome secretion. Bioinformatic analyses revealed a strong positive correlation between RPS6KA3/RSK2 and DRAM2 expression in melanoma tissues, and elevated DRAM2 expression was associated with poor patient prognosis. Depletion of RPS6KA3/RSK2 or DRAM2 impaired autophagic flux and inhibited melanoma cell proliferation. Similarly, expression of the DRAM2S263A mutant suppressed melanoma progression in vitro and in vivo by disrupting autophagy. Moreover, DRAM2 protein levels were elevated in skin cancer tissues compared to normal tissues. Collectively, our findings uncover a phosphorylation-dependent trafficking switch that bifurcates DRAM2 function between autophagy and exosome secretion, and establish the RPS6KA3/RSK2-DRAM2 axis as a critical regulator of melanoma progression. This signaling pathway may represent a promising therapeutic target for autophagy-associated malignancies.Abbreviations: AGC: protein kinase A, G, and C families; AP-3: adaptor protein 3; CD: cytosolic domain; CSNK2/CK2: casein kinase 2; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; CREB: cAMP responsive element binding protein; CTKD: C-terminal kinase domain; DRAM2: DNA damage regulated autophagy modulator 2; EBSS: Earle's balanced salt solution; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; GEPIA: gene expression profiling interactive analysis; GPS: global positioning system; GRK7: G protein-coupled receptor kinase 7; GSK3B: glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta; IP-MS: immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry; LAMP1: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LAMP2: lysosome associated membrane protein 2; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MAPK: mitogen-activated protein kinase; MVB: multivesicular body; NTA: nanoparticle tracking analysis; NTKD: N-terminal kinase domain; PI4K2: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 alpha; PRKAA2: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 2; RPS6KA3/RSK2: ribosomal protein S6 kinase A3; SKCM: skin cutaneous melanoma; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1.
Axillary lymph nodes are a common site of metastatic carcinoma, particularly from the breast. Epithelial inclusions within axillary lymph nodes are uncommon but well recognized, most frequently encountered as small, incidental clusters of mammary-type epithelium; squamous, Müllerian, and mixed types are also sporadically identified. Hidradenoma is a benign adnexal neoplasm classically composed of epidermoid/squamoid, intermediate/basaloid, and mucinous cells that most commonly originates in the skin but can arise in the breast parenchyma, with morphologic and genetic features that overlap with mucoepidermoid carcinoma. Rare instances of hidradenomas within pelvic and axillary lymph nodes have been reported, raising the specter of metastasis. We report 3 cases of axillary lymph node hidradenoma presenting without a concurrent breast or cutaneous lesion. Morphology, immunohistochemistry, and molecular studies were evaluated. Two cases were found to harbor CRTC1::MAML2 rearrangements, while a rarer CRTC3::MAML2 fusion was identified in a third case. Following excision, the 3 patients were without evidence of residual disease, with clinical follow-up of ∼2 years each. Recognition of this entity is essential to avoid misclassification as metastatic carcinoma and prevent overtreatment.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Obesity and Alzheimer’s disease (AD) are epidemiologically associated. The locus coeruleus (LC)—the brain’s primary and most significant source of norepinephrine—is one of the earliest sites of neurodegeneration in AD. The LC participates in feeding behavior through connections with the hypothalamus. The cellular composition of the LC has been characterized at single-cell resolution. However, the constituent cellular signatures of genes related to energy homeostasis—such as the melanocortin pathway genes—in the LC are unclear. We performed single-nucleus RNA sequencing and spatial transcriptomics (Visium) in the human LC, and HiPlex RNAscope in the LC of mice. The melanocortin pathway gene MRAP2 was expressed in the majority of DBH neurons across the LC. Mrap2 was also co-expressed with AD-associated genes such as App, Psen1, Psen2, and Sorl1. More than 20% of Dbh neurons in the LC were positive for Mrap2, App, Psen1, and Psen2. Mrap2 is expressed in the central nervous system and modulates the trafficking and signaling of all five G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) of the melanocortin receptor family: Mc1r, Mc2r, Mc3r, Mc4r, and Mc5r. In mice, among the melanocortin receptors, Mc5r showed the highest co-expression with Mrap2, accounting for 17.9% of Mrap2-positive cells, followed by Mc2r with 10.9% of Mrap2-positive cells. Mc1r, Mc3r, and Mc4r showed very limited co-expression with Mrap2. Our study reveals that many Mrap2-positive cells do not express any melanocortin receptor genes, warranting future studies into metabolically relevant GPCRs downstream of MRAP2 in the LC. In summary, our study characterizes melanocortin molecular substrates in the human and mouse LC and highlights MRAP2 as a potential link between pathways of energy homeostasis and neurodegeneration.
BACKGROUND: Cryopreservation of porcine blastocysts remains a significant challenge due to their high lipid content, which can lead to cryoinjury and reduced developmental competence. While liquid nitrogen (LN) vitrification causes significant molecular damage, LHe vitrification enhances oocyte viability, reduces cryoinjury, and better preserves ultrastructure and gene expression. Despite these advantages, the specific effects of LHe vitrification on porcine blastocysts are still underexplored. RESULTS: LHe vitrification significantly improved post-thaw survival rates (96.53 ± 4.27%) compared to conventional LN (71.20 ± 6.82%) and modified LN protocols (90.77 ± 7.88%). scRNA-seq and scWGBS achieved mapping rates of 83.70% and 33.69%, respectively, and a bisulfite conversion efficiency of 99.27%, ensuring high-quality data for gene expression and methylation analysis. Vitrification significantly altered gene expression and epigenetic regulation, with hypermethylation and downregulation of genes associated with energy metabolism (ARG2, AUH, IDH3A, NDUFV1), immune function (CD53), and protein processing (B4GALT5, OSTC, DPM3, EXT1), resulting in mitochondrial and immune dysfunction, as well as protein instability. KEGG pathway analysis revealed disruptions in the TCA cycle, pentose phosphate pathway, homologous recombination, and fatty acid biosynthesis, which impaired blastocyst viability, ATP availability, immune responses, and cellular communication. Conversely, hypomethylation and upregulation of genes regulating energy metabolism (GPAM, AICDA), oxidative stress response (ITGAV), and cell adhesion (PLAU, MRAP2) suggest an adaptive response to mitigate cellular stress and damage. However, excessive upregulation following vitrification may lead to metabolic strain, oxidative stress accumulation, lipotoxicity, and an increased risk of apoptosis. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate that LHe offers superior metabolic and epigenetic preservation compared to LN, thereby reducing molecular damage and enhancing post-thaw development. These results establish LHe vitrification as an effective method that increases blastocyst viability and reproductive biotechnology applications.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558535 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42521111 is a review article
Lnk is an adaptor protein that attenuates cytokine receptor signaling in hematopoietic and immune cells, but its role in the behavior of CD8+ T cells within solid tumors is not well defined. Using a murine melanoma model, we compared tumor growth and immune infiltration in Lnk-deficient mice and in wild-type controls and evaluated CD8+ T cell trafficking toward chemokine signals produced by melanoma cells. Lnk-deficient mice developed smaller tumors containing greater numbers of intratumoral CD8+ cytotoxic T cells. Tumor chemokine profiles, including high levels of interleukin-8 family signals such as CXCL2, were comparable between groups, yet CD8+ T cells lacking Lnk showed enhanced migration toward melanoma-derived cues ex vivo and accumulated more effectively within tumors in vivo. Pharmacologic inhibition of CXCR1/2 abolished this migratory advantage. Upon stimulation with interleukin-8 family chemokines, Lnk-deficient CD8+ T cells exhibited increased activation of STAT3 and ERK signaling pathways. Moreover, antisense-mediated downregulation of Lnk in wild-type T cells resulted in enhanced accumulation within melanoma tumors following adoptive transfer into wild-type hosts. These findings identify Lnk as a negative regulator of CXCR1/2-dependent trafficking of CD8+ T cells in melanoma and suggest that modulating this intracellular checkpoint may improve T cell trafficking into solid tumors and enhance the effectiveness of adoptive cellular immunotherapies.© 2026 The Authors.
The role of tumor-infiltrating B cells (TIL-Bs) in shaping anti-tumor responses in the context of immune checkpoint blockade remains incompletely understood. Here, we interrogate the humoral response in resected lung tumors from patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) treated with neoadjuvant PD-1 blockade. We find that tumors orchestrate tertiary lymphoid structures with CD138+ plasma cells, from which we clone recombinant monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) using B cell receptors (BCRs) exhibiting somatic hypermutation and class switching. Several mAbs bind cell-surface citrullinated proteins, characteristic of cancer cells. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T redirected with the soluble chain fragment variable (scFv) of our lead candidate antibody (PC-1) specifically target tumor cells and tumor-promoting myeloid cells in vivo without off-target activity. Moreover, ablation of the citrullination enzyme PADI2 in tumor-bearing mice eliminates reactivity to PC-1 and cytotoxic killing by the CAR. Our results implicate a therapeutic potential for tumor-infiltrating plasma cells that may be harnessed for cancer treatment.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Deoxynivalenol (DON), a Fusarium-derived mycotoxin, disrupts immune homeostasis and induces immunotoxicity. Macrophage extracellular traps (METs) are key effectors in innate immunity and inflammation, yet whether DON triggers METs formation and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study aims to investigate the molecular mechanism by which DON induces METs generation through circadian rhythm immune checkpoints involving the PER2-c-Myc axis. Using RAW264.7 and THP-1 macrophage models, we combined siRNA-mediated Per2 knockdown, and pharmacological inhibitors to dissect the mechanisms of DON-induced METosis. We showed that DON (2-4 μM) triggered a biphasic METosis. The early phase (1-2 h) represents vital or non-suicidal METosis, characterized by F-actin depolymerization, rapid DNA release, and acute extrusion of MET markers histone H4, H2AX, CitH3, and MPO, reflecting an acute defense response. The late phase (8-12 h) corresponds to suicidal METosis, featuring a secondary surge in MET markers and typical reticular ultrastructures, indicating impaired repair and pathological progression. Mechanistically, DON co-activates an ROS-driven pathway and a PADI2-mediated histone modification pathway to drive suicidal METosis. PER2 acts as a circadian-immune checkpoint, positively regulating both pathways while suppressing c-Myc and maintaining its phosphorylation balance. In turn, c-Myc inhibits ROS signaling and MET release. Thus, DON-associated changes in PER2 expression, causing its aberrant upregulation, c-Myc suppression, and consequent derepression of ROS-driven METosis. This study elucidates a novel molecular mechanism by which DON promotes suicidal METosis in macrophages via the PER2-c-Myc-ROS signaling, providing new molecular targets for understanding DON-induced immunotoxicity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Acute leukemias of ambiguous lineage, not otherwise specified (ALAL, NOS), represent a rare but clinically significant subset of leukemias characterized by immunophenotypic heterogeneity and an absence of lineage-defining markers.We report a diagnostically challenging case of ALAL, NOS, in a 59-year-old man who presented with constitutional symptoms and was found to have marked leukocytosis, anemia, thrombocytopenia, and 96% circulating blasts.Flow cytometry revealed expression of progenitor markers (CD34, HLA-DR, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase) with weak and variable expression of B-cell (CD19, CD22), T-cell (CD5, CD7), and myeloid (CD13, CD33) markers. Immunohistochemistry confirmed CD79a expression but lacked the lineage-defining markers myeloperoxidase, CD3, strong CD19, and PAX5.Cytogenetic and molecular testing revealed a constitutional Robertsonian 13;14 translocation and SH2B3 mutations without diagnostic alterations characteristic of acute myeloid leukemia or acute lymphoblastic lymphoma. The case met diagnostic criteria for ALAL, NOS, per the 2022 International Consensus Classification and World Health Organization 5th edition classifications. Treatment was initiated with hyperfractionated cyclophosphamide, vincristine, adriamycin, and dexamethasone chemotherapy, and the patient ultimately achieved minimal residual disease negativity. The patient subsequently underwent allogeneic stem cell transplantation approximately 7 months after diagnosis.This case underscores the diagnostic challenges and therapeutic considerations in managing ALAL, NOS.© The Author(s) (2026). Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pathology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Autoimmune diseases (ADs) are associated with increased myocardial infarction (MI) risk, suggesting shared genetic susceptibility. We systematically investigated the shared genetic architecture, pleiotropic loci, and candidate therapeutic targets linking ADs and MI.We analyzed genome-wide association study summary statistics for 10 ADs and MI, primarily from European-ancestry populations. Linkage disequilibrium score regression, high-definition likelihood, stratified linkage disequilibrium score regression, pleiotropy analysis, Bayesian colocalization, and immune-trait colocalization were performed. Candidate genes were prioritized using summary-data-based Mendelian randomization and followed up using quantitative polymerase chain reaction in hypoxia-treated HL-1 cardiomyocytes and by descriptive expression profiling in single-cell RNA sequencing datasets from human atherosclerotic plaques and cardiac resident immune cells.MI showed significant positive genetic correlations with Crohn's disease, rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) after false discovery rate correction. We identified 49 pleiotropic loci, including 7 with colocalization evidence compatible with a shared causal variant. Integrative analyses prioritized 12 candidate genes, with SH2B3, TMEM116, and ACAD10 highlighted across multiple disease pairs. Immune-trait colocalization highlighted activated monocyte- and T-cell-related features in RA-MI and PBC-MI. In HL-1 cardiomyocytes, hypoxia increased Acad10, Sh2b3, and Tmem116 expression over time. In single-cell datasets, SH2B3 showed prominent expression in plaque macrophages, endothelial cells, and cardiac resident macrophages.Specific ADs and MI share an immunogenetic architecture involving immune and vascular pathways. These findings prioritize pleiotropic loci, candidate genes, and immune-cell contexts that warrant further mechanistic investigation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Autoimmune hypothyroidism (AIHT) is the most common autoimmune disease. Through an unidentified mechanism the immune system attacks the thyroid gland, destroys thyroid follicular cells and causes hypothyroidism. A new theory poses that all DNA is continuously damaged and as a result is exposed to somatic mutations at a constant rate. Based on this theory several assumptions related to epidemiology and DNA sequence can be made. These have been summarized as a method called Genome-Wide Etiology Analysis (GWEA) to facilitate interpretation of GWAS results of autoimmune diseases. Here GWEA is applied to AIHT. The results show that existing epidemiological and genomic data of AIHT adhere to the principles of GWEA. Therefore, AIHT appears to be the result of somatic mutations in people at risk for the disease. AIHT develops once sufficient mutations create a new "autoimmune pathway" driven by non-self-signal and supported by neo-peptide formation and signal amplification. Given the random nature of somatic mutations throughout life, the new theory explains why some people with AIHT develop additional autoimmune diseases, why family members may develop a range of non-AIHT autoimmune diseases, why age-of-onset cannot be predicted and why AIHT is transferred to next generations through dominant inheritance with delayed, incomplete penetrance.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com. See the journal About page for additional terms.
Not available.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is an aggressive brain tumor characterized by rapid growth and infiltration. New therapies are desperately needed to improve GBM patient outcomes. Intra-tumoral heterogeneity is a common driver of failure for novel GBM treatments, and many preclinical studies rely on cell lines established from the tumor core. As a result, they fail to characterize the infiltrative tumor cells, which remain post-surgery and ultimately drive tumor recurrence.This study characterizes the membrane proteome of 3 patient-derived GBM cell lines isolated from the tumor invasive margin (GIN8, GIN28, and GIN31), which is a proxy for residual disease post-surgery. We combined plasma membrane protein analysis with total protein analysis using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry to uncover therapeutic targets most amenable for drug repurposing. Molecular docking analysis predicted specific binding pockets on the surface of key membrane proteins against which the top 10 approved drug candidates were screened based on their binding energy scores.Membrane proteins such as EDIL3, DYSF, ROBO1, SERPINE2, LOXL1, and CD70 were consistently significantly upregulated across GBM cell lines relative to healthy astrocyte controls, indicating potential functional roles in GBM progression. Molecular docking identified nilotinib (targeting LOXL1) and darifenacin (targeting SH3KBP1) as candidate drugs that can bind to identified membrane proteins. Nilotinib and darifenacin produced average IC50 values of 8.45 µM and 46.77 µM, respectively, in cell viability assays against GIN cell lines.These findings suggest that targeting membrane proteins offers promise for developing effective GBM therapies predicated on the most prognostically relevant intra-tumor region.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press, the Society for Neuro-Oncology and the European Association of Neuro-Oncology.
Central venous catheters are a major risk factor for Candida albicans vascular infections, which remain challenging to manage. Although antifungal therapy is standard, the host pathways shaping vascular responses-particularly the Notch signaling pathway (NSP)-are not well characterized in this context. In addition, the potential influence of the prostaglandin pathway on vascular NSP-related responses during infection remains unclear. In this study, a rat model of central venous catheter-associated C. albicans infection was used to evaluate microbiological outcomes and vascular NSP-related protein expression. Immunohistochemical analyses were performed to assess Candida immunostaining alongside the expression of Notch receptors (Notch1-3) and ligands (DLL1/4, Jagged1/2) in vascular tissues. Experimental groups included sham, infected control, antifungal-treated (fluconazole, caspofungin, liposomal amphotericin B), and prostaglandin pathway-intervention groups (sulprostone and sulprostone followed by indomethacin). C. albicans infection was associated with higher vascular NSP-related protein expression compared with sham animals. Antifungal-treated groups showed lower NSP-related protein expression, while fungicidal agents were associated with absence of fungal growth in catheter and kidney cultures. In the sulprostone-indomethacin-treated group, NSP-related protein expression levels were lower than those in the sulprostone-treated group despite persistent fungal burden. In conclusion, central venous catheter-associated C. albicans infection was associated with altered vascular NSP-related protein expression. Differences in NSP-related protein expression patterns were observed across antifungal- and prostaglandin pathway-intervention groups. These findings are descriptive and do not allow causal inference but may provide a basis for future studies exploring the role of NSP in vascular responses to C. albicans infection.
Plumage coloration in birds is a complex genetic trait involving both direct pigmentation genes and their modifiers. The Columbian pattern, characterized by black feathers restricted to the neck, wing tips, and tail, remains poorly understood at the genetic level. This study aimed to conduct a genome-wide association study of the Columbian pattern across 29 chicken breeds of diverse origins. Blood samples were collected from breeds with (n = 11) and without (n = 18) the Columbian pattern. Genotyping was performed using the Illumina Chicken 60K SNP chip, and GWAS was conducted using EMMAX with Bonferroni correction. A total of 10 significant and nine suggestive SNPs on chromosomes GGA1, 2, 5, 7, 10, and 11 were identified. Eight significant SNPs mapped to a ~0.7 Mb region on GGA11 containing MC1R and multiple functionally diverse genes involved in melanocyte adhesion (CDH1), signaling (WWP2, NFAT5), transcription (ZFHX3, TCF25), protein degradation (PSMD7, ATXN1L), and vesicular trafficking (AP1G1). On GGA2, a significant SNP within a lncRNA gene was located in a QTL for yellow plumage, with positional candidates (ROCK1, GREB1L, CABLES1, TMEM241, ANKRD29) suggesting links to pheomelanin deposition. A suggestive locus near DLK1 on GGA5 was also identified. This study refines the genetic architecture of the Columbian pattern, implicating a core region on GGA11 modulating melanocyte function and a distinct locus on GGA2 involved in pheomelanin synthesis.
Identify genetic variants associated with amblyopia in African American (AFR) and Admixed American (AMR) ancestry groups, expanding upon a previous studies conducted in European ancestry.Retrospective ancestry-stratified genome-wide association study (GWAS) and gene-level rare variant association study (RVAS).Participants in the All of Us Research Program from AFR and AMR ancestry groups with whole genome sequencing available. Cases and controls were distinguished based on presence of ICD-9/10/SNOMED diagnosis codes for amblyopia in electronic health records. This yielded ancestry-stratified subsets of 269 cases and 71,585 controls of AMR ancestry and 366 cases and 79,460 controls of AFR ancestry.Stratified logistic regression models adjusted for age, sex, and the top 10 principal components of genomic ancestry. GWAS was limited to common variants (mean allele frequency or MAF > 1%) and RVAS was limited to rare variants with coding sequence-altering effects (MAF < 1%, exonic only, excluded synonymous variants) aggregated at the gene level using the SKAT algorithm. Downstream analyses of the significant variants were performed using KEGG and GO pathway analysis and STRING database queries for protein-protein interactions and gene-gene interactions.Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were determined to have genome-wide significance if p < 5e-8 in the GWAS and genes were determined to have significant association with amblyopia in the RVAS if p < 8.0 x 10-4.In the AMR GWAS, 245 unique SNPs mapping to 97 distinct loci were identified, notably within neurodevelopmental and axonal guidance genes, including ROBO1, SEMA4B, PTPRD, NRXN1, and CAMK2D. The AFR GWAS identified 11 significant variants corresponding to 6 loci mapping primarily to long-noncoding RNAs and pseudogenes. The AMR RVAS identified 15 genes, including axonal transport genes (KIF1B, KIF7) and growth factor signaling genes (EGF, ERBIN, and AKAP17A). The AFR RVAS identified a single gene, DLG2, which encodes the postsynaptic protein PSD-93, which promotes the closure of the sensitive period of neuroplasticity for vision in early childhood.Genetic risk architectures for amblyopia differ across ancestries but fundamentally converge on neurodevelopmental signaling, cortical synapse assembly, and sensitive period plasticity rather than ocular structural dynamics.Copyright © 2026 American Academy of Ophthalmology, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 14 (PTPN14) exhibits dual roles in cancer, acting as either a tumor suppressor or oncogene depending on context, while its role in colon adenocarcinoma (COAD) and liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC) remains unclear. Since COAD and LIHC showed high incidence and mortality rates, we investigated PTPN14's prognostic and mechanistic significance in COAD and LIHC. Pan-cancer analysis were performed based on TCGA and GEO database. Clinical validation used IHC staining of 50 COAD and 40 LIHC specimens. In vitro functional assays and in vivo xenograft models assessed PTPN14's impact on proliferation, migration, invasion and tumorigenicity. Mechanistic studies included Co-IP, immunofluorescence, ubiquitination assay and Western blot to evaluate PTPN14-Notch1 interaction and pathway regulation. As a result, pan-cancer analysis identified PTPN14 as prognostic biomarker in COAD and LIHC. Clinical validation confirmed PTPN14 as a prognostic biomarker in COAD and LIHC and associated with survival and TNM stage progression. In vitro experiments revealed knockdown of PTPN14 suppressed the proliferation, migration and invasion of COAD and LIHC cell lines. PTPN14 stabilized Notch1 by competitively binding to prevent FBXW7-mediated ubiquitination, and increasing the expression of Notch1 intracellular domain (Notch1 ICD) and downstream targets (DLL1 and HES1). At last, in vivo experiments revealed knockdown of PTPN14 inhibited xenograft tumor formation in COAD and LIHC cell lines. In conclusion, PTPN14 drives COAD and LIHC progression via Notch signaling stabilization, serving as a prognostic biomarker and potential therapeutic target for COAD and LIHC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42498738
Patrolling monocytes (pMos) scavenge debris from vessel walls and mediate antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis, making them attractive cell therapy candidates for cancer, atherosclerosis, and Alzheimer's disease. However, methods to generate pMos for cell therapy are not available. To address this, we developed a 2-step procedure to produce pMos in vitro from murine bone marrow (BM). First, myeloid progenitors were expanded and enriched from BM using cytokines for 4 d. Second, expanded progenitors were differentiated into pMos on delta-like ligand 1 (DLL1)-expressing monolayers for 8 d. We confirmed that in vitro grown pMos expressed the transcription factor Nr4a1 (Nur77) and other canonical pMos surface proteins, and depended on Notch signaling for their development. RNA-sequencing revealed that in vitro pMos expressed hallmark pMos genes, including Cx3cr1, Itgax (CD11c), CD43, Fcγr4, and Cd274 (PD-L1), and their gene signatures clustered closely with in vivo blood and BM pMos. Transcriptomic and phenotypic analyses further demonstrated that in vitro pMos were distinct from classical BM macrophages. Phagocytosis assays demonstrated the function of in vitro pMos in cancer cell uptake. Adoptive transfer studies demonstrated that in vitro pMos persisted within the circulation and lung vasculature during the early post-transfer period compared with BM-derived macrophages, consistent with the vascular-patrolling properties of pMos. Adoptive transfer of pMos reduced lung tumor burden in a metastatic model, supporting an anti-tumoral role for pMos and their ability to mediate immune surveillance in vivo. These findings demonstrate that the DLL1 culture system allows for propagation of functional pMos, enabling studies of pMos biology and their therapeutic potential.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for Leukocyte Biology.
Although human papillomavirus-positive (HPV(+)) head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), particularly oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OPSCC), is generally associated with favorable outcomes, a subset of HPV(+) OPSCC remains resistant to chemoradiotherapy. We previously stratified clinical OPSCC cases using DNA methylome profiling and identified a significant correlation between elevated DNA methylation levels and favorable treatment response. To elucidate the molecular basis of this correlation, we performed integrated methylome analyses of 64 HPV(+) HNSCC cases in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and 29 HPV(+) OPSCC cases in our Chiba cohort. We identified 595 genes showing significantly higher DNA methylation in good responders in each cohort. Additionally, using HNSCC cell lines, we extracted genes that exhibited both high DNA methylation and decreased expression in cisplatin (CDDP) sensitive cells. Twelve genes were consistently hypermethylated across both clinical cohorts, among which two genes, ROBO1 and SULT4A1, showed statistical significance and effect size. Functional validation demonstrated that ROBO1 knockdown in unmethylated HNSCC cells significantly suppressed cellular growth (p < 0.05), and additional exposure to CDDP further synergistically reduced cellular growth (p < 0.05). Conversely, ROBO1 overexpression conferred resistance to CDDP. CDDP resistance in unmethylated HNSCC cells led to upregulation of ROBO1 expression, suggesting an inverse relationship between ROBO1 silencing and drug resistance. Mechanistically, ROBO1 suppression increased DNA damage and apoptosis following CDDP treatment. These indicate that DNA hypermethylation of ROBO1 causally correlates with better treatment response of HPV(+) HNSCC, and its chemosensitivity might be enhanced by silencing of methylation target genes.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Background/Objectives: Germ cell tumors (GCTs) are thought to arise from primordial germ cells that fail to appropriately differentiate and instead retain pluripotency programs. PRDM14 is a key regulator of pluripotency and primordial germ cell specification and is aberrantly expressed in multiple GCT subtypes. However, the role of PRDM14 in GCT malignancy remains unclear. In this study, we investigated whether PRDM14 functions in GCTs through CBFA2T2, a transcriptional corepressor previously identified as a PRDM14-interacting partner in pluripotent stem cells and developmental models. Methods: To determine the presence and level of PRDM14 and CBFA2T2 in GCT, a panel of GCT lines were assessed for RNA and protein expression and interaction. Then, to better understand the biological effects of PRDM14 and CBFA2T2 within GCTs, PRDM14 and CBFA2T2 knockdowns were employed. Results: We show that PRDM14 and CBFA2T2 are expressed across GCT cell lines, colocalize predominantly in the nucleus, and cooperate as a complex in GCT cell lines. Knockdown of either PRDM14 or CBFA2T2 resulted in reduced expression of key pluripotency genes and a significant impairment of cell proliferation, indicating a shared role in maintaining an undifferentiated, proliferative state. Transcriptomic analysis following PRDM14 or CBFA2T2 depletion revealed extensive overlap in differentially expressed genes and convergent alterations in developmental and metabolic signaling pathways. Conclusions: Together, these findings suggest that PRDM14 and CBFA2T2 form a functional complex that sustains pluripotency and proliferation in GCT cells. This supports a model in which persistence of germline regulatory mechanisms contributes to GCT malignancy, highlighting this interaction as a novel component of GCT biology.
During transit in the genital tract until ejaculation, spermatozoa (SPZ) protein content and spatial distribution are remodeled through the cargo channeled by extracellular vesicles, namely epididymosomes (EpS), and the soluble luminal content. This remodeling confers the maturational competence for fertilization. This study evaluated the expression patterns of Notch components (NOTCH1-4, DLL1, 3 and 4, JAGGED1-2) in the bull genital tract tissues and their respective lumen, and their presence in EVs and SPZ, by immunocytochemistry and western blot. Results evidenced that NOTCH proteins are differentially expressed from the testis to the epididymis, the vas deferens and the accessory glands. In the testis, expression is mainly linked to acrosome biogenesis, while in post-testicular tissues is mainly localized in the adluminal cytoplasm of epithelial cells and the lumen. NOTCH1-3, DLL3 and JAGGED2 are released into the lumen via EVs, namely EpS, and are detected in SPZ of the corresponding genital tract segments. The spatial relationships support a model of region-specific acquisition of NOTCH proteins by SPZ through both testicular and EpS origins, with additional contributions from accessory glands at ejaculation. This prompts the involvement of NOTCH proteins in intercellular communication within the male reproductive tract, leading to SPZ maturation and competence for signaling in the female reproductive tract and during gamete interaction.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Liupao tea (LPT) undergoes significant bioactive changes during aging, while the link between these chemical shifts and the regulation of oxidative stress pathologies remains unclear. Therefore, this study integrated metabolomics, network pharmacology, and molecular docking to analyze Maosheng (MS) and Tianyu (TY) LPT samples aged 0-15 and 0-10 years, respectively, and elucidated the potential mechanisms of LPT in five oxidative stress - related diseases, including depression, obesity, Alzheimer's disease, diabetes, and hypertension. Metabolomics identified 42 and 13 core antioxidant metabolites in MS and TY samples, respectively. Among them, core metabolites in MS peaked at 5 years, while TY sustained high abundance levels from 3 to 8 years. Network pharmacology revealed synergistic regulation of all five pathologies by both LPTs, and eight key components were screened from MS, and nine from TY based on degree values. Interestingly, the highest node density was shown in depression, and Sankey connectivity confirmed its strongest modulatory effect. Besides, the core depression‑related components and targets were subjected to molecular docking simulations, and binding energies ranged from - 5.37 to -8.88 kcal/mol for MS components, as well as from - 4.11 to -8.39 kcal/mol for TY components. Importantly, oleaside A and CCRIS 7793 showed the strongest affinities for GAPDH and AKT1, respectively. In general, these results laid a practical foundation for developing an LPT product aimed at relieving oxidative stress-related health issues.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Considering the shared physiological mechanisms between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), it is plausible that certain compounds may exert therapeutic effects on both neurological disorders. This study aimed to employ in silico techniques to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of huperzine A (HA) as an alternative treatment for PD and AD.Molecular targets of HA and genes associated with AD and PD were identified from public databases. Gene Ontology analysis, metabolic pathway analysis, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction were performed to identify shared molecular targets. Molecular docking was performed to assess HA affinity for hub proteins and to compare it with that of drugs used to treat AD and PD.The results suggested that HA interacts with 77 molecular targets common to both diseases. Enrichment analysis revealed that proteins from these targets were involved in biological functions, such as serotonin and amine binding. Hub proteins (SRC, TP53, AKT1, and CASP3) were identified from the PPI network. Furthermore, molecular docking simulations showed favorable binding of HA to the hub proteins and adequate binding to the targets of standard drugs (MAOB and ACHE). On the other hand, molecular dynamics analyses were performed to compare the binding characteristics of HA with those of the control targets.HA may modulate SRC, CASP3, and AKT1, suggesting a pleiotropic mechanism underlying the association between AD and PD. These computational findings provide a rational basis for experimental validation by modulating signaling pathways implicated in inflammatory processes and inhibiting enzymes involved in neurotransmitter degradation.This study contributes to the understanding of the neuroprotective activity of HA in AD and PD. However, further in vitro and in vivo investigations are required to confirm the dual therapeutic potential of HA in the treatment of AD and PD.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Rearrangements involving MECOM at chromosome 3q26.2 are recurrent in myeloid neoplasms, classically represented by inv(3)(q21q26.2) and t(3;3)(q21;q26.2), which reposition the GATA2-distal haematopoietic enhancer and drive aberrant EVI1 overexpression. However, the full structural and mechanistic diversity of MECOM rearrangements (MECOM-r) is yet to be explored. We retrospectively analysed 97 cases with cytogenetically defined MECOM-r and identified 12 with complex rearrangements using GTG-banded karyotyping and tri-colour interphase/metaphase fluorescence in situ hybridisation analyses. These 12 cases demonstrated remarkable structural heterogeneity. The abnormalities encompassed translocations, inversions, insertions, duplications, and deletions, which often coexisted within the same specimen as multiple rearranged subclones. Insertional events emerged as a distinct mechanism of MECOM activation. These encompassed insertions of MYNN and/or MECOM into chromosomes 1 and 6, insertion of chromosome 8 segment into MECOM, and inverted insertions between homologous chromosome 3 segments. Recurrent breakpoints at 3q21 across multiple cases, together with localised copy number imbalances frequently involving the MYNN and GOLIM4 loci at 3q26.2, underscore the architectural fragility of these two regions. Co-occurring abnormalities such as -5/del(5q), -7/del(7q), and TP53 loss were common, reflecting a permissive genomic background for chromosomal reassembly. Our findings expand the mechanistic landscape of MECOM-r beyond canonical inv(3)/t(3;3), establishing 3q21 and 3q26.2 as structural 'hotspots' and genomic instability hubs. Distinct from fusion-driven oncogenes such as KMT2A, MECOM activation results from enhancer hijacking and regional structural remodelling, leading to EVI1 overexpression and clonal evolution in myeloid malignancies.Copyright © 2026 Royal College of Pathologists of Australasia. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Germline GATA2 deficiency is a pleiotropic condition 1-8 characterized by numerous phenotypes, including monocytopenia, immunodeficiency, microbial susceptibilities, and high rates of myeloid malignancies 1,8. Accurate curation of germline GATA2 variants is critical for patient care and requires well-defined phenotypes associated with GATA2 deficiency. The many phenotypes attributed to the condition render a simple description of GATA2 deficiency difficult, complicating the development of GATA2 variant curation rules. Therefore, the Myeloid Malignancy Variant Curation Expert Panel (MM-VCEP) sought to define GATA2 deficiency based on a statistical comparison of phenotype data. To do so, the MM-VCEP systematically analyzed phenotype data and applied statistical comparisons to define the phenotypic features of GATA2 deficiency to inform germline variant curation. The MM-VCEP assembled an international cohort of 339 people with clinically diagnosed GATA2 deficiency from 16 centers in seven countries. The 73 phenotypes of these individuals were compared statistically to those of control participants from the UK Biobank (UKBB). We compared single phenotypes as well as combinations of two, three, and four phenotypes in people with clinically diagnosed GATA2 deficiency to UKBB controls. We defined GATA2 deficiency as any of the 2,903 combinations of two or three phenotypes with log10Odds Ratio ≥3 (OR ≥ 1000). This definition of GATA2 deficiency will inform gene-specific phenotypic criteria used in GATA2 variant curation guidelines that will facilitate standardized variant curation by clinical laboratories worldwide.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
The infrapatellar fat pad (IFP) is increasingly recognized as an active contributor to knee osteoarthritis (KOA) pathogenesis. However, age-related transcriptional changes in the IFP remain poorly understood, and whether observed differences are purely age-dependent or confounded by disease status is unclear. This study aimed to compare transcriptomic profiles of the IFP between young patients with traumatic knee injury and older patients with KOA.IFP samples were obtained from three young trauma patients (21-28 years, KL grade 0) and three older patients with KOA (64-72 years, KL grade III-IV). Bulk RNA sequencing was performed to compare transcriptomes between groups. Differential expression was analyzed with DESeq2 (|log2FC| ≥1, unadjusted p < 0.05), followed by GO and KEGG pathway enrichment. Real-time PCR confirmed key expression changes.Compared with the young trauma group, the old KOA group exhibited 247 upregulated (CSN1S1, SCN9A, P2RY14, EIF3C, etc) and 334 downregulated genes (PI15, WISP3, DMKN, NUTM2G, etc). The old KOA group exhibited significantly reduced expression of extracellular matrix (ECM) genes, including COL1A1, COL2A1, and FN1. Additionally, core genes of the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, such as AKT1, ITGA2B, and MYB, were also downregulated in the old KOA group.The IFP in old KOA exhibits a transcriptomic profile characterized by dampened ECM structural gene expression and suppressed PI3K-Akt signaling compared with young trauma patients. While confounded by injury status, these findings suggest that age-related loss of ECM integrity may contribute to IFP dysfunction in established KOA and warrant validation in healthy aging cohorts.
Hyperuricemia (HUA) is a common metabolic disorder with limited safe and effective therapeutic options. This study integrated GEO dataset mining and network pharmacology to explore the anti-HUA efficacy and mechanism of pomegranate peel polyphenol extract (PPE). In a mouse model of HUA induced by potassium oxonate and 5% fructose water, PPE significantly reduced serum, urinary, and fecal uric acid levels, attenuated the increases in creatinine and blood urea nitrogen, improved estimated glomerular filtration rate, and ameliorated renal pathological damage, inflammation, and xanthine oxidase activity. Integration of GEO-derived HUA-related genes and computational target prediction for PPE identified 44 common targets, and protein-protein interaction network analysis revealed core targets including Akt1. KEGG enrichment highlighted the PI3K-AKT signaling pathway as a key mediator. Western blotting in vivo and in vitro confirmed that PPE suppressed PI3K-AKT phosphorylation and downregulated the urate reabsorption transporters URAT1 and GLUT9. Furthermore, experiments in UA-induced HK-2 cells demonstrated that ellagic acid, a major bioactive component of PPE, acted through the same pathway. These findings indicate that PPE reduces uric acid levels and protects the kidney via modulation of the PI3K-AKT pathway, providing an integrative data-driven rationale for its potential as a functional food or pharmaceutical agent against HUA.© 2026 The Author(s). Chemical Biology & Drug Design published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Plastic additives are pervasive pollutants that readily leach into water, affecting human health; however, their toxicological risk assessment remains limited. This study used network toxicology to identify disease-associated common targets in plastic additives, including benzotriazole, bisphenol A, 2,4-Di-tert-butylphenol, mirex, diphenyl ether, bisphenol S, dibutyl phthalate, PFNA, and PFBS. The core targets identified using network toxicology for these plastic additives were AKT1, PTGS2, BCL2, ESR1, and GSK3B. In addition, an integrated in silico toxicity assessment of selected plastic additives using molecular docking, MM/GBSA analysis, and molecular dynamics simulation was performed to assess neurotoxicity, reproductive toxicity, and carcinogenic potential. Molecular docking revealed the high-scoring docked complexes as PTGS2-benzotriazole (-5.047 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol A (-5.264 kcal/mol), PTGS2-diphenyl ether (-5.078 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol S (-5.519 kcal/mol), PTGS2-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.565 kcal/mol), ESR1-benzotriazole (-5.339 kcal/mol), and ESR1-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.626 kcal/mol). The stability of highly interacting complexes was then assessed through MM/GBSA calculations and molecular dynamics simulations. A more negative ΔGBind score in MM/GBSA analysis indicated a stronger and more favourable interaction. In silico analysis of plastic additive-biological target interactions identified potential carcinogenic, reproductive, and neurological health hazards and revealed key molecular pathways underlying plastic additive-induced toxicity. Further in vitro/in vivo studies are required to validate these computational findings.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Sodium benzoate (SB), a common food preservative, has raised concerns regarding multi-organ toxicity, but its cardiovascular effects remain unclear. Here, we combined network toxicology, molecular docking, and experimental validation to investigate SB-induced cardiotoxicity. The toxicity profile of SB was predicted using ProTox 3.0 and ADMETlab 3.0, which identified potential cardiotoxicity signals. Network analysis identified AKT1 as a hub target, with functional enrichment implicating the PI3K-AKT apoptotic cascade, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations confirmed stable SB-AKT1 binding. To experimentally validate these predictions, we assessed cardiac function and PI3K/AKT signaling in SB-exposed mice and AC16 cardiomyocytes. In vivo, SB impaired cardiac function and disrupted myocardial morphology, accompanied by elevated serum LDH, CK-MB, and DHE levels. In vitro, SB reduced cardiomyocyte viability, with equimolar NaCl controls confirming specific toxicity of the benzoate moiety. Mechanistically, SB suppressed PI3K/AKT phosphorylation and its downstream GSK3β pro-survival axis, leading to mitochondrial depolarization, BAX/BCL2 imbalance, and Cleaved-Caspase3 activation, collectively indicating mitochondrial apoptosis. mTOR phosphorylation remained unchanged, suggesting that mTOR may not be a functional downstream effector in this model. Notably, although SB elevated ROS production, ROS scavenging failed to restore AKT signaling or rescue cell death, whereas direct AKT activation reversed mitochondrial depolarization and apoptosis, confirming that AKT inhibition, rather than oxidative stress, is the primary driver. Collectively, these findings identify ROS-independent suppression of the PI3K/AKT/GSK3β axis as a key mechanism underlying SB-induced cardiotoxicity, extending its toxicological profile to the cardiovascular system.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
MECOM rearrangements (MECOM-r) are high-risk events in myeloid neoplasms often cryptic or incompletely characterized by conventional karyotype analysis. We used optical genome mapping (OGM) to define the frequency and spectrum of MECOM-r in an unselected, consecutively collected cohort of individuals with high-grade myeloid neoplasms (HGMNs) and compared these findings with standard cytogenetic approaches.A total of 252 HGMN specimens, including 224 with definitive diagnoses of acute myeloid leukemia, were processed over a 2-year period using OGM, G-banded karyotyping and, in some cases, reflex fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for the MECOM locus. Cases were retrospectively reviewed to determine whether the identification of MECOM-r by OGM refined diagnosis and/or prognosis.Our diagnostic workflow identified MECOM-r in 12 cases (4.7%), only 6 of which were identified by combined karyotype and FISH analyses, the latter for suspected chromosome 3 abnormalities. The remaining 6 cases were cryptic due to normal karyotypes, highly complex karyotypes lacking apparent chromosome 3 involvement, or culture failure and thus were identified by OGM and reflex FISH. Furthermore, OGM clarified complex architectures, resolved genetic alterations, and identified diverse partner loci, including GATA2, THADA, MYC, PHACTR1, MB21D2, XR_001744423.2, IL12A-AS1, TRIM59, CDK6, and MSI2. Detection of these structural alterations prompted diagnostic and/or risk reclassification in 5 cases.Optical genome mapping doubled the detection rate and improved the structural resolution of MECOM-r by identifying rearrangements incompletely resolved or missed by conventional cytogenetics. Implementation of OGM showed that MECOM-r can be cryptic and frequently overlooked, highlighting the value of high-resolution testing in HGMNs.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pathology.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a multifactorial airway disorder characterized by chronic inflammation, epithelial dysfunction, and dysregulated intracellular signaling. Transient receptor potential melastatin 3 (TRPM3), a Ca2⁺ permeable ion channel has emerged as a potential regulator of inflammatory and survival pathways, however, its therapeutic relevance in COPD remains poorly understood. The present study integrates network pharmacology and molecular docking to identify putative targets of TRPM3 agonists CIM0216, pregnenolone sulfate (preg sulfate), and nifedipine in COPD. A total of 2442 unique COPD associated genes were identified and integrated with predicted TRPM3 agonist targets revealing 20, 28, and 38 common targets for CIM0216, preg sulfate, and nifedipine, respectively. Enrichment analyses highlighted EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistance and PI3K/AKT signaling as key COPD related pathways which also correlated with major TFs. Further, AKT1, JAK2, and PTGS2 were identified as central hub genes, particularly associated with CIM0216 and nifedipine. No common hub genes were identified among all three TRPM3 agonists, nor between the CIM0216-preg sulfate and nifedipine-preg sulfate combinations. The hub genes were validated through GEO dataset (GSE57148). The identified miRNAs form a dense regulatory network controlling inflammatory, proliferative, and immune signaling pathways through key transcription factors, underscoring the importance of miRNA-mediated regulation in COPD progression. Molecular docking revealed that CIM0216 exhibited strong binding affinity towards TRPM3 (ΔG = - 8.6 kcal/mol with 3 hydrogen bonds), AKT1 (ΔG = - 10.8 kcal/mol with 4 hydrogen bonds), JAK2 (ΔG = - 9.0 kcal/mol with 4 hydrogen bonds), and PTGS2 (ΔG = - 9.7 kcal/mol with 6 hydrogen bonds) as compared with nifedipine which showed moderate affinity towards TRPM3 (ΔG = - 7.1 kcal/mol and 6 hydrogen bonds), AKT1 (ΔG = - 7.3 kcal/mol and 3 hydrogen bonds), JAK2 (ΔG = - 6.4 kcal/mol and 2 hydrogen bonds), and PTGS2 (ΔG = - 7.6 kcal/mol and 11 hydrogen bonds), supporting its potential for effective modulation of COPD associated signaling pathways. The study predicts that CIM0216 might act as a potential multi-target agonist of key inflammatory and survival pathways implicated in COPD. The findings propose a mechanistic insight into TRPM3-mediated signaling and support further experimental validation of TRPM3 agonists as novel therapeutic candidates for COPD.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40203-026-00707-3.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Hypertensive retinopathy is a microvascular complication caused by systemic hypertension and can lead to severe visual impairment. At present, the molecular mechanisms of this disease remain incompletely understood, particularly the global expression profiles and regulatory networks of non-coding RNA (ncRNA). This study aims to comprehensively analyze the genome-wide differential expression profiles of messenger RNA (mRNA), microRNA (miRNA), long non-coding RNA (lncRNA), and circular RNA (circRNA) in retinal tissues from a spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) model of hypertensive retinopathy, and to observe transcriptomic changes after treatment with the calcium channel blocker lacidipine, thereby revealing their potential roles in disease pathogenesis and identifying possible therapeutic targets.SHRs were used as a model of hypertensive retinopathy, and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were used as controls. Rats were divided into 3 groups: A control group (WKY), a model group (SHR), and a treatment group (SHR+lacidipine). Rats in the treatment group received lacidipine by gavage at 0.5 mg/(kg·d) for 8 consecutive weeks. At the end of the experiment, retinal tissues were collected for histopathological examination by hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and for high-throughput sequencing. The lncRNA library was used to analyze mRNA, lncRNA, and circRNA expression profiles, and the small RNA (sRNA) library was used to analyze miRNA expression profiles. Differential expression analysis was performed using DESeq2. The screening criteria were |log2 fold change (FC)|≥1 and false discovery rate (FDR) significance criteria for mRNAs and lncRNAs, and |log2FC|≥1 and P<0.05 for miRNAs and circRNAs as exploratory candidates. Differentially expressed RNAs were subjected to Gene Ontology (GO) functional annotation and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis. Competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) regulatory networks involving lncRNA/circRNA-miRNA-mRNA were constructed through target prediction and co‑expression analysis. Ten mRNAs whose expression changes were reversed after treatment were selected for validation by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (real-time RT-PCR; n=6 per group). Comparisons among multiple groups were performed using one-way analysis of variance and post hoc multiple-comparison tests.1) Verification of the animal model: Blood pressure was significantly higher in the model group than in the control group. The model group exhibited edema of the retinal nerve fiber layer, dilation of vascular lumens, and increased retinal thickness. Lacidipine treatment reduced blood pressure and alleviated these pathological changes. 2) Differential expression of mRNAs: Compared with the control group, 870 mRNAs were significantly downregulated and 1 018 mRNAs were significantly upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 2 644 mRNAs were significantly downregulated and 186 mRNAs were significantly upregulated in the treatment group. GO analysis showed that upregulated mRNAs in the model group were enriched in immune-inflammatory processes, such as leukocyte activation, chemotaxis, defense response, and regulation of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) production, whereas downregulated mRNAs were enriched in G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling, glycoprotein synthesis, ion channel activity, and related processes. KEGG analysis revealed that upregulated mRNAs in the model group were enriched in interleukin-17 (IL-17), TNF, oxidative stress, and lipid inflammatory mediator metabolic pathways, whereas downregulated mRNAs were enriched in phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-protein kinase B (AKT) signaling, vascular smooth muscle contraction, extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction, and related pathways. In the treatment group, the downregulated mRNAs were mainly enriched in pathways related to immune-inflammatory activation, such as mast cell degranulation and leukocyte degranulation. 3) Treatment-reversed mRNAs: A total of 67 genes that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment were identified; these genes were mainly enriched in endoplasmic reticulum stress-associated apoptotic signaling, mitophagy, ubiquitin ligase activity, and related processes. In addition, 54 genes that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment were identified; these genes were mainly enriched in amino acid transport, integrin complex, focal adhesion, glutamate transport activity, and related processes. Real-time RT-PCR validated the expression changes of Med22, Rmt1, Sytl3, Itgb7, and Slc1a3 which were decreased in the model group and increased after treatment, as well as Rnf183, Lrrc29, Lat2, Hist1h4m, and Dpm3, which were increased in the model group and decreased after treatment. These findings were consistent with the sequencing results. 4) Differential expression of miRNAs: Compared with the control group, 30 miRNAs were downregulated and 26 miRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 14 miRNAs were downregulated and 53 miRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. Treatment-reversed miRNAs were identified: Rno-miR-1-3p, novel_miR_1203, and novel_miR_1417 were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, whereas novel_miR_107 and novel_miR_905 were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment. Their target genes were enriched in regulation of retinal cone/rod cell differentiation, ECM remodeling, the Notch pathway, fatty acid synthesis, and related processes. 5) Differential expression of lncRNAs: Compared with the control group, 786 lncRNAs were downregulated and 764 lncRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 217 lncRNAs were downregulated and 230 lncRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. A total of 55 lncRNAs that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, and 76 lncRNAs that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment, were identified. Their target genes were enriched in immune regulation, wound healing, vascular remodeling, retinol metabolism related to rod-mediated scotopic vision, glutamatergic neuron differentiation, the forkhead box O (FoxO) pathway, retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I)-like receptor signaling, and related processes. 6) Differential expression of circRNAs: Compared with the control group, 45 circRNAs were downregulated and 47 circRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 25 circRNAs were downregulated and 22 circRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. Eleven circRNAs that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment, and 10 circRNAs that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, were identified. Their host genes were enriched in regulation of synaptic neural signaling, second messenger transmission, calcium signaling, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signaling pathways. 7) Construction of ceRNA networks: Based on expression patterns and target prediction, multiple lncRNA/circRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory networks were constructed. For example, the networks composed of rno_circ_Rims2_10, rno-miR-1-3p, and related mRNAs, such as Mmp14 and Fasn, as well as the novel_miR_1417 related network, may be involved in retinal stress responses, inflammatory regulation, and neurovascular remodeling.This study is the first to integrate and analyze retinal transcriptomic profiles of mRNAs, miRNAs, lncRNAs, and circRNAs in an SHR model of hypertensive retinopathy, and it reveals RNA expression changes associated with lacidipine treatment. The results suggest that immune-inflammatory activation, neurovascular dysfunction, and ncRNA-mediated ceRNA regulatory networks may participate in the pathogenesis of hypertensive retinopathy. The identified differentially expressed molecules and predicted regulatory axes provide a candidate molecular basis for further mechanistic validation and screening of potential therapeutic targets.
Alcohol consumption has been a risk factor for more than 200 diseases, including esophageal cancer. Cell communication network 1 (CCN1), a matricellular protein, is highly expressed in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) but is barely detectable in esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC). Alcohol consumption has been identified as a major contributor to ESCC development, but its role in EAC is uncertain. This study examines the impact of acute (30 min) or prolonged (12 h) alcohol exposure (5, 100, and 500 mM) on CCN1 expression and function in esophageal epithelial cells, including normal (HEEC), ESCC (KYSE150 and KYSE410), and EAC (OE19 and OE33), in association with the activity of MMP2, MMP9, and MMP14. It was found that alcohol exposure promoted CCN1 expression in both normal and tumor cells but induced CCN1 cleavage exclusively in EAC cells, generating an 18-kDa fragment that promotes tumor growth. MMP9, which was active only in EAC cells, was found to mediate this cleavage. Forced activation of MMP9 in either normal or ESCC cells improved cell viability, whereas inhibition of MMP9 in EAC cells attenuated cell survival. Taken together, alcohol exposure promotes MMP9-mediated CCN1 cleavage in EAC, converting CCN1 from a pro-death to a pro-survival factor for EAC. This makes alcohol consumption a risk factor not only for ESCC development but also for EAC progression. A preprint can be found at d197for5662m48.cloudfront.net.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cell Communication and Signaling published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Fatty infiltration and fibrosis drive poor outcomes after chronic muscle injury. Here, we characterized fibroadipogenic progenitor cell (FAP) subpopulations from healthy and injured human rotator cuff muscle by single-cell RNA sequencing, full-spectrum flow cytometry, and functional assays and found distinct subpopulations, including a preadipogenic population that expresses delta-like noncanonical notch ligand 1 (DLK1+) and a prefibrogenic population that expresses decay-accelerating factor (CD55+). We used in vitro and flow cytometry experiments to show that human FAP lineages displayed unique surface marker expression across adipogenic and fibrogenic differentiation. In chronic human rotator cuff injury, expression of DLK1 RNA and DLK1 protein was decreased compared with that in healthy muscle. Overexpression of DLK1 in primary human FAPs suppressed differentiation into adipocytes in vitro, whereas DLK1 knockdown increased adipogenesis. In an immunodeficient murine model of glycerol-induced acute muscle injury, xenotransplantation of DLK1-overexpressing human FAPs into the injured murine muscle resulted in reduced fatty infiltration after 14 days by histological assessment, supporting a functional role for DLK1 in restraining adipogenesis. Together, we defined molecularly distinct, clinically relevant human FAP subpopulations, established DLK1 as a regulator of adipogenic potential in vivo, and provided a framework to identify pathogenic FAP states that may be used in the pursuit to prevent maladaptive muscle remodeling.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis(IPF) is a fatal interstitial lung disease with limited clinical therapeutic options. Traditional Chinese medicine formulas, characterized by multi-component, multi-target, and holistic regulatory properties, have shown unique potential in the prevention and treatment of IPF. Yangyin Yifei Tongluo Pills(YF) is a TCM formula with demonstrated clinical efficacy. However, its modern pharmacological mechanism against IPF remains to be systematically elucidated. In this study, ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole-Orbitrap high-resolution mass spectrometry(UHPLC-Q Exactive Orbitrap-HRMS) was employed to identify the chemical constituents of YF. A total of 76 potential bioactive compounds were characterized, including flavonoids, phenylpropanoids and other chemicals. By integrating network pharmacology and bioinformatics analyses, drug-related targets, IPF-associated targets, differentially expressed genes, and WGCNA-derived key module genes were intersected, yielding 15 potential targets. Based on a systematic evaluation using nine machine learning algorithms, arginase 1(ARG1) and matrix metalloproteinase 14(MMP14) were identified as key core targets. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses indicated that these targets were mainly involved in inflammatory regulation, signal transduction, and extracellular matrix(ECM) remodeling, with significant enrichment in key signaling pathways such as the TNF signaling pathway. Immune microenvironment analysis revealed that the expression levels of ARG1 and MMP14 were closely associated with immune and stromal cell infiltration characteristics. Molecular docking demonstrated favorable binding affinities between ARG1/MMP14 and several core components, including miltirone, peimine, cryptotanshinone, and sec-O-glucosylhamaudol, while molecular dynamics simulations further confirmed the conformational stability of miltirone and sec-O-glucosylhamaudol, as core potential bioactive components, with the targets under dynamic conditions. Collectively, these findings suggest that YF may exert anti-IPF effects by targeting ARG1 and MMP14 through its core potential bioactive components, synergistically modulating key processes including the immune microenvironment, fibroblast activation, and extracellular matrix remodeling. By integrating LC-MS, bioinformatics, machine learning, immune infiltration analysis, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulation, this study systematically elucidates the multi-component and multi-target mechanisms of YF, providing new insights and a foundation for the intervention and treatment of IPF and the mechanistic study of TCM formulas.
The aim was to determine the transcriptomic features of tumor and stromal cells in direct contact within tumor nodules in luminal and triple-negative breast cancer.Spatial transcriptomic profiling was performed using the Visium 10x platform on FFPE tumor tissue sections from 10 patients with luminal breast cancer and 9 patients with triple-negative breast cancer. Manual morphological annotation of spots and evaluation of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in identified spot clusters were performed using Loupe Browser v8.0.0 (10X Genomics, USA). Activated biological processes were assessed using the Enrichr online resource and the GO Biological Process 2025 database. Ligand-receptor pairs were identified using the CellChat package (v2.0) in R (v4.4.2).In luminal breast cancer, mixed cluster (tumor cells colocalized with stromal cells) was characterized by overexpression of genes encoding S100A family Ca2+-binding proteins (S100A4, S100A8, S100A9), matrix metalloproteinases (MMP2, MMP7, MMP14), cytokeratins (KRT5, KRT7, KRT15, KRT23, KRT81), the mesenchymal marker VIM, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-associated genes (ICAM1, PRRX1) compared to tumor-only cluster. In triple-negative breast cancer, mixed cluster showed overexpression of S100A2, S100A8, S100A9, the epithelial gene KRT6B, the cancer stem cell marker CD44, and NOTCH2, which is associated with negative regulation of EMT. In both breast cancer subtypes, mixed cluster showed transcriptomic enrichment of gene sets associated with regulation of the ERK/MAPK cascade, apoptosis, and cell adhesion and migration. Ligand-receptor pairs associated with cell-cell contact, EMT, and immune response were also detected in colocalized cells, with a broader spectrum of these pairs observed in luminal breast cancer.This study assessed the transcriptomic characteristics of directly contacting tumor and stromal cells and identified the spectrum of ligand-receptor pairs mediating their interactions. Characterizing the properties of cells at the tumor-stroma interface helps unravel mechanisms of breast cancer progression and identify novel diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets.© The Author(s) 2026.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42534783 is a review article
Background: Available data indicate that the development of refractory schizophrenia may result from neuroinflammation, dysregulation of neurotrophins and metalloproteinases (MMPs), oxidative stress (OS), and hormonal imbalance. Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is an effective therapeutic option for drug resistance, but its impact on brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and MMPs remains underinvestigated. This study evaluates the influence of ECT on serum BDNF, MMPs (MMP-7, MMP-9, MMP-14), and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMP-1, TIMP-2, TIMP-3) in patients with treatment-resistant schizophrenia (TRS). Another goal of this study is an assessment of the relationships between these biomarkers and the intensity of schizophrenia symptoms. Methods: Serum concentrations of the aforementioned biomarkers were measured prior to and after ECT in eight patients and 13 healthy controls. The severity of schizophrenia symptoms was evaluated with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS). Results: Bayesian analysis comparing pre-ECT serum concentrations of BDNF, MMPs, and their inhibitors in TRS patients with a control group showed a significant difference only for MMP-9. Furthermore, convincing evidence of a correlation between MMP-9 and MMP-14 was found in TRS patients. Although the ECT therapy did not result in changes in the serum concentrations of the studied biomarkers, substantial improvement in schizophrenia symptoms on the PANSS was observed. Conclusions: No significant biomarker changes (post- versus pre-treatment) were detected in this small exploratory cohort. Whether these biomarkers are involved in neuroinflammation (as possible contributors to the development of TRS) remains an open question, and therefore, further research on biomarkers in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) may be suggested.
Background: The melanoma-associated antigen-A1 (MAGE-A1) demonstrates tumor-restricted expression patterns in diverse malignancies, positioning it as an attractive therapeutic target. This investigation aimed to engineer and validate a novel antibody-drug conjugate with oxaliplatin targeting MAGE-Al (MIg-OXA), a novel antibody-drug conjugate targeting MAGE-A1, while assessing its therapeutic potential against MAGE-A1-expressing lung adenocarcinoma through both cellular and animal models. Methods: We generated a MAGE-A1-specific immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody (MIgG) and subsequently conjugated it with oxaliplatin (OXA) to produce MIgG-OXA. The conjugate's binding specificity and cellular uptake were verified through cell-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), flow cytometric analysis, and immunofluorescence microscopy. Functional assessments included Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) viability assays, transwell migration studies, apoptosis detection, and antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) evaluation to determine anti-neoplastic activity in cultured cells. Therapeutic efficacy in living organisms was examined using lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) xenograft-bearing athymic mice. Results: Our data confirmed successful synthesis and validation of MIgG-OXA, which demonstrated selective recognition of MAGE-A1-expressing LUAD cell populations and facilitated controlled OXA release. When compared to unconjugated OXA, MIgG-OXA displayed enhanced tumor suppression in both cultured LUAD cells and transplanted tumor models. Conclusion: These findings collectively indicate that MIgG-OXA holds substantial promise as a precision therapeutic approach for patients harboring MAGE-A1-positive LUAD.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) exhibits dense fibrosis and immune exclusion. While fibrosis has been studied globally and at the region-of-interest level, its impact on stromal-ductal architecture and immune cell localization remains unknown. Here, we establish cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF)-stratified ductal spatial architecture as a fundamental determinant of immune exclusion in PDAC. Focusing on malignant PDAC epithelial ductal regions, the critical interface where immune cells must access tumor epithelium, we demonstrate that periductal fibroblast organization dictates leukocyte proximity. Through integrative analysis of treatment-naïve patient samples from three independent cohorts - including imaging mass cytometry, multiplex immunohistochemistry, and single-cell RNA sequencing - we uncover that activated, pro-inflammatory leukocytes preferentially localize near malignant ducts in regions with low fibroblast density. Stratifying epithelial-ductal regions by CAF abundance reveal a graded constraint: increasing fibroblast content corresponds to reduced leukocyte-epithelial proximity and elevated collagen I deposition. Despite their exclusion in high-CAF ducts, leukocytes in low-CAF ducts retain functional competence. Mechanistically, ligand-receptor inference implicates collagen-CD44 signaling as an adhesion axis anchoring immune cells within fibroblast-rich zones. CD44 blockade augments natural killer cell motility in vitro, while enhancing lymphocyte collagenase activity through MMP14 overexpression promotes infiltration by overcoming αSMA+ CAF-mediated stromal barriers in vivo. Thus, by establishing ductal regions as critical spatial units of immune exclusion, these findings provide a framework for dissecting stromal-immune interactions, reveal targetable "stromal checkpoints", and provide complementary strategies to overcome CAF-driven barriers to leukocyte motility and infiltration in PDAC.
Disulfidptosis is a form of regulated cell death triggered by disulfide stress resulting from glucose starvation. The capacity to evade disulfidptosis is crucial for tumour cells to withstand glucose-limited environments. Here we demonstrate that OGDH, a rate-limiting enzyme in citric acid cycle, is critical for conferring resistance to disulfidptosis. High expression of HSPA9 in melanoma protects OGDH from glucose deprivation-induced oxidative inactivation, thereby ensuring OGDH-generated succinyl-CoA for METTL3 succinylation. Succinylated METTL3 recognizes m6A modification on NRF2 mRNA to license NRF2 translation, TrxR1 expression and subsequent evasion of disulfidptosis. Combined suppression of HSPA9 and glucose uptake inhibits melanoma growth in mouse models. In patients with melanoma, expressions of HSPA9 and OGDH negatively correlate with the disulfidptosis signature and are associated with an unfavourable clinical prognosis. Therefore, our findings not only highlight the dependence of melanoma cells on the HSPA9-OGDH-METTL3-NRF2 axis for disulfidptosis evasion, but also propose a combined intervention strategy for melanoma therapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Lactiplantibacillus plantarum (L. plantarum) is a well-characterized probiotic with a long history of safe application, exhibiting prominent potential in improving skeletal muscle function. As the most prevalent and plentiful mRNA modification in eukaryotes, extensive research has highlighted the non-negligible role of N6-methyladenosine (m6A) in regulating various aspects of skeletal muscle biology. However, the underlying mechanisms through which L. plantarum-derived signals regulate host myogenic programs, as well as whether m6A modification is involved in this process, remain unclear.To explore the microbe-host regulatory axis through which L. plantarum promotes skeletal muscle regeneration and whether m6A modification is involved in this process.The cardiotoxin-induced muscle injury mouse model was constructed to investigate the impact of L. plantarum WY2401 on skeletal muscle regeneration. Untargeted metabolomics analysis was used to screen out L. plantarum WY2401-derived key metabolite. The changes in m6A modification were determined using dot blot and MeRIP-qPCR.We identified L. plantarum WY2401 as a pro-myogenic probiotic that promotes skeletal muscle regeneration. Specifically, L. plantarum WY2401 strongly alters circulating metabolomic profiles, particularly elevating the production of microbiota-derived riboflavin. Upregulated riboflavin is transported to skeletal muscle through the bloodstream, where it modulates the expression of the m6A methyltransferase METTL3 in a stage-dependent manner during myogenesis. This modulation promotes myoblast proliferation by enhancing the stability of Cdk2 and Ccnd1 mRNAs through the METTL3-m6A-YTHDF1 pathway. It also facilitates myoblast differentiation by increasing Mef2a mRNA stability through the METTL3-m6A-YTHDF2 pathway.Our findings reveal a novel microbe-host regulatory axis through which L. plantarum WY2401 promotes skeletal muscle regeneration via stage-specific epigenetic modulation of myogenesis. This work highlights the potential of L. plantarum as a functional probiotic supplement for improving skeletal muscle development and provides new insights into probiotic-mediated regulation of muscle regeneration.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) methylation modification plays an essential role in cancer development. This study focused on the mechanism exploration of m6A methyltransferase 3 (METTL3) and its downstream target gene nuclear protein-1 (NUPR1) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Detection of mRNA and protein was completed using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. Cellular behaviors were evaluated by CCK-8, EdU, flow cytometry and transwell assay. Ferroptosis was analyzed via Fe2+ level and oxidative indicators. Methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP) was performed for validating m6A modification. RIP and dual-luciferase reporter assay were used to confirm METTL3 and NUPR1 combination. Animal research was implemented for METTL3 and NUPR1 analysis in vivo. METTL3 was overexpressed in HCC. METTL3 silencing suppressed HCC cell proliferation and invasion, while enhancing apoptosis and partially inducing ferroptosis. METTL3 downregulation reduced NUPR1 level. METTL3 induced m6A modification of NUPR1 in an IGF2BP2-dependent manner. Tumor-inhibitory effects of METTL3 knockdown were counteracted by NUPR1 overexpression. METTL3 promoted HCC tumor growth and suppressed ferroptosis in vivo by regulating NUPR1. These findings suggested that METTL3 facilitated cell invasion and partially inhibited ferroptosis through catalyzing m6A methylation modification of NUPR1, validating the specific regulatory axis METTL3/NUPR1 in HCC progression.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma (ACC) is a rare and aggressive malignancy whose molecular basis remains poorly understood. N6-methyladenosine (m⁶A) RNA modification, mediated particularly through methyltransferase 3 (METTL3), has emerged as a critical regulator in various cancers. Here, we investigated the role of METTL3-mediated RNA methylation in ACC development and progression. We used transgenic mouse models overexpressing Mettl3 and SV40 large T antigen under the pancreatic elastase I promoter. Comprehensive analyses included m⁶A-methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (MeRIP-seq), single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), functional studies using the METTL3 inhibitor STM2457, and S-adenosylmethionine (SAM)-binding domain deletion mutants to assess functional requirements. Mettl3 overexpression significantly accelerated ACC development and increased tumor aggressiveness. The SAM-binding domain was essential for tumor formation, as deletion mutants failed to promote carcinogenesis. MeRIP-seq revealed preferential methylation of cell cycle and DNA replication genes in Mettl3-overexpressing tumors. scRNA-seq analysis demonstrated enhanced malignancy signatures, including epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and transforming growth factor-β signaling. METTL3 also promoted PRSS1-mediated signaling from ACC cells to inflammatory cancer-associated fibroblasts, creating a feed-forward loop involving IGF1 that amplifies tumor growth. Conditional Mettl3 deletion induced rapid tumor apoptosis. Pharmacological inhibition with STM2457 similarly triggered caspase-3/7-dependent apoptosis in pancreatic tumors. METTL3-mediated RNA methylation drives ACC pathogenesis through tumor-intrinsic cell cycle regulation and tumor-extrinsic stromal interactions. These findings establish METTL3 as a promising therapeutic target and provide mechanistic insights supporting the clinical development of METTL3 inhibitors for ACC treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559138 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42554848 is a review article
Chronic stress contributes to hippocampal neuronal apoptosis and neural circuit dysfunction in major depressive disorder (MDD), but the epitranscriptomic mechanisms regulating stress-responsive microRNAs remain unclear. This study investigated whether methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3)-mediated N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification promotes miR-140-3p maturation and neuronal apoptosis through the OTX2/Wnt/β-catenin axis under chronic stress.A chronic unpredictable mild stress rat model and a corticosterone-induced primary hippocampal neuron injury model were established. Behavioral assays, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) staining, flow cytometry, western blotting, qRT-PCR, proteomic and transcriptomic analyses, methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP), DiGeorge syndrome critical region gene 8 (DGCR8) RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed. Serum miR-140-3p expression was also assessed in patients with MDD and healthy controls. miR-140-3p was upregulated in the hippocampus of stressed rats and in the serum of patients with MDD. Hippocampal miR-140-3p knockdown alleviated depressive-like behaviors and reduced neuronal apoptosis, whereas miR-140-3p inhibition protected primary hippocampal neurons from corticosterone-induced apoptosis. Mechanistically, chronic stress increased METTL3 expression and global m6A levels. METTL3 enhanced m6A modification of pri-miR-140-3p, promoted DGCR8-dependent processing, and increased mature miR-140-3p expression. miR-140-3p directly targeted OTX2 and modulated Wnt/β-catenin signaling, while OTX2 silencing attenuated the antiapoptotic effect of miR-140-3p inhibition.METTL3-dependent m6A maturation of miR-140-3p may contribute to stress-induced hippocampal neuronal apoptosis through the OTX2/Wnt/β-catenin axis, providing potential molecular targets for further investigation in MDD.© 2026. The Author(s).
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) RNA modification plays critical roles in physiological and pathological processes. Our prior study demonstrated that IGFBP5 expression is upregulated in the ischemic limb, whereas endothelial-specific IGFBP5 knockout (Igfbp5EKO) protects against hind limb ischemia by enhancing angiogenesis. Here, we show that IGFBP5 deficiency elevates global m6A levels and upregulates the expression of m6A methyltransferase complex components METTL3, METTL14 and WTAP in endothelial cells. We further identified a direct interaction between IGFBP5 and the MT-A70 domain of METTL14. Knockdown of METTL14, METTL3 or WTAP attenuated the pro-angiogenic effects of IGFBP5 deficiency in vitro. In vivo, endothelial knockdown of METTL14 abolished the improved hind-limb ischemia recovery in Igfbp5EKO mice. Methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing revealed that IGFBP5 depletion in endothelial cells increases both m6A modification and mRNA abundance of FGF16. Notably, METTL14 or METTL3 silencing suppressed IGFBP5-dependent FGF16 upregulation. Enhanced translational efficiency of FGF16 in IGFBP5-deficient cells was reversed by METTL14 knockdown, indicating that IGFBP5 regulates FGF16 translation via m6A modification. Mechanistically, IGFBP5 modulates FGF16 m6A modification via interaction with the m6A reader protein IGF2BP2, targeting the m6A site at position 255 of FGF16 mRNA. In summary, our study establishes METTL14-mediated m6A modification of FGF16 as a key mechanism underlying IGFBP5-driven angiogenesis. Targeting the IGFBP5-METTL14-m6A-FGF16 axis may offer novel therapeutic strategies for ischemic disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Fragile X syndrome (FXS), the leading genetic cause of intellectual disability, arises from FMR1 gene silencing and the subsequent loss of the RNA-binding protein FMRP. N6-methyladenosine (m6A) is a prevalent mRNA modification essential for post-transcriptional regulation. FMRP binds and regulates the stability of m6A-containing transcripts. However, how FMRP deficiency impacts transcriptome-wide m6A modifications in FXS remains unknown. To address this, we generated cortical neurons from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) derived from healthy individuals and FXS patients. Electrophysiology recordings revealed synaptic and neuronal network defects in FXS iPSC-derived neurons. Transcriptome-wide analysis revealed striking m6A hypermethylation predominantly affecting synapse-associated transcripts. Mechanistically, we demonstrated that FMRP deficiency drives the aberrant translational upregulation of core m6A writers, a causal relationship definitively validated using CGG-corrected isogenic control lines. Targeted genetic knockdown of the m6A writer METTL3 successfully rescued synaptic phenotypes in FXS neurons, whereas its overexpression in control neurons phenocopied these synaptic defects, confirming the causal role of m6A dysregulation in FXS pathology. Notably, pharmacological intervention with the METTL3 inhibitor STM-2457 normalized methylation on synapse-associated transcripts and restored synaptic transmission in FXS neurons. Together, our findings uncover an FMRP-dependent epitranscriptomic mechanism contributing to FXS pathogenesis and suggest a promising avenue for m6A-targeted therapies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Transcriptional elongation undergoes extensive remodeling at mitotic entry, yet how elongation control is integrated into core cell-cycle kinase networks remains unclear. Here, we identify the m6A methyltransferase METTL3 as a direct substrate of the mitotic kinase CDK1 in mammalian cells. CDK1-dependent phosphorylation of METTL3 at Ser43 is sharply induced at mitotic entry and promotes m6A methylation of the noncoding RNA 7SK, resulting in release of positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb) from the inhibitory 7SK small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particle (snRNP) complex. This activation of the m6A/7SK/P-TEFb axis facilitates genome-wide clearance of RNA polymerase II and supports timely mitotic progression. Endogenous mutation of METTL3 Ser43 or disruption of 7SK methylation impairs elongation dynamics, delays mitotic exit, and increases chromosome missegregation. These findings integrate RNA methylation into the CDK1-driven mitotic program and reveal a mechanism by which transcriptional elongation is coordinated with chromosome segregation fidelity.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterases (GDPDs) hydrolyze glycerophosphodiesters, phospholipid metabolites generated by acyl hydrolases. We analyzed the function of the two related proteins GDPD5 and GDPD6 from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), which are expressed during phosphate starvation and in flower organs. Heterologously expressed GDPD5 and GDPD6 hydrolyzed glycerophosphocholine and other glycerophosphodiesters, indicating that they are involved in the turnover of phosphatidylcholine (PC). The membrane lipid composition in leaves and roots of single gdpd5 or gdpd6 mutants was not altered during growth under normal conditions and phosphate starvation, suggesting that GDPD5 and GDPD6 are not involved in phospholipid turnover under phosphate starvation. After crossing gdpd5 and gdpd6 null mutants, no double homozygous (g5g5 g6g6) plants were obtained. Genetic analyses of the F1 progeny after selfing, or reciprocal crosses of G5g5 G6g6 with WT plants, revealed that the double heterozygous plants cannot produce viable female or male gametes with the haplotypes G5G6 or g5g6. About 50% of the seeds of G5g5 G6g6 plants were aborted. The development of microspores was affected, and ∼50% of pollen grains were distorted and lacked organelles. The anthers of G5g5 G6g6 plants showed decreased PC content, indicating that GDPD5 and GDPD6 are essential for PC homeostasis. Therefore, compromised PC homeostasis affects membrane biogenesis during sporogenesis and gametogenesis, compromising ovule and pollen viability in G5g5 G6g6 plants.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society of Plant Biologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Poroid hidradenocarcinoma is a rare malignant sweat gland neoplasm. Although primary nodal hidradenoma has been reported, primary nodal poroid hidradenocarcinoma has not been described. We report a case of a 56-year-old man presenting with a nontender 5.5 cm mass within the axillary lymph node, and no identifiable primary cutaneous lesion on clinical examination or imaging. Histopathologic examination of the axillary lymph node dissection revealed involvement of 1 of 42 lymph nodes by a multinodular, solid and cystic neoplasm composed of poroid and cuticular cells with ductal differentiation, consistent with a background poroid hidradenoma. There was an abrupt transition to malignant areas with marked cytologic atypia, nuclear pleomorphism, increased mitotic activity, elevated Ki-67 proliferation index and necrosis, supporting the diagnosis of poroid hidradenocarcinoma. Tumor cells were positive for CK5 and CK7. Molecular analysis identified a YAP1::NUTM1 fusion and oncogenic mutations in EGFR exon 20 and FBXW7. At 30 months of follow-up after axillary lymph node dissection and chemoradiation, there was no evidence of disease progression. This case represents the first report of primary nodal poroid hidradenocarcinoma, expanding its clinicopathologic spectrum. Awareness of this entity is important to avoid misdiagnosis as metastatic carcinoma and to prevent potential overtreatment.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cutaneous Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Conjunctival melanoma (CoM) is an ultra-rare ocular melanoma that originates from transformed melanocytes of the conjunctiva. CoM shares a common embryonic cell of origin as cutaneous melanoma and manifests as highly aggressive malignancy. Despite cellular similarity of conjunctival and cutaneous melanoma, the pathogenesis, genetic landscape, response to treatment, and prognosis of these malignancies differ significantly. Immune checkpoint therapy has shown promise in individual CoM cases, but therapeutic options for metastatic CoM remain limited. To evaluate efficacy of the latest novel cancer therapies in metastatic CoM, we performed an integrated functional ex vivo and molecular analysis in an immune checkpoint therapy resistant metastatic CoM case. PARP, MEK and RAS(ON) inhibitors along select standard chemotherapies including cisplatin and docetaxel displayed marked ex vivo efficacy in NRAS, FBXW7, TERT and TP53 mutated genetic background. Following molecular tumor board evaluation, the patient received combinatorial chemotherapy as part of standard therapy resulting in a clinical partial response. Upon progression, MEK inhibitor treatment was selected for treatment, resulting in sustained clinical benefit correlating with the ex vivo observed sensitivity. To provide further insights on efficacy of latest experimental cancer therapies including TEAD, pan-RAS/RAF and the RAS(ON) inhibitors in NRAS mutant CoM, a spontaneously immortal cell line established from the patient's tumor was used for comparative high-throughput screening against two NRAS mutant cutaneous melanomas. Results of our study demonstrate feasibility of functional ex vivo drug testing in conjunctival melanoma and warrant further studies of targeted therapies including MEK and RAS inhibitors in larger cohorts of NRAS mutant conjunctival melanomas.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
To determine the molecular genetic characteristics of the epithelial neoplasia of extrahepatic bile ducts (EHD) depending on the degree of epithelial dysplasia in order to identify mutations that facilitate their differential diagnosis.The study included 44 EHD biopsies containing epithelial neoplasms and cholangiocarcinoma. All samples underwent massive parallel sequencing of DNA isolated from 10-μm-thick histological sections. Mutations of categories I-III of clinical significance were considered. Statistical analysis of the obtained data utilized a two-tailed Pearson χ2 test with Holm's correction for multiple comparisons (p<0.045).The most frequent mutations in epithelial neoplasia of the EHD were identified: MYC, KRAS, PIK3CA, CDKN2A, ERBB2, KIT 6, TP53 6, FBXW7, POLE and TERT. The highest proportion of mutations was in biliary intraepithelial neoplasia and cholangiocarcinoma. Among epithelial neoplasia and cholangiocarcinoma, mutations in KRAS, POLE and TERT differed significantly. KRAS (p<0.045) - BilIN LG and BilIN HG, IPNB HG and cholangiocarcinoma; POLE (p<0.045) - BilIN LG and cholangiocarcinoma; TERT (p<0.045) - BilIN LG and cholangiocarcinoma. Specificity and sensitivity indicators for KRAS were 28 and 50%; POLE - 35 and 100%; TERT - 100 and 100%.Mutations have been identified that should be considered in the differential diagnosis of the degree of epithelial dysplasia and the types of epithelial neoplasia of the extrahepatic bile ducts.
Hypercholesterolemia is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease, highlighting the urgent need for cholesterol-lowering therapies with novel mechanisms of action. Therefore, this study aims to employ high-throughput screening to characterize the structural features, target selectivity, and cholesterol-lowering potential of PG2, a structurally novel glycosylated piericidin isolated from deep-sea-derived actinomycetes. This structural motif distinguishes PG2 from other known piericidin analogues and confers its target selectivity. In vitro and in vivo studies demonstrated that PG2 significantly outperformed atorvastatin. Mechanistically, PG2 served as a direct and selective agonist of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor δ (PPARδ). Activated PPARδ bound the promoter region of F-box and WD repeat domain-containing 7 (FBXW7), inducing its transcription. Subsequently, FBXW7 mediated the ubiquitin-dependent degradation of SREBP1, a key transcription regulator of cholesterol biosynthesis. FBXW7 silencing markedly reduced the protective effects of PPARδ activation against hypercholesterolemia. Collectively, these findings highlight a novel PPARδ-FBXW7-SREBP1 regulatory axis and support the potential of the marine-derived natural product PG2 as a therapeutic candidate for hypercholesterolemia.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Preterm brain injury (PBI) can lead to severe neurodevelopmental impairment. F-box and WD repeat domain-containing 7 (FBXW7) is a key regulator of neural development. This study evaluated the effect of FBXW7 on nerve regeneration after PBI.A mouse model of PBI and an in vitro model of oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R) in neural stem cells (NSCs) were established. Cognitive and motor functions were assessed using Morris water maze, wire hanging, and cylinder tests. Histopathological changes and apoptosis were evaluated by hematoxylin and eosin and TdT-mediated dUTP Nick-End Labeling, and immunohistochemical staining for myelin basic protein and microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2). Neuroregeneration was analyzed via immunofluorescence (IF) staining for bromodeoxyuridine, doublecortin, and MAP2. FBXW7 and Notch receptor 1 (Notch1) expressions were detected by real-time quantitative PCR and Western blot. The viability, apoptosis and differentiation of NSCs were measured by cell counting kit-8, flow cytometry, and IF/Western blot. Protein interaction, stability, and ubiquitination were examined by co-immunoprecipitation and cycloheximide chase assays.FBXW7 expression was decreased in PBI mice and OGD/R-treated NSCs. Overexpression of FBXW7 significantly alleviated the pathological damage and behavioral impairments after PBI, and also enhanced the nerve regeneration process. Moreover, FBXW7 not only enhanced NSCs survival and suppressed apoptosis following OGD/R, but also actively drove their differentiation toward a neuronal lineage. Mechanistically, FBXW7 promoted the ubiquitination and degradation of Notch1. FBXW7 induced NSCs differentiation following OGD/R and mediated neuroprotection to protect PBI by inhibiting Notch1 signaling.By enhancing neuroregeneration via degradation of Notch1, FBXW7 appears to play a protective role in PBI, which suggests therapeutic targets for PBI treatment that merit further exploration.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The placenta establishes the maternal-fetal interface during pregnancy, enabling the selective exchange of nutrients and gases between maternal and fetal circulations. In humans and mice, this exchange surface is lined by multinucleated epithelial layers called the syncytiotrophoblast (SynT), which in the mouse placenta is organized into two distinct layers, SynT-I and SynT-II. SynT formation from trophoblast precursors requires epithelial plasticity to permit cell differentiation, fusion, and morphogenesis, while preserving epithelial integrity to maintain the maternal-fetal exchange barrier. However, the mechanisms that safeguard epithelial features during SynT development remain unclear. OVO-like 2 (OVOL2), a transcriptional repressor of mesenchymal-associated programs and key regulator of epithelial identity, is highly expressed in the mouse placenta and essential for its development. We hypothesized that OVOL2 promotes SynT lineage formation by restraining mesenchymal-associated transcriptional programs during trophoblast differentiation. To test this, placental development was examined following Ovol2+/- matings, and wild-type and Ovol2-deficient trophoblast stem cells were analyzed under stem conditions or differentiated with CHIR99021 to enrich for SynT lineages. SynT-I lineage development was disrupted in both Ovol2-deficient placentas and differentiating trophoblast stem cells, whereas SynT-II-associated differentiation appeared less severely affected. Chromatin profiling identified OVOL2 binding near genes associated with epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, including Id1, Zeb1, and Vim, which were upregulated in Ovol2-deficient trophoblasts. Consistent with these observations, Ovol2-deficient cells showed elevated levels of mesenchymal markers such as ZEB1 and Vimentin and reduced levels of epithelial markers including E-cadherin. These findings identify OVOL2 as a critical regulator of SynT-I lineage formation and epithelial identity in the mouse placenta.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) has high incidence and mortality with limited diagnostic and prognostic methods. This study explored the diagnostic and prognostic significance of the DARS-AS1 in CRC, and its regulatory mechanism via miR-188-5p.The clinical significance of serum DARS-AS1 was analyzed using receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curves, Cox regression, the Kaplan-Meier method, and chi-square tests. DARS-AS1 silencing effects on CRC cell behavior were analyzed via CCK-8/Transwell assays. This study identified and validated miR-188-5p target genes using online databases and dual-luciferase reporter assays.Serum DARS-AS1 was elevated in CRC patients (P < 0.001), and distinguished them with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.856. High DARS-AS1 was associated with adverse clinicopathological features (P < 0.05), shorter low disease-free survival (P = 0.008), and worse prognosis [hazard ratio (HR) = 2.400, P = 0.011]. DARS-AS1 was up-regulated in CRC cells (P < 0.001), and silencing it suppressed malignant behavior (P < 0.05). Serum miR-188-5p was down-regulated in CRC patients (P < 0.001), and had a target relationship with DARS-AS1 (r = - 0.733, P < 0.001). miR-188-5p target genes-including PTEN, ESR1, and FBXW7-were enriched in CRC-related pathways; FBXW7 was experimentally validated as a direct target (P < 0.05).This study identifies serum DARS-AS1 as a non-invasive diagnostic and prognostic biomarker for CRC with superior performance to conventional markers, and elucidates the DARS-AS1/miR-188-5p/FBXW7 axis as a novel mechanistic framework for CRC progression, providing both a clinical tool for risk stratification and targets for molecular therapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Maternal pancreatic β cells undergo functional and structural changes to adapt to increased metabolic demands during pregnancy. Lactogen signaling via the prolactin receptor (PRLR) contributes to these adaptations by increasing β-cell mass, insulin transcription, and glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. In other lactogen-responsive tissues such as the mammary glands and specific hypothalamic nuclei, gestation induces epigenetic changes, some of which persist long after birth. We have previously found that PRL treatment in islets regulates the expression of epigenetic modifiers. However, whether lactogen signaling in β cells mediates epigenetic changes to regulate chromatin accessibility has not been examined. Therefore, our objective was to determine whether PRLR signaling alters chromatin accessibility of β cells to facilitate transcriptional regulation. Using single-cell assay for transposase-accessible chromatin using sequencing (scATAC), we identified differentially accessible regions (DARs) in β cells that had 718 overrepresented motifs following PRL treatment of murine islets. Validating this approach, these included motifs bound by established PRLR signaling effectors such as the STAT family of transcription factors (TFs). Using RNA-sequencing we identified transcriptional changes in 41 TFs whose motifs were overrepresented in DARs, including several previously linked to PRLR signaling within β cells, including Myc, Mafb, and Esr1. Importantly, we also identified TFs not previously associated with PRLR signaling, including OVOL2, an established regulator of epigenetic landscape within cells. OVOL2 is a TF involved in epithelial to mesenchymal transition inhibition and energy homeostasis with unknown roles in pancreatic β cells. Here, we establish that OVOL2 acts as a negative regulator of lactogen-dependent effects on β-cell proliferation, establishing a novel regulator of PRLR signaling.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com. See the journal About page for additional terms.
Traditional, complementary and integrative medicine (TCIM) use is widespread, particularly among individuals with chronic health conditions who are drawn to TCIM's holistic approach. This approach frequently involves educating users on lifestyle factors that may detrimentally impact their health outcomes. Consequently, the TCIM workforce holds much potential to facilitate public health promotion and education. However, little is known about the current healths literacy (HL) of TCIM users - a gap requiring focus to optimize the role of TCIM in preventive health efforts. This review aims to determine the level of HL reported by TCIM users and identify relationships between HL and TCIM use. A systematic literature search for eligible studies was conducted using five scientific databases: EMBASE, MEDLINE, CINAHL, AMED, and Scopus. All databases were searched from their inception to January 2024. All relevant observational studies on the HL of TCIM users were included. From the 23 included studies, mean HL scores among most participants fell into the "borderline-sufficient" or "moderate-high" categories. These scores ssuggest HL may be associated with, or result from, frequent interactions with TCIM practitioners or services. Several sociodemographic characteristics shared a positive relationship with HL and TCIM use, including higher socioeconomic status. This review captures the breadth of HL scores reported by TCIM users and aims to elucidate relationships between HL and TCIM use. By enhancing our understanding of the health knowledge within this population, public health policies, educational programs, and future research can be more effectively targeted to user needs.
Social media platforms have become important spaces for the circulation and discussion of health information. X (formerly Twitter) is one such space where traditional, complementary, and integrative medicine (TCIM)-related terms circulate in public health discourse. However, longitudinal TCIM-related mention patterns on social media, particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic period, remain poorly documented.The study aimed to characterize temporal mention patterns of TCIM-related terms on X across English, Spanish, and French between 2015 and 2024, including the COVID-19 pandemic period.We conducted a retrospective observational infodemiology study using raw, nonnormalized annual mention counts from Brandwatch-indexed public X content in English, Spanish, and French that contained 39 predefined TCIM-related terms from 2015 to 2024. Descriptive analyses summarized cumulative mentions and annual mention counts. Exploratory trend analyses were restricted to the 2015 to 2019 prepandemic period. For each term-language combination, ordinary least squares regression was fitted with annual mention count as the dependent variable and calendar year as the independent variable. Exploratory linear trend signals were retained when R2≥0.70 and an exact permutation test on the slope yielded P≤.05 (120 permutations).Cumulative mentions of the 39 TCIM-related terms totaled 191,994,848 over 2015 to 2024. The most frequently mentioned terms were "yoga" (79,618,183), "meditation" (55,560,372), and "mindfulness" (18,915,377), together accounting for 80.3% (154,093,932/191,994,848) of all mentions. Raw cumulative mentions were predominantly indexed in English (170,100,867/191,994,848, 88.6%) compared with Spanish (17,171,541/191,994,848, 8.9%) and French (4,722,440/191,994,848, 2.5%). Between 2019 and 2020, "meditation" showed the largest absolute increase in raw mention counts (1,935,949/3,627,557, 53.4%), whereas "ayurveda" showed the largest relative increase (400,624/214,901, 186.4%). Exploratory 2015 to 2019 trend analyses identified 14 linear trend signals in English (n=13, 92.9% decreasing; n=1, 7.1% increasing: "intermittent fasting," 161,584/70,496, 229%), 11 in French (n=5, 45.5% increasing), and 8 in Spanish (3 increasing). "Reiki" and "reflexology" decreased in all 3 languages.Between 2015 and 2024, raw TCIM-related mention counts on X were highly concentrated in a small set of wellness and mind-body labels and were predominantly in English compared with Spanish and French. No sustained aggregate surge was evident in the raw descriptive data during the COVID-19 pandemic period, although some terms such as "ayurveda" showed short-term fluctuations. These findings should be interpreted as platform-specific raw mention patterns, not as evidence of normalized public interest, sentiment, user attitudes, professional practice, or actual TCIM use.©Jahinna Duplaix, Sébastien Abad, Marion Bruna, Arnaud Legout, Alexis Nommer, Deborah Nourrit-Lucas, Grégory Ninot. Originally published in the Journal of Medical Internet Research (https://www.jmir.org), 27.07.2026.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42498577
Cultural background and migration experiences shape health behavior, use of traditional, complementary and integrative medicine (TCIM), and trust in physicians. This study examines how these factors interact in patients in Germany and whether health self-management modifies these relationships. The goal is to inform culturally sensitive, patient-centered care.Between October and December 2023, 375 patients were surveyed in a monocentric primary care study using an anonymous questionnaire assessing migration background, use of TCIM, health self-management, trust in physicians, and relevant sociodemographic characteristics.A total of 375 patients participated (mean age 50.3 years, 54.5% female), with 19.5% reporting a migration background. Overall patient activation was moderate to high (M = 2.86-3.66, SD = 0.55-0.92), with no significant differences between natives and migrants (Cohen's d = 0.067, Hedges' g = 0.067, Glass' Δ = 0.050). Physical exercise (75.2%), other vitamins/dietary supplements (40.5%), and relaxation techniques (10.9%) were the most frequently used TCIM methods, while mistletoe (1.1%), probiotics (6.1%), acupuncture/acupressure (3.2%), and Reiki (3.2%) were rarely applied. Patient satisfaction was high across all participants (mean range 5.42-6.08 on a 7-point Likert scale), with natives reporting slightly higher scores for general satisfaction and trust in physician competence.Patient activation was moderate to high, with no significant differences between native-born and migrant participants. Lifestyle-oriented TCIM methods were used most frequently, with little difference in usage. Overall patient satisfaction was high, although migrants reported slightly lower confidence and satisfaction. These findings underscore the need for culturally sensitive measures to promote equitable healthcare.© 2026. The Author(s).
Traditional, complementary and integrative medicine (TCIM) is widely used yet population-based data on user characteristics remain scarce in Germany. We aimed to describe patterns of non-pharmacological TCIM use and user profiles in the German National Cohort (NAKO).The NAKO baseline assessment (2017-2019) at the Berlin inner-city study centre included a self-report questionnaire on the use of seven non-pharmacological TCIM modalities in the last year. TCIM user groups were defined a priori using expert-based knowledge and exploratively through hierarchical clustering. Groups were compared descriptively based on sociodemographic factors and medical history. Associations with chronic pain disorders, pain medications, mental health indicators and time-limiting factors were analysed for the binary and ordinal outcomes of TCIM use.Among 1970 participants, 1029 (52.2%) used TCIM in the last year, most commonly meditation (26.8%), chiropractic (24.8%) and yoga (21.8%). Compared with never users, frequent TCIM users were more often female (63.5%), reported slightly higher rates of mental health problems (7.6% and 15.2% vs 6.1%) and more frequent chronic conditions, including osteoarthritis (10.6% and 11.1% vs 2.7%) and back pain (26.6% and 31.7% vs 16.0%). Supplement use was strikingly more common among TCIM users (43.7% vs 20.9%).In this population-based Berlin sample, TCIM users combined higher prevalence of chronic disease with greater engagement in preventive practices, notably supplement use, suggesting an attempt to seek solutions for chronic problems alongside conventional medical care or a preventive health orientation. Integrating TCIM awareness into prevention and chronic care could better align clinical practice with already existing patients' usage.Copyright © Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. Published by BMJ Group.
BackgroundTraditional, complementary, and integrative medicine (TCIM) is an evolving field in oncology focused on managing cancer symptoms. Hydrogen water (HW) has gained attention for its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, yet its clinical effectiveness needs further exploration. This randomized controlled trial aimed to assess the impact of gargling with HW on oral mucositis severity, pain levels, oral frailty, and quality of life in head and neck cancer patients undergoing radiotherapy or concurrent chemo-radiotherapy.MethodsIn this single-center, single-blind, parallel-group randomized controlled trial, patients were randomly assigned to receive either HW or distilled water (DW) for gargling. Oral mucositis (OM) severity, pain, oral frailty, and quality of life (QoL) were assessed using the World Health Organization Oral Mucositis Grading Criteria (WHO-OMGC), the Brief Pain Inventory-Taiwan (BPI-T), the Oral Frailty Checklist (OFC), and the EORTC QLQ-H&N35 questionnaire. Assessments were conducted at baseline (T0) and on Days 1 (T1), 3 (T2), 7 (T3), and 14 (T4) post-treatment.ResultsThe HW group showed significant OM improvement at Day 7 (p = 0.04) and Day 14 (p = 0.002). Pain decreased significantly in the HW group at Day 14 (p = 0.02). QoL improved in the HW group (p = 0.03), while OFC scores showed no significant difference between groups (p = 0.74).ConclusionHW gargling significantly alleviated OM severity and pain and improved QoL in head and neck cancer (HNC) patients undergoing radiotherapy or CCRT. HW gargling may serve as a simple, well-tolerated, and effective complementary and integrative therapy during cancer treatment.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42293720 is a review article
Immune cells elicit a continuum of transcriptional states after spinal cord injury (SCI). In mammals, inefficient debris clearance and chronic inflammation impede recovery and overshadow pro-regenerative immune functions. We found that zebrafish SCI elicits transient immune activation and efficient debris clearance. Transcriptomics and genetic ablation showed zebrafish macrophages are highly phagocytic and required for regeneration. Comparisons between zebrafish and mammalian macrophages identified transcription and immune response regulator (tcim) as an immune-enriched regenerative gene. Deletion of zebrafish tcim impairs phagocytosis and regeneration and activates a pro-inflammatory signature in leukocytes. Tcim expression in zebrafish and mouse macrophages establishes its conserved roles by promoting lipid metabolism and the reprogramming of myeloid precursors into activated phagocytes. This study underscores a requirement for elevated phagocytic capacity to achieve innate spinal cord repair and identifies a gene with conserved function in mammalian cells.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Contemporary medicine encompasses a diverse range of treatment options ranging from conventional to non-conventional methods used separately or in combination. Concurrently, the usage of non-conventional methods in societies has increased over time. Based on a nationwide German online survey on the "Acceptance and Use of Traditional, Complementary and Integrative Medicine (TCIM)" (respondents aged 18-75 years; N = 4065) employing Latent Class Analysis, we identify five groups of dispositions toward these approaches. Most individuals moderately favor both TCIM and conventional medicine. Individuals favoring TCIM or alternative approaches or strictly advocating conventional medicine constitute the minority. We find that preferring TCIM is associated with healthier behavior. We also identify a considerable share of individuals - those with lower educational and financial resources - who are indifferent or uninformed, especially regarding integrative and complementary medicine. Overall, while increasing TCIM use may be associated with healthier lifestyles, its wider adoption harbors potential for intensifying health inequalities.
An increasing number of healthcare professionals and patients worldwide are utilizing Traditional Complementary and Integrative Medicine (TCIM) along with conventional Western medicine. Consequently, the need for healthcare professionals to understand and effectively use TCIM in clinical settings is growing. However, related educational programs have remained insufficient. This study aimed to develop an online easily applicable Continuing Medical Education (CME) program focusing on TCIM for actual clinical practice and to evaluate its educational effectiveness.A pre-education survey was conducted among healthcare professionals worldwide to assess the demand for education and the level of knowledge, based on which a TCIM online CME program was designed. A total of 238 individuals participated in the preliminary survey, and 88 individuals responded to the post-education survey after completing the program. Changes in knowledge levels were analyzed using a paired t-test, and factors affecting the completion rate were examined through logistic regression analysis.Based on the preliminary survey's results, an educational program focusing on treatment techniques applicable in clinical practice was developed. The post-education survey results showed that overall knowledge of TCIM showed a statistically significant improvement after the education (3.92 ± 0.91, p < 0.001). In particular, significant improvements were observed in areas related to clinical techniques, such as pharmacopuncture, Ultrasound Guided pharmacopuncture, and Chuna Manual Therapy. Nearly 83% of respondents evaluated the program as having greatly contributed to their knowledge acquisition, and 86.37% reported experiencing an improvement in clinical competency. While the completion rate varied depending on some nationalities, no significant association was found with other variables.This study demonstrated that online CME in the field of TCIM can serve as an effective educational method for knowledge delivery and clinical application. These findings can be utilized as foundational data for the future development of TCIM educational programs, including program design and management.© 2026. The Author(s).
best4 + cells are a recently described vertebrate intestinal epithelial cell type. best4 + cells are altered in inflammatory bowel disease and colorectal cancer, suggesting that stimulation of their homeostatic replenishment may have therapeutic potential. However, the development and function of best4 + cells remain unclear. Since mice lack best4 + cells, we established zebrafish as a tractable in vivo model to observe, manipulate, and remove best4 + cells in an organismal context. We dissected best4 + cell developmental regulation in vivo from birth to differentiation and specialization, focusing on factors conserved in best4 + cells across vertebrates. Lineage tracing demonstrated that best4 + cells arise from secretory progenitors, where Notch/Dll4 signaling mediates a decision between best4 + and enterochromaffin cells by triggering meis1b expression. Following specification by meis1b, pbx3a spatially diversifies best4 + cells, which develop regional heterogeneity in gene expression, intracellular pH, and function. In vivo live imaging and removal of best4 + cells showed that best4+ cells sense luminal pH changes and extend dynamic luminal and stromal projections, but are not required to restore global luminal pH after challenge. Altogether, this study experimentally delineates best4 + cell developmental regulation and develops a genetic toolkit to examine their function in vivo, both of which will aid investigating how best4 + cells are altered or can be restored during disease.Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
DLL4-NOTCH1 signaling mediates juxtacrine communication between tip- and stalk-like endothelial cells during vascular sprouting, contributing to complementary aspects of endothelial function. Thus, simultaneous modulation of DLL4 and NOTCH1 may provide a strategy to broadly interfere with the endothelial functions involved in tumor angiogenesis. Accordingly, this study aimed to identify a novel natural compound capable of modulating DLL4-NOTCH1-mediated endothelial communication and to investigate how such modulation influences tumor angiogenesis and growth.We screened 66 natural compounds to identify those that suppress DLL4 and NOTCH1 signaling in endothelial cells. Using a dual-reporter system that combines a DLL4 promoter-driven reporter and a CSL luciferase reporter, we simultaneously assessed ligand-associated activity and downstream transcriptional output of the DLL4-NOTCH1 axis. We confirmed VEGF-induced target gene expression via Western blotting and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. We further performed in vitro angiogenesis assays and in vivo Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC) allograft tumor experiments.Among the 66 screened natural compounds, para-coumaric acid (p-CA) dose-dependently suppressed DLL4 transcription and NOTCH1 signaling activity in endothelial cells, with IC50 values of 4.57 and 8.34 µm, respectively. Furthermore, p-CA significantly suppressed VEGF-induced endothelial cell proliferation, migration, and tube formation. In the LLC allograft model, p-CA treatment suppressed tumor growth and vascular density, increased pericyte coverage, reduced tumor hypoxia, and enhanced CD3+ T-cell infiltration and tumor cell apoptosis.In summary, p-CA is a natural compound that functionally suppresses VEGF-driven DLL4-NOTCH1 signaling in endothelial cells, exhibiting strong anti-angiogenic effects and promoting functional vascular normalization, resulting in marked tumor suppression and enhanced antitumor immunity in vivo. These findings suggest that p-CA warrants further investigation as an anti-angiogenic compound for cancer therapy.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Osteoarthritis (OA) involves cartilage degradation and subchondral bone alterations, yet the mechanisms of chondro-endothelial crosstalk remain unclear. Stress-sensitive Piezo1 and SP1/Angptl7 signaling may play key roles in this process. This research aimed to investigate whether Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-BB regulates chondro-endothelial crosstalk via Piezo1-mediated SP1/Angptl7 inhibition.Single- and multiple-cell-component organoids (chondrocytes SW1353 and endothelial HMEC-1) were constructed using high-throughput 3D culture. Organoids were treated with MIA to induce OA-like changes, followed by PDGF-BB with or without Yoda1 (Piezo1 activator) or Angptl7. In vivo, OA was induced in rats by intraarticular MIA injection, and PDGF-BB or sodium hyaluronate (SH)-PDGF was administered. Histology and immunofluorescence were used to assess F-actin formation, Piezo1 activation, SP1 phosphorylation, Angptl7 and VEGF/Notch/DLL4 expression.PDGF-BB inhibited F-actin formation and reduced Piezo1 activation in OA chondrocytes. It suppressed SP1 phosphorylation and Angptl7 expression, downregulating VEGF/Notch/DLL4 signaling and reducing endothelial invasion in organoids. These effects were partially reversed by Yoda1 and fully reversed by Angptl7. In vivo, PDGF-BB and SH-PDGF attenuated cartilage degeneration and reduced Piezo1 activation, SP1 phosphorylation, and Angptl7 expression.PDGF-BB alleviates OA by inhibiting SP1/Angptl7-mediated chondro-endothelial crosstalk, partially via stress-sensitive Piezo1 regulation through cytoskeletal remodeling. Multiple-cell-component organoids provide a valuable in vitro model for studying cartilage pathophysiology.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Cheng, Li, Zhang, Zhu and Cai.
Neddylation is highly activated in many human cancers and may serve as a therapeutic target for clinical treatment. However, it remains unclear regarding the role of neddylation in tumor angiogenesis. Here, we demonstrate that the neddylation E2 enzyme UBE2M is upregulated in tip cells and is essential for tumor vascular sprouting. We show that UBE2M-mediated neddylation of STAT1 enhances its phosphorylation and promotes the transcription of DLL4. This elevated DLL4 expression in tip cells activates Notch signaling in adjacent stalk cells, thereby maintaining the tip-stalk cell balance and ensuring organized vascular patterning. Consequently, endothelial-specific deletion of UBE2M reduces DLL4 expression, leading to excessive but non-productive sprouting due to uncontrolled tip cell formation and lack of stalk cell support, which ultimately suppresses tumor growth. Importantly, targeting endothelial neddylation potently sensitizes various tumors to anti-VEGF therapy. Together, our findings unveil UBE2M as a key regulator of angiogenic signaling and identify it as a promising anti-angiogenic target in cancer.
EphrinB2 and its receptor EphB4 have been reported to play a crucial role in the development of the cardiovascular system, and the process of coronary artery disease (CAD) is closely related to angiogenesis. The aim of this study is to identify and analyze the therapeutic value of the EphrinB2/EphB4 signaling pathway and angiogenesis-related biomarkers.The CAD chip data (GSE42148) was used for differential analysis to identify differently expressed genes (DEGs). Key module genes associated with CAD were identified using WGCNA. Machine learning and expression validation were executed for screening biomarkers. In addition, the biological functions of biomarkers were explored using enrichment analyses. Finally, the diagnostic and therapeutic value of biomarkers was explored through immune infiltration analysis and drug prediction.Totally, 927 DEGs were identified in CAD and control groups. A total of 1,605 key CAD-related module genes were obtained for subsequent analyses. Then, PTX3, DLL4, and CITED4 were identified as biomarkers. Enrichment analysis suggested that three biomarkers were associated with allograft rejection. Analysis of 28 immune cell infiltrates revealed that CD56dim natural killer cell, eosinophil, mast cell, and MDSC etc. were significantly different between CAD and control groups. Finally, small-molecule drugs, notably simvastatin and calcitriol, were predicted and validated via molecular docking (binding energies < -6.0 kcal/mol) to have a potential therapeutic role in CAD by targeting PTX3 and CITED4, respectively.We obtained three EphrinB2/EphB4 signaling pathway and angiogenesis-related biomarkers (PTX3, DLL4, and CITED4) linked with CAD, which provide new references for the treatment of CAD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease characterized by synovial hyperplasia, inflammatory cell infiltration, and pathological angiogenesis, ultimately leading to progressive joint damage. Cold-inducible RNA-binding protein (CIRP) has been implicated in inflammatory responses; however, its role in RA-associated angiogenesis remains unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that CIRP gene knockout or pharmacological inhibition using C23 significantly attenuates arthritis severity and reduces synovial angiogenesis in adjuvant-induced arthritis models. In vitro experiments revealed that CIRP promotes human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) tube formation, migration, and invasion by upregulating the expression of C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) and Delta-like ligand 4 (DLL4). Notably, blocking extracellular CIRP with C23 inhibited CIRP-induced angiogenesis in HUVECs. Further investigations showed that Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) knockdown suppressed CIRP-induced angiogenesis in HUVECs, indicating that CIRP promotes angiogenesis through a TLR4-dependent mechanism. Subsequent mechanistic studies revealed that CIRP upregulates histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) expression via TLR4 in HUVECs. We therefore investigated the role of HDAC1 in CIRP-induced angiogenesis, and found that HDAC1 knockdown significantly inhibited this process. Moreover, CIRP promotes pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) nuclear translocation and suppresses PKM2 lactylation through the TLR4-mediated HDAC1 pathway. Furthermore, The PKM2 lysine 62 to arginine (K62R) mutant enhances PKM2 nuclear translocation and promotes angiogenesis. Taken together, these results suggest that HDAC1-mediated PKM2 delactylation modification regulates CIRP-induced angiogenesis in RA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In cartilage-related studies, the existing in vitro cartilage models often fail to simulate the complex pathophysiology involving a hypoxic microenvironment, abnormal intercellular mechanical stress (microstress), and pathological crosstalk between chondrocytes and vascular endothelial cells. he aim of this study was to develop and validate a novel, simplified multi-cell-component cartilage organoid model capable of mimicking these three key OA-related features in vitro, using readily available cell lines.Organoids were constructed using SW1353 chondrocytes and HMEC-1 endothelial cell lines within low-adhesion grid microchambers. A monosodium iodoacetate (MIA)-induced OA model was developed. Histological and immunofluorescence analyses of the organoids were conducted to examine markers of matrix metabolism, cytoskeletal and intercellular microstress, hypoxic microenvironment, and chondrocyte -endothelial crosstalk. The organoid features were compared with those of standard 2D cell cultures and in vivo cartilages.The multi-cell-component organoids successfully recapitulated critical in vivo features. They exhibited MIA-induced F-actin reorganization and PIEZO1 upregulation, developed a hypoxic core with elevated hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF-1α) levels, and formed an endothelial shell that invasively disrupted the chondrocyte core upon MIA treatment. This disruption was accompanied by the activation of vascular endothelial growth factor -NOTCH receptor 1 -delta-like ligand 4 (VEGF -NOTCH1 -DLL4) signaling, mirroring the pathological chondrocyte -endothelial crosstalk. Single-cell-component organoids simulated microstress-related changes but not hypoxia or chondrocyte -endothelial crosstalk.The multi-cell-component cartilage organoids constructed from tumor-derived cell lines using low-adhesion grid microchambers partially simulated intercellular microstress, hypoxic microenvironment, and chondrocyte -endothelial crosstalk, which was similar to that observed in cartilages in vivo. These organoids provide a new strategy for conducting cartilage-related studies in vitro.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Zhu, Li, Zhang, Cheng and Cai.
The TBX1 deletion is frequently observed in patients with tetralogy of Fallot (TOF), the most prevalent cyanotic congenital heart defect (CHD); however, the role of noncoding variants in its regulatory region remains unclear. We performed whole-genome sequencing (WGS) on a cohort of 428 patients diagnosed with TOF, which identified the presence of 22q11.2 deletion in 31 cases, including the TBX1 genomic region, as well as 7 functional noncoding variants in its enhancer (EnhTBX1). These findings accounted for a total of 9.81% (42/428) of TOF cases. We then knocked out EnhTBX1 (EnhTBX1-/-) in ES cells and utilized blood vessel organoids (BVOs) as a model to elucidate the mechanisms underlying outflow tract (OFT) vessel dysfunction. The EnhTBX1-/- BVOs exhibited significantly reduced TBX1 mRNA expression, leading to impaired angiogenesis, vessel regression with decreased pericyte coverage, and alterations in tight junction morphology. Mechanistically, we have identified TBX1 as a specific transcription factor for endothelial progenitor cells that influences their differentiation. The main targets of TBX1 are genes involved in angiogenesis-related pathways, such as DLL4 and TGFBR2, which have been reported to play crucial roles during OFT formation. Finally, rescue experiments with TBX1 overexpression not only reinstated the expression of aforementioned target genes but also recovered tight junction formation and enhanced pericyte coverage rate of EnhTBX1-/- BVOs. In conclusion, this study demonstrates the involvement of noncoding variants in the TBX1 enhancer in TOF pathogenesis, highlighting the feasibility of using organoids to decipher the underlying mechanisms of unconserved noncoding regions in developmental malformations.© 2026. Science China Press.
Sepsis remains a leading cause of death. Reverse migrated neutrophils, characterized as ICAM1hiCXCR1lo, have been recognized as a key driver of systemic inflammation and organ injury in sepsis. We discovered a distinct delta-like ligand 4-positive (DLL4+) subset of neutrophils that accumulate in the lungs, contributing to lung injury; however, the underlying mechanism is less understood. In sepsis, ICAM1hiCXCR1lo neutrophils, being hyperactive, are detrimental. Here, we investigated how DLL4+ neutrophils activate alveolar macrophages (AMs) to cause endothelial cell barrier disruption and promote neutrophil reverse migration. AMs were treated with DLL4+ neutrophils or recombinant mouse DLL4, and a disintegrin and metalloprotease (ADAM17) generated by AMs was assessed at both mRNA and protein levels. Conditioned medium was subsequently applied to pulmonary vascular endothelial cells (pVECs); junctional adhesion molecule-C (JAM-C) protein was detected by Western blot assays; and ICAM1hiCXCR1lo neutrophils were detected by flow cytometry. We demonstrate that during sepsis induced by cecal ligation and puncture (CLP), DLL4+ neutrophils interact with AMs via the Notch1 pathway, leading to increase of ADAM17 expression. ADAM17 decreased JAM-C on pVECs, causing endothelial barrier disruption and ICAM1hiCXCR1lo neutrophil generation. A small-molecule inhibitor of ADAM17 effectively preserved pulmonary endothelial barrier integrity and reduced ICAM1hiCXCR1lo neutrophil accumulation. Importantly, we have developed a novel DLL4-Notch1 inhibitory peptide (NDI) that effectively suppresses ADAM17 expression, restores JAM-C, and reduces ICAM1hiCXCR1lo neutrophil accumulation in sepsis. These findings identify DLL4+ neutrophils as critical inflammatory mediators that exacerbate systemic inflammation and worsen sepsis, and highlight the DLL4-Notch1-ADAM17 axis as a promising therapeutic target.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for Leukocyte Biology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Mesenteric ischemia frequently causes bowel necrosis even after recirculation, known as reperfusion injury, and no effective therapy has been validated for preserving the intestine. Adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cell-conditioned medium (MSC-CM), a tissue engineering and regenerative therapy, has been suggested as a feasible acute-phase treatment for organ damages. This study aimed to elucidate the therapeutic effects of MSC-CM on intestinal tissue injuries by ischemia and reperfusion. Mice were categorized into three groups that underwent either 60-min mesenteric artery occlusion (ischemia group), 60-min reperfusion following 60-min occlusion (reperfusion group), or ischemia-reperfusion with the same duration following intravenous administration of 200-µL MSC-CM by retroorbital injection (MSC-CM group). The distal ileum was harvested, and immunofluorescence staining with caspase-3 and LGR5, an intestinal stem cell-specific marker, was performed for evaluating the injury location and type of cells protected by MSC-CM. Moreover, LGR5, Notch1, Jagged 1, Hes1, DLL1, DLL3, and DLL4 mRNA expressions were measured using quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Ischemia extensively damaged the epithelial layer, and reperfusion-induced cellular apoptosis at the epithelial layer. MSC-CM administration was associated with preservation of cells at the crypt base, which were identified as intestinal stem cells using double-immunofluorescence staining. The MSC-CM group demonstrated significantly higher LGR5 expression than the reperfusion and ischemia groups. Similarly, the MSC-CM group exhibited higher Notch1 and Jag1 expressions, whereas the reperfusion group showed a higher Notch1 expression. In conclusion, MSC-CM use was associated with preservation of the intestinal stem cells at the crypt of villi and higher Notch1 and Jag1 expressions.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cerebrovascular damage is increasingly recognized as an early event in the dementia continuum, occurring before typical Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathological changes. Hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1) is a transcription factor composed of HIF-1α and HIF-1β subunits which, under hypoxic conditions, dimerize and activate hypoxia response element (HRE)-containing genes. HIF-1α has been reported to be implicated in neuroinflammation, a key feature of AD.This study evaluated HIF1A and its negative regulator HIF1AN gene expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 308 cognitively healthy older individuals (controls) and 83 AD patients, and their associations with gene expression of HRE-containing inflammatory genes in PBMCs and corresponding protein concentrations in plasma.Peripheral blood mononuclear cells from AD patients showed lower gene expression of both HIF1A and HIF1AN compared with controls, and this reduction was associated with higher odds of AD. In the overall cohort, after adjustment for age, sex, Apolipoprotein E ε4 status, and diagnosis, HIF1A gene expression was positively associated with interleukin (IL)-6, IL-10, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), IL-1B, and triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells-1 (TREM-1) gene expression, whereas HIF1AN gene expression was negatively associated with IL-6, IL-1B, and TREM-1 gene expression. Furthermore, HIF1A gene expression was positively associated with plasma IL-1β and soluble TREM-1 concentrations, while HIF1AN gene expression was negatively associated with IL-10 concentrations.Overall, these findings support the use of peripheral cells to investigate HIF-1 pathway dysregulation in AD and suggest that altered HIF-1α signaling may reflect impaired cellular responsiveness linked to neuroinflammatory processes.Copyright © 2026 Arosio, Ferri, Rossi, Aiello, Caponetto, Olivieri, Fenoglio, Galimberti, Lucchi and Montano.
Natural products (NPs) are a major source of bioactive molecules for drug discovery, yet their development and translation are often limited by inefficient and ambiguous target identification. Although mass spectrometry-based proteomics has advanced rapidly, upstream sample preparation remains a critical bottleneck for high-throughput target deconvolution. Here, we report μPAS (micro proteomics automation system), an automated and miniaturized proteomic sample preparation platform that integrates protein reduction, alkylation, digestion, and TMTpro labeling into a single streamlined workflow. By achieving a 3- to 7-fold reduction in digestion and labeling volumes, μPAS improves throughput and cost efficiency, reducing TMT reagent consumption by 2-7.5-fold while maintaining high digestion efficiency (>90% within 4 h) and TMTpro labeling efficiency (>96%). The platform demonstrates consistent intra- and inter-batch reproducibility, with Pearson correlation coefficients exceeding 0.96. Using three model compounds, μPAS was benchmarked against three complementary target identification strategies, enabling automated target discovery. Application of μPAS to a 96-sample workflow enabled systematic target deconvolution for 18 NPs lacking well-defined targets. Key candidate targets, including HIF1AN, FECH, and TXNRD1, were further validated using Western blot-based thermal shift assays, confirming target engagement. Collectively, these results establish μPAS as a robust and scalable platform for high-throughput NP target discovery, facilitating mechanistic elucidation of NP bioactivity.
Postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMOP) is characterized by exacerbated bone resorption and inadequate bone formation, with macrophage-driven inflammation playing a key role. However, how immunometabolic reprogramming of macrophages modulates osteoblast fate remains unknown.Using integrated single-cell and bulk transcriptomics, we identified a hypermetabolic macrophage subpopulation in PMOP marrow reliant on HIF-1α-glycolysis. We pharmacologically disrupted this axis with the HDAC inhibitor valproic acid (VPA) and validated its function using the HIF-1α stabilizer DMOG. The paracrine effects on osteoblasts were assessed via conditioned medium, focusing on ferroptosis and differentiation. Therapeutic efficacy was tested in ovariectomized rats.VPA upregulated HIF1AN, enhancing its binding to HIF-1α and promoting its degradation. This suppressed glycolytic flux and M1 polarization, reducing IL-6 secretion. The altered secretome protected osteoblasts from ferroptosis by inhibiting the IL-6/p-STAT3/HIF-1α/TFRC axis and rebalancing GPX4/ACSL4. Osteogenic differentiation was restored. In OVX rats, VPA improved bone mass and microstructure, effects abolished by DMOG.We unveil a macrophage-centric immunometabolic checkpoint that is linked to osteoblast ferroptosis via IL-6/STAT3 signaling. Targeting this HIF-1α-glycolysis axis, exemplified by VPA, represents a novel therapeutic strategy for PMOP.
Accurate prediction of peptide-protein interactions (PepPI) is crucial for advancing peptide-based anticancer drug design. In this study, we introduce ProVenTL, a computer-aided molecular design framework that leverages transfer learning and protein language model embeddings to enhance PepPI prediction accuracy and interpretability. Two complementary strategies were explored: (i) fine-tuning a CAMP model pretrained on large-scale PepPI data from the Protein Data Bank (PDB) using a curated dataset of Calloselasma rhodostoma venom peptides and cancer-related proteins, and (ii) integrating ProtT5 embeddings with stacked autoencoder-deep neural networks (SAE-DNN) and TabNet classifiers. Models were comprehensively benchmarked against baseline configurations and representative deep-learning approaches using standard classification metrics, while biological relevance was evaluated through functional enrichment and pathway analysis of top-ranked predictions. Compared with baseline configurations and conventional deep-learning approaches, the ProtT5-based SAE-DNN model achieved the best performance (accuracy = 0.78; ROC-AUC = 0.86), demonstrating improved generalization capability on a small, domain-specific venom peptide dataset. The model identified key targets such as TRBC2, CD274, HIF1AN, PCSK9, and PLAU, which are associated with pathways involved in immune suppression, hypoxia regulation, lipid metabolism, and metastasis. This study highlights the utility of transfer learning and protein language models for PepPI prediction in data-limited scenarios and establishes a computational framework for prioritizing snake-venom-derived peptides for anticancer drug discovery and future experimental validation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Esophageal cancer (EC) is a rapidly progressing malignancy that significantly contributes to cancer-related mortality. The genetic causes of EC, particularly rare coding pathogenic variants, remain incompletely defined. This study focuses on non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (nsSNPs) because they can impact the functions of critical proteins implicated in carcinogenesis.We employed an extended computational framework for the identification and analysis of rare-coding nsSNPs within 28 EC-associated genes and identified 126 protein isoforms from public databases such as NCBI and ENSEMBL, focusing on those with MAF <1%. Functional predictions were evaluated using different bioinformatics tools to ascertain pathogenicity. Furthermore, ten rare-coding nsSNPs were mapped to 23 transcript-level variants within genes such as GRB7, SLCO1A2, HIF1AN, KCNQ3, and DLL1.Computational analysis showed that these variants have a prominent impact on protein stability and function because substitutions occurred at conserved residues, thereby perturbing the stability and important regulatory attributes of the proteins. Structural modeling supported our findings: some variants may compromise domain integrity and influence the signal transduction pathways relevant to the progression of EC. The oncogenic potential of the conserved variants was also computationally validated using the Cscape tool, with candidates including rs1591837395 (G68R) in SLCO1A2 and rs758624092 (D201H) in HIF1AN. Collectively, this study identified rare and potentially pathogenic coding variants in EC-related genes and elaborated on their effects at the transcript, sequence, and structural levels.Integrating these insights into EC provides an extended view of its molecular mechanisms and may be used in the near future as a basis for precision medicine for early diagnosis and targeted therapy.© 2026 The Authors.
Neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC) is a highly aggressive subtype of prostate cancer (PCa), associated with poor prognosis and resistance to androgen receptor (AR)‑targeted therapies. Hypoxia is a well‑established driver of lineage plasticity and has been implicated in promoting NE differentiation (NED) of tumors. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms linking hypoxia to NED remain unclear. In the present study, miR‑135b‑5p was identified as a critical regulator of hypoxia‑induced NED through modulation of the hypoxia‑inducible factor alpha‑1 subunit alpha inhibitor (HIF1AN)‑HIF1α axis. Exposure of androgen‑dependent PCa cell lines (LNCaP and VCaP) to hypoxia induced neurite outgrowth and increased expression of NE markers, concurrent with upregulation of miR‑135b‑5p. Target prediction followed by experimental validation in luciferase reporter assays confirmed that HIF1AN is a direct target of miR‑135b‑5p. Suppression of HIF1AN results in the stabilization of HIF1α, which in turn activates the AKT/mTOR signaling pathway, facilitating NE trans differentiation. Functional studies demonstrated that overexpression of miR‑135b‑5p by mimics promotes NED in LNCaP cells, while inhibition of miR‑135b‑5p reverses the NE features in NE‑LNCaP and NCI‑H660, NE cells. Furthermore, pharmacological inhibition of HIF1α using PX‑478 abrogated hypoxia‑induced NED and attenuated activation of AKT/mTOR signaling, further underscoring the significance of the miR‑135b‑5p‑HIF1AN‑HIF1α axis in NED of PCa cells. Collectively, the findings of the present study reveal a novel miR‑135b‑5p‑HIF1AN‑HIF1α signaling axis that is involved in hypoxia‑induced NED via AKT/mTOR activation and identify miR‑135b‑5p and HIF1α as potential therapeutic targets for NEPC.
The genetic basis for Tibetan sheep adaptation to different high-altitude environments remains unknown. This study conducted whole-genome resequencing on 80 Tibetan sheep individuals from four major distribution areas on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau. Based on the high-quality single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) obtained, an analysis of population-level genomic selection signals was performed. Population genomic analysis revealed that Tibetan sheep distributed across China originated in northern China but showed evidence of gene flow from South Asian sheep. Between populations from extremely high-altitude and mid-altitude regions, selection analyses identified five strongly positive selected genes (HIF1AN [Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1 Alpha Subunit Inhibitor], HBE1 [Hemoglobin Subunit Epsilon 1], HBE2 [Hemoglobin Subunit Epsilon 2], TNFAIP3 [TNF Alpha Induced Protein 3], RAD50 [RAD50 Double Strand Break Repair Protein]). These genes are associated with adaptation to hypoxia and intense UV radiation in high-altitude environments. Selection analyses between populations from extremely high-altitude and mid-altitude regions identified five strongly selected genes (HIF1AN [Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1 Alpha Subunit Inhibitor], HBE1 [Hemoglobin Subunit Epsilon 1], HBE2 [Hemoglobin Subunit Epsilon 2], TNFAIP3 [TNF Alpha Induced Protein 3], RAD50 [RAD50 Double Strand Break Repair Protein]) associated with hypoxia and intense UV radiation in high-altitude environments. Comparative genomic analyses of populations in cold and arid environments identified several candidate genes related to energy and water homeostasis, as well as hair development (TP53 [Tumor Protein P53], ATG101 [Autophagy Related 101], ATP12A [ATPase H+/K+ Transporting Non-Gastric Alpha2 Subunit], KRT80 [Keratin 80], KRT7 [Keratin 7]). Additionally, Tibetan sheep in the high-altitude arid deserts exhibit stronger adaptive selection for energy homeostasis and water utilization; meanwhile, the HIF-1 [Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1] signaling pathway helps counteract oxidative stress induced by extreme water scarcity in the plateau environment. Our study supports the hypothesis that Tibetan sheep originated in northern China and identifies distinct adaptive features in the Tibetan sheep genome corresponding to their habitats.
Exclusive breastfeeding reduces the risk of childhood obesity, potentially through metabolic programming of adipose tissue during lactation. However, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Using a mouse model, it is shown that mixed formula feeding disrupts brown adipose tissue (BAT) morphology, mitochondrial integrity, and thermogenic capacity, resulting in greater fat accumulation and glucose intolerance after weaning under a high-fat diet. By contrast, BAT from exclusively breastfed mice preserved enhanced thermogenic function for up to 12 weeks after transplantation into recipient mice. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that AMPK activation is sustained in BAT from exclusively breastfed mice but markedly diminished in mixed-fed counterparts. Pharmacological inhibition of AMPK abolished the long-term metabolic benefits conferred by exclusive breastfeeding. Mechanistically, breast milk-derived extracellular vesicles enriched in miR-125a-5p enhanced AMPK signaling by targeting HIF1AN. AMPK-induced α-ketoglutarate (αKG) production proved essential for BAT development and thermogenesis, and αKG supplementation rescued impaired BAT function in mixed-fed mice. In conclusion, exclusive breastfeeding imprints a thermogenic memory in BAT via the HIF1AN/AMPK/αKG signaling axis, thereby conferring long-term metabolic protection to offspring.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
As an essential gaseous neurotransmitter, nitric oxide (NO) regulates various physiological processes in vertebrates, including fish. It is still being determined how NO signals neuroendocrine functions during larval development in zebrafish. Therefore, we investigated the effects of N-omega-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (l-NAME), a competitive inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase, on developing zebrafish larvae (3, 4, and 5 days post-fertilisation; dpf) concerning mitochondrial energetics, NO and ROS status, and transcript expression of stress and ease-responsive receptor genes to understand the role of NO in zebrafish larval development. A decline in NO content was observed at all larval stages after l-NAME exposure (4.3 and 43 nmol L-1 for 30 min), except at 4.3 nmol L-1 in 3 dpf larvae, where it increased. l-NAME reduced ROS production but increased the activities of cytochrome C oxidase and succinate dehydrogenase in the mitochondria of zebrafish larvae, depending on larval stage. The transcript expression of stress and ease-responsive receptor genes, including thyroid hormone receptors (thraa, thrb), mineralocorticoid receptor (nr3c2), serotonin transporter (slc6a4a), serotonin receptor (htr2b), and melatonin receptor (mtnr1aa), showed activation after l-NAME (4.3 nmol L-1) in 3 dpf larvae. Similarly, the activation of hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha (hif1a), hif1a-antisense RNA (hif1an), nnos, and inos transcript expression by l-NAME confirmed a role for NO in developing zebrafish larvae. These data provide novel evidence for the integrative role of NO in enhancing developmental plasticity in zebrafish larvae by modulating mitochondrial energetics and the functionality of stress- and ease-responsive genes within the neuroendocrine receptor system.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The novel hybrid fish BTB, derived from crossing blunt snout bream (Megalobrama amblycephala, BSB) and topmouth culter (Culter alburnus, TC), exhibits markedly hypoxia tolerance in aquaculture. In this study, hypoxic treatment experiments confirmed that, comparing to its original parent BSB, the tolerance to low oxygen of BTB increased by 20.0%. Furthermore, a comparative analysis of the transcriptome and metabolome was performed using gill tissues from BTB exposed to normoxic and hypoxic conditions. Under hypoxic conditions, BTB displayed adaptive modifications in gill lamellae and hemocytes. Transcriptomic profiling identified 789 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), with 298 upregulated and 491 downregulated, enriched in pathways including apoptosis, NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity, MAPK/TNF/Toll-like receptor signaling, and HIF-1/FoXO signaling pathways. Twelve hypoxia-related candidate genes (egln3, im_7150988, znf395a, hif-1an, mknk2b, pck2, ero1a, igfbp-1a, vhl, bpifcl, egln1a, and ccna1) were screened and validated as potential contributors to hypoxia tolerance. Metabolomics analysis revealed a total of 108 differential metabolites (78 upregulated and 30 downregulated), predominantly linked to Arginine and proline metabolism, Ether lipid metabolism, Arachidonic acid metabolism, and Glycerophospholipid metabolism. Association analysis of transcriptomics and metabolomics revealed that the DEGs and DMs were enriched in the pathways of glycerophospholipid metabolism, ether lipid metabolism, arachidonic acid metabolism, and arginine and proline metabolism. In summary, BTB exhibited relatively high hypoxia tolerance, and 12 candidate genes related to hypoxia tolerance were identified. These findings laid a foundation for further investigation into the mechanisms of hypoxia tolerance improvement in hybrid fish.
Pulmonary carcinoid (PC) is a rare, well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumor of the lung. In patients with metastatic disease, systemic therapies typically have low response rates, and long-term survival is poor. PC frequently expresses DLL3, but whether it responds to the DLL3-targeted bispecific T-cell engager tarlatamab is unknown.We analyzed 11 patients with DLL3-high PC treated with tarlatamab at Memorial Sloan Kettering. Tumor response was assessed using RECIST v 1.1.Response rate was 8/11 (73%), including one patient with central nervous system-only disease, and disease control rate was 11/11 (100%). All patients experienced reduction of their measurable disease. One patient had progressed at time of data cutoff and median progression-free survival was not reached. Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) occurred in cycle 1 in 9/11 (82%) patients including 2 with grade 3 CRS.Tarlatamab demonstrated a high response rate in PC. Cytokine release syndrome was common. Tarlatamab is a promising treatment option for patients with PC.Copyright © 2026 International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556480 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42537626 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42527846 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42523863 is a review article
Glioblastoma (GBM) remains the most aggressive primary brain tumor and is associated with a dismal prognosis despite maximal multimodal therapy. Targeted radionuclide therapy requires a tumor-selective, cell-surface-accessible molecular target that is highly expressed in GBM but minimally present in normal brain tissue.We integrated transcriptomic profiling, differential expression analysis, LASSO regression, gradient boosting, SHAP interpretation, structural modeling, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulation, peptide synthesis, and fluorescence-based validation to identify a GBM-associated membrane target and develop a corresponding cyclic peptide ligand. Public GBM and normal brain transcriptomic datasets were obtained from TCGA, GTEx, and CGGA. Candidate genes were prioritized using machine learning and structural criteria, followed by systematic peptide design and computational refinement.DLL3 was identified as a top candidate target with high discriminative power and prognostic relevance in GBM. A cyclic peptide candidate, IMP-3, displayed favorable predicted binding to the DLL3 extracellular domain and stable interaction during molecular dynamics simulation. The probe-labeled derivative MPA-IMP-3 selectively accumulated in GBM cells and showed significantly stronger fluorescence signals than in normal astrocytes, supporting DLL3-associated targeting specificity.We identified DLL3 as a promising GBM-associated membrane target and developed a cyclic peptide ligand with selective binding potential. This integrated AI-driven workflow provides a rational framework for the development of targeted theranostic strategies in GBM.Copyright © 2026 Xu, Huang, Li, Yan, Cui, Zhao, Chen, Chen, Liu, Zhou, Ni, Zhang, Wang, Zeng, Xiong and Liu.
EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors are the standard treatment for EGFR-mutated lung cancer, but acquired resistance frequently develops through diverse mechanisms, including histologic transformation. We report a rare case of EGFR-mutated lung adenocarcinoma with an initial SCLC component that revealed marked lineage plasticity during treatment. A 38-year-old woman underwent left upper lobectomy for EGFR exon 19 deletion-positive lung adenocarcinoma with combined SCLC. After surgery, she received osimertinib and adjuvant cisplatin plus etoposide. After 6 years, pleural dissemination progressed, and biopsy result revealed recurrent SCLC without an adenocarcinoma component. The recurrent SCLC had DLL3 expression in approximately 80% of the tumor cells. Carboplatin plus etoposide and amrubicin were ineffective, whereas third-line tarlatamab induced the disappearance of liver metastases and disease control for 10 months. At progression, biopsy result of a recurrent liver lesion demonstrated sarcomatoid carcinoma with a complete loss of DLL3 expression. Genomic analyses revealed a shared TP53 p.H168P mutation across sequential specimens, whereas the recurrent SCLC and tarlatamab-resistant sarcomatoid carcinoma lacked the original EGFR p.E746_A750del-mutant allele. This case highlights dynamic histologic and molecular evolution in EGFR-mutated lung cancer and suggests that tarlatamab resistance may involve the selection of DLL3-negative clones.© 2026 The Authors.
Pulmonary large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma (LCNEC) is a rare, high-grade, neuroendocrine carcinoma with an aggressive clinical course, and there are few treatment options for relapsed and refractory cases. Tarlatamab, a first-in-class, bispecific T-cell engager targeting delta-like ligand 3 (DLL3) and CD3, holds promise as a therapeutic option for previously treated cases of small-cell lung cancer, but clinical data on LCNEC are exiguous. We report herein a 69-year-old, male patient. He underwent a left upper lobe partial resection for stage pT1bN0M0 LCNEC. Three years later, a recurrence with left pleural thickening, multiple liver metastases, and a marked elevation of pro-gastrin-releasing peptide developed. The patient had received five lines of systemic therapy over 2.5 years. Comprehensive genomic profiling revealed a high tumor mutational burden but no actionable targets. With approval from the institutional ethics committee, tarlatamab therapy was begun as sixth-line therapy. The patient experienced manageable grade 1 cytokine release syndrome. After two cycles, computed tomography demonstrated a partial response with a 40% reduction in the sum of target lesion diameters (130 mm to 78 mm), and the pro-gastrin-releasing peptide level decreased from 1610 ng/mL to 49.7 ng/mL. The patient has received nine cycles of tarlatamab over eight months, and the response has persisted during this period without any serious adverse events. The findings of the present case suggest that tarlatamab has the potential to induce a meaningful and durable response in pretreated LCNEC and support further clinical evaluation of DLL3-targeted, T-cell-engaging therapy for this disease.© The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Japan Society of Clinical Oncology 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Limited intratumoral persistence and insufficient proliferative capacity severely restrict the efficacy of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell therapies in solid tumors. Here, we demonstrated that DLL3-targeting CAR-T cells co-expressing a CD56 chimeric switch receptor (CSR) and incorporating parallel 4-1BB costimulatory signaling (DBBζ.CBB) effectively address these limitations. In preclinical small cell lung cancer (SCLC) models, DBBζ.CBB exhibited sustained tumor infiltration, prolonged persistence, and superior antitumor activity. Mechanistically, parallel 4-1BB signaling dynamically programed CAR-T cell fate by promoting early expansion and memory maintenance, driving a highly proliferative effector state at the intermediate stage, and delaying terminal exhaustion at the later stage, thereby sustaining in vivo persistence and enabling durable antitumor responses. Building upon the intratumoral T-cell pool established by DBBζ.CBB, subsequent DLL3 trispecific T-cell engager (TriTCE) administration synergistically enhanced tumor eradication by further boosting CD8+ T cell infiltration and overall activation while mitigating exhaustion and terminal differentiation. Collectively, these findings establish a clinically translatable combinatorial framework to enhance the efficacy and durability of CAR-T therapy in solid tumors.
Novel CAR-T therapies targeting delta-like ligand 3 (DLL-3) are promising treatment strategies for individuals with extensive-stage SCLC (ES-SCLC). We report a case of a patient with ES-SCLC who received investigational therapy LB2102 off-label after becoming ineligible for a clinical trial. We described her positive, long-term response to treatment. This case highlights efficacious use of this investigational drug in a real-world setting prior to release of final reported data from phase 1 trial NCT05680922.Copyright © 2026 Williams, Arnold, Villano, Alonso, Brainson, Schwarzenberger, Vahora, Qasrawi, Munker, Evers and Hao.
Epidermal growth factor-like domain 7 (EGFL7) was discovered as an extracellular matrix protein with an EGF-like domain and angiogenic and vasculogenic functions. It has also been shown to play a role in immunological evasion of tumor cells through attenuation of extravasation of immune cells by reducing the expression of cell adhesion molecules on vascular endothelial cells. Furthermore, microRNA-126 (miR-126), which is encoded within the intron of Egfl7, has been reported to be a vasculogenic factor. However, its immune-related functions in tumors remain unclear. Here, we examined the roles of tumor-derived EGFL7 and miR-126 in in vivo tumor progression using Egfl7/Mir-126 knockout and rescue tumor cell lines. Tumor growth was significantly suppressed in Egfl7/Mir-126-deficient cells and was restored by re-expression of miR-126, but not EGFL7. These differences in in vivo tumor growth were not observed in immunodeficient mice, suggesting the involvement of the adaptive immune system. CD4+ or CD25+ cell depletion suppressed the growth of miR-126-expressing tumors, whereas CD8+ cell depletion enhanced the growth of miR-126-deficient tumors. Histological analysis revealed an increased Foxp3+/CD8+ cell ratio in miR-126-expressing tumors during the early phase of tumor establishment. Bilateral tumor models further demonstrated that miR-126-expressing tumors promoted the growth of contralateral miR-126-deficient tumors, and a similar effect was observed using apoptotic miR-126-expressing tumor cells In vitro analyses using extracellular vesicles derived from dying tumor cells showed the transfer of miR-126 to CD4+ T cells and a higher proportion of Foxp3+ cells. Together, these findings suggest that tumor-derived miR-126 promotes tumor progression through non-local immune modulation, potentially involving maintenance of Treg-associated populations.Copyright © 2026 Akazawa, Mizote, Ekawa, Yoshida, Kumamoto, Harada, Ogawa, Watanabe, Hatoya, Inoue and Tahara.
Ex vivo expansion of human hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) holds promise for overcoming their limited availability, a major barrier to broader clinical application. Although recent advances in culture systems can increase HSC numbers, these conditions frequently impair self-renewal and induce myeloid bias, and the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here, we performed single-cell multiome sequencing (scMultiome-seq) on human umbilical cord blood-derived CD34⁺ hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells to co-profile transcriptional and epigenetic adaptations within the same cells during ex vivo culture. Our analyses revealed reduced transcriptional and epigenetic HSC signatures, accompanied by markedly increased activity of myeloid-associated transcription factor motifs, providing molecular insight into the functional decline and myeloid bias of cultured HSCs. We further observed substantial functional heterogeneity among phenotypically defined HSCs following culture. To address these limitations, we established a niche-mimetic culture system that integrates intrinsic and extrinsic bone marrow regulatory cues, including pharmacologic inhibition of the m6A reader YTHDF2 using the small molecule Y13-27, a three-dimensional microenvironment, and N-cadherin-mediated adhesion. This condition (3D-NcadP-Y) robustly preserved long-term repopulating capacity. When combined with the self-renewal agonist UM729, the resulting platform (3D-NcadP-Y-UM) uniquely enabled the expansion of serially transplantable long-term HSCs with balanced multilineage potential. scMultiome-seq and cellular analyses demonstrated that this condition preserves transcriptional and epigenetic long-term HSC signatures, maintains multilineage-associated transcription factor motifs, and limits excessive cell-cycle activation. Together, these findings elucidate molecular mechanisms underlying culture-induced HSC dysfunction and establish a niche-mimetic strategy for expanding functional human long-term HSCs while preserving key features of stemness.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) migration is the key event in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis (AS) and plaque instability. Trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO) induces VSMC migration to promote the progression of AS. However, the effects of the N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification on this process remain unclear. Here, TMAO increased total m6A levels in human aortic smooth muscle cells (HASMCs) and decreased fat mass and obesity-associated protein (FTO) and YTH domain-containing family protein 2 (YTHDF2) protein expression. FTO or YTHDF2 overexpression significantly inhibited HASMC migration induced by TMAO. Mechanistically, the COL3A1 gene was shown to be critical for the regulation of HASMC migration by FTO or YTHDF2. Furthermore, methylated RNA immunoprecipitation and RNA stability assays demonstrated that FTO bound to the COL3A1 mRNA and altered its m6A modification, resulting in its decay. In vivo, VSMC-specific FTO or YTHDF2 deletion aggravated AS and plaque instability, whereas adeno-associated virus serotype 9 (AAV9)-mediated VSMC-specific YTHDF2 overexpression or COL3A1 knockdown exerted protective effects on AS and/or plaque instability. Notably, VSMC-specific FTO deletion promoted VSMC migration in atherosclerotic lesions in ApoE-/- AS model mice, whereas VSMC-specific YTHDF2 overexpression had the opposite effect. Overall, the in vitro and in vivo evidence highlights the critical role of the FTO/YTHDF2/COL3A1 axis in VSMC migration, AS, and plaque instability, suggesting that targeting the FTO/YTHDF2/COL3A1 axis in VSMCs may be a novel and promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment and prevention of AS and plaque instability.© 2026. Science China Press.
Patients with kidney stones (KS) often have an increased risk of atherosclerosis (AS). Because endothelial dysfunction (ED) is closely associated with AS, its role in KS remains unclear. This study aimed to examine the roles and mechanisms of AS-related ED genes in KS. Three datasets (GSE73680, GSE117518, and GSE132651) were analyzed. Differential expression analysis was conducted to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). To identify potential biomarkers, least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression analysis and expression validation were conducted. Further analyses including GeneMANIA, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), examination of biomarkers within immune cells and subcellular localization analysis, molecular regulatory network analysis, tissue specificity analysis, and competing endogenous (ceRNA) network analysis were employed to comprehensively explore the functions and regulatory mechanisms of the identified biomarkers. Moreover, drug prediction analysis was conducted. Finally, reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) was proceeded to verify the expression levels of the biomarkers. A total of 22 DEGs associated with KS and AS were identified. Lasso regression selected 4 candidate biomarkers (MMP10, UCHL1, NEK2, and HEY1), among which UCHL1 and NEK2 were validated as key biomarkers. GeneMANIA and GSEA analyses uncovered the potential involvement of these biomarkers in cell adhesion molecules, focal adhesion, and lysosome pathways. Analysis of immune cells and subcellular localization provided insight into the biological functions and intracellular distribution of the biomarkers. Transcription factor regulatory network and ceRNA network analyses elucidated potential upstream regulatory mechanisms. Drug prediction analysis identified 17 potential drugs, including pazopanib and palbociclib, that may target NEK2. RT-qPCR demonstrated that NEK2 was significantly overexpressed in KS samples. This study identified biomarkers associated with KS and AS and comprehensively analyzed their molecular regulatory networks. These findings provide novel understandings of the molecular mechanism underlying KS and lay the foundation for future personalized treatment and drug development.Copyright: © 2026 Li et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548706 is a review article
Local ablation triggers anti-tumor response and is regarded as an encouraging treatment combined with immunotherapy for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Irreversible electroporation (IRE) is a novel ablative technique eliminating tumor cells by electroporation, however, the characteristics of IRE-induced immune microenvironment and underlying mechanism remain unclear.We developed an orthotopic immunocompetent HCC mouse model and performed incomplete IRE-ablation. The post-IRE immune microenvironment was characterized by RNA sequencing, single-cell RNA sequencing, flow cytometry, and multiplex immunofluorescence. Cytokine-chemokine array and organoid-immune cell co-culture were used to investigate the functions and underlying mechanism. The combination therapy of IRE and anti-PD-1 was examined for HCC treatment in mice.IRE initially inhibited HCC growth, but tumors rapidly regrew by day 14 after ablation, with increased Ly6G+ Polymorphonuclear (PMN) Myeloid-Derived Suppressor Cells (MDSCs) infiltration and CD8+ T cell exhaustion. In patient-derived HCC organoids, IRE-induced CD8+ T cell cytotoxicity was suppressed by MDSCs. Ly6G antibody-mediated PMN-MDSC depletion repressed HCC regrowth after IRE-ablation in vivo (1.29±0.12 vs 0.49±0.09 g, p<0.001). Mechanistically, HCC cells degraded CXCL10 mRNA via YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein F2 (YTHDF2), which activated MDSCs that led to CD8+ T cells exhaustion. Combined anti-PD-1 and IRE reduced tumor burden by 84.3% compared with IRE alone (0.22±0.08 vs 1.43±0.13 g, p<0.01), prolonged survival (day-60 survival: 93.33% vs 40%, p<0.001), and induced long-term anti-tumor immunity in mice. Four unresectable recurrent HCC patients treated with IRE plus anti-PD-1 therapy showed improved recurrence-free time than patients receiving IRE alone.PMN-MDSCs mediated immunosuppression that promoted HCC regrowth after incomplete IRE ablation. Combining anti-PD-1 therapy is a promising approach to eliminate post-ablation residual HCC, supporting evaluation in prospecitve clinical trials.Post-ablation recurrence remains a major challenge in HCC. Here, we show that although IRE initially activates CD8+ T cells but subsequently promotes PMN-MDSCs activation and CD8+ T-cell exhaustion through YTHDF2-mediated CXCL10 mRNA degradation, resulting in a suppressive tumor immune microenvironment (TIME). These findings identify a previously unrecognized mechanism of post-IRE tumor regrowth and provide a rationale for early combination with anti-PD-1 therapy. Although further prospective clinical validation is required, this work suggests that monitoring post-ablation immune changes and applying rational immunotherapy combinations may help optimize treatment strategies for patients with HCC undergoing local ablation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42546791 is a review article
To determine whether folate supplementation may reduce the incidence of Hirschsprung disease (HSCR) by regulating the methylation level of growth arrest-specific 5 (GAS5).The m6A methylation deficiency model and folate supplementation model were created using the m6A inhibitor 3-Deazaadenosine (DAZ) and folate, respectively. The effects of folate on the morphology, mortality, and number of HuC/D positive neurons in zebrafish were observed. The methylation level and proliferation ability of mouse enteric neural crest stem cells (ENCSCs) were detected by m6A ELISA and EdU assay respectively. Human HSCR cases and control tissues were collected. The expression level of GAS5 in intestinal tissues was detected by qRT-PCR. M6A ELISA, actinomycin D, and MeRIP qRT-PCR were used to detect the effect of folate on m6A methylation levels, GAS5 stability, and the content of m6A-modified GAS5 in N2a cells. The RIP assay was used to detect the content of GAS5 bound to YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein F2 (YTHDF2) under different folate concentrations.Supplementation of folate can ameliorate the decreased ENCSC proliferation ability caused by low m6A methylation level, reduce embryonic mortality of zebrafish and increase the number of HuC/D positive neurons at 96 hpf. Furthermore, folate may reduce the expression of the demethylase alkB homologue 5 (ALKBH5), weaken ALKBH5's demethylation effect on GAS5, promote the degradation of GAS5 by YTHDF2, and subsequently reduce the expression of GAS5.Additional folate supplementation during early embryonic development may serve as a strategy for preventing HSCR.© 2026. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Impaired insulin transport across the endothelium contributes to insulin resistance, a poorly understood condition implicated in diabetes and many other chronic diseases. Insulin has been reported to undergo non-receptor-mediated endocytosis resembling fluid-phase uptake through unclear mechanisms. Here we show in mice with diet-induced insulin resistance that endothelial-specific deletion of the depalmitoylase acyl-protein thioesterase 1 (APT1) improved glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity without affecting chronic inflammation or capillary structure. Endothelial APT1 deficiency increased interstitial insulin levels in mice confirmed by in-situ microneedle-based sampling. In cultured human microvascular cells, APT1 inhibition enhanced cell transport of high-dose insulin independent of the insulin receptor and canonical endocytic machinery. Unexpectedly, live-cell imaging revealed insulin rapidly localizing to mitochondria prior to endolysosomal trafficking, even at physiological insulin concentrations. APT1 inhibition delayed mitochondrial discharge of insulin to lysosomes. Cyclosporin A, an immunosuppressant known to affect mitochondrial function, preserved mitochondrial insulin content and promoted insulin transport in cultured cells, and enhanced interstitial insulin delivery in mice. Proteomic analysis revealed two palmitoylated proteins, PACS1 and YTHDF2, required for APT1-mediated mitochondrial-endolysosomal trafficking of insulin. A mitochondrial insulin shuttle in endothelial cells may participate in the physiological adaptation to hyperinsulinemia and its regulation by palmitoylation suggests a novel approach to insulin resistance.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42557182
Pathogenic variants in the genes encoding the non-canonical TGFB signaling components TAK1 (MAP3K7), TAB2 and PKA-Cα (PRKACA) cause rare multisystem disorders, which may include congenital heart disease (CHD). To investigate the role of TAK1 signaling in CHD, we performed genetic analysis of CHD patients and discovered an increased burden of rare TAB2 and TAK1 variants in patients with extracardiac abnormalities. To address the mechanism of TAK1 in heart development, we performed experiments in cell and animal models. Zebrafish tak1 and tab2 mutants presented with cardiac and extracardiac developmental defects, and tak1 mutant hearts showed downregulation of genes encoding core cardiac transcription factors, sarcomeric proteins and extracellular matrix proteins. In vitro experiments indicated that TAK1 via TAB2 and PKA-Cα is activated at the primary cilium during cardiomyogenesis; activation at this site is enhanced by TGFB/BMP ligands. Inactivation of TAK1 inhibited ciliary signaling and cardiomyocyte differentiation, and patient-derived TAK1 variants reduced its ciliary localization. In conclusion, our data establish a pivotal role for TAK1 and its upstream regulators at the primary cilium in heart development and syndromic CHD.Copyright: © 2026 Doganli et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Emodin exhibits various pharmacological activities, including hepatoprotective effects. However, its clinical application is limited by poor absorption and low oral bioavailability. This study aimed to optimize emodin through benzoylation and to assess the hepatoprotective potential of the resulting derivatives integrating bioinformatics and in vitro methods.We conducted network pharmacology, molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to predict potential targets and interactions of benzoylated emodin derivatives. The derivatives were synthesized and evaluated for cytotoxicity using the MTT assay. The hepatoprotective effects were assessed in vitro using a paracetamol-induced HepG2 cell injury model.Network pharmacology analysis and gene expression profiling identified four major targets-HSP90AA1, MAPK14, RELA, and PRKACA-as key liver disease-related targets of emodin and its derivatives. Molecular docking study revealed that the benzoylated emodin derivatives exhibited generally lower (more negative) binding energies compared to emodin across all four targets. MD simulations confirmed that the complex RELA with these derivatives is more stable than with emodin. These findings were consistent with in vitro assays, emodin and its derivatives increased cell viability or protected the cells up to 60-70%.This study provides a comprehensive evaluation of benzoylated emodin derivatives as potential hepatoprotective agents. The findings suggest that these derivatives exhibit binding affinity toward important targets related to cirrhosis, reduced toxicity to cells, and enhanced the efficacy in protecting the liver in vitro liver injury model.© the Author(s).
Primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease (PPNAD) is a rare cause of ACTH-independent Cushing syndrome (CS), occurring in isolation or as part of Carney complex (CNC); its phenotypic and molecular spectra remain incompletely defined.To characterize phenotypic variability, genotype-phenotype correlations, and molecular findings in PPNAD through integrated clinical, histopathological, and genetic analyses.We evaluated 18 index patients with PPNAD (15 with CNC, 3 isolated) and performed cascade genetic screening in relatives (20 variants-positive). Clinical, hormonal, imaging and histopathological data were reviewed; germline and somatic analyses employed targeted next-generation sequencing and copy-number assessment.Overt CS was present in 83% of index cases; 17% had cyclic hypercortisolism. Pathogenic or likely-pathogenic germline PRKAR1A variants were identified in 70.6% probands, including four novel variants; germline PRKACA duplications were detected in two cases. Cascade screening identified eight asymptomatic variant-positive relatives, in whom mild autonomous cortisol secretion (MACS) was observed. Somatic second-hit alterations in tumor tissue included PRKACA duplication, a PRKAR1A frameshift deletion, and 17q24.2 loss of heterozygosity. Histology most often showed classic PPNAD but also nonclassical patterns, expanding the morphological spectrum. Extra-adrenal manifestations were frequent (lentigines 61%, cardiac myxomas 22%).In this referral cohort, PPNAD/CNC displays marked phenotypic variability, incomplete penetrance with subclinical cortisol excess, and diverse molecular mechanisms, including novel germline variants and somatic second hits. Some cases lacked identifiable drivers, suggesting additional uncharacterized mechanisms. Systematic genetic screening and recognition of MACS are important for early diagnosis and long-term management.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Endocrinology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Dapagliflozin shows variable renoprotective efficacy in patients with type 2 diabetic kidney disease (T2DKD). A retrospective clinical analysis confirmed marked interindividual variability in its urinary protein-lowering effects. To investigate the mechanism, drug affinity responsive target stability (DARTS) combined with quantitative proteomics was applied for target identification. Subsequent in vivo and in vitro validation suggested that GSK3β acts as a mediator of dapagliflozin-associated nephroprotection. Dapagliflozin directly bound and partially inhibited GSK3β, and GSK3β activity influenced podocyte protection. To translate findings into clinical relevance, a prospective trial was conducted. The GSK3B rs60393216 polymorphism was associated with urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio (UACR) reduction after dapagliflozin therapy. These findings suggest that GSK3β contributes to the renoprotective effects of dapagliflozin and that GSK3B polymorphisms may influence therapeutic responses in T2DKD.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a prevalent respiratory disease characterized by airflow limitation, with genetic factors playing a crucial role in its pathogenesis. Effective-component compatibility of Bufei Yishen formula Ⅲ (ECC-BYF Ⅲ) has been shown to effectively ameliorate COPD symptoms; however, its underlying molecular mechanism remains elusive.To investigate the intervention mechanism of ECC-BYF Ⅲ on COPD and identify hub genes.Using the GSEA method, which retains all gene information, and exhibits robustness under small-sample conditions as well as high statistical power, COPD-related pathways were identified. Among the genes contained in those pathways, hub genes were identified by protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, cytoHubba algorithm, etc. The reliability of the identified hub genes was validated by independent datasets, qRT-PCR in rats with COPD, HUVEC and MH-S cells, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations (MD), and surface plasmon resonance (SPR).Compared with COPD rats, ECC-BYF Ⅲ could ameliorate pathological changes and improve lung function. Then, utilizing the RNA-seq data from COPD rats, 106 disease related pathways were identified in the COPD group when contrasted with the control group (FDR < 0.05), of which 72 pathways were reversed after ECC-BYF Ⅲ intervention. Of the 3081 genes in those reversal pathways, 395 genes were differentially dysregulated in the COPD rat samples as opposed to the control samples (FDR < 0.05). Then, six genes (Gsk3b, Ctnnb1, Pten, Met, Pik3r3, and Erbb2) were identified by PPI network analysis, cytoHubba algorithm, and GeneCards database. Two hub genes (Ctnnb1 and Pik3r3) were well confirmed in independent datasets, the COPD rat model, HUVEC and MH-S cells, molecular docking, MD, and SPR.Two COPD hub genes were identified, and their regulation by ECC-BYF Ⅲ was demonstrated. Our results might provide a basis for the study of the mechanism of COPD, and its prevention and treatment guided by traditional Chinese medicine.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
The Boer goat, a key global meat breed originating from South Africa, has been exported for breeding in over 70 countries, leading to diverse selection pressures and environmental adaptations. In this context, the main objectives of this study were to quantify genome-wide diversity, breed structure, and selection signatures in Boer goats from nine countries to identify shared and population-specific adaptation and production-related signals. Genomic information of 321 Boer goats from nine populations worldwide was analysed: Australia (AUS), Canada (CAN), New Zealand (NZL), South Africa (ZAF), Switzerland (CHE), Tanzania (TZA), Uganda (UGA), United States (USA), and Zimbabwe (ZWE). Genetic diversity varied markedly among populations. The ZAF population exhibited the lowest observed heterozygosity (0.360) and the highest fraction of the genome in runs of homozygosity, suggesting recent inbreeding or strong selection. Population structure analyses, including principal component analysis and ADMIXTURE (optimal K = 8), revealed clear genetic differentiation. AUS Boer goats were the most divergent, while others formed clusters indicating shared ancestry. Four complementary selection signature methods, Fixation index, Divergence index, integrated haplotype score, and cross-population extended haplotype homozygosity, identified 4 706 unique genes under putative selection. No identified genes were common to all populations, indicating strong local adaptation, but 35 candidate genes were identified across five to six populations, highlighting shared selection for core production traits like growth, metabolism, and reproduction. Key shared genes regulating metabolism, including PPP2R2B, SCP2, and PRELID2, were detected in six populations. Regulatory hub genes such as MAPK3, HIF1A, PRKACA, and CREB1 were also detected, playing crucial roles in coordinating important biological processes. Population-specific adaptations included heat tolerance genes in AUS, cold adaptation and reproductive performance genes in CAN, and disease resistance genes in ZAF. These results underscore the need to monitor local genetic diversity while improving production traits in Boer goat breeding worldwide.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cordycepin, a natural nucleoside analogue, exhibits anti-inflammatory and antitumor activity in multiple malignancies. However, the molecular basis of its action in pancreatic cancer and its potential role in chemosensitization remain incompletely defined. In this study, the effects of cordycepin on malignant phenotypes of pancreatic cancer cells were investigated in vitro. Network pharmacology was applied to identify candidate targets and construct a disease-drug-target-pathway network. Reverse virtual screening and molecular docking were used to predict key binding proteins, while RNA sequencing identified downstream pathways regulated by cordycepin. Target engagement was validated using cellular thermal shift assays, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations. The underlying mechanistic pathways were further confirmed by functional experiments, and the therapeutic efficacy of cordycepin in combination with gemcitabine was evaluated. Our results demonstrated that cordycepin reduced the growth of pancreatic cancer cells and induced G2/M phase arrest and apoptosis. Network pharmacology identified 56 hub targets enriched in oncogenic pathways, including PI3K/AKT pathway. Reverse virtual screening revealed 111 candidate binding proteins, and intersection with hub targets highlighted five key effectors: CDK2, GSK3B, IL2, NOS3, and PARP1. Transcriptomic profiling showed marked disruption of cell cycle pathways, and CDK2 was validated as a direct molecular target of cordycepin. Cordycepin suppressed TNNI2 transcription by inhibiting the CDK2/E2F2 axis. Furthermore, cordycepin acted synergistically with gemcitabine to enhance antitumor responses and promote apoptosis in pancreatic cancer models. Collectively,cordycepin exerts antitumor activity in pancreatic cancer by targeting the CDK2/E2F2 axis to suppress malignant progression and by concurrently sensitizing cells to gemcitabine, thus holding promise as a therapeutic agent.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ulcerative colitis (UC), a common inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), is characterized by chronic mucosal inflammation. Our previous work established a link between cellular senescence and UC, suggesting that ameliorating cell senescence could be a therapeutic strategy for UC. In this study, we identified dehydrodiisoeugenol (DDIE) as an anti-senescence drug through screening in a DSS-induced colonic epithelial cell senescence model. In a DSS-induced acute mouse model of UC, DDIE effectively suppressed colonic senescence and significantly alleviated UC. Network pharmacology, colonic tissue transcriptomic analysis, and Western blot assays indicated that DDIE's therapeutic effects in UC are associated with the AKT and GSK3B pathways. Subsequent cellular blocking experiments utilizing the AKT activator insulin and the GSK3B inhibitor BIO confirmed that activating AKT or inhibiting GSK3B reversed the anti-senescence and anti-inflammatory effects of DDIE. Our findings demonstrate that DDIE treats UC by inhibiting AKT and activating GSK3B, thereby suppressing cellular senescence and restoring the intestinal barrier. This research offers a novel therapeutic strategy for UC from the perspective of anti-cellular senescence.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a global health challenge with limited treatment efficacy despite advances in immune checkpoint blockade (ICB). The low immunogenicity of HCC tumors and impaired dendritic cell (DC) function contribute to suboptimal therapeutic outcomes. To address these limitations, we developed a synergistic nanoparticle dyad combining tumoricidal and immunomodulatory components. Specifically, an anti-GPC3-antibody-conjugated, emodin-loaded spiky mesoporous silica nanoparticle (E-SMSNα) selectively targets HCC cells to induce immunogenic cell death, while a matured DC-membrane-camouflaged, c-di-AMP-loaded nanoparticle (A-MSNm) reprograms dysfunctional DCs, bridging innate and adaptive immunity. This combinatorial approach synergistically promotes antitumor immunity, significantly suppressing primary tumor growth and inducing durable protection against tumor rechallenge. Moreover, it shows strong synergy with PD-1 checkpoint blockade, positioning it as a promising strategy for HCC immunotherapy.© 2026 The Authors.
Slc26a9 is a member of the Slc26a family that is highly expressed in the stomach and is a key regulator for maintaining gastric mucosal homeostasis. Slc26a9 deletion in mice impairs the gastric mucosal barrier. However, the role of Slc26a9 in PHG has never been investigated.Slc26a9 expression was analyzed in human PHG and control gastric tissues. A PVL-induced PHG model was established in Slc26a9fl/fl and parietal cell-specific Slc26a9 knockout mice to evaluate mucosal injury, ER stress, and apoptosis. Adenoviral overexpression in vivo and gene silencing in GES-1 cells were used to explore the underlying mechanisms.In this study, the Human PHG samples showed both significantly reduced Slc26a9 mRNA and protein expression when compared to healthy controls. Parietal cell-specific Slc26a9 gene deletion aggravates gastric mucosal injury, gastric mucosal epithelial apoptosis, mitochondria apoptotic, and ER stress in PHG. Restoration of Slc26a9 expression in the gastric mucosa of mice using an adenovirus overexpressing Slc26a9 reversed the aggravated endoplasmic reticulum stress, mitochondrial apoptosis, epithelial apoptosis, and gastric mucosal injury caused by Slc26a9 deficiency. In addition, downregulation of Slc26a9 expression induced apoptosis in GES-1 cells by activating the endoplasmic reticulum stress-mitochondrial apoptosis pathway. Mechanistically, Slc26a9 may inhibit endoplasmic reticulum stress by interacting with valosin-containing protein (VCP).Slc26a9 protects the mucosal defense barrier against PHG by attenuating ER stress-mediated mitochondria-dependent apoptotic signaling. Slc26a9 may be a novel therapeutic target for PHG.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of solvents and storage time on the mechanical properties of 3D-printed resin composites for definitive crowns.Three 3D-printed definitive crown resin composites: Permanent Crown (Formlab; PCR), VarseoSmile Crown plus (BEGO; VCP) and Crowntec (Saremco print; CT) and one milled resin composites: Grandio Blocs/ Disc (VOCO; Gr) were tested. A three-point bending test was used to measure flexural strength (FS) and flexural modulus (Ef) using a universal testing machine (Zwick/Roell Z020) (n = 10). Martens hardness (HM) and indentation modulus (EIT) were measured using a Martens hardness instrument (Zwick/Roell Z2.5) (n = 18). Properties were evaluated on polished specimens 24 h after fabrication at room temperature in dry condition and then after 1 and 7 days of storage in either distilled water (DW D1/D7) or 75% ethanol/water (75% E/W D1/D7) at 37 °C. Data were analysed using two-way ANOVA and one-way repeated measure ANOVA (α = 0.05).At dry condition, mechanical properties for PCR, VCP, CT and Gr were; for FS 135.6, 120.3, 132.3 and 231.0 MPa, respectively; for Ef 4318, 3963, 4109 and 13500 MPa, respectively; for HM 218.6, 213.6, 219.7 and 858.5 N/mm2, respectively; and for EIT 6.0, 5.7, 5.8 and 22.7 kN/mm², respectively. Findings revealed a differential response to solvent exposure among the tested materials. For 75% E/W D7, there was a significant reduction (≈ 20%) in the FS of all materials (p < 0.001). Storage time in 75% E/W significantly affected the HM of all tested materials: CT (p = 0.002), VCP (p = 0.026), PCR, and Gr (p < 0.001). At 75% E/W D7, HM for PCR, VCP, CT and Gr was 157.1, 178.4, 183.6 and 699.3 N/mm2, respectively; Ef and EIT had a lower reduction.This study demonstrated that the mechanical properties of both 3D-printed and milled resin composites for definitive crowns are adversely affected by solvent exposure, particularly in 75% ethanol/water. After seven days of immersion in 75% E/W, all tested materials showed a substantial reduction in flexural strength and Martens hardness. However, the changes in flexural modulus and indentation modulus were less pronounced.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Under inflammatory conditions, the ubiquitin-like modifier FAT10 serves as a tag for protein degradation by the 26S proteasome. FAT10 is degraded along with its substrates and this process is independent of the segregase VCP/p97, which, in the regular ubiquitin pathway of degradation, is required if a substrate lacks a disordered initiation region. FAT10 itself is loosely folded and its tendency to aggregate has complicated investigations of its structure, interaction, and function. Recently, hydrogen-deuterium exchange in combination with mass spectrometry has suggested that, in preparation of degradation by the proteasome, the adapter protein NUB1 traps FAT10 in a mostly unfolded state by capturing a β-strand. β-strand capture was subsequently confirmed by magic-angle spinning (MAS) NMR spectroscopy of a stabilized variant of the N-domain of FAT10 in complex with NUB1L, the longer splice variant of NUB1. MAS NMR, in addition, revealed that the N-domain of FAT10 and NUB1L form a fuzzy complex and that the N-terminus of FAT10 is positioned for initiation of degradation by specific non-covalent interaction with NUB1L. Here, we report the investigation of the wild-type N-domain of FAT10 by MAS NMR. Co-sedimentation with NUB1L yields high-quality spectra, which enable sequential assignment of resonances. Based on MAS NMR data, the complexes of the wild-type and stabilized N-domain of FAT10 with NUB1L appear identical. The N-terminal residue of FAT10 again shows up prominently in the spectra, even though it is this time an Ala, not a Gly. Our experiences suggest that co-sedimentation in combination with MAS NMR is generally helpful in the exploration of conditional folds of intrinsically disordered proteins.© 2026. The Author(s).
Postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMOP) arises from a bone remodeling imbalance in which osteoclast-mediated resorption exceeds osteoblast-driven formation. However, current therapies primarily target osteoclasts without restoring osteoblast function, underscoring the need for mechanism-driven dual-action approaches. Here, we identify neddylation as a post-translational modification that reciprocally regulates osteoclast and osteoblast differentiation. In bone tissue from patients with PMOP, NEDD8 and its activating enzyme NAE1 were significantly upregulated, indicating heightened pathway activity. Mechanistically, c-Cbl neddylates NFATc1 to promote osteoclastogenesis, whereas Rbx1 neddylates Runx2 to suppress osteoblast maturation. Pharmacological blockade with the NAE1 inhibitor MLN4924 counteracted both effects and, in ovariectomized mice, reduced osteoclast activity while preserving osteoblast function, preventing deterioration of bone mass and microarchitecture. In human PMOP bone tissues, elevated NEDD8 and NAE1 expression was associated with increased NFATc1 in osteoclast-lineage cells and reduced Runx2 in osteoblast-lineage cells, suggesting translational relevance. These findings reveal neddylation as a unifying mechanism that coordinates opposing effects on osteoclast and osteoblast master transcription factors and highlight its potential as a mechanism-driven dual-action therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
African swine fever (ASF) is an acute, hemorrhagic, and highly contagious disease caused by African swine fever virus (ASFV), which causes severe economic losses in the swine industry. ASFV has evolved multiple strategies to evade host antiviral immune responses. Here, we report that ASFV pMGF360-3 L promotes host mitophagy by manipulating chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), thereby inhibiting the production of type I interferon (IFNB/IFN-β). Mechanistically, pMGF360-3 L targets the SKP1 protein via its N-terminal ankyrin (ANK) repeat domain, promoting the degradation of SKP1 through the CMA pathway, which inhibits the proteasomal degradation of BNIP3 to increase its expression level in mitochondria. Subsequently, BNIP3 binds to MAP1LC3B/LC3B to induce mitophagy, a process that leads to the degradation of mitochondria. Notably, the CMA-mediated degradation of SKP1 depends on its K94 site, and the SKP1-BNIP3 axis is critical for pMGF360-3 L-mediated IFNB inhibition. In summary, our study reveals a mechanism through which ASFV pMGF360-3 L facilities CMA-dependent degradation of the E3 complex component SKP1. This stabilizes mitochondrial BNIP3 to initiate mitophagy and block IFNB production. This deepens our understanding of the immune evasion strategies of ASFV and provides potential drug targets for controlling viral infection.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ASFV: African swine fever virus; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; CHX: cycloheximide; CUL1: cullin 1; DAPI: 4', 6-diamidino-2'-phenylindole; EV: emptor vector; FBXL4: F-box and leucine rich repeat protein 4; hpi: hours post-infection; IFNB: interferon beta; ISGs: IFN-stimulated genes; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MG132: cbz-leu-leu-leucinal; MAVS: mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein; MOI: multiplicity of infection; PAMs: porcine alveolar macrophages; PPTC7: protein phosphatase targeting COQ7; RBX1: ring-box 1; RT-PCR: real-time polymerase chain reaction; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SKP1: S-phase kinase associated protein 1; TCID50: 50% tissue culture infectious doses; Ub: ubiquitin; WCL: whole-cell lysate; WT: wild-type.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42540518 is a review article
Apicomplexan parasites, including Toxoplasma gondii and Plasmodium falciparum, are major human pathogens that cause toxoplasmosis and malaria, respectively. The existing structures of T. gondii translational machinery are from empty ribosomes that lack several key components, including ribosomal protein RACK1 (Receptor for Activated C Kinase 1). Here, we used cryo-electron microscopy (cryoEM) to determine high-resolution structures of T. gondii ribosomal complexes, including a translating 80S ribosome bound to mRNA and tRNA. These structures reveal that RACK1 occupies the conserved binding site on the 40S subunit observed in other eukaryotic ribosomes. We also determined the architecture of the ribosomal P-stalk and identified the ribosomal proteins uL10 and uL11, which were not observed in previous T. gondii ribosome structures. In addition, we determined structures of the 80S ribosome bound to mRNA, tRNA, and the translation inhibitor emetine in two distinct conformational states. These snapshots reveal two mechanisms by which emetine inhibits the translocation step of mRNA translation: either by dislodging the mRNA from the E-site of the ribosome or by acting as a molecular glue within the E-site, thereby stalling translocation. Together, these findings provide new insights into the molecular basis of protein synthesis in apicomplexan parasites and establish a structural framework for the development of future antiparasitic therapeutics.
Glypican-3 (GPC3) is a heparan sulfate proteoglycan that is highly expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma and promotes tumor progression through Wnt3a/β-catenin signaling. However, how the nanoscale organization of GPC3 at the cell surface controls signaling remains unclear. Here, we combined nano-resolution MINFLUX imaging, single-molecule tracking, and functional assays to define the spatial architecture and dynamics of GPC3 on hepatoma cells. We found that GPC3 exists as both single molecules and nanoscale clusters and switches between confined and free diffusions on the plasma membrane. Heparan sulfate (HS) chains create nanoscale corrals that limit GPC3 movement, whereas removal of HS increases diffusive heterogeneity and disrupts confinement. Wnt3a stimulation induces the formation of higher-order GPC3 assemblies and enhances β-catenin signaling, while loss of HS markedly reduces this response. MINFLUX DNA-PAINT further revealed that HS chains orchestrate the spatial distribution of Wnt3a and promote its association with the Wnt receptor, Frizzled-1, an essential step for pathway activation. Collectively, these findings reveal that HS controls the nanoscale organization and dynamics of GPC3 to promote Wnt receptor assembly and efficient β-catenin signaling in hepatoma cells.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562963 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42557579
Deer antler is the only mammalian organ capable of periodic complete regeneration. Its astonishing growth rate-reaching several centimeters per day-provides a unique model for research in tissue regeneration and developmental biology. This rapid growth relies on the protective and signaling functions of the skin, as well as the vigorous proliferation and differentiation capacity of mesenchymal cells. Although previous studies have identified some key factors involved in antler growth, systematically comparing the transcriptomic profiles of these two core tissues (skin and mesenchyme) to identify candidate genes regulating their synergistic growth is crucial for deciphering the molecular mechanisms underlying this "ultra-fast" growth.The Illumina NovaSeq 6000 sequencing platform was used to perform transcriptome sequencing on the antler tissues of the Cervus elaphus xanthopygus (Dongbei red deer) with a growth period of approximately 60 days. Bioinformatics methods were used to identify the transcriptional expression of genes in the antler tissues, and the expression levels of some genes were tested by fluorescence quantitative PCR.A total of 109.82 Gb of transcriptome data was generated from the skin and mesenchymal tissues of antlers, and 40,023 transcripts were obtained. There were 3,530 genes with differential expression between the skin and the mesenchymal tissues of antlers. Genes with upregulated expression levels in the mesenchymal layer were enriched in phosphate-containing compound metabolic processes and multiple biological processes related to bone development such as skeletal system development, cartilage development, regulation of ossification, and enamel mineralization. Among the genes enriched in the cancer pathway and the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, those that may play an important role in the rapid growth process of deer antlers were screened, including MDM2, RPS6KB1, CASP3, BMP4, PTCH1, SOX-6, YWHAZ, and HSP90B1.The discovery of these genes provides a reference for a further in-depth understanding of the mechanism of the rapid growth of antlers.©2026 Bi et al.
HERC4 is a well-known HERC family ubiquitin ligase in several types of cancer but its role in lung cancer remains elusive. In the present study, we found that HERC4 is highly dysregulated in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) and promotes LUAD cell growth. Mechanically, HERC4 interacts with translation-related proteins and specifically stabilizes RPS15, a component of 40S ribosomal subunit, by promoting its deubiquitination in a manner independent of E3 ligase activity. HERC4 collaborates with USP16, a deubiquitinase that also interacts with translation-related proteins, to stabilize RPS15 by preventing its K48-linked ubiquitination. Further studies revealed that the interaction between HERC4 and USP16 is important to regulate RPS15 and to promote LUAD cell proliferation. Knockdown of HERC4 or USP16 prevents the recruitment of translation-related proteins to ribosomes, increases their nuclear retention and reduces global translational efficacy. Overexpression of RPS15 partially rescues reduced protein translation efficiency and cell survival triggered by HERC4/USP16 knockdown. Moreover, knockdown of HERC4 or USP16 upregulates p53 and downregulates p38 via RPS15 dysregulation. In conclusion, the present study reveals a novel ubiquitination modulation on ribosomal stability and protein translation. HERC4 synergizes with USP16 to deubiquitinate and stabilize RPS15, thereby potentiating global protein translation and promoting LUAD growth. The HERC4/USP16-RPS15 axis may represent a potential therapeutic target for LUAD treatment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Tumor heterogeneity, driven by metabolic reprogramming, challenges colorectal cancer (CRC) treatment. Methionine metabolism is crucial for tumor progression, but its role in CRC heterogeneity and the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) requires systematic investigation.A systematic evaluation of 101 combinations of machine learning and statistical algorithms was conducted within a 10-fold cross-validation framework to develop and validate the optimal model, termed the methionine metabolism-related risk score (MMRS). The Cancer Genome Atlas-Colon Adenocarcinoma (TCGA-COAD) dataset served as the training cohort, while two independent Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) cohorts (GSE39582 and GSE17536) were employed for external validation. Immune infiltration was assessed using the microenvironment cell populations-counter (MCP-counter) algorithm. Model discrimination was evaluated using time-dependent receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, with the area under the curve (AUC) calculated at 1, 3, and 5 years across all cohorts.Methionine metabolism-high (MMH) and metabolism-low (MML) subtypes were defined via unsupervised clustering. The MMH subtype exhibited significantly poorer overall survival and an immunosuppressive TIME. From subtype-associated differentially expressed genes (DEGs), 41 prognostic genes were identified. The optimal model (StepCox[both] + plsRcox) formed the MMRS, which effectively stratified patients into high- and low-risk groups with significantly different survival across all cohorts (all p < 0.05). Core signature genes (MID2, KIF7, GSR) were consistently selected. The high-risk group showed depleted antitumor immunity (e.g., fewer CD8+ T and NK cells) and a stroma-rich phenotype with enrichment of cancer-associated fibroblasts, underpinned by oxidative stress and alterations in energy metabolism pathways. Time-dependent ROC analysis confirmed the discriminative capacity of the MMRS, with 5-year AUCs of 0.803 (TCGA-COAD), 0.632 (GSE39582), and 0.608 (GSE17536), respectively, further supporting its prognostic accuracy across independent patient populations.Methionine metabolism heterogeneity is a key determinant of prognosis and immune contexture in CRC. The MMRS is a prognostic signature that effectively stratifies CRC patients by risk, though its clinical utility as a predictive biomarker for treatment selection requires prospective validation.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Elevated expression of nucleoporin (Nup) 88 is often observed in various types of cancer and correlates with tumor grade. However, the underlying molecular mechanism by which Nup88 induces cancer malignancy remains unclear. The present study showed that stable overexpression of Nup88 in HeLa cells enhanced cell migration by modulating the expression of kinesin family member (Kif) 7 and glioma‑associated oncogene homolog (Gli) 1. The expression level of Kif7, a negative regulator of the Hedgehog (Hh) pathway acting through the processing of Gli2 and Gli3, was markedly reduced at both the mRNA and protein levels in Nup88 overexpressing HeLa cells. The reduced expression of Kif7 was restored by treatment with a DNA methylation inhibitor, suggesting epigenetic regulation. Co‑overexpression of a truncated Kif7 (514‑1343 aa), which possesses a large part of the Gli2 binding domain, suppressed the Nup88‑induced migration, suggesting that the downregulation of Kif7 contributed to the enhanced cell migration. In parallel, Gli1 expression was elevated through activation of the MEK‑ERK pathway and its knockdown markedly suppressed Nup88‑induced cell migration. Although both Kif7 and Gli1 are components of the Hh pathway, neither the knockdown of Kif7 nor the overexpression of Gli1 affected the expression of the other. Instead, the truncated Kif7 (514‑1343 aa) physically interacted with Gli1, suggesting that Kif7 suppressed enhanced migration by inhibiting Gli1 function. These findings revealed that Nup88 promotes cell migration by modulating the expression of Kif7 and Gli1, providing new insight into the mechanism of Nup88‑driven malignancy.
This study aimed to investigate the specific role and molecular mechanisms of the transcription factor GLI1 and its upstream regulatory miRNA, hsa-mir-1293, in laryngeal cancer development, with a focus on elucidating the function of the hsa-mir-1293/GLI1/PTCH1 signaling axis in regulating laryngeal cancer cell proliferation, migration, and EMT.Differentially expressed miRNAs were screened from TCGA laryngeal cancer miRNA data, and the interaction between hsa-mir-1293 and GLI1 was validated using a dual luciferase reporter assay. The effects of hsa-mir-1293 on TU212 cell proliferation, clonal formation, and invasion were examined. The role of GLI1's downstream target, PTCH1, in cell proliferation, migration, and EMT was further investigated.Bioinformatics analysis identified hsa-mir-1293 as the most significantly down-regulated miRNA in laryngeal carcinoma, showing a negative correlation with GLI1 expression. Overexpression of hsa-mir-1293 suppressed TU212 cell proliferation, clonal formation, and invasion. Silencing GLI1 reduced PTCH1 expression, while PTCH1 overexpression promoted cell invasion, migration, and EMT.Hsa-mir-1293 targets GLI1, and the GLI1/PTCH1 axis plays a critical role in laryngeal cancer cell proliferation, migration, and EMT.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier España S.L.U. All rights reserved.
Ependymoma-like tumor with mesenchymal differentiation (ELTMD) is a recently proposed, but not yet formally defined, entity that is not recognized in the 2021 World Health Organization (WHO) classification of central nervous system tumors. Although it shares molecular features, such as ZFTA fusion, with ependymomas, it exhibits distinct histopathological and epigenetic profiles. Herein, we report the case of a 5-year-old girl with a supratentorial tumor harboring the ZFTA::NCOA2 fusion. Histopathology revealed atypical features including mesenchymal and undifferentiated components, which overlapped with those of ependymomas. DNA methylation profiling using two independent classifiers (DKFZ and NIH) yielded no matches, indicating that the tumor did not belong to any recognized CNS class. The failure of subclass assignment by both classifiers suggests that ELTMD represents a potentially epigenetically distinct subgroup. Despite being unclassifiable by the current WHO criteria, the tumor shared features with previously reported ELTMDs, supporting its recognition as an emerging tumor. This highlights the need for additional cases to refine the diagnosis, classification, and future therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Japan Society of Brain Tumor Pathology.
Sarcomas with MEIS1 fusions represent a rare, recently recognized group of mesenchymal neoplasms with a predilection for genitourinary and gynecologic sites. A subset exhibits skeletal muscle differentiation resembling spindle cell rhabdomyosarcoma. Existing literature is limited to case reports and small series, with scant comprehensive clinicopathologic, molecular, and outcome data. In this study, we analyzed a multi-institutional cohort of 20 MEIS1-rearranged sarcomas using integrated clinicopathologic review, genomic profiling, and DNA methylation analysis. The tumors occurred in 17 females and 3 males (median age 41 years, range 6-58), arising mainly in the uterus/vagina (n=12), vulva/perineum (n=4), bone (n=2), and kidney (n=2), with a median size of 9 cm (range 2.5-20 cm). Histology showed mostly bland spindle cells in fascicles/storiform patterns, alternating cellularity, fibromyxoid stroma, prominent vascularity, and adipose metaplasia (45%). A subset of cases featured high-grade morphology with epithelioid cells and increased mitotic activity. Skeletal muscle markers were variably positive in 9 cases. Fusions involved MEIS1 with NCOA2 (16/20), NCOA1 (3/20), or FOXO1 (1/20). Recurrent additional genomic alterations included CTNNB1 mutations (31.6%) and MDM2 amplification (15%). DNA methylation profiling showed that MEIS1-rearranged sarcomas formed a unifying cluster comprising two subgroups, regardless of rhabdomyosarcomatous phenotype, clearly separated from other mesenchymal neoplasms, including various rhabdomyosarcoma subtypes and uterine sarcomas. The two DNA methylation subgroups correlated with differences in genome-wide copy-number variation status (Meth-CNVh vs Meth-CNVl), with Meth-CNVh tumors characterized by high mitotic rate, frequent tumor necrosis, recurrent co-occurring CTNNB1 and MDM2 alterations, and recurrent chromosomal arm-level changes. Most importantly, this subgroup exhibited significantly worse overall survival (median 25 vs 44.5 months; p=0.027) and disease-free survival (5 vs 28 months; p=0.017). This study establishes MEIS1-rearranged sarcoma as a distinct entity with generally indolent but potentially aggressive behavior. The two methylation/CNV subgroups provide potential utility for prognostic stratification and highlight actionable molecular targets in high-risk cases.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Avian limbs have evolved precise digit lengths and shapes that are optimized for flight and locomotion, but the transcriptional regulators that regulate this architecture remain poorly defined. Although anteriorly biased Zic3 expression constrains digit outgrowth, whether other zinc finger of the cerebellum (Zic) factors-particularly Zic5-shape avian distal limb morphology remains unknown. Here, we define the spatiotemporal dynamics and developmental function of Zic5 expression in the chicken limb and evaluate its role in shaping avian limb and digit morphogenesis. Whole-mount in situ hybridization reveals that Zic5 shows a dynamic, stage-dependent shift from broad distal mesenchymal expression to digit-base-restricted domains in the chicken limb, consistent with a role in constraining digit elongation to shape fore-hind limb morphology. Overexpression of Zic5 in the chicken limb buds resulted in shortened digits and impaired limb ossification. These phenotypes were accompanied with altered expression of skeletal marker genes, including Sox9, Runx2, Col9a1, Col9a3, Ptch2 and Hhip, suggesting that elevated Zic5 expression is sufficient to impair skeletal maturation during limb development. Together, our results indicate that elevated Zic5 expression can impair limb skeletal growth and maturation, with effects on distal digit development that result in digit shortening or loss and suggest that Zic5 may contribute to the regulation of digit architecture during avian morphological diversification.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Protein-protein interactions are central to the dynamic regulation of signaling pathways and provide critical insight into the cellular mechanisms underlying human disease. Our previous study demonstrated biochemical and genetic interactions between FUZ and GPR161 in sonic hedgehog signaling during spinal neural tube development. In this study, we sought to identify novel interacting proteins of FUZ and GPR161 to further characterize their biochemical and functional relationships. Using affinity-based liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry of immunoprecipitated complexes from cells overexpressing FUZ and GPR161, we identified 159 shared co-interacting proteins, along with 289 proteins exclusive to FUZ and 617 proteins exclusive to GPR161. Gene Ontology (GO) analysis of the co-interactome revealed significant enrichment in proteasomal catabolic processes and intracellular trafficking pathways. GO analysis of the FUZ-specific interactome showed enrichment in cell cycle progression, mitochondrial membrane, and RNA metabolism, whereas the GPR161-specific interactome was enriched in receptor complex and endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi transport pathways. These findings were supported by STRING network analysis. Among the prioritized candidates, FKBP8 was validated as a binding partner of both FUZ and GPR161. Collectively, our proteomic study defines the protein interaction networks of FUZ and GPR161, highlighting their distinct and cooperative roles in multiple cellular processes and providing a foundation for future functional studies.© 2026 The Author(s). Proteomics published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Carpenter syndrome, caused by biallelic mutations in MEGF8 or RAB23, manifests with craniosynostosis through incompletely defined mechanisms. While both genes encode negative regulators of Hedgehog (Hh) signaling, we demonstrate that MEGF8 maintains cranial suture patency through a distinct, Hh-independent pathway. Loss of MEGF8 disrupts ubiquitination and lysosomal degradation of BMPR1A, leading to BMPR1A accumulation and hyperactivation of canonical BMP-SMAD1/5/9 signaling, which accelerates osteogenic differentiation of cranial mesenchyme. Using Megf8 mutant mice, we show tissue-specific specialization: limb defects are Hh-dependent and rescued by SMO inhibition, whereas craniosynostosis is BMP-driven and refractory to Hh blockade, with BMP type I receptor inhibition selectively rescuing the cranial phenotype. Comparative analyses reveal that MEGF8 and RAB23 promote osteogenic differentiation through distinct mechanisms-MEGF8 via ubiquitin-mediated BMPR1A turnover and BMP-SMAD activation, RAB23 through FGF-ERK signaling-despite both affecting GLI1-mediated transcription. Reintroduction of human MEGF8 in MEGF8-knockdown cells restores BMPR1A protein levels, validating the specificity of MEGF8-mediated BMPR1A regulation. These findings suggest that MEGF8 modulates BMP signaling post-transcriptionally, establishes tissue-specific regulatory mechanisms in syndromic disorders, and demonstrates how divergent pathways converge on shared phenotypes, with implications for pathway-specific therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
Bardet-Biedl syndrome is a pleiotropic ciliopathy marked by retinal degeneration, obesity, polydactyly, renal and reproductive anomalies, and cognitive impairment. BBS1, the most frequently mutated gene in Bardet-Biedl syndrome, encodes a key component of the BBSome complex, which is essential for ciliary membrane trafficking. Although BBS1 is known to be essential for proper BBSome function, the effects of disease-associated BBS1 variants on its activity remain incompletely understood.In this study, we examined how patient-derived BBS1 mutations affect BBSome integrity and its role in cargo transport within primary cilia.Our results show that particular BBS1 mutations interfere with distinct stages of BBSome assembly and trafficking. While M390R disrupts initial pre-BBSome assembly at pericentriolar satellites, E224K impairs both the maturation of the pre-BBSome into the BBSome and its movement from pericentriolar satellites to the cilium. In contrast, the R160Q variant preserves BBSome assembly and permits its localization to cilia. It specifically weakens the BBSome-GPCR interaction mediated by TOM1L2, resulting in defective GPR161 export and increased ciliary IFT turnover.Overall, our study establishes a mechanistic framework linking specific BBS1 mutations to distinct defects in BBSome assembly and function. This framework defines functional classes of BBS1 variants and provides deeper insight into the molecular mechanism and severity of Bardet-Biedl syndrome.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a progressive lung disorder influenced by environmental exposures and genetic susceptibility. Despite numerous studies, the effects of key susceptibility genes remain inconsistent across populations, and their overall clinical relevance is unclear.Following PRISMA guidelines and registered in PROSPERO (ID: CRD420251077565), we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of studies published between 2010 and 2025. Eighteen unique studies were included, ranging from small cohorts (n = 36) to large biobank analyses (∼4.5 million participants), collectively evaluating five candidate genes: SERPINA1, HHIP, IREB2, SFTPD, and FAM13A. Pooled hazard ratios (HRs) were calculated, with subgroup analyses by ethnicity and variant-level differences. Associations with spirometric parameters (FEV1, FEV1/FVC) were examined to assess clinical relevance.SERPINA1 demonstrated the strongest significant with COPD (HR = 2.47). A significant association was also observed for SFTPD, although based on fewer studies. Subgroup analysis by ethnicity/geographical region revealed the highest pooled risk in East Asians (HR = 2.18), significant associations in Europeans (HR = 1.46) and Americans (HR = 1.47), and a weaker or potentially protective effect in Oceania (HR = 0.67). SERPINA1 risk correlated with lung function decline (FEV1: r = -0.64; FEV1/FVC: r = -0.71), highlighting translational relevance.SERPINA1 emerges as the most clinically relevant genetic determinant of COPD, linking susceptibility to measurable spirometric impairment, with effects varying by ethnicity. These findings emphasize the need for genetic screening integrated with lung function assessment and ethnicity-specific risk stratification to advance precision management of COPD.Copyright © 2026 The Japanese Respiratory Society. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Hedgehog (HH) signaling in vertebrates is dependent on the primary cilium, an organelle that scaffolds signal transduction. HH signals induce ciliary enrichment of Smoothened (SMO) and ciliary departure of the G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) GPR161 to trigger GLI activation of the HH transcriptional program. Recently, SMO has been shown to inhibit protein kinase A (PKA). To test the hypothesis that SMO inhibits PKA at cilia to activate the HH signal transduction pathway, we developed a ciliary PKA reporter. Ciliary PKA activity was graded during zebrafish development. Activation of the HH signal transduction pathway by either Sonic hedgehog (SHH) or SMO agonist (SAG) inhibited ciliary PKA activity. Blocking SMO phosphorylation by GRK2/3 prevented ciliary SMO from inhibiting ciliary PKA activity. Converting the SMO C-terminal PKA pseudosubstrate site into a consensus PKA substrate blocked SMO-mediated inhibition of ciliary PKA activity. A ciliary GPCR, SSTR3, activated ciliary PKA and induced HH transcriptional responses in NIH/3T3 cells via a different mechanism: activation of Gαi/o. A different ciliary GPCR, GPR161, possesses an A-Kinase Anchoring Protein (AKAP), which we found was critical for the ciliary localization of the catalytic subunit of PKA (PKA-C) to promote ciliary PKA activity. We propose that HH signal transduction is inhibited by GPR161-mediated ciliary enrichment of PKA-C, and activated by GRK2/3-phosphorylated SMO inhibition of ciliary PKA activity.Copyright: © 2026 Nguyen et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Receptor-type E3 ubiquitin ligases enable extracellular signals to control ubiquitylation in the cytoplasm, playing widespread roles in development, metabolism, and immunity. Using cryoelectron microscopy, integrated with biophysical and functional studies, we visualized a human E3 complex composed of two transmembrane proteins, MEGF8 and MOSMO, and the intracellular RING-family protein MGRN1. This MEGF8-MOSMO-MGRN1 (MMM) complex attenuates Hedgehog signaling by ubiquitylating Smoothened (SMO), a G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) that transduces morphogen signals. A long helix in the MMM complex engages SMO using an intramembrane degron and extends into the cytoplasm to suspend an activated and precisely oriented RING domain below the plasma membrane. This architecture enables ubiquitylation of the cytoplasmic surface of SMO, reducing SMO abundance at primary cilia. Our structure provides insights into MEGF8 mutations, which cause multi-organ birth defects, and defines a paradigm for how transmembrane E3 ligases control the cell surface abundance of GPCRs and other signaling receptors.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Genetic variants near Hedgehog interacting protein (HHIP) have been consistently associated with increased risk for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), the third leading cause of death worldwide. However, HHIP's role in COPD pathogenesis remains elusive. Canonically, HHIP is a negative regulator of the Hedgehog pathway and downstream GLI1 and GLI2 activation. The Hedgehog pathway plays an important role in wound healing, specifically in activating transcription factors that drive the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), which in its intermediate state (partial EMT) is necessary for the collective movement of cells closing a wound. Herein, we use a systems biology approach to propose a mechanism to explain HHIP's role in faulty epithelial wound healing, which could contribute to the development of emphysema, a key feature of COPD. Using two different Boolean models, we show dysfunctional HHIP results in a lack of negative feedback on GLI, triggering a full EMT, where cells become mesenchymal and do not properly close the wound. We validate these Boolean models with experimental evidence gathered from published scientific literature. Finally, we show evidence supporting our hypothesis in single-cell and single-nucleus RNA-Seq data from different COPD cohorts and Hhip heterozygous knockout mice. Overall, our analyses suggest that aberrant wound healing due to dysfunctional HHIP, combined with chronic epithelial damage through cigarette smoke exposure, may be a primary cause of COPD-associated emphysema.
Acute lung injury (ALI) and its more severe form, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), are severe respiratory disorders characterized by a dysregulated and excessive inflammatory response within the pulmonary system. Recent studies have underscored the pivotal role of macrophage activation in driving inflammatory processes, with glycolytic reprogramming emerging as a critical regulator of macrophage function. In this study, we observed significantly elevated expression levels of G protein-coupled receptor 161 (GPR161) in peripheral circulating monocytes from patients with ARDS, with GPR161 expression positively correlating with disease severity. Utilizing genetically engineered mouse models, including global and macrophage-specific conditional knockout mice, we demonstrated that GPR161 deficiency attenuated pulmonary inflammatory damage in lipopolysaccharide-induced and sepsis-associated ALI mice. In vitro experiments further elucidated the essential role of GPR161 in macrophage activation and glycolytic reprogramming. Mechanistic investigations, integrating RNA sequencing with co-immunoprecipitation and surface plasmon resonance assays, identified complement component 5a receptor 1 (C5aR1) as a downstream target of GPR161 and showed that GPR161 promotes glycolytic reprogramming in macrophages by suppressing C5aR1 expression. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that GPR161 enhances macrophage activation and glycolytic reprogramming in ALI/ARDS through a C5aR1-dependent mechanism. These results establish macrophage GPR161 as a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of ALI/ARDS.© 2026. The Author(s).
Neural stem/progenitor cells (NPCs) have primary cilia, which are critical organelles for Sonic hedgehog signaling. However, little is known about the components of primary cilia in NPCs and whether manipulating signaling in the cilia is sufficient to alter dorsal/ventral regional identity. Using a human telencephalic organoid model, we perform comprehensive proteomic profiling of NPC cilia and find enrichment in GTPase signaling. Deletion of the ciliary GTPase ARL13B reduces ciliary localization of GPR161, an orphan G protein-coupled receptor 161 that negatively regulates Sonic hedgehog, resulting in ventralization of NPCs. GPR161 deletion also induces ventralization. To investigate whether manipulation of ciliary signaling is sufficient to restore dorsal identity in this context, we optogenetically elevate ciliary cAMP, rescuing dorsal fate in GPR161 KO organoids. Furthermore, chemogenetic induction of GPR161 removal from cilia is sufficient to increase ventral NPCs. These data indicate that ciliary signaling functions as a critical switch regulating dorsal/ventral fate decisions.© 2026. The Author(s).
Metritis is a major cause of infertility, contributing to repeat breeding, early embryonic loss, fetal mortality, and abortion.This study investigated alterations in metabolic, hormonal, oxidative, immunological, and molecular markers associated with metritis susceptibility in dromedary camels (Camelus dromedarius). A total of 100 non-lactating multiparous females (87 healthy and 13 metritic) were examined. Blood samples were collected and analyzed to evaluate hematobiochemical parameters, inflammatory and antioxidant markers, and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in selected immune- and antioxidant-related genes.Metritic animals exhibited fever and abnormal uterine discharge. Gene expression analysis showed significant upregulation of CARD9, SIGLEC1, VSIG4, BTRC, SLC2A3, ACOD1, and PFKFB3, alongside downregulation of CPT1A, ATF4, GADD45B, SLC7A11, and PRDX3. Sequencing identified 19 SNPs, with significant differences in genotype distribution between groups, and discriminant analysis achieved complete classification accuracy. Hematological findings included normocytic normochromic anemia, leukocytosis, neutrophilia, lymphopenia, and monocytosis. Biochemically, metritic camels showed hypoglycemia and decreased levels of estrogen, progesterone, FSH, LH, T4, calcium, and antioxidant markers (GSH, CAT, and TAC), while NEFA, BHBA, cortisol, MDA, and pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL1α, IL1β, IL6, IL10, and TNFα) were significantly elevated.Overall, clinical metritis in dromedary camels was associated with significant hematological, metabolic, hormonal, oxidative, immunological, and genetic alterations. These findings identify a panel of reproductive and molecular biomarkers that may serve as promising candidate biomarkers associated with clinical metritis. However, given the observational nature of the study and the relatively small number of metritic she-camels, these findings should be interpreted with caution and require validation in larger, independent camel populations before their diagnostic, prognostic, or breeding applications can be established.Copyright © 2026 Alqhtani, Elsayed, Al-Hazani, Elkhidr, Abdelnaby, Almubarak, Al-Rasheed, Emam, Safhi, Zarah, Ateya and Marzok.
In this paper, we discuss how Nanopore whole genome sequencing (WGS) was utilized for rapid genomic identification of CBFA2T3::GLIS2-rearranged acute myeloid leukemia (AML) for two pediatric patients. Patients with CBFA2T3::GLIS2 AML have a 27% 5-year event-free survival. Prior case reports demonstrated that recurrent CBFA2T3::GLIS2 AML has a favorable treatment response to azacitidine, venetoclax, and gemtuzumab. Nanopore WGS enabled early recognition of the CBFA2T3::GLIS2 rearrangement, providing the opportunity to choose alternative therapies upfront with azacitidine, venetoclax, and gemtuzumab. We discuss our patients' status and the implications of a rapid molecular diagnostic method like Nanopore WGS. Trial Registration: Clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT06609928.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are among the most common bacterial infections, yet the genetic factors influencing susceptibility remain poorly understood. We performed a genome-wide association study of recurrent UTI involving 1,860,836 individuals (213,869 cases and 1,646,967 controls). We identified 36 independent non-HLA genome-wide significant loci encoding kidney epithelial and immune response genes and demonstrated that some loci have sex-specific effects. Integrative functional annotation, expression and protein quantitative trait locus colocalization, and single-cell multi-omic analyses revealed that UTI risk alleles preferentially modulated gene expression in kidney, ureter, and bladder epithelia. Multi-omic prioritization converged on a number of pathogenic pathways: epithelial barrier and mucosal glycocalyx defense (PSCA, UMOD, CLPTM1L, FUT2), innate immune regulation (FES, PTPRC, NEK7, HOTAIR, NFATC1, BTN3A2), infection resolution and regulated cell death (STK3, CASP7, TAX1BP1, ZFP36L2), epithelial identity maintenance (GLIS2, CLDN10, ZFHX3, SPDEF, MPP7), urinary tract development (FGFR2, BMP7, HGF, MET, HOXA9, TSHZ2, WNT7B/LINC00899), and nutritional immunity through iron sequestration (SLC11A2, FAM210B, RPS10). Approximately one-third of loci colocalized with gene expression in kidney tubules, suggesting direct modulation of epithelial host-defense programs. Among all loci, PSCA, which encodes a GPI-anchored epithelial surface protein expressed in the kidney papilla and urinary tract epithelia, emerged as the strongest candidate causal gene. We demonstrated that PSCA was secreted into urine, bound uropathogenic E. coli, and inhibited bacterial growth in vitro, implicating it as a constitutive epithelial defense factor. We also demonstrated that while PSCA was protective against urinary infections and duodenal ulcers, it was associated with increased risk of bladder, prostate, and gastric cancers, suggesting antagonistic pleiotropy between mucosal defenses and oncogenesis. Together, our findings define the polygenic architecture of UTI susceptibility, highlighting epithelial surface defense, innate immune regulation, developmental patterning, and nutritional immunity as central components of host defense, providing a new framework for host-directed, non-antibiotic interventions.
Gorlin syndrome (GS, MIM #109400) is a cancer predisposition syndrome characterized by macrocephaly, odontogenic keratocysts, calcification of the falx cerebri, basal cell carcinoma, and medulloblastoma. It is caused by pathogenic variants in the PTCH1 and SUFU genes.We evaluated the clinical and molecular features of 11 patients with GS using single-gene testing, multigene panel analysis, and clinical exome sequencing.All patients exhibited characteristic craniofacial features. Macrocephaly was observed in 10 patients (90.9%) and odontogenic keratocysts in nine patients (81.8%). Palmar pits and falx cerebri calcification were observed in eight patients (72.7%). Basal cell carcinoma occurred in four patients (36.3%), and medulloblastoma in two (18.2%). GS was clinically suspected based on the observed clinical and radiological findings in all patients. Seven distinct heterozygous pathogenic PTCH1 variants were identified, four of which were novel. One patient had a dual diagnosis of L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria.These findings underscore the marked phenotypic variability of PTCH1-related GS. Due to age-dependent clinical manifestations, patients require regular long-term surveillance and comprehensive clinical assessment.Molecular confirmation of the diagnosis is important for the provision of genetic counselling, consideration of preimplantation genetic diagnosis, and appropriate patient follow-up and treatment planning.Thieme. All rights reserved.
To complete the traceability from patient to food using single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)-based clustering analysis technology after whole-genome sequencing in botulinum toxin poisoning incidents.Botulinum toxin in the patient's blood and urine was detected. Real-time polymerase chain reaction was used for preliminary screening and typing of Clostridium botulinum toxin genes in the patient's feces and all suspicious samples after epidemiological investigation. Then antitoxin serum was administered to the patient within 2 hours clinically. Finally, SNP-based clustering analysis achieved traceability from patient to food at the genetic level.Botulinum toxins in the patient's blood and urine were positive, confirming foodborne botulinum toxin poisoning. Virulence genes of type B were detected in the patient's feces and the homemade sufu sample. The mouse intraperitoneal injection test confirmed that the homemade sufu contained botulinum toxin. The isolated Clostridium botulinum showed the typical tennis racket-shaped morphology under the microscope. The multilocus sequence typing type was ST115, and the neurotoxin (BoNT) was type B1. After whole-genome sequencing, SNP-based clustering analysis found that the number of differing SNP sites between strains of Clostridium botulinum isolated from feces and sufu was 0.This technology traced the etiological food and excluded other factors unrelated to the poisoning incident, thereby preventing the recurrence of similar poisoning incidents caused by the same batch of food.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
The application of artificial intelligence tools such as ChatGPT in patient education is expanding rapidly. Female stress urinary incontinence (SUI) is a common yet often overlooked urological condition. However, the accuracy, comprehensiveness, and evidence-based reliability of ChatGPT's responses to common SUI-related questions remain unclear.On the basis of the AUA/SUFU clinical practice guidelines, 22 frequently asked questions regarding female SUI were developed and input into ChatGPT-3.5 and ChatGPT-4, respectively. Two senior urologists independently evaluated the responses using a 5-point Likert scale for accuracy, comprehensiveness, and relevance. Additionally, the word count of each response was recorded, and the validity of any cited references was verified.A total of 44 AI-generated responses were analyzed for the 22 SUI-related questions. Both ChatGPT-3.5 and ChatGPT-4 provided high-quality medical information, with accuracy scores of 4.09 and 4.45, respectively (p = 0.097). ChatGPT-4 offered significantly more concise responses (200.55 ± 48.21 words) compared to ChatGPT-3.5 (515.68 ± 198.13 words; p < 0.001). Furthermore, ChatGPT-4 demonstrated a significantly higher proportion of valid citations (72.06% vs. 24.27%, p < 0.001).ChatGPT-4 demonstrated strong performance in delivering accurate, concise, and evidence-supported information on female SUI. Future research should expand the scope of evaluation, incorporate patient perspectives, and validate the practical utility and safety of AI tools in real-world clinical settings.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to International Urogynecological Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42417340 is a review article
Cancer repeatedly exploits attributes fundamental for morphogenesis to advance malignancy and metastasis. This is illustrated by lineage-specific transcription factors that regulate neural crest migration, representing frequent drivers of malignancy. One such example is the forkhead transcription factor FOXC1, where gain of function is a feature of diverse cancers that is associated with an unfavorable prognosis. Using RNA-, ChIP-sequencing and CRISPR interference, we show that Foxc1 binds a locus in a region of closed chromatin to induce expression of Arhgap36, a tissue-specific inhibitor of protein kinase A. Because PKA is a core Hedgehog (Hh) pathway inhibitor, Foxc1's induction of Arhgap36 expression increases Hh activity. The function of Sufu, a PKA substrate, and a second essential Hh pathway inhibitor, is likewise impaired. The resulting increased Hh pathway output is resistant to pharmacological inhibition of Smoothened, a phenotype of more aggressive cancers. The Foxc1-Arhgap36 relationship identified in murine cells was further evaluated in neuroblastoma, a neural crest-derived pediatric malignancy. This demonstrated in a cohort of 1348 patients that high levels of ARHGAP36 are predictive of improved 5-year survival. Accordingly, this study has identified as a novel transcription factor which enhances ARHGAP36 expression, one that induces Hh activity in multiple tissues during development. It also establishes a model by which increased levels of FOXC1 via ARHGAP36 and PKA inhibition dysregulate multiple facets of Hh signaling and provides evidence demonstrating relevance to a common neural-crest-derived malignancy.© 2025, Havrylov et al.
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), the leading genetic cause of kidney failure, results from loss-of-function mutations in PKD1, encoding polycystin-1 (PC1). PC1 localizes to the primary cilium. In the absence of PC1, adverse signaling from the primary cilium orchestrates cyst formation, but the biomechanical underpinnings of this cilia-dependent cyst activation (CDCA) remain unclear. Combining tubule-specific orthologous mouse models with a tubule-on-chip platform, we show that PC1 and cilia govern the composition, mechanical properties and shape of the tubular basement membrane (TBM), the principal rigid determinant of tubule geometry. PC1 loss triggers TBM thinning, heparan sulfate enrichment and deformation, leading to distension, preferentially of the distal nephron. These changes are driven by a cilia-dependent transcriptional program, with GLIS2 - a key CDCA effector - participating as a downstream mediator. Reduction of TBM stiffness amplifies Pkd1-/- tubule-on-chip dilation and increases cyst formation in vivo. Conversely, increasing luminal pressure through ureteral obstruction induces disproportionate distension of Pkd1-deficient tubules and triggers an irreversible cystogenic program. Together, these findings establish a TBM-centered biomechanical model of ADPKD in which tubule deformation is governed by both basolateral and luminal mechanical factors, and identify the cilium-TBM axis, operating in part through GLIS2, as a central driver of cystogenesis.
Liver fibrosis is a major global health issue with limited treatment options. Activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) induces collagen deposition, which is a core step in the progression of liver fibrosis. MicroRNA221-3p (miR221-3p) is a key profibrotic regulator of the activation of hepatic stellate cells. Sensitive and selective imaging and regulation of miR221-3p within complex cellular environments are essential for both diagnosis and therapy, yet remains challenging.To address this, we engineered a miR-on Self-Assembly Cascade (SAC) amplification strategy for miR221-3p visualization and regulation. The system consists of a DNA initiator strand (Hc) and four hairpin strands (H1-H4). MiR221-3p binds to and opens Hc, triggering a self-sustained circular hairpin reporter reaction. The resulting replicas serve as feedback to drive subsequent cycles, achieving exponential signal amplification. This design enables highly sensitive and selective fluorescence imaging of miR221-3p in living cells. Additionally, as a functional demonstration, the SAC system also induced inactivation of HSCs. Mechanistic studies revealed that the SAC strategy disrupts the miR221-3p/Suppressor Of Cytokine Signaling 1 (SOCS1) axis, thereby suppressing Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 3 (STAT3) phosphorylation, thus alleviating liver fibrosis. In vivo studies further demonstrate the sustained administration of SAC significantly reduced extracellular matrix accumulation and ameliorated liver fibrosis in a CCl4-induced mouse model.Owing to its self-sustained signal amplification, the SAC strategy achieves both sensitive miR221-3p imaging and effective fibrosis suppression. This work provides a robust analytical platform for miRNA-based diagnostics and holds promise for precision medicine in fibrotic and miRNA-related disorders.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Myostatin (MSTN) and Suppressor of Cytokine Signaling 2 (SOCS2) are key negative regulators of muscle growth and development. Cytidine base editors (CBEs) offer a precise method for introducing stop codons to knock out these genes. This study aimed to apply the YE1-AncBE4max CBE system to edit MSTN and SOCS2 in Haimen goats, a local Chinese breed, to enhance growth traits.Efficient single guide RNAs (sgRNAs) targeting MSTN and SOCS2 were screened in goat fetal fibroblasts via electroporation. Edited cells were analyzed by Sanger and TA-clone sequencing. Subsequently, a mixture of selected sgRNA and CBE mRNA was microinjected into 36 zygotes, which were then transferred to 9 recipient goats to generate gene-edited animals. Off-target effects were assessed by sequencing predicted sites.Cellular editing efficiencies for three MSTN sgRNAs were 25%, 37%, and 29%, and for one SOCS2 sgRNA was 31.57%. Microinjection and embryo transfer resulted in the birth of five kids, and one fetus (#S91) was aborted at 3 months of gestation; four with dual-gene (MSTN & SOCS2) edits (#241, #242, #S32, #S91) and two with single SOCS2 edits (#S31, #S11). Notably, two dual-edited goats (#241, #242) harbored biallelic MSTN mutations. No off-target mutations were detected. Phenotypic analysis showed that the edited goats exhibited significantly increased body weight and a "double-muscling" phenotype by 90 days of age compared to wild-type controls. This is the first study of generating any species with double gene knock out (MSTN, and SOCS2) to date to the best of our knowledge.This study successfully established a YE1-AncBE4max-based platform for efficient, precise dual-gene editing in goats. The generation of MSTN/SOCS2-edited Haimen goats with enhanced growth performance demonstrates the potential of base editing technology for rapid genetic improvement in livestock.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Neuroinflammation plays an important role in the pathobiology of Progressive Supranuclear Palsy Syndrome (PSP-S). However, it is not adequately known whether peripheral inflammation correlates to neuroinflammation in PSP-S. This study aimed to examine a link between peripheral and brain inflammation in PSP-S by integrating blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) inflammatory profile and Positron Emission Tomography (PET)-Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) (PET-MRI).Fifty-six PSP-S patients and equal number of healthy controls were recruited. Plasma Th17 pathway cytokine (IL-6, IL-1β, IL-4, IL-10, IL-17A, IL-17F, IL-21, IL-22, IL-23, IL-25, IL-31, IL-33, IFN-γ, sCD40L, and TNF-α) levels were measured in all the study participants. CSF levels of these cytokines were measured only in PSP-S patients. The expressions of NF-κB (Nfkb1, and Nfkb2), inflammasome (Nlrp3, Casp1, and Il18), Th17 (Il1b, Il6, Il17, Tnfa, Il22, Il23, Rorc, and Stat3) and anti-inflammatory (Tgfb, and Il10) genes were quantified in all the study participants. PET-MRI was carried out in a subset of PSP-S patients (n=12) and eleven disease controls (Parkinson's Disease=7, and Multiple System Atrophy=4).Inflammasome (Casp1 and Il18), NF-κB (Nfkb1) and inflammatory (Il1b and Il6) genes were upregulated in PSP-S patients. Plasma IL-1β, IL-6, IL-17A, and IL-17F levels were significantly elevated in PSP-S patients. IL-1β levels significantly correlated between plasma and CSF. PET-MRI indicated neuroinflammation in several brain regions of PSP-S patients.Both systemic inflammation and neuroinflammation are evident in PSP-S. The positive correlation of higher plasma IL-1β levels with neuroinflammation provides preliminary evidence towards the influence of specific peripheral inflammatory molecule on neuroinflammatory basis of PSP-S. The altered immune elements of the current study further reinforce the pathogenic relevance of immune-inflammatory pathways in PSP-S pathobiology.Copyright © 2026 Dey, Kumar, Kumar, Kavya, Mondal, Holla, Kamble, Mahale, Pal, Yadav and Debnath.
Post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms underlying autoimmune diseases remain poorly understood. Here, we employed integrated multi-omics approaches to systematically dissect the role of alternative polyadenylation (APA) and piRNA-mediated regulation in psoriasis pathogenesis.We performed transcriptome-wide association studies (TWAS) combined with Mendelian randomization to identify causal susceptibility genes. Long-read sequencing was used to characterize APA landscapes in 15 healthy controls and 10 psoriasis patients. Single-cell RNA sequencing was performed on lesional tissues from 4 patients to define cell-specific expression patterns. Small RNA sequencing was conducted to profile piRNA regulation in LPS + IFN-γ-polarized THP-1 macrophages following TDRKH knockdown.Integrating multi-tissue genetic validations across GTEx, eQTLGen, and FinnGen datasets, we identified TDRKH as a robust psoriasis susceptibility gene (PPH4 > 0.92). TDRKH exhibited significant APA alterations in psoriatic PBMCs, with preferential usage of the distal polyadenylation site leading to 3'UTR lengthening (PDI = -0.574). Reporter gene assays confirmed that the long 3'UTR isoform conferred approximately 3-fold greater mRNA stability (t½ = 6.9 h vs. 2.3 h). Single-cell RNA sequencing of psoriatic skin (4 patients, 17,734 cells) identified 17 cell types and 10 macrophage/myeloid subpopulations using marker gene-based annotation with TDRKH excluded from feature selection. TDRKH expression was highest in IL-23-producing macrophages (IL23A+IL1B+), which were selectively enriched in lesional tissue. TDRKH knockdown in LPS + IFN-γ-polarized THP-1 macrophages altered piRNA expression profiles, reduced pro-inflammatory surface markers (CD80, CD86, HLA-DR), and attenuated IL6 and IL1B expression, supporting a functional role of the TDRKH-piRNA axis in macrophage inflammatory activation.Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized post-transcriptional regulatory network involving APA and piRNA that governs macrophage-driven inflammation. The discovery of the TDRKH-piRNA axis provides novel mechanistic insights into psoriasis and establishes a potential therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Lin, Du, Lu, Wang, Zhao, Feng and Liu.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cause of cancer mortality, and the mechanisms linking lead exposure to CRC remain unclear. In this study, we integrated population-level association (NHANES), transcriptomic analyses (bulk and single-cell RNA-seq), and genetic evidence to prioritize candidate genes potentially connecting lead exposure and CRC. In NHANES, higher blood lead levels were associated with increased odds of self-reported CRC in the crude and partially adjusted models, but this association was attenuated and no longer statistically significant after full adjustment. Database-driven prioritization combining network toxicology and machine-learning highlighted several candidate genes (HMOX1, IL1B, NLRP3, BCL2, MAPK3, and ALAD). Single-cell RNA-seq and CellChat analyses indicated that HMOX1 is enriched in monocytes/macrophages and may be involved in immune- and oxidative-stress-related signaling within the CRC microenvironment. Exploratory two-sample MR using whole-blood eQTL as an exposure proxy provided genetic evidence consistent with an association between genetically predicted HMOX1 expression and CRC risk. Molecular docking suggested a plausible binding pose of plumbagin within the HMOX1 pocket. Collectively, these results suggest that the crude epidemiologic association between blood lead and CRC prevalence is sensitive to covariate adjustment and generate testable hypotheses implicating HMOX1 for future experimental validation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559272 is a review article
Plant polysaccharides possess significant anticonvulsant potential. This study investigated the neuroprotective effects of polysaccharide-rich birch sap (PRBS), previously characterized as primarily low-molecular-weight polysaccharides (MW·1.29 kDa), in a rat model of kainic acid (KA)-induced acute seizures.Rats received oral PRBS (6/10 mL/kg) for 7 days before KA-induced (15 mg/kg, i.p.) seizures. Seizure severity was evaluated using behavioral, electroencephalographic (EEG), and cerebral blood flow (CBF) monitoring. Brain tissues were analyzed via histology, Western blotting, and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) for neuronal damage, neuroinflammation, blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity, and glutamate metabolism.Results demonstrated that the higher dose (10 mL/kg) exerted potent anticonvulsant effects, significantly reducing tonic convulsion scores and EEG ictal spikes. Furthermore, the treatment mitigated KA-induced CBF deficits and prevented neuronal damage in the cortex and hippocampus. Mechanistically, PRBS suppressed glial activation, indicated by a decrease in GFAP+ and OX42+ cells and reduced expression of markers associated with a pro-inflammatory state (C3 and CD86). It also inhibited neuroinflammatory signaling by downregulating TLR4 and p-IkB levels while suppressing the overall activation of NF-kB p65, thereby decreasing the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1b, IL-6, and TNF-a). Additionally, the treatment attenuated BBB disruption by reducing albumin extravasation and upregulating tight junction proteins (claudin-5 and occludin). Finally, it restored glutamate homeostasis by upregulating the astrocytic transporter GLT-1 and glutamine synthetase, while downregulating glutamine transporters (SNAT1/3), glutaminase, and the vesicular glutamate transporter VGLUT1.PRBS exhibits potent antiseizure and neuroprotective properties that are closely associated with the modulation of TLR4/NF-kB-mediated inflammation, the preservation of BBB integrity, and the regulation of glutamate homeostasis, highlighting its potential as a natural therapeutic agent for seizures.Copyright © 2026 Lu, Wu, Chiu, Lee, Pan, Lin and Wang.
Melanoma is an aggressive form of skin cancer characterized by high metastatic potential and increasing incidence and mortality worldwide. Although significant advances have been achieved with immune checkpoint inhibitors and targeted therapies, effective preventive and long-term therapeutic strategies remain limited. Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG), widely used in bladder cancer immunotherapy, exhibits potent immunostimulatory properties and has emerged as a promising platform for recombinant cancer vaccines. Among the candidate antigens, Antigen 85A (Ag85A), derived from Mycobacterium bovis, is notable for its strong immunogenicity and ability to induce robust Th1-mediated cellular immune responses. In this study, recombinant BCG strains overexpressing efficacy was evaluated in melanoma models in vitro and in vivo. Gene expression analysis by RT-qPCR revealed that rBCG-Ag85A induced systemic immune activation, characterized by increased Il1B and Trl4 expression in splenocytes. In tumor tissues, rBCG-Ag85A significantly upregulated genes associated with apoptosis (Bax, Bcl2), oxidative stress (Sod1, Cat), inflammatory and immune signaling pathways (Tlr4, Nfkb, Il12, Il1b, Casp1), and modulation of pathways involved in cellular metabolism (Mtor) indicating enhanced modulation of the tumor microenvironment. Functionally, these molecular and immunological effects were associated with reduced tumor progression, slower tumor growth, and improved survival in B16F10 melanoma-bearing mice. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that rBCG-Ag85A promotes multifaceted antitumor activity through the modulation of apoptosis, inflammation and oxidative stress-related gene expression, highlighting its potential as a promising prophylactic vaccine strategy to prevent cutaneous malignant melanoma and supporting future studies aimed at elucidating the immune cell populations involved and optimizing combinatorial therapeutic approaches.© 2026. The Author(s).
Qingxin Tongmai Yin (QXTMY), a classic traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) formula widely used for cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases, has unclear multitarget mechanisms against atherosclerosis (AS). This study integrated network pharmacology with experimental validation to investigate these mechanisms. Network pharmacology identified 128 bioactive compounds and 135 potential targets of QXTMY, highlighting key anti-AS targets such as TNF, IL6, insulin (INS), IL1B, MMP9, CCL2, and ALB, with the AGE-RAGE signaling pathway as a central mechanism; principal active ingredients included quercetin, kaempferol, luteolin, and cryptotanshinone. In vitro experiments using THP-1-derived macrophages induced with phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA) and oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL) showed that QXTMY significantly suppressed inflammatory responses, inhibited foam cell formation, and downregulated the AGE-RAGE signaling pathway, as measured by Western blot, ELISA, cholesterol quantification, and Nile Red staining. These findings suggest that QXTMY may exert protective effects against AS, potentially via suppression of the AGE-RAGE-mediated inflammatory axis. However, in vivo validation is still required to support these preliminary conclusions.Copyright © 2026 Yangfan Huang et al. Mediators of Inflammation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are a promising cell source for osteoarthritis and intervertebral disc degeneration, but their application is limited by inefficient and unstable chondrogenic differentiation. Here, nine Phorbazole D analogues were synthesized and evaluated for promoting chondrogenesis in human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hUC-MSCs) under TGF-β/dexamethasone based induction conditions. Among the tested analogues, IO-5a was selected for further evaluation based on its comparatively higher pro-chondrogenic activity and no detectable cytotoxicity. Image-based Alcian blue analysis showed that the positive staining area increased from approximately 17% in the control group to approximately 45% after IO-5a treatment. RT-qPCR further showed that 10 µM IO-5a upregulated COL2A1, SOX9, ACAN, and COMP by approximately 2.6-fold, 1.1-fold, 1.35-fold, and 1.4-fold, respectively. Immunofluorescence, western blotting, and 3D pellet culture analyses supported increased cartilage associated marker expression and cartilage like matrix deposition. Preliminary structure-activity relationship analysis suggested that retention of the A-ring phenolic hydroxyl group and favorable A-/C-ring substituent matching may contribute to activity. In silico target prediction and molecular docking nominated PTPN1 (PTP1B) as a potential candidate protein, although this predicted interaction requires further experimental validation. Collectively, IO-5a represents a bioactive Phorbazole D analogue with chondrogenesis promoting activity in hUC-MSCs.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42526787 is a review article
Our previous study has highlighted the anti-inflammatory properties of gabapentin (GBP) after myocardial infarction (MI) by suppressing M1 macrophage polarization. In this study, we further dissected the important molecules involved.Ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery was used to construct the MI mouse model. Tyrosine-protein phosphatase non-receptor type 2 (PTPN2) expression in mouse myocardial tissue macrophages was evaluated using Western blot and dual-labelling immunofluorescence. An MI mouse model with macrophage-specific knockdown of PTPN2 was constructed and treated with GBP. M1 polarization was induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and IFN-γ in mouse RAW264.7 cells and bone marrow-derived macrophages. Substrates of PTPN2 were predicted and verified using co-IP and amino acid mutations.GBP alleviated cardiac dysfunction and reduced myocardial injury and macrophage M1 polarization in mice. PTPN2 expression was increased in macrophages of mice induced with MI in response to the inflammatory response, and GBP further up-regulated PTPN2. Macrophage depletion impaired the efficacy of GBP. PTPN2 knockdown enhanced M1 polarization of macrophages and exacerbated cardiac dysfunction in mice. The binding of PTPN2 to 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase (DHCR7) inhibited Y378 phosphorylation of DHCR7 and reduced the cholesterol synthesis catalysed by DHCR7. DHCR7 knockdown in macrophages reversed macrophage pro-inflammatory activation induced by PTPN2 knockdown, alleviated myocardial injury in mice and restored the efficacy of GBP.GBP enhances PTPN2 expression to inhibit tyrosine phosphorylation of DHCR7 and blocks cholesterol metabolism to limit macrophage M1 polarization and alleviate MI-induced injury.© 2026 British Pharmacological Society.
KIF21A, a member of the Kinesin-4 family of motor proteins, is involved in the regulation of microtubule dynamics and intracellular transport, with emerging evidence suggesting its potential role in cancer progression. In this study, we performed an integrative analysis of over 3825 human phosphoproteomics studies to characterize site-specific phosphorylation of KIF21A. Three predominant phosphosites were identified in KIF21A (S853, S1212, and S1239) with the highest detection frequency across phosphoproteomics studies, and were analyzed for co-regulation patterns to identify potential kinase associations and functional networks. Phosphosite S853 showed a strong association with cytoskeletal organization and cortical microtubule stabilization complexes (CMSCs) components, including KANK1 (S186), PHLDB2 (S513, S42) and CLASP1 (S600, S572, S646), indicating its role in cytoskeletal organization. Upstream kinase analysis identified potential regulators, such as PAK2, RPS6KA1/A3, RPS6KB1, CHEK1/2 and CDK18/16 with site-specific variability in their associations with KIF21A predominant sites. Interestingly, phosphosite-specific correlation analysis between KIF21A and candidate kinases revealed that the KIF21A S1239 phosphosite exhibited tumor-specific correlations with CDK18 across multiple cancer types. Functional enrichment revealed that co-regulated phosphoproteins were involved in cytoskeleton regulation, cell cycle regulation, and carcinogenesis. Pan-cancer analysis demonstrated dysregulated expression of KIF21A in multiple tumor types, with stage-associated upregulation in selected cancers. Gene-level validation further supported these findings, showing consistent positive correlations between KIF21A and key regulators such as CTNND1 and PTK2, as well as other cytoskeleton and cancer-associated genes. Overall, this study highlights site-specific phosphorylation as a key regulatory mechanism of KIF21A and suggests its involvement in cytoskeleton-associated signaling networks in cancer.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509809 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42488986
Skipped: PubMed ID 42480857 is a review article
Predicting small molecule-protein interactions across nonhomologous proteins remains challenging because shared ligand recognition is often not evident from sequence, fold, or pocket similarity. Here, we introduce pocket hopping, a machine-learning framework that learns residue-level interaction patterns from coligand binding pockets and infers compatibility between nonhomologous pockets for similar chemotypes. Using shared ligands as supervision rather than explicit geometric alignment, pocket hopping identifies pocket relationships that are not readily captured by conventional chemical-, sequence-, or structure-based comparisons. In two case studies, pocket hopping demonstrates broad utility in drug discovery by enabling de novo hit identification and mechanistic interpretation, identifying fedratinib and its analogues as helicase WRN inhibitors. The model also identified the clinical-stage HDAC inhibitor abexinostat as a direct ENPP1 binder and inhibitor, and cellular assays showed enhanced cGAMP-STING signaling under cGAMP stimulation. Together, these results indicate that pocket-level compatibility can complement existing approaches for target identification, hit discovery, and polypharmacology analysis.
The Arp2/3 complex has long been considered to only assemble branched actin structures in the cell (lamellipodia, endocytic patches, comet tails, and many more). We show for the first time by single-molecule tracking (SMT) that the Arp2/3 complex and SPIN90, which activates Arp2/3 complex to nucleate unbranched filaments, bind to and move in the basal cortex with stress fibers and focal adhesions (FA) that, unlike known sites of Arp2/3 enrichment, employ linear actin bundles. SPIN90 knockout in U2OS cells significantly increases the rate of collective cell migration while decreasing cellular traction (myosin-II and actin speeds) and adhesion (FA size and maturation markers). SPIN90's SH3 domain, similar to its adapter protein Nck1, shows enrichment in FAs, suggesting a possible location for SPIN90-Arp2/3 complex activity. Together, our findings indicate that SPIN90-Arp2/3 nucleated filaments also function in stress fibers where they help define the mechanics of traction and adhesion to regulate cell motility.The Arp2/3 complex, the branched actin nucleator, drives pushing forces in the cytoplasm, yet its diffuse cortical localization has obscured its functions within unbranched structures. In conventional microscopy, associations of molecules with specific structures are impossible to verify when there is little enrichment over the cytoplasm. Whereas other methods fail to provide convincing evidence of such associations, we used single molecule tracking in live cells to identify molecules that track the motions of stress fibers. Thus, we were able to discover that the Arp2/3 complex and SPIN90, proteins whose roles in cell biology have been thus far limited to branched actin networks, directly integrate within the unbranched stress fiber network to promote cell adhesion and traction for cell migration.
Dysregulated calpains and cathepsins contribute to adverse cardiac remodeling following chronic pathological stress, but their interplay and the specific contributions of the classical calpain isoforms remain undefined. Here, we tested whether calpain-2 initiates a lysosome-cathepsin proteolytic axis that promotes pathological hypertrophy through mTORC1-dependent signaling.Calpain expression was analyzed in septal myocardium from patients with aortic stenosis and mice subjected to transverse aortic constriction (TAC). Calpain activity was modulated genetically by Capns1 deletion or pharmacologically with the calpain-2 inhibitor NA-184 in TAC mice. Cathepsins were inhibited with balicatib. In vitro, Capn2 was silenced by siRNA in H9c2 cardiomyoblasts stimulated with angiotensin II.TAC upregulated myocardial calpain-2 expression, which correlated with hypertrophy severity in septal tissue from patients. TAC induced lysosomal membrane permeabilization, evidenced by reduced cathepsin B-lysosome colocalization, and increased cytosolic cathepsin accumulation and activity. Mechanistically, calpain-2 cleaved the lysosomal protein LAMP2, generating a ~ 55 kDa fragment. Both Capns1 deletion and NA-184 preserved LAMP2 and lysosomal integrity, reduced autophagic dysregulation and the activation of the AKT/mTOR signaling, and attenuated cardiac hypertrophy. Capn2 silencing in H9c2 reproduced the effects by reducing LAMP2 proteolysis and hypertrophy. Balicatib produced comparable anti-hypertrophic effects, supporting a sequential calpain-cathepsin signaling cascade. When treatment was extended, NA-184 limited ventricular dilation and attenuated systolic dysfunction (30%, p < 0.001).These findings identify calpain-2-mediated LAMP2 proteolysis as an upstream trigger linking lysosomal dysfunction to pathological hypertrophy, and highlight selective calpain-2 inhibition as a therapeutic strategy for heart failure treatment.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Sperm cryodamage is a key factor affecting its post-thaw quality. This study aims to systematically elucidate the molecular response mechanisms of bovine sperm cryodamage by integrating transcriptomic and proteomic analyses. By utilizing the swim-up technique to isolate sperm subpopulations with mild and severe cryodamage, thereby minimizing interference from individual genetic variation. Results demonstrated that mildly damaged sperm exhibited superior motility, structural integrity, and antioxidant capacity, along with less reactive oxygen species accumulation and more active Wnt, mTOR, and Hippo signaling pathways at the transcriptional level. Severely damaged sperm exhibited activation of pathways related to oxidative phosphorylation, thermogenesis, peroxisome, glutathione metabolism, phagocytosis, and DNA repair at the protein level, with ATP5MG, GPX1, XRCC1, and AP1M2 serving as core regulatory factors in these pathways. Additionally, integrated analysis identified eight potential biomarker proteins, including apoptosis-related protein ARL6IP5, anti-apoptotic protein GRINA, adhesion factors CDHR1/LGALS1, DNA repair proteins CUL4B/POLR2E, and core factors RPL14/A1BG in the protein-protein interaction network. Notably, the protein levels of ARL6IP5, CDHR1, and LGALS1 were inconsistent with their gene expression levels. These candidate molecules showed significant correlations with post-thaw sperm quality and were quantitatively validated. The results indicate that mitochondrial energy metabolism, antioxidant and anti-apoptotic defense systems, as well as self-repair and clearance responses, including nucleic acid repair and phagocytosis, represent the molecular response characteristics of sperm cryodamage. These findings complement the molecular mechanisms and regulatory networks of sperm cryodamage, and provide potential targets for evaluating the cryopreservation potential of bull semen and optimizing cryoprotectants.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Adoptive T cell therapy requires T cells to infiltrate vascular tissues and preserve immune function. In solid tumor treatment, however, the surrounding microenvironment produces abnormal vasculature that impedes T cell infiltration. An approach that enables vascular normalization and enhances adoptive T cell function in parallel is essential for effective therapy but has not been reported. Here, we report the use of lenvatinib (LEN) to induce transient vascular normalization, thereby facilitating T cell infiltration. Moreover, LEN enhances T cell persistence by promoting the differentiation of T cells toward a memory phenotype. Our results indicate that the differentiation is by suppressing the PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway, which drives effector differentiation, and by activating FOXO1, a transcription factor that promotes memory formation. To coordinate the transient vascular normalization and T cell enhancement, we link LEN-loaded, PD-L1-blocking micelles to T cells through acid-labile click chemistry, forming pH-responsive T cell-nanodrug conjugates. The conjugates synchronize the intratumoral release of LEN and the PD-L1 antagonist peptide OPBP-1, thereby coordinating vascular normalization, T cell differentiation, and checkpoint blockade. In vivo, the conjugates increased intratumoral CD8+ T cells and splenic memory T cells by over sixfold in B16-OVA tumors and achieved complete regression in a subset of MC38-OVA tumors without systemic toxicity, providing a promising strategy for solid tumor immunotherapy.
The study aims to explore the protective effect of colchicine on heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) and its underlying mechanism, with a focus on the regulatory role of the mTOR signaling pathway.Thirty C57BL/6J mice were used to establish the HFpEF model and were randomized into three groups: control, model, and colchicine-treated groups. Colchicine was administered for 6 weeks. Cardiac function was evaluated by echocardiography, exercise capacity testing, and hemodynamic measurements. Western blot, real-time quantitative PCR, and histological analyses were performed to assess mTOR expression, autophagy-related proteins, myocardial fibrosis, and inflammatory responses in cardiac tissue. The potential interaction between colchicine and mTOR was analyzed by molecular docking simulation. Notably, molecular docking was performed once, not redundantly.The mice in the model group showed myocardial fibrosis, inflammatory responses, and mTOR overactivation. Colchicine treatment significantly reduced systolic and diastolic pressure in the model group, improved cardiac function, modulated mTOR- and autophagy-related gene expression, and attenuated myocardial fibrosis and inflammatory factor release.The findings confirm that colchicine ameliorates key pathological features of HFpEF, including diastolic dysfunction, fibrosis, and inflammation. Mechanistically, this protective effect is associated with suppression of mTOR overactivation and normalization of autophagic activity, as supported by molecular docking and expression data. However, the causal relationship between mTOR inhibition, autophagy regulation, and functional improvement remains to be validated using genetic or pharmacological modulators. These results support colchicine as a promising therapeutic agent targeting the mTOR-autophagy axis in HFpEF.Colchicine may modulate mTOR signaling, regulate autophagy, reduce inflammation, and alleviate myocardial fibrosis in HFpEF.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565396 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565132 is a review article
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is a leading cause of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) worldwide, and renal fibrosis is a key pathological feature driving disease progression. Polyphyllin II (PPII), a steroidal saponin isolated from Rhizoma Paridis, has shown renoprotective potential; however, its effects and underlying mechanisms in DKD remain unclear.Network pharmacology was used to predict the potential targets and pathways of PPII in DKD. Experimental validation was performed in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced DKD mice treated with PPII (8 mg/kg/day for 4 weeks) and in high-glucose (HG)-stimulated glomerular mesangial cells (MCs). Renal function, urinary protein excretion, and histopathological changes were evaluated. Apoptosis was assessed by flow cytometry. Autophagy- and fibrosis-related proteins were examined by Western blotting, and autophagic flux was further evaluated using chloroquine (CQ). Rescue experiments were performed using 3-methyladenine (3-MA). Activation of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein kinase B/mammalian target of rapamycin (PI3K/AKT/mTOR) pathway was assessed by measuring the phosphorylation levels of pathway components.Network pharmacology identified PI3K/AKT signaling as a potentially important pathway involved in the effects of PPII in DKD. In DKD mice, PPII partially improved renal dysfunction, as reflected by reduced urinary protein excretion, serum creatinine (Scr), and uric acid (UA) levels, as well as increased serum albumin (Alb). Histological analyses showed that PPII attenuated glomerular hypertrophy, mesangial expansion, and renal fibrosis. In HG-stimulated MCs, PPII reduced apoptosis and decreased the expression of fibrosis-related proteins. In both renal tissues and MCs, PPII treatment was associated with reduced p62 expression and an increased LC3-II/LC3-I ratio. CQ-based autophagic flux analysis suggested that PPII may enhance autophagic flux, while 3-MA partially attenuated the anti-fibrotic effects of PPII. In addition, PPII partially reduced HG- and DKD-associated activation of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway.PPII alleviated renal injury and fibrosis in experimental DKD models and was associated with improved autophagy and reduced fibrotic responses. These effects may be related to modulation of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway. PPII may therefore represent a potential therapeutic candidate for DKD, although further studies are needed to clarify its molecular mechanisms and translational relevance.Copyright © 2026 Sun, Qin and Bi.
Epilepsy affects up to 90% of patients with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC); earlier seizure onset is associated with worse neurocognitive outcomes. The incidence of neonatal seizures in TSC is unknown, although in a recent multicenter trial 23% of infants with TSC were excluded prior to randomization because of pre-existing seizures prior to age 4 months, suggesting that neonatal or early infantile seizures may be a common occurrence.We aimed to determine the rate of neonatal seizures in our cohort of TSC patients.We performed a single-center medical records review of patients with TSC who were seen between 2020 and 2025 to identify patients with neonatal seizure onset.Of six patients with data from the neonatal period, four (67%) had neonatal seizures. Two had confirmed electrographic seizures in the first week of life, and another two had clinical seizure onset during the neonatal period. All patients with neonatal seizures had TSC2 and developed drug-resistant epilepsy, and two of four developed infantile spasms despite intensive early medical management, including vigabatrin. The two patients without neonatal seizures had TSC1 and mosaic TSC2, respectively. They have not developed epilepsy and have had milder neurodevelopmental impairment.In conclusion, data from our center suggest that neonatal seizures may be common in TSC, especially in high-risk infants with TSC2 with highly epileptogenic lesions. With recent preliminary data about safety and efficacy of mTOR inhibitor treatment in infants with TSC, early EEG monitoring should be considered.© 2026 The Author(s). Annals of the Child Neurology Society published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of the Child Neurology Society.
Although tankyrases (TNKSs) were originally described as enzymes safeguarding genome integrity, TNKSs are also associated with metabolism and are involved in the differentiation of multiple cell lineages including adipocytes. Here we aimed to understand the role of TNKSs specifically in adipocyte differentiation. We found that the deletion of TNKS1 or TNKS2 decreased the rate of adipocyte differentiation. Furthermore, the loss of TNKs induced a multi-pronged cellular adaptation characterized by changes in cellular proteostasis centered around the inhibition of autophagy, AMPK activation and the suppression of mTORC1 activity. Deleting TNKSs also induced mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and glycolytic flux. Interestingly, the fraction of oligomycin-resistant respiration decreased, suggesting more coupled OXPHOS. However, the lower differentiation rate of TNKS2 knockout cells was salvaged by pharmacological activation of autophagy (by NV-5138) and the pharmacological inhibition of LKB1 (by HY-10371), an upstream suppressor of the mTOR system. Finally, TNKS2 can ADP-ribosylate LKB1, rendering it susceptible for ubiquitinylation that appears to be a key step towards committing adipocytes to differentiation. Together this data validates the use of TNK inhibitors for managing metabolic diseases and raises the possibility that TNK inhibition can influence tumor or immunometabolism and amplify the effects of other treatments.© 2026 The Author(s). The FEBS Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
This is the case of a 10-year-old female with HRAS-related epidermal nevus syndrome with extensive and severe cutaneous involvement treated with oral sirolimus. The patient had progressively enlarging verrucous periorbital plaques involving the eyelids, resulting in lagophthalmos and threatening vision. Oral sirolimus rapidly improved the cutaneous lesions and resolved the lagophthalmos. This case of a patient treated with oral sirolimus for HRAS-related epidermal nevus syndrome suggests that therapies targeting the mTOR pathway may indirectly affect the RAS/MAPK pathway.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Excessive NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome activity is an important driver of inflammatory tissue damage in acute lung injury (ALI), yet effective targeted therapies remain lacking. Neferine, a natural bisbenzylisoquinoline alkaloid extracted primarily from the mature seed embryo of Nelumbo nucifera, has shown anti-inflammatory potential, but its role in inflammasome regulation during ALI is still not well understood.This study was designed to examine whether neferine could attenuate lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced ALI through modulation of NLRP3 inflammasome signaling and to explore the mechanism involved.We carried out a preclinical investigation using an LPS-triggered mouse model of ALI together with a macrophage pyroptosis model induced by LPS+nigericin (Nig). Both preventive administration and delayed post-challenge treatment with neferine were evaluated in vivo. To define pathway dependence, we combined pharmacologic AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) inhibition, Prkaa1 deficiency, and blockade of autophagic flux.Neferine was examined in LPS-treated mice and in macrophages exposed to LPS plus Nig. Lung pathology, inflammatory injury, and pyroptosis-related changes were assessed. Additional experiments focused on AMPK signaling, autophagic flux, and NLRP3 degradation.Neferine attenuated inflammatory lung injury in mice, accompanied by reduced inflammatory cytokine production and decreased macrophage pyroptosis. Mechanistic analyses showed that neferine increased AMPK phosphorylation and downstream unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1 (ULK1) signaling, enhanced autophagic flux, and promoted K63-linked ubiquitination of NLRP3. These changes favored trafficking of NLRP3 into autophagic compartments and its subsequent lysosomal degradation, thereby limiting inflammasome activity. Pharmacological inhibition of AMPK signaling and genetic loss of Prkaa1 weakened the effects of neferine on ULK1-related autophagy and pyroptosis-associated readouts, supporting a functional contribution of AMPKα1 signaling to this process. Notably, neferine also remained effective when given after LPS exposure, reducing inflammatory injury and pyroptosis-associated readouts in the therapeutic setting.These findings indicate that neferine alleviates inflammasome-related lung injury at least partly through AMPKα1-dependent autophagy, accompanied by increased ULK1 phosphorylation and subsequent autophagy-lysosomal clearance of NLRP3.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and Huntington's disease (HD), are progressive disorders with limited therapeutic options. Centella asiatica (C. asiatica), a medicinal and edible plant, has been reported to exert neuroprotective and anti-neuroinflammatory properties. Yet, the mechanisms underlying its effects against neurodegenerative diseases remain largely unclear.We employed an integrative strategy combining network pharmacology, transcriptomic analyses, machine learning and molecular docking to prioritize disease-associated molecular networks and candidate compound-target relationships in AD, PD and HD.Sixteen candidate constituents of C. asiatica met the predefined drug-likeness, gastrointestinal absorption and blood-brain barrier permeability criteria, yielding 370 unique predicted targets. Disease-gene mining identified 983 AD-associated genes, 1,103 PD-associated genes, and 3,316 HD-associated genes. Integration of compound targets, disease-associated genes, and transcriptomic profiles prioritized five hub genes in PD (CCKAR, MAPK8, PSEN2, SLC6A3, and TH), four in AD (APP, PGK1, PIK3CA, and TTR), and four in HD (CHRND, HSP90AA1, PRKCQ, and TH). Enrichment analyses highlighted disease-relevant processes involving neurotransmitter signalling, cAMP and calcium pathways, MAPK-related responses and inflammatory regulation. ROC analyses provided additional support for the discriminatory performance of the prioritized genes in independent datasets, whereas molecular docking identified favourable predicted Vina docking scores and structurally plausible interactions between selected compounds and hub targets.This integrative computational analysis prioritizes candidate C. asiatica constituents, putative disease-associated targets, and molecular pathways in AD, PD, and HD. The findings provide a foundation for subsequent biochemical, cellular, and in vivo validation.Copyright: © 2026 Xie et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
To screen the potential core targets of (2S)-2'-Methoxykurarinone, a dimethyldihydroflavonoid derived from Sophora flavescens, against sepsis. Furthermore, we explore the in vivo pharmacological efficacy and potential mechanism of action through bioinformatics analysis, clinical sample verification, and an LPS-induced zebrafish sepsis model, aiming to provide experimental evidence for the development of this compound as a candidate lead compound against sepsis.Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) associated with sepsis were screened based on the GSE310929 sepsis transcriptome dataset, and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was performed to identify key sepsis-related modules. Multiple databases were used to predict compound targets. The intersection of DEGs, key module genes, and compound targets was obtained to screen core anti-sepsis genes. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) functional enrichment analysis. A total of 22 patients with sepsis and 10 healthy controls were enrolled for peripheral blood transcriptome sequencing. After batch correction by integrating multiple GEO datasets, 12 machine learning algorithms, SHAP interpretability analysis, and an artificial neural network (ANN) model were applied to screen and verify core diagnostic and prognostic genes. Single-cell transcriptome analysis was used to clarify the cellular localization of core gene expression in immune cells. Molecular docking was conducted to evaluate the binding affinity between the compound and core target proteins. An LPS-induced zebrafish sepsis model was further established, and the in vivo protective effects of the compound were evaluated in terms of embryonic survival rate, macrophage infiltration, intracellular ROS levels, and behavioral phenotypes.A total of 1617 sepsis-related DEGs were identified, and the greenyellow module was determined as the core co-expression module of sepsis. A total of 2124 target genes were predicted for the compound, and 36 potential core anti-sepsis targets were obtained from the intersection of the three gene sets, which were mainly enriched in immune-related processes including T cell activation, lymphocyte differentiation, and kinase activity regulation. After screening and validation via machine learning and ANN models, five core genes (PRKCQ, DYRK2, CD2, BACH2, AAK1) were identified. All five genes were significantly downregulated in the peripheral blood of sepsis patients, enabling efficient discrimination of sepsis, and their high expression was closely correlated with favorable patient prognosis. These core genes were predominantly localized to peripheral blood T cells and NK cells. Molecular docking confirmed that (2S)-2'-Methoxykurarinone exhibited favorable binding affinity with all five core target proteins. In vivo experiments demonstrated that (2S)-2'-Methoxykurarinone markedly improved the embryonic survival rate of septic zebrafish, inhibited excessive macrophage infiltration and abnormal ROS accumulation, and effectively ameliorated behavioral abnormalities in larval zebrafish.(2S)-2'-Methoxykurarinone exerts significant protective effects against sepsis in vivo by targeted regulation of the core genes PRKCQ, DYRK2, CD2, BACH2, and AAK1, mediating immune modulation and oxidative stress inhibition. It possesses promising potential for development as a natural candidate drug for sepsis treatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Background/Objectives: Rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS), the most common pediatric soft tissue sarcoma, includes two main subtypes, embryonal (eRMS) and alveolar (aRMS), each with distinct molecular and clinical characteristics. Although cellular processes underlying RMS and differences between PAX3-FOXO1 fusion-positive and fusion-negative tumors are well known, the contribution of long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) remains poorly understood. Methods: Here, we reannotated publicly available microarray datasets to comprehensively profile lncRNA expression and reconstruct lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory networks in RMS. Results: We identified several lncRNAs with subtype-specific differential expression, including HOTAIR as a potential sponge for miR-206, DSCR8 for miR-885-5p, and PRKCQ-AS1 for miR-515-5p in eRMS. Database-supported interaction analyses identified putative regulatory relationships between these lncRNAs and cancer-related miRNAs and mRNAs. Validation using the St. Jude Cloud PeCan platform confirmed distinct lncRNA expression signatures across RMS subtypes and other pediatric solid tumors, supporting subtype-specific regulation. Conclusions: Our findings provide an updated characterization of the lncRNA landscape in RMS and identify candidate lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory networks that may contribute to disease biology. The proposed regulatory interactions are hypothesis-generating and require experimental validation. Overall, our findings provide a resource for future functional studies and support the investigation of lncRNAs as potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets in RMS.
Partial hepatectomy (PH) triggers acute liver insufficiency and a tightly-orchestrated regenerative program. Here we show that artesunate (ART) markedly accelerates liver mass restoration in mice subjected to PH. ART elevated the liver index, normalized serum total protein and albumin, and curbed ALT/AST leakage. Histologically, ART attenuated hepatocellular necrosis and reduced lesion scores in a dose-dependent manner. Mechanistically, ART amplified Ki67-positive hepatocytes, suppressed apoptosis, and shifted cell-cycle distribution from G1 arrest toward G2/M progression. These regenerative effects were associated with enhanced mitophagy-related changes, as evidenced by increased TOM20/LC3B co-localization, elevated LC3-II/I ratio, increased PINK1 and Parkin expression, and reduced p62 accumulation. A chloroquine-based lysosomal inhibition assay further supported that ART enhanced mitophagy-associated flux. Docking analysis suggested a potential interaction between ART and AMPKα1/2, with docking energies of - 6.41 and - 6.45 kcal mol- 1 for PRKAA1 and PRKAA2, respectively. ART increased p-AMPKα1/2 and suppressed mTOR signaling, as further supported by reduced p-S6 expression. Pharmacological inhibition of AMPK with Compound C attenuated ART-induced PINK1/Parkin-associated mitophagy-related signaling, suppressed ART-enhanced hepatocyte proliferation, increased apoptosis, and partially reversed the ART-mediated reduction in p-S6 expression. Collectively, these findings suggest that ART promotes post-PH liver regeneration by activating AMPKα1/2-associated signaling and enhancing mitophagy-associated flux, positioning ART as a potential adjunct strategy for liver regeneration after hepatectomy.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
IntroductionDysregulation of apoptosis is a hallmark of follicular lymphoma (FL), yet the causal genetic drivers remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to identify causal apoptosis-related genes in FL and validate their functional roles.MethodsWe conducted a multi-omics Mendelian randomization (MR) study, integrating summary statistics from a large-scale FL genome-wide association study with data on methylation (mQTL), expression (eQTL), and protein (pQTL) quantitative trait loci. Summary data-based MR (SMR) and colocalization analyses were used to identify candidate causal genes. Independent external transcriptomic cohorts were utilized to validate the gene correlations, and evaluate the clinical prognostic relevance of the identified candidates. Key findings were then validated in FL patient tissues using RT-qPCR, and the functional role and downstream molecular mechanisms of the top candidate gene were systematically characterized through in vitro phenotypic characterization, drug sensitivity testing, and mechanistic signaling analyses.ResultsOur MR analysis identified several genes with causal links to FL risk, with integrative analysis highlighting IER3IP1, PRKCZ, and CD40. Notably, PRKCZ and CD40 exhibited significant correlation, whereas IER3IP1 displayed an independent regulatory pattern. Clinical tissue validation confirmed that IER3IP1 mRNA levels were significantly elevated in FL patient tissues. Functional studies in an FL cell line demonstrated that IER3IP1 acts as an oncogene, promoting proliferation, colony formation, and migration while inhibiting apoptosis. Mechanistically, IER3IP1 depletion promoted FOXO1-mediated transcriptional upregulation of CD20 via the XBP1/FOXO1 signaling axis, which concomitantly activated the intrinsic apoptotic pathway and significantly enhanced the sensitivity of FL cells to Rituximab-mediated cytotoxicity and apoptosis.Additionally, survival analysis revealed that CD40 serves as a strong prognostic indicator, with its low expression correlated with poorer progression-free survival and overall survival in FL patients.ConclusionsThis study provides the genetic and functional evidence establishing IER3IP1 as a novel causal oncogene in the pathogenesis of FL. Our findings elucidate the critical role of the IER3IP1-mediated XBP1/FOXO1/CD20 axis in targeted therapy resistance, highlighting IER3IP1 as a promising therapeutic target to restore apoptotic activity and improve Rituximab sensitivity.
Bladder cancer (BCa) is a highly prevalent urological malignancy and one of the most frequently occurring cancers worldwide, necessitating the development of diagnostic and therapeutic biomarkers. This study aimed to explore candidate genes that may be involved in the carcinogenesis of BCa.BCa gene expression data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database were analyzed. Both differential expression analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) were performed on datasets (GSE236932, GSE133624) to identify the key modules and hub genes. We subsequently extracted genes from the top modules positively correlated with tumor traits identified via WGCNA and intersected them with differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in each dataset. Finally, the overlapping genes were screened for their therapeutic potential as biomarkers in bladder cancer, and quantitative Real-Time PCR (qRT-PCR) was executed to validate the expression patterns of the most promising candidate genes in clinical tissue samples.Integrative analysis revealed a set of hub genes potentially involved in bladder cancer, including PSMG3, ESRP1, GRHL2, MAL2, CDH1, AP1M2, PAFAH1B3, PRKCZ, MAPK13, and RAB25. Among these, PAFAH1B3 and PSMG3 emerged as notable novel candidates. qRT-PCR validation further underscored the significant overexpression of these genes in BCa samples, with approximately two-fold changes relative to normal tissues.This study suggests that PAFAH1B3 and PSMG3 may serve as valuable biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets in bladder cancer. However, further investigations are needed to establish their biological function and clinical relevance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Spondylometaphyseal dysplasia, Kozlowski type (SMDK), is an autosomal dominant skeletal disorder characterized by abnormalities of the spine, metaphyses and epiphyses. It is associated with variants in TRPV4, although the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. A de novo heterozygous TRPV4 variant (c.2479C>G, p.Pro827Ala) was detected in a patient with SMDK by whole-exome sequencing, and transcriptome sequencing was performed in available family members. Expression analyses showed reduced TRPV4 transcript and protein levels associated with the p.Pro827Ala variant. Cellular functional assays further showed decreased intracellular Ca2+ concentrations without detectable changes in plasma membrane localization. In addition, ATP2B1 and PRKCQ were downregulated. To further investigate the pathogenic mechanism, a heterozygous knock-in Trpv4P827A/+ mouse model was generated using CRISPR/Cas9. Trpv4P827A/P827A homozygous mice exhibited significant skeletal developmental delay, and transcriptome profiling revealed dysregulated expression of homeobox, zf_C2H2, and forkhead transcription factor families during early development. Collectively, these findings expand the spectrum of pathogenic TRPV4 variants and provide mechanistic insights into the pathogenic effect of TRPV4 p.Pro827Ala in SMDK, supporting improved clinical diagnosis and future functional studies.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
The advent of third-generation sequencing, particularly Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT), has revolutionized epigenetic studies by enabling direct detection of DNA methylation modifications and single-base resolution profiling of methylation patterns. While this technology has been predominantly utilized in human and bacterial research, its applications in livestock and poultry remain limited. In this study, we employed ONT sequencing to construct comprehensive 5-methylcytosine modification maps for ten representative pig breeds, explored the mechanism of high altitude adaptive methylation and allele-specific methylation events in these pigs.Through genome-wide integration of sequencing data, we identified 27,857,021 CpG sites, with 71.5% (19,836,456) shared across pigs. Comparative differential methylation analysis between high-altitude and low-altitude pigs revealed four candidate genes (CALM1, HBB, PRKCQ and RAMP1) and the Sp1 transcription factor as potential key regulators of hypoxic adaptation. Notably, Tibetan pigs exhibited promoter hypomethylation patterns at the CALM1 locus, correlating with its consistently elevated expression confirmed by public transcriptomic databases. Allele-specific methylation (ASM) analysis integrated with transcriptomic profiles demonstrated significant enrichment of ASM events in promoters or exons of allele-specific expression (ASE) genes, suggesting synergistic regulatory mechanisms between epigenetic modifications and allelic expression patterns.Our results provided a high-resolution DNA methylation atlas based on long-read sequencing encompassing ten representative pigs across Eurasia, and identified hypoxic adaption-related genes (CALM1, etc.) and a transcription factor (Sp1) based on the unique physiological characteristics of Tibetan pigs. Further, combined with transcriptome data, it was demonstrated ASM and ASE events are synergistic and expressions of ASE genes may be regulated by ASM. This study offers valuable insights into the epigenetic mechanisms underlying adaptation and gene regulation in pigs.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to develop and internally validate a clinical risk prediction model for precancerous lesions of gastric cancer (PLGC) in Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori)-positive individuals by integrating H. pylori strain typing, serological gastric function markers, lifestyle factors, and host susceptibility polymorphisms. A total of 82 H. pylori-positive outpatients who underwent gastroscopy with histopathology between July 2020 and December 2021 were enrolled and categorized into a PLGC group (n = 38; chronic atrophic gastritis, intestinal metaplasia, and/or dysplasia) and a non-PLGC control group (n = 44). Demographic, clinical, dietary, and lifestyle information was collected using standardized questionnaires. Fasting blood samples were obtained for pepsinogen I (PG I), pepsinogen II (PG II), pepsinogen I/II ratio (PGR), gastrin-17 (G-17), and serologic H. pylori typing (Type I vs Type II), and 4 gastric cancer susceptibility loci (PSCA rs2976392, PLCE1 rs2274223, PRKAA1 rs59133000, and MUC1 rs4072037) were genotyped using TaqMan assays. Multivariable logistic regression identified older age and Type I H. pylori infection as independent risk factors, whereas higher PG I, higher PGR, and frequent whole-grain intake were protective. Susceptibility loci were not retained in the final model. The derived model showed adequate calibration (Hosmer-Lemeshow P = .426) and strong discrimination (AUC = 0.969), with an optimal cutoff of 0.403 yielding 94.7% sensitivity and 93.2% specificity; bootstrap validation indicated stable performance. This model may support risk stratification and targeted surveillance among H. pylori-positive patients.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Chondrosarcoma is a common bone sarcoma in adults with limited therapeutic options due to frequent chemoresistance. Cisplatin (CDDP) is a key chemotherapeutic agent, but resistance often develops. This study investigated the role and mechanism of circular RNA HMGB2 (circHMGB2) in cisplatin resistance of chondrosarcoma. Clinically, circHMGB2 was upregulated in chondrosarcoma tumors and associated with cisplatin resistance and poor patient survival. Functionally, exogenous overexpression of circHMGB2 elevated cisplatin resistance in chondrosarcoma cells (SW1353, OUMS-27) in vitro, while its silencing re-sensitized resistant cells. Mechanistically, circHMGB2 did not function as a miRNA sponge but acted as a competitive molecular decoy for the RNA-binding protein IGF2BP1. We demonstrated that circHMGB2 directly binds IGF2BP1, competitively impairing IGF2BP1's binding to and stabilization of Grb10 mRNA, leading to its destabilization and subsequent downregulation of Grb10 protein. This suppression of Grb10, a known negative regulator of the PI3K/Akt pathway, resulted in constitutive Akt phosphorylation, driving resistance. Crucially, co-overexpression of IGF2BP1 rescued circHMGB2-induced Grb10 downregulation, Akt activation, and cisplatin resistance, validating the decoy mechanism. Furthermore, in a cisplatin-resistant xenograft model, silencing circHMGB2 synergized with cisplatin to significantly inhibit tumor growth, improve host survival, and upregulate intratumoral Grb10 while suppressing Akt phosphorylation. Our results delineate a novel circHMGB2/IGF2BP1/Grb10/Akt axis that drives cisplatin resistance in chondrosarcoma. Targeting circHMGB2 could therefore serve as a promising therapeutic strategy to overcome chemoresistance and enhance treatment efficacy.
Polygenic scores (PGSs) stratify disease risk but often fail to capture individual variation. "Misaligned" individuals, whose observed phenotypes deviate from their genetically expected values based on PGS, provide a powerful model for identifying factors beyond common-variant effects, including additional genetic factors. Here, we apply misalignment classification and enrichment testing frameworks to seven continuous traits and three diseases, assessing whether misaligned individuals in the UK Biobank are enriched for rare (minor-allele frequency [MAF] <0.1%) damaging genetic variation. We identified significant enrichment of predicted loss-of-function (pLoF) variants in COPB2 and GORAB among individuals with lower-than-expected bone mineral density. Regarding stature, shorter-than-expected individuals were enriched for pLoF variants in ACAN and IGF1, while taller-than-expected individuals showed enrichment for damaging missense variants in FBN1. Transitioning from validation to discovery, we performed an exome-wide scan for genes associated with misalignment and identified 74 significant genes, including KANK1, a gene which may have a protective role against primary ovarian insufficiency, and ACSL6, a lipid metabolism gene where damaging missense variation was associated with lower-than-expected BMI. For diseases, results supported a liability threshold model involving counteracting common and rare variant effects. Diagnosed type 2 diabetes mellitus patients with rare pathogenic variants in HNF1A and HNF4A possessed significantly lower polygenic risk than those without. Conversely, coronary artery disease controls harboring protective ANGPTL3 variants had nominally higher polygenic risk. This study highlights the power of misalignment-based analyses in complex continuous phenotypes and disease with the potential to validate known genetic contributors to traits and identify previously unassociated genes.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Egg-laying performance varies significantly among different chicken breeds. The liver, as the central organ responsible for yolk precursor synthesis, largely determines the egg production performance of poultry. However, the underlying genetic basis of these phenotypic differences remains poorly understood. In this study, we systematically compared the transcriptomic differences and dynamic changes in three-dimensional (3D) genome organization in the livers of a high-producing commercial breed (White Leghorn) and a low-producing indigenous breed (Wenchang chicken) during the laying period. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that significantly upregulated genes in White Leghorns were highly enriched in lipid metabolism-related pathways, including CPT1A, ACSL1, ACACB, ACOX1, EHHADH, DHCR7, and SQLE, whereas highly expressed genes in Wenchang chickens were mainly enriched in pathways such as the ribosome. 3D genomic analysis demonstrated that although the global chromatin framework of the liver was relatively conserved between the two breeds, significant breed-specific remodeling occurred in local spatial organization. At the compartment level, key metabolic genes such as BBOX1 and GRB14 underwent B-to-A compartment switching and transcriptional activation in White Leghorns, which may be associated with their high laying trait. At the topologically associating domain (TAD) level, the livers of White Leghorns exhibited relatively weaker boundary insulation and a looser intra-domain folding state. Furthermore, the functional enrichment results of breed-specific TAD boundary genes were relatively consistent with the transcriptomic profiles. At the chromatin loop level, White Leghorns displayed stronger intra-loop spatial interactions. Critically, White Leghorn-specific chromatin loops precisely anchored and upregulated some key genes involved in lipid metabolism, such as ACSL1, ACOX1, and EHHADH, whereas Wenchang chicken-specific loops primarily drove the expression of ribosome-related genes. In summary, this study reveals a close correlation between the dynamic changes in the 3D chromatin structure and the transcription differences in the livers of the two chicken breeds, and these differences may be linked to egg production performance. These findings provide new insights into the genetic basis underlying the liver's role in regulating poultry laying performance.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Asthma is a chronic respiratory disease affecting over 230 million people worldwide, with higher prevalence in women. Environmental allergens such as house dust mite (HDM) trigger airway inflammation and hyperresponsiveness (AHR), yet the epigenetic mechanisms underlying these responses remain poorly understood. Furthermore, the role of estrogen receptors in the context of asthma is understudied. We aimed to investigate whether estrogen receptor-specific DNA methylation contributes to HDM-induced airway remodeling and hyperresponsiveness. Male and female C57BL/6J wild-type mice and estrogen receptor α and β knockout mice (Esr1-/- and Esr2-/-) were exposed to HDM or phosphate-buffered saline for 5 wk. DNA methylation and RNA sequencing data were obtained from snap-frozen whole lung tissues. HDM exposure resulted in widespread differential methylation of genes associated with inflammation and AHR, including Itgal, Tmem267, Rap1b, Bmf, Mid1, Fgd1, Ddx4, Comtd1, Filip1l, Grb10, and Chst7. Notably, the absence of estrogen receptor β (in Esr2-/- mice) produced the most pronounced methylation patterns, particularly in females. Pathway enrichment analysis revealed asthma-relevant processes such as extracellular matrix remodeling, leukocyte adhesion and migration, airway smooth muscle contraction, and inflammatory signaling. Integration of methylation and gene expression data confirmed significant correlations (P < 0.05) for Itgal, Rap1b, and Tmem267, and a marginal correlation for Chst7 (P < 0.1), implicating these genes in allergic asthma pathogenesis. Our findings demonstrate that HDM exposure induces sex-specific epigenetic changes mediated by estrogen receptor status, highlighting a potential mechanism for increased asthma susceptibility in women. These results can inform estrogen receptor-targeted treatment strategies for allergic airway diseases.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Understanding estrogen receptor-mediated epigenetic regulation provides a foundation for developing sex-specific interventions for asthma, addressing the higher prevalence and severity observed in women. In this study, we demonstrate that exposure to house dust mite in the mouse lung is associated with epigenetic alterations in genes linked to airway hyperresponsiveness and lung inflammation. These alterations were dependent on the presence or absence of estrogen receptors.
Cullin7 (CUL7) mediates cancer progression across multiple cancer types through its regulatory role in protein ubiquitination. However, the biological function and molecular mechanisms underlying CUL7 in colon cancer remain poorly defined. Here, we demonstrate that high CUL7 expression correlates with poor prognosis in patients. Ablation of CUL7 inhibited cell proliferation and migration in colon cancer cells, whereas CUL7 overexpression exhibited oncogenic properties. Moreover, Cul7-deplete mice exhibit a lower level of tumor growth. Mechanistically, CUL7 interacts with Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (KEAP1) and catalyzes K29- and K48-linked polyubiquitination to promote its proteasomal degradation, which is crucial for NRF2 signaling. This leads to the decline of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and promotion of cancer growth. Importantly, the C-terminus of CUL7 is a crucial for governing KEAP1 stability and orchestrating antioxidant defense and cell growth. Clinical analysis identifies an inverse correlation between CUL7 and KEAP1 expression, and a positive correlation between CUL7 and NRF2 levels in human colon cancer. Our findings indicate that CUL7 mediates NRF2 signaling through promoting the KEAP1 ubiquitination, a mechanism that is integral to colon cancer progression. Collectively, these results establish CUL7 as a potential therapeutic target for colon cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Obesity is associated with insulin resistance, a major risk factor for type 2 diabetes (T2D), yet the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely defined. We hypothesized that elevated transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGFβ1) level is associated with impaired insulin sensitivity.Using primary hepatocytes, and mouse models with hepatic TGFβ1 overexpression or hepatic TGFβ1 signaling disruption, we examined the impact of TGFβ1 signaling on hepatic insulin signaling and glucose metabolism. We performed bulk RNA sequencing of liver samples identify potential mediator of obesity-induced insulin resistance. Immunoprecipitation, in vitro kinase assay, and mass-spec assay were used to explore the mechanisms underlying TGFβ1-induced insulin receptor substrate (IRS1) degradation. We further evaluated the therapeutic potential of targeting TGFβ1 signaling to improve glycemic control using the TGFβ1 signaling inhibitor LY2157299.Prolonged TGFβ1 exposure markedly reduced IRS1 protein abundance and impaired insulin-stimulated Akt activation in hepatocytes. Hepatic TGFβ1 overexpression exacerbated insulin resistance, whereas hepatic TGFβ1 signaling disruption improved insulin sensitivity by increasing IRS1 protein abundance. Mechanistically, TGFβ1 signaling increased Cullin 7 (CUL7) expression and promoted IRS1 phosphorylation at serine 685, leading to ubiquitin-dependent IRS1 degradation. Pharmacological inhibition of TGFβ1 signaling by LY2157299 improved insulin sensitivity in both lean and diabetic db/db mice.These findings identify TGFβ1 as a key driver of hepatic insulin resistance by promoting CUL7-dependent IRS1 degradation, establishing a mechanistic link between obesity-associated cytokine signaling and impaired insulin action and highlighting the TGFβ1-CUL7-IRS1 axis as a potential therapeutic target for T2D.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chinese Simmental cattle are a high-quality breed developed through long-term crossbreeding and selection after their introduction into China and have become the main dual-purpose cattle population in the Xinjiang region. To deeply dissect the population structure, characteristics of the population structure, and the genetic basis of the twinning trait, this study focused on Xinjiang Chinese Simmental cattle as the main research subject. It integrated genomic data from global public databases to systematically conduct population structure analysis, genetic relationship analysis, and genome-wide selection signature analysis. Population genetic analysis revealed that the IBS matrix and G matrix indicated that some individuals from different geographical origins exhibited distant genetic relationships; the Xinjiang population showed the fastest LD decay, suggesting abundant genetic diversity; the inbreeding coefficient based on Runs of Homozygosity (ROH) across populations ranged from 0.036 to 0.063; principal component analysis and phylogenetic tree showed that some individuals from different geographical origins had certain genetic interconnections; admixture analysis indicated that K = 5 was the optimal model, with each population exhibiting clear genetic differentiation and admixture characteristics. Furthermore, by combining Fst and θπ analysis (comparing the Xinjiang population with other geographical populations), a total of 89 candidate genes associated with the twinning trait in Xinjiang Chinese Simmental cattle were screened, including CYP19A1, HORMAD1, GRB14, CADM2, CXCR4, and others that have been reported to be closely related to oogenesis and reproductive function. In summary, this study explores genome-wide genetic differences among Simmental cattle populations from different regions, deepens our understanding of their population structures, and offers new candidate genes and molecular markers for high-fecundity breeding in Simmental cattle.
Tensin2 (TNS2) is a focal adhesion-associated protein that can negatively regulate insulin/insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) signaling, but its role in skeletal muscle regeneration remains unclear. To address this, we analyzed a TNS2-related immunoreactive signal detected with an anti-phospho-TNS2 (Tyr483) antibody during C2C12 myogenic differentiation and in a cardiotoxin (CTX)-induced tibialis anterior (TA) injury model, and assessed regeneration in Tns2nph mutant mice. Under basal conditions, Tns2nph mice showed no obvious abnormalities in muscle histology, myofiber size, or phosphorylation of Akt and p70 ribosomal protein S6 kinase (p70S6K), a canonical downstream effector of mTORC1 signaling, compared with wild-type (WT) mice, although the soleus muscle/body weight ratio was slightly increased. In C2C12 cells, the anti-phospho-TNS2 (Tyr483)-reactive signal was stronger during proliferation than during differentiation. In vivo, this signal increased transiently during the early phase of CTX-mediated regeneration. After injury, Tns2nph mice showed a greater number of centrally nucleated fibers at day 4, larger myofibers at day 7, and a higher TA muscle/body weight ratio at day 15. In addition, phosphorylation of p70S6K was increased in regenerating muscle in Tns2nph mice. These findings suggest that TNS2-related signaling may act as a context-dependent modulator of regenerative myofiber growth, possibly through augmented anabolic signaling during early regeneration.
IntroductionUrological cancers, including prostate, renal, and bladder cancers, present significant challenges to human health, particularly for patients in advanced stages due to limited targeted therapy options, high drug resistance, and poor prognosis. This study seeks to systematically identify new therapeutic targets by integrating multi-omics data and elucidating their molecular mechanisms.MethodsOur methodology involved a multi-phase integrative approach to identify therapeutic targets in urological cancers. We conducted a transcriptome-wide Mendelian randomization (TWMR) analysis using the druggable genome. We used cis-expression quantitative trait loci (cis-eQTL) data from the eQTLGen consortium (N = 31,684) as exposures and GWAS summary statistics from FinnGen R11 and Open GWAS as outcomes. Significant genes were identified through Bonferroni correction, followed by colocalization analysis to assess shared genetic effects between risk SNPs and gene expression. Summary-data-based MR (SMR) analysis was carried out using eQTLGen data. Validation of potential targets included drug prediction using DSigDB and molecular docking with AutoDock Vina. Furthermore, we integrated DNA methylation quantitative trait loci (mQTL) data from GoDMC to explore methylation-mediated regulatory mechanisms through mediation MR analysis.ResultsOur transcriptome-wide MR analysis identified 11 high-confidence therapeutic targets in urological cancers: 4 in prostate cancer (BNIP2, KAT5, MMP24, SIK2), 2 in renal cancer (GRB10, GPR17), and 5 in bladder cancer (CELSR1, GPS1, PROC, GSTM1, KLC3). Molecular docking confirmed favorable interactions between these targets and existing drugs. Epigenetic analyses showed DNA methylation-mediated regulation of key targets: PROC (cg09747827) and CELSR1 (cg00784671) in bladder cancer, and SIK2 (cg11344533) in prostate cancer.ConclusionsThis study integrates multi-omics data to identify 11 high-confidence therapeutic targets in urological cancers and is the first to elucidate DNA methylation-mediated regulatory mechanisms for targets like PROC and SIK2. The findings introduce a "DNA methylation-gene expression" axis-based strategy for combined targeted-epigenetic therapy, providing crucial evidence for optimizing precision treatment in urological oncology.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) and major depressive disorder (MDD) frequently co-occur, yet the shared biological mechanisms underlying this comorbidity remain poorly understood. Increasing evidence suggests that metabolic dysregulation may represent a critical link between tumor progression and depressive phenotypes.An integrative strategy combining metabolomics, bioinformatic analyses, and experimental validation was employed. Untargeted metabolomic profiling of brain and tumor tissues was performed in a well-established TNBC-MDD mouse model induced by 4 T1 tumor-bearing. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified from datasets of MDD (GEO) and TNBC (TCGA), followed by intersection analysis focusing on glutamine metabolism- and tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle-related genes. Key genes were validated by qRT-PCR and WB in both brain and tumor tissues, while candidate therapeutic agents were predicted using a drug-gene interaction network.Metabolomic analysis revealed significant depletion of glutamine-related metabolites and adenosine in the TNBC-MDD comorbidity model. Transcriptomic bioinformatic analyses identified 21 DEGs shared by TNBC and MDD. Among these DEGs, those associated with core metabolic pathways were highlighted: GLDC and PYCR3 were consistently upregulated, whereas PID1 exhibited downregulation. qRT-PCR and WB validation confirmed aberrant expression of GLDC, PYCR3, and PID1 in both brain and tumor tissues. Drug prediction analysis identified several candidate compounds, including valproic acid, with potential dual therapeutic relevance for TNBC and MDD.GLDC, PYCR3, and PID1 were identified as key metabolic regulators underlying the co-occurrence of TNBC and MDD. Their coordinated dysregulation may drive glutamine and TCA cycle reprogramming, which links peripheral malignancy to central mood dysfunction, providing a foundation for integrated therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Enteral feeding intolerance is a frequent and clinically significant complication in patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI), yet its mechanisms remain poorly understood and predictive tools are lacking. We investigated a prospective study to determine whether elevated circulating glucagon-like peptide-1(GLP-1) is associated with feeding intolerance after TBI and to assess its predictive utility.A prospective cohort study in a tertiary neuro-ICU including 109 adults aged 18-80 years with TBI was conducted. A standardised enteral feeding strategy targeted 25 kcal/kg/d and was adjusted according to tolerance. Participants were classified by average caloric adequacy over 14 days: tolerance (≥70% of goal) vs intolerance (<70%). Blood was sampled during post-injury day (PID) windows 1-3, 4-7, 8-10, and 11-14. Longitudinal trajectories of circulating GLP-1, insulin, glucose, and glial fibrillary acidic protein. The Primary outcome was feeding intolerance within 14 days. Associations of biomarkers with feeding intolerance were evaluated, and discrimination was quantified using multivariable logistic regression and receiver operating characteristic analysis.Insulin (P = 0.49) and glucose (P = 0.47) did not differ between intolerance (n = 50) and tolerance (n = 59) groups, whereas GLP-1 was higher in the intolerance group (P = 0.024). GLP-1 increased with injury severity (P = 0.034) and was greatest in patients with GCS 3-5 vs 6-12 (P < 0.001). GLP-1 correlated with glial fibrillary acidic protein over 14 days (r = 0.259; P < 0.001); intestinal permeability markers did not differ between groups. In multivariable models, GLP-1 at PID8-10 (OR, 1.029; P = 0.001), IL-6 at PID8-10 (OR, 1.033; P = 0.035), insulin at PID1-3 (OR, 1.025; P = 0.006), and admission SOFA score (OR, 1.646; P = 0.023) were independently associated with feeding intolerance. Combining insulin at PID1 and SOFA offered early risk stratification (AUC, 0.786; 95% CI, 0.693-0.879; P < 0.001; specificity 71.4%; sensitivity 75%).Elevated plasma GLP-1 levels are associated with enteral feeding intolerance in patients with TBI. These findings are hypothesis-generating and suggest that altered GLP-1 signalling may contribute to feeding intolerance.We propose that disrupted central GLP-1 signalling diminishes afferent satiety input and efferent anorexigenic output, yielding central GLP-1 resistance with secondary GLP-1 accumulation in plasma; higher circulating GLP-1 may therefore indicate central GLP-1 resistance in TBI and associate with FI. Elevated circulating GLP-1 may serve as a pragmatic predictor of feeding intolerance after TBI and could inform feeding strategies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd and European Society for Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism. All rights reserved.
This experiment was conducted to investigate the effects of mulberry leaf powder (MLP) on alleviating fatty liver hemorrhagic syndrome (FLHS) in laying hens. A total of 180 healthy 33-week-old Hy-Line Gray laying hens were randomly assigned to 3 groups, with 6 replicates per group and 10 chickens per replicate, and fed a basal diet (CON), high-energy-low-protein (HELP) diet (FLHS), and HELP + 5% MLP diet (MLP), respectively. The experiment lasted 56 days. Results showed that the HELP diet successfully induced FLHS, characterized by an increased liver index, hepatic steatosis, and oxidative stress (P < 0.05). MLP significantly alleviated FLHS-induced hepatic steatosis, and enhanced antioxidant capacity (superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, total antioxidant capacity, and glutathione) in serum and liver (P < 0.05). Transcriptomic analysis identified 102 differentially expressed genes, whose expression was increased by FLHS but reversed by MLP, including SREBF1, SLC27A4, PLIN2, ACOT13, APOA4, GLRX, and MSRB1, which mainly participate in lipid droplet dynamics and redox homeostasis. qRT-PCR confirmed that upregulated expression of lipogenic genes (such as FASN, ACACA, SCD, and ELOVL6) and the downregulated expression of oxidative stress-responsive genes (SOD1 and GPX1) in the FLHS group were normalized by MLP (P < 0.05), accompanied by increased expression of PPARα, CPT1A, and CD36 (P<0.05). 16S rRNA sequencing revealed that MLP reduced the abundance of Desulfovibrio, Rikenellaceae_RC9_gut_group, Intestinimonas, and Shuttleworthia, and enriched Faecalibacterium and Bifidobacterium in the cecum of FLHS laying hens (P < 0.05). Furthermore, MLP increased acetate, propionate, and butyrate levels, and decreased isobutyrate and isovalerate levels (P < 0.05). Correlation analysis showed that cecal acetate, propionate, butyrate, Faecalibacterium and Bifidobacterium were positively correlated with hepatic antioxidant enzyme activities (P < 0.05), and negatively correlated with hepatic lipogenic gene expression, hepatic lipid deposition and oxidative stress markers (P < 0.05). These findings indicated that MLP alleviated hepatic lipid metabolism disorders and oxidative stress in FLHS laying hens, which might be achieved by modulating gut microbiota structure and short-chain fatty acid production.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In this study, an exploratory transcriptomic investigation was conducted to evaluate the feasibility of using feather transcriptomics to detect sex differences and gene responses to physiological changes in chickens. Feathers represent a promising non-invasive biological source of RNA, as the feather pulp of growing feathers contains living cells capable of active transcription. Growing feathers were collected from 150-day-old male and female chickens (Bionda Piemontese, a slow-growing breed) raised under a free-range system and fed two finisher diets differing in lipid content: low-lipid (LL, ether extract 3.6%) and high-lipid (HL, ether extract 9.3%) diets. RNA was extracted from feather pulp, and 12 pools were subjected to whole RNA-Seq analysis. The study was designed as 2 × 2 factorial experiments investigating the effects of diet and sex on gene expression. A total of 17,360 transcripts were detected and used for downstream analyses. Differential gene expression and functional enrichment analyses were performed. The main effects of diet and sex were estimated with an additive design using the DEseq2 package, while for the sex-specific diet analyses, subgroup comparisons were conducted on the RaNA-Seq platform. The analysis of the main effect of diet reveals that three genes associated with ether lipid metabolism (PLA2G10, PLA2G4F, and ENPP6) were upregulated in chickens fed the HL diet. In roosters, HL feeding significantly altered the expression of APOA1 and SLC27A4, suggesting an effect on lipid transport and metabolic regulation within the PPAR signaling pathway. In contrast, hens showed differential expression primarily in pathways related to apelin signaling, extracellular matrix remodeling, and cardiovascular function, rather than classical lipid metabolism pathways; additionally, gene set enrichment analysis indicated a limited enrichment of linoleic acid metabolism, suggesting secondary involvement of lipid metabolic processes. These findings are consistent with those in the literature reporting sex-related differences between males and females. The results further suggest that transcriptomic responses to dietary lipid supplementation can be investigated through the expression of selected candidate genes in feather pulp. Among the genes identified, PLA2G10, PLA2G4F, ENPP6, APOA1, and SLC27A4 emerged as potential molecular markers associated with dietary treatment, and the importance of sex-dependent transcriptional responses was highlighted. In conclusion, this study demonstrates the potential of feather pulp as a viable source of RNA for transcriptomic analyses in live chickens, providing a minimally invasive alternative to conventional tissue sampling. These preliminary results also support the hypothesis that feathers represent a practical and ethically favorable tissue for future nutrigenomic and genetic improvement studies, ultimately supporting more sustainable poultry production.
Hirudin has natural anticoagulant and antitumor effects. This study aimed to investigate the effects of hirudin on bladder cancer cells and the regulation of the potential target PID1.Network pharmacology analyzed the intersecting targets of bladder cancer and hirudin drugs and performed drug-component-target association analysis. The IC50 value of hirudin in RT-112 and Scaber cells was determined by CCK8. Subsequently, 2 bladder cancer cells were treated at the IC50, and the inhibition rate of RT-112 and Scaber cells was detected using CCK8. Hirudin treatment combined with PID1 knockdown (PID1-KD) was performed to evaluate the regulatory effects of hirudin and PID1 on cell cycle progression, apoptosis, and AMPK-mTOR signaling.Network pharmacology was used to analyze the intersecting targets of bladder cancer and hirudin, in which PID1 functions as a key target. Hirudin inhibited the value-added of RT- 112 and Scaber cells while promoting the apoptosis of RT-112 and Scaber cells and regulating the cell cycle of RT-112 and Scaber cells; at the same time, hirudin increased the expression level of PID1 in bladder cancer cells, and activated AMPK-mTOR signaling at the molecular level. Knockdown of PID1 partially reversed the effects induced by hirudin.Our findings support hirudin as a potential anti-bladder cancer agent and suggest that its effects may be mediated by PID1-dependent modulation of the AMPK/mTOR pathway. Nevertheless, the study is limited by the lack of in vivo and clinical validation and by incomplete mechanistic verification.Hirudin exerted significant inhibitory effects on bladder cancer cells, and mechanistic assays demonstrated that these effects are at least partially mediated through PID1-dependent activation of the AMPK-mTOR signaling pathway.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Investigate FBXW8 expression levels in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), its biological roles and prognostic significance.Based on the analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus databases, the expression level of FBXW8 was investigated. The results were verified in clinical samples using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and immunohistochemistry (IHC). Functional experiments (Cell Counting Kit-8, wound healing, and Transwell) were conducted on Huh7 and MHCC-97 H cells. Immune infiltration and methylation status were also evaluated.FBXW8 was significantly overexpressed in HCC tissues across multiple cohorts (TCGA, GSE25097, GSE54236; all p < 0.001), with consistent validation by qPCR and IHC in clinical specimens. Elevated FBXW8 expression correlated with aggressive clinicopathological characteristics, specifically, advanced tumor-node-metastasis staging, poor histological grade, and higher alpha-fetoprotein levels (all p < 0.05). High FBXW8 expression was associated with worse overall survival (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.52, p = 0.024), with Progression-free interval (HR = 1.45, p = 0.013) also adversely affected. Receiver operating characteristic analysis demonstrated that FBXW8 had diagnostic value. The areas under the curve in the TCGA, GSE25097 and GSE54236 datasets were 0.875, 0.837 and 0.716, respectively. The in vitro functional experiments demonstrated that FBXW8 overexpression promoted cell proliferation, migration, and invasion (all p < 0.05). The FBXW8 expression was positively correlated with T helper cells (r = 0.342), while it was negatively correlated with dendritic cells (r = - 0.379). Promoter hypermethylation of FBXW8 was observed in HCC, with three CpG sites associated with prognosis.FBXW8 functions as a prognostic biomarker and promotes HCC progression, indicating its therapeutic potential.© 2026. The Author(s).
Differentiated cells maintain their identity through active mechanisms that suppress alternative cell fates, but disrupting these barriers can enhance direct reprogramming for organ repair. Among the regulators of cell fate stability, glycosylation-associated genes have emerged as barriers to cardiac reprogramming. Here we show that carbohydrate sulfotransferases are central fate-stabilizing regulators, with CHST7 acting through CD44 to control nuclear JUNB levels, chromatin binding, and downstream transcriptional activity. Integrated RNA-seq and ATAC-seq analyses reveal that CHST7 maintains open chromatin at JUNB- and CTCF-enriched loci while restricting accessibility at MEF2C-enriched regions, collectively reinforcing fibroblast identity and suppressing cardiac fate acquisition. We further identify PIP4K2C as a downstream effector whose inhibition enhances cardiac reprogramming efficiency and improves myocardial repair in vivo. These findings define a sulfotransferase-dependent barrier to cell fate conversion with therapeutic implications for heart regeneration.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to systematically characterize the genomic alteration landscape of phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase (PI4K) and phosphatidylinositol phosphate kinase (PIPK) family genes in solid tumors, assess the correlation of these alterations with patient clinical outcomes and the tumor immune microenvironment, and explore their potential as novel biomarkers or therapeutic targets.A retrospective analysis was conducted on whole-exome sequencing data from a cohort of 2,144 Chinese patients encompassing 18 solid tumor types. Genomic and transcriptomic data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) pan-cancer project were integrated to perform survival analysis, correlating genomic alterations, gene expression levels, and patient overall survival. Associations between these gene alterations and tumor mutational burden (TMB), microsatellite instability (MSI), and levels of tumor-infiltrating immune cells were also evaluated.We identified PI4K/PIPK alterations in 10.5% of 2,144 patients, with PIP4K2C amplification reaching 48%. While PI4K2B amplification and overexpression are consistently associated with poor prognosis in COAD, family-wide effects were highly heterogeneous across cancers. Alterations significantly correlated with higher TMB and MSI-H, and multi-omics analysis revealed tissue-specific immune landscapes, highlighting the family's potential for risk stratification and immunotherapy.This study provides the first systematic delineation of the genomic alteration landscape of PI4K and PIPK families at a pan-cancer scale within a Chinese population. It identifies PI4K2B as an amplification-driven prognostic biomarker in colorectal cancer, with potential clinical value analogous to HER2. These findings illuminate the significant roles of these kinases in cancer and provide novel insights for future precision oncology strategies.
Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is an autoimmune disease characterized by progressive β-cell destruction, yet current risk stratification tools, which rely mainly on genetic susceptibility and autoantibody profiles, remain insufficient for accurately predicting disease progression. We aimed to characterize macrophage-related inflammatory transcriptional activity in T1D and to develop peripheral blood-based biomarkers for diagnosis and risk stratification.We integrated bulk RNA-seq, single-cell RNA-seq, and spatial transcriptomic data from human islets with public and in-house peripheral blood transcriptomic datasets. Macrophage heterogeneity and remodeling trajectories were analyzed in the islet microenvironment, and machine learning was used to derive tissue- and blood-based proinflammatory macrophage-related genes (PMRG). Diagnostic and prognostic models were then constructed and validated in peripheral blood cohorts, including a longitudinal islet autoimmunity (IA) cohort. SHAP analysis was applied to improve model interpretability. Independent PBMC RT-qPCR and mouse pancreatic immunofluorescence were performed to validate selected PMRG-related genes.T1D islets showed marked immune remodeling with myeloid enrichment and five distinct macrophage subtypes. Pseudotime analysis identified a pro-inflammatory macrophage trajectory and 265 PMRGs, from which a 9-gene islet-derived PMRG (iPMRG) was obtained. Spatial transcriptomics supported the association of iPMRG-high macrophage signals with disrupted β-cell regions, and CellChat analysis inferred altered inflammatory communication programs. In peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), the iPMRG-based diagnostic classifier distinguished T1D from healthy controls with an optimism-corrected AUC of 0.736. For prognosis, a 15-gene prognostic PMRGs was used to construct a risk score that, when integrated with clinical variables, predicted progression from IA to clinical T1D with time-dependent AUCs of 0.825, 0.814, and 0.860 at 12, 36, and 60 months, respectively. SHAP analysis identified the PMRG risk score as the dominant predictor and highlighted six core driver genes (PID1, TFPI2, SERPINB2, SOX4, DUSP2, and MT1X). The computational findings were further supported by independent validation in PBMCs and mouse pancreatic tissues.Our study highlights the heterogeneous and dynamic nature of macrophage remodeling in the T1D islet microenvironment, which is translated into accessible peripheral blood signatures. The resulting diagnostic and prognostic models provide an interpretable framework for T1D risk stratification and may support future strategies for earlier detection and precision prevention.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Zhou, Li, Chen, Liu, Yang, Zhao, Su, Bian, Chen, Shen, Qin, Chen, Xu, Shi, Zhang, Yang and Gu.
Kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC) has a poor clinical prognosis, and its tumor progression and immunotherapy response are closely associated with genomic aberrations and immune microenvironment disorders. This study aimed to identify key prognostic biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets for KIRC via multi-omics integrative analysis and preliminary experimental validation.Multi-omics data including transcriptome, methylation, copy number variation (CNV), and immune infiltration data of KIRC were integrated from public databases, and further validated by single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), two-sample Mendelian randomization (TSMR), in silico gene knockout, and quantitative PCR (qPCR).Results demonstrated that CRHBP was a core downregulated prognostic biomarker in KIRC, with stage-dependent low expression and favorable survival predictive value (OS HR = 0.42, 95%CI: 0.395-0.45, P<0.05). ScRNA-seq revealed a compartmentalized CRHBP expression pattern and its differential regulation by immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) treatment and gender. TSMR confirmed the causal risk effect of testicular-derived UCN2 on KIRC, and UCN2 negatively correlated with tumor angiogenesis and hypoxia. Molecular docking screened dabrafenib as a promising candidate drug targeting CRHBP/UCN2 (binding affinity: -11.55/-17.23 kcal/mol). In silico knockout of CRHBP altered SRGN/TYROBP expression and inhibited cytokine production. QPCR verified decreased CRHBP expression in human KIRC tissues and elevated UCN2 expression in mouse KIRC tissues.The CRHBP-UCN2 axis critically regulates KIRC prognosis and immune microenvironment remodeling. CRHBP serves as a reliable prognostic biomarker and a potential anticancer peptide target, while dabrafenib is a promising therapeutic agent for KIRC.Copyright © 2026 Su, Jiang, Gao, Li, Cheng and Wang.
Esophageal cancer is a malignant tumor with extremely poor prognosis. Its developmental mechanisms remain incompletely elucidated. Altered lipogenesis plays a crucial role in tumor progression. However, the specific mechanisms by which TRIB3 regulates lipid accumulation in esophageal cancer remain unclear. This study aims to investigate how TRIB3-ATF4 interaction influences lipogenic enzyme expression and tumor progression through the ERK1/2 pathway in esophageal cancer.This study employed the esophageal cancer cell lines (TE5 and KYSE150) as a research model. We performed TRIB3 overexpression, knockdown, and ATF4 interaction analyses. These were combined with molecular biology techniques and functional assays (EdU, colony formation, migration, and invasion). Pharmacological inhibitors of ERK and FASN, alongside oleic acid (OA) rescue, validated the signaling and metabolic pathways.TRIB3 regulates fatty acid metabolism. TRIB3 knockdown suppresses fatty acid biosynthesis, cell growth, and migration. Mechanistically, TRIB3 interacts with ATF4 to activate the MEK/ERK pathway. FASN inhibition reverses TRIB3's oncogenic effects. Conversely, OA rescues the tumor-suppressive phenotypes of TRIB3 knockdown. Inhibition of the MEK/ERK pathway attenuates TRIB3-mediated lipid metabolism and progression.This study identifies TRIB3 as a key metabolic regulator in esophageal cancer. It links stress adaptation to lipogenic reprogramming. Targeting this metabolic vulnerability represents a promising therapeutic strategy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
TRIB3 is upregulated in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and associates with worse survival, yet targeted therapeutics remain lacking. Calcium phosphate (CaP) nanoparticles offer biocompatible, serum-stable delivery for siRNA therapy. Here, we developed CaP nanoparticles loading siRNA targeting TRIB3 (NPCaP/siTrib3) and evaluated antitumor efficacy and mechanisms in vitro and in vivo.NPCaP/siTrib3 was synthesized via biomineralization, and RNase resistance was verified by PAGE. Mouse KP-1 NSCLC cells were used for transfection, apoptosis (Annexin V/7-AAD), migration (scratch), invasion (Matrigel Transwell), qRT-PCR, and Western blot of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and stemness markers. C57BL/6 subcutaneous tumor models received tail-vein injections for efficacy and biosafety assessment.TRIB3 was significantly upregulated in NSCLC tissues compared with normal lung tissues and was associated with poorer overall survival. NPCaP/siTrib3 formed nanosheets with an average size of approximately 159.4 nm and exhibited a more negative zeta potential than bare CaP, indicating successful siRNA loading. The CaP shell effectively protected siTrib3 from RNase degradation. NPCaP/siTrib3 efficiently silenced TRIB3 protein expression in KP-1 cells, with gene knockdown efficacy comparable to Lipo8000 but with lower cytotoxicity. Functionally, NPCaP/siTrib3 significantly promoted apoptosis and inhibited cell migration and invasion. In vivo, intravenously administered NPCaP/siTrib3, which primarily accumulated in tumors through the enhanced permeability and retention (EPR) effect, markedly suppressed tumor growth without affecting body weight. Mechanistically, NPCaP/siTrib3 reversed EMT by upregulating E-cadherin and downregulating N-cadherin and Snail, and reduced cancer stemness by decreasing the expression of Sox2, Nanog, Pou5f1, Klf4, and c-Myc. Biosafety evaluations demonstrated negligible hemolysis, normal serum biochemistry and hematology, and no histopathological damage in major organs.NPCaP/siTrib3 is an effective and biocompatible siRNA nanoplatform that suppresses NSCLC progression through dual inhibition of EMT and cancer stemness, supporting TRIB3 as a promising therapeutic target.© 2026 Wu et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42492374 is a review article
Congenital muscular dystrophies (CMDs) are a genetically heterogeneous group of disorders. Variants in the INPP5K gene, which encodes a phosphoinositide phosphatase, are a rare cause of CMD. The condition is commonly associated with muscle weakness, early-onset cataracts, and intellectual disability, and prior reports have primarily identified missense, frameshift, or deletion variants. We describe the first Chinese case of INPP5K-related muscular dystrophy in a 28-year-old male with a mild phenotype, notably lacking intellectual disability. His presentation included bilateral cataracts at age 5 and adolescent onset limb girdle weakness. Muscle magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a characteristic pattern of selective fatty infiltration, with severe involvement of gluteal and thigh muscles and striking sparing of the rectus femoris, sartorius, and gracilis. Genetic analysis identified compound heterozygous novel INPP5K variants: a missense c.274C>T, p.(Arg92Cys) and a synonymous c.261G>A, p.(Lys87=) change. Functional studies confirmed the synonymous variant causes aberrant splicing (exon 3 skipping), leading to a frameshift and premature termination p.(Leu52SerfsTer49). According to American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics guidelines, the c.274C>T and c.261G>A variants were classified as likely pathogenic and pathogenic, respectively. This first report of a Chinese patient with INPP5K-related muscular dystrophy broadens both the genetic and clinical spectrum of the disorder. We identify the first disease-causing synonymous variant (via aberrant splicing) and a novel hypomorphic missense variant p.(Arg92Cys), the combination of which explains the attenuated phenotype lacking intellectual disability. Our case highlights the critical role of RNA analysis in diagnosing non-canonical variants and confirms the universal diagnostic relevance of the characteristic muscle MRI pattern.© 2026. Higher Education Press.
Ischemic stroke is the most prevalent form of stroke worldwide and remains a major cause of long-term disability. Impaired autophagic flux is a critical pathological mechanism that worsens neuronal injury after ischemia. This study aimed to elucidate the role of phosphatidylinositol-5-phosphate 4-kinase type II alpha (PIP4K2A) and its regulation of autophagy in cerebral ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury. Exploratory TMT-based serum proteomics identified PIP4K2Aas an elevated candidate protein in patients with acute ischemic stroke (AIS). Whole-blood RT-qPCR validation showed increased PIP4K2A mRNA in AIS patients and an association between higher PIP4K2A expression and lower NIHSS scores, although the small clinical cohort and peripheral sampling design preclude causal or tissue-origin conclusions. Using a transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO) mouse model and a primary neuronal oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R) model, we found that I/R injury markedly upregulated PIP4K2A expression in ischemic brain tissue and primary neurons. AAV-mediated PIP4K2A overexpression in vivo alleviated ischemic brain injury, preserved neuronal survival, reduced infarct volume, and improved long-term cognitive and motor functions, whereas PIP4K2A knockdown exacerbated these outcomes. In vitro, lentiviral-mediated PIP4K2A overexpression improved neuronal viability after OGD/R. Mechanistically, RNA-seq, co-immunoprecipitation, and mCherry-EGFP-LC3 tandem reporter analyses showed that PIP4K2A overexpression was associated with reduced TRIB3 mRNA and protein levels, decreased abundance of the stress-induced TRIB3-p62 complex, improved autophagic flux, and reduced autophagosomal accumulation. Concurrently, PIP4K2A-associated TRIB3 reduction was accompanied by enhanced AKT/mTOR signaling. These findings identify PIP4K2A as an endogenous protective regulator in cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injury and suggest that thePIP4K2A/TRIB3/p62 axis may represent a potential therapeutic target for ischemic stroke.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Excessive or inappropriate radiation can seriously harm organisms. Radiation-induced thymus injury (RITI) is a severe complication driven by dysregulated RNA networks. However, current studies have mostly focused on single non-coding RNAs or late pathological stages, and a complete competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) regulatory network had not been constructed. The thymus tissues of C57BL/6 mice exposed to 6 Gy X-ray radiation for 24 h were analyzed by RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) with library construction. We functionally annotated target messenger RNAs (mRNAs) and predicted long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) -targeted microRNAs (miRNAs) and miRNA-targeted mRNAs post-irradiation, to construct the lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA ceRNA regulatory axis. Furthermore, multiple experimental approaches including quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), western blotting, flow cytometry and CCK-8 cell viability assays were utilized to validate the involvement of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-Protein Kinase B (PKB or AKT) pathway. The results revealed that after irradiation, 6214 mRNAs, 160 miRNAs, and 1999 lncRNAs were significantly upregulated while 2676 mRNAs, 165 miRNAs, and 941 lncRNAs were considerably downregulated. The most significantly altered Gene Ontology (GO) terms were angiogenesis and ameboid cell migration (Biological Process, BP), actin cytoskeleton and cell-cell junctions (Cellular Component, CC), as well as actin binding and phospholipid binding (Molecular Function, MF). A total of 333 cellular functions mediated by phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome ten (PTEN) exhibited significant alterations, whereas 175 cellular functions regulated by 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase 1 (PDPK1) showed substantial changes. Key biological pathways, including cancer-associated pathways, the PI3K-AKT signaling pathway, the human papillomavirus infection pathway, the focal adhesion pathway, the Rap1 signaling pathway, and the cardiomyocyte calcium signaling pathway, were uncovered through Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis. Based on the results of both GO enrichment analysis and KEGG pathway analysis, a consistent conclusion was drawn that RITI was closely associated with the PI3K-AKT signaling pathway. So the PI3K-AKT pathway was selected for experimental validation, which confirmed that it was a key regulatory pathway for thymic degeneration in RITI. A lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA ceRNA axis of RITI was successfully developed in a mouse model after irradiation. The PI3K-AKT pathway contributes to preventing radiation-induced cell death in RITI, and the differentially expressed RNAs in the initial stage of this injury may result in serious consequences.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is a common and highly lethal malignancy. Tribbles pseudokinase 3 (TRIB3) has been reported to exert oncogenic roles in the pathogenesis of multiple tumors; nevertheless, the detailed mechanisms through which TRIB3 drives RCC development remain largely undefined. In this study, qPCR and Western blot were used to quantify the levels of TRIB3, STIP1 homology and U-box containing protein 1 (STUB1), and activating transcription factor 2 (ATF2). Cell proliferation, invasion, stemness, and angiogenic capacity were assessed by MTT assay, flow cytometry, Transwell invasion assay, sphere-formation assay, and tube-formation assay, respectively. The interaction between TRIB3 and STUB1 was examined by co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), and the relationship between TRIB3 and ATF2 was verified using dual-luciferase reporter assays. A xenograft model was employed to evaluate the tumorigenic potential of RCC cells upon STUB1 overexpression. The study found that TRIB3 expression was markedly elevated in RCC. Knockdown of TRIB3 profoundly inhibited cell proliferation, invasion, migration, and stem-like properties, while simultaneously inducing apoptosis and promoting ferroptosis. TRIB3 physically interacted with STUB1 and was poly-ubiquitinated and degraded by this E3 ligase; consequently, STUB1 overexpression suppressed RCC progression both in vitro and in vivo by targeting TRIB3. Conversely, ATF2 transcriptionally activated TRIB3 expression, and enforced TRIB3 expression partially rescued the inhibitory effects of ATF2 knockdown in RCC cells. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that TRIB3 drives RCC progression; STUB1 curbs RCC by degrading TRIB3, whereas ATF2 promotes RCC via transcriptional activation of TRIB3. Thus, modulating TRIB3 expression may offer a novel therapeutic strategy for RCC.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Human Cell Society.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is a global liver disorder with a rising incidence. Early-to-middle-stage MASLD remains amenable to clinical intervention; without timely management, it may progress to fibrosis and cirrhosis. Therefore, identifying novel targets through integrated multi-technical approaches is critical for preventing and treating MASLD.We developed an integrative multi-omics and spatial proteomic strategy combined with in vitro validation. CyTOF was applied to high-dimensional immunophenotyping of the MASLD liver microenvironment. Key cell populations were then sorted accordingly for mass spectrometry to uncover their core signaling. Focusing on identified key amino acid metabolic enzymes, we performed IMC for spatial single-cell proteomic profiling to localize metabolic aberrant subsets. Finally, functional phenotypes and mechanisms were validated in cell models.CyTOF revealed significant expansion of myeloid-derived cells. Thus, by targeting myeloid-derived cells, proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses identified two severely impaired amino acid metabolic pathways: the glycine metabolic pathway regulated by AGXT2 and the proline metabolic pathway regulated by PYCR3. We then focused on AGXT2 and PYCR3 for spatial exploration via IMC and ultimately identified a macrophage subset negative for both AGXT2 and PYCR3. These macrophages were significantly elevated within MASLD and exhibited high spatial colocalization with inflammatory cells and fibrotic cells. Compared with dysregulated M1 subsets (M1-C3), dysregulated M2 subsets (M2-C1) indicated stronger pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic potential. In vitro models using human and murine cells confirmed that AGXT2⁻PYCR3⁻ macrophages exhibited enhanced proliferation and migration, secreted higher levels of inflammatory cytokines, chemokines, and classic fibrotic proteins, and exerted strong inductive effects on hepatic fibrotic cells, with downregulation of intercellular GSH. Mechanistically, the NF-κB and MAPK/AP-1 pathways were involved in inflammatory responses, while the p-SMAD3(T8)/TGFβ pathway contributed to the fibrotic phenotype. However, the abnormal biological functions could be effectively rescued by supplementation with corresponding amino acids, accompanied by the reversal of aberrant signaling pathway activation.In summary, our study explores an initial link between amino acid metabolism and early-to-middle-stage MASLD. AGXT2⁻PYCR3⁻ macrophages are significantly enriched in MASLD with pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic potential, and amino acid supplementation can rescue their aberrant phenotypes in vitro, warranting further validation of their treatment potential.© 2026. The Author(s).
Breast cancer (BC) is closely linked to coronary heart disease (CHD), yet the genetic causal relationship and common driving mechanism between the two have not been fully elucidated. The purpose of this study is to infer the causal relationship between BC and CHD at the genetic level and identify the cross-omic molecular characteristics of them through the integrated analysis of multiple genomics. Firstly, large-scale Genome Wide Association Study (GWAS) data were used for bidirectional Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis. Secondly, multi-center transcriptome data were integrated and combined with differential expression analysis (DEGs) and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) to screen for key comorbidity genes. Univariate, Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO), and multivariate Cox regression analyses were used to construct a prognostic model. The Benjamin Hochberg method was used for False Discovery Rate (FDR) correction. Finally, molecular pathways were explored through Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), and key genes were validated using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) in independent clinical samples. MR analysis revealed a significant positive correlation between BC and CHD in Asian populations (OR = 1.095, 95% CI: 1.005-1.192, P = 0.037). However, no significant association was observed in European populations. Transcriptome analysis identified a prognostic risk score composed of 5 CHD-related genes (HES1, MLPH, TRIB3, HSPBP1, and STARD3), which can independently predict the prognosis of BC patients. GSEA analysis indicated that the comorbidity mechanism involved dysregulation of cell cycle, immune inflammation, and metabolism-related pathways. qRT-PCR verification confirmed that compared with patients with BC, the expression levels of HES1, TRIB3, HSPBP1, and STARD3 in the peripheral blood of BC combined with CHD patients were significantly upregulated (P < 0.05). This study established for the first time the genetic causal relationship between BC and CHD in Asian populations, and revealed the inflammation-immune-metabolism molecular axis mediating comorbidities. The identified key genes not only serve as biomarkers for BC prognosis, but also provide a new perspective for understanding the pathological mechanisms and precise diagnosis and treatment of tumor cardiovascular comorbidities.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Intestinal stem cell number or their regeneration ability is crucial for attaining mucosal healing. Deciphering the molecular mechanisms responsible for the impairment of intestinal stem cells in inflammatory bowel disease could yield innovative therapeutic insights. Altered bile acid metabolism is a hallmark feature of inflammatory bowel disease, typically characterized by elevated fecal levels of primary bile acids, such as glycocholic acid. However, the relationship between glycocholic acid and inflammatory bowel disease remains unclear. Here, we report that glycocholic acid accelerates inflammatory bowel disease progression through downregulating TRIB3 expression to disrupt intestinal stem cells self-renewal. TRIB3 is highly expressed in crypt cells and sustains intestinal epithelial stemness by preventing ID1 palmitoylation and AP3D1-mediated lysosomal degradation. Glycocholic acid is found to suppress TRIB3-ID1 axis, thereby compromising intestinal epithelium integrity. Notably, we identify Bergenin, a natural compound, as a potential therapeutic agent against inflammatory bowel disease via upregulating TRIB3. These findings highlight the TRIB3-ID1 axis as a promising therapeutic target for inflammatory bowel disease therapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Secondary lymphedema is a debilitating complication following oncologic surgery, characterized by progressive tissue fibrosis and chronic inflammation. Although transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) has been established as a central mediator of fibrotic remodeling, the broader interplay between pro-inflammatory cytokines and downstream fibrotic signaling cascades in post-surgical lymphedematous tissue remains poorly understood.Skin and subcutaneous tissue biopsies were prospectively collected from 126 patients with unilateral breast cancer-related lymphedema and 58 matched controls across three tertiary centers between January 2024 and December 2025. Tissue specimens were analyzed using immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time PCR, multiplex cytokine profiling, and Western blotting. Correlations between cytokine expression, fibrotic markers, and clinical severity were evaluated.Lymphedematous tissues exhibited significantly elevated expression of TGF-β1, interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-13 (IL-13), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) compared with controls (all P < 0.01). Concurrent activation of Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling pathways was observed, with both correlating positively with disease severity. Multivariate regression identified TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 as independent predictors of fibrotic burden, whereas TNF-α lost significance after adjustment for confounders. Lymphatic vessel density was inversely associated with cytokine levels and fibrotic severity.Secondary upper extremity lymphedema following breast cancer surgery is driven by a coordinated inflammatory and fibrotic axis involving TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 through convergent Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling. These findings support the development of multi-pathway therapeutic strategies beyond single-agent anti-fibrotic approaches for post-surgical lymphedema.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Systemic sclerosis is an autoimmune fibrotic skin disease characterised by immune activation and fibrosis. Fibroblasts are at the core of this fibrotic process, differentiating into effector myofibroblasts; however, the drivers of this process remain obscure. Recently, metabolic changes in cells in fibrotic diseases have been uncovered, with changes in the TCA cycle and glycolysis being observed.The objective of this work was to elucidate the role of the glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) in systemic sclerosis.Serum from early diffuse systemic sclerosis (SSc) patients and healthy controls (HC) was collected for PKM2 analysis by ELISA. Fibroblasts were isolated from HC and SSc biopsies and treated with transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) to assess PKM2 expression. PKM2 was pharmacologically modulated, and collagen and Extracellular Matrix (ECM) regulators were evaluated. Metabolic activity was assessed using Seahorse assays, and lactate transport was chemically inhibited. Chromatin immunoprecipitation was performed using a histone lactylation-specific or isotype antibody, and lactate or acetate supplementation experiments were conducted.We found significantly elevated circulating and fibroblast PKM2 in SSc patients. Fibroblast PKM2 could be induced in healthy fibroblasts by TGF-β1 exposure. Furthermore, PKM2 drives a metabolic shift to glycolysis that can be blocked by forced tetramerisation of PKM2 from its dimeric form; this resulted in reduced ECM and matrix regulators. Mechanistically, PKM2-mediated glycolysis results in elevated lactate, which drives collagen via epigenetic regulation by histone H3K18 lactylation. Blockade of PKM2 dimerisation reduced Histone H3 at Lysine 18 (H3K18) lactylation at the collagen promoter, which could be restored with lactate but not acetate. We further demonstrated that lactate-induced collagen is partially mediated by HIF-1α.PKM2 drives activation of fibroblasts in SSc via metabolic changes such as glycolysis. Taking advantage of PKM2 tetramerisation or blockade of lactate generation could be a possible therapeutic option in a disease with few treatment options.Copyright © 2026 Steadman and O’Reilly.
Growth factor release from dentin and subsequent cellular response are critical in endodontic regeneration procedures. This study evaluated the effects of Nd: YAG (1064 nm) and diode lasers (980 nm, 635 nm) at varying energy densities on dentin morphology, Transforming Growth Factor-beta 1 release, and the biological response of stem cells to promote pulp regeneration in immature permanent teeth. Dentin blocks from extracted human teeth were treated with 1.5% NaOCl followed by pulsed Nd: YAG or continuous-wave diode lasers (average energy densities of 24, 60 and 120 J/cm2). Controls included 1.5% NaOCl/17% EDTA group and untreated samples. TGF-β1 release was quantified via ELISA. Cell viability (24-72 h), alkaline phosphatase activity (7 days), and surface morphology were assessed. One-way or two-way ANOVA with post-hoc tests were applied (p < 0.05). SEM analysis revealed that all lasers partially disrupted the smear layer and increased surface roughness, while SHED cells on laser-treated dentin showed flattened morphology with extended filopodia, indicating favorable cell-surface interactions. All laser groups significantly increased TGF-β1 release compared to the negative control (p < 0.05), with Nd: YAG at 60 J/cm² producing the highest levels, exceeding even the positive control (p < 0.05). Laser-treated specimens were non-cytotoxic and significantly increased ALP activity compared to the negative control (p < 0.001), with Nd: YAG at 60 J/cm² showing the highest activity, statistically higher than the NaOCl/EDTA positive control (p < 0.05). Low to moderate energy Nd: YAG and diode lasers enhanced TGF-β1 release and ALP activity without cytotoxicity, matching or exceeding EDTA treatment. Thus, laser-assisted dentin conditioning is a promising adjunctive strategy for regenerative endodontics.© 2026. The Author(s).
Naturally occurring isoforms of the proto-oncogene Erb-B2 Receptor Tyrosine Kinase 2 (ERBB2, HER2) incite unique pathways of tumor progression in mouse models of breast cancer. Although each isoform has been shown to progress to metastasis, the N-terminally truncated isoform (p95) was previously shown to be biased toward early distant dissemination prior to detection. Here we show how HER2 isoforms differentially promote go-or-grow phenotypes through biased utilization of tyrosine autophosphorylation sites in the intracellular tail of HER2. Fluorescently barcoded humanized full-length HER2 (WT), exon-16 splice HER2 isoform (d16), and p95 expressing tumor cell lines were derived from HER2 Crainbow mice, then utilized for a series of functional assays including proliferation, tumor growth rate, cell motility, collective cell migration, cellular morphology, and invasive potential. Quantitative analysis reveals biased tumor cell behaviors across each genotype. WT tumor cells are biased toward proliferation and collective migration, d16 cells are biased toward proliferation and individual motility, and p95 tumor cells are biased toward individual motility and invasion. Single cell analysis reveals a myogenic-like state transition in p95 cells accompanied by an increased nuclear translocation of the Myocardin Related Transcription Factor A (MRTFA). MRTFA knockdown, as well as knockdown of a downstream effector, Transforming growth factor beta 1 induced transcript 1 (TGFB1I1), both inhibit the p95 invasive phenotype. Furthermore, intracellular residue tyrosine 1139 (Y1139) is necessary for MRTFA translocation, and when edited in p95 cells (Y1139F) invasion and motility phenotypes are subsequently lost. Our data illustrate the importance of functionally selective signaling in HER2 and highlight the need for therapeutics that intercept metastasis by targeting HER2 biased signaling.
Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) and macrophages are key regulators of liver fibrosis, yet their direct communication during fibrogenesis remains incompletely characterized. We showed that genetic deletion of folate receptor beta (Folr2) significantly attenuated experimental liver fibrosis in mice. In both human and murine fibrotic livers, FOLR2+ macrophages are frequently juxtaposed with activated HSCs. Functionally, FOLR2 expressed by reparative, but not M1 or scar-associated, macrophages promotes HSC activation in a contact-dependent manner. Mechanistically, FOLR2 binds to transforming growth factor beta receptor II (TGFβRII) on HSCs, sustaining transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-β1) signaling and driving fibrogenesis. Finally, the natural compound fraxinellone targets FOLR2, disrupts its interaction with TGFβRII, and attenuates HSC activation and liver fibrosis. These findings identify the FOLR2-TGFβRII intercellular interaction as a critical mediator of macrophage-HSC crosstalk and highlight its disruption as a promising therapeutic strategy against liver fibrosis.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42530162 is a review article
Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a chronic and progressive respiratory disorder marked by aberrant activation of pulmonary fibroblasts and the occurrence of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in alveolar epithelial cells (AECs). This disease process is primarily driven by inflammation and oxidative stress (OS), leading to excessive deposition of the extracellular matrix (ECM). Current treatments provide limited efficacy and are associated with significant side effects. Leonurine and its sulfate derivative SCM198, derived from Herba Leonuri, exhibit anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. However, their therapeutic effects and mechanisms of action in PF remain poorly understood.Bleomycin (BLM) was delivered intratracheally to mice to establish a model of PF. Human Fetal Lung fibroblast-1 (HFL-1) fibroblasts and A549 AECs were subjected to transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) exposure for in vitro assays. This study comprehensively evaluated the effects of SCM198 on PF and explored its underlying molecular mechanisms through metabolomics analysis, western blotting, and additional biological techniques.SCM198 significantly ameliorated lung pathology and micro-Computed Tomography (CT) findings and reduced collagen deposition in BLM-treated mice. Furthermore, the levels of inflammatory markers and cytokines were decreased in lung tissue and Bronchoalveolar Lavage Fluid (BALF). In vitro, SCM198 inhibited fibroblast activation, EMT, and OS. It also down-regulated the TGF-β1/Smad2/3 pathway and activated the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) antioxidant pathway.The ameliorative action of SCM198 on BLM-induced pulmonary fibrosis is associated with suppression of the TGF-β1/Smad2/3 signaling axis and activation of Nrf2-mediated antioxidant defenses during the EMT process. However, further studies are needed to confirm the direct involvement of these pathways.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Periodontitis is a chronic infectious disease characterized by the progressive destruction of tooth-supporting tissues. Identifying reliable, noninvasive biomarkers is essential for improving early detection and monitoring. This cross-sectional case‒control study evaluated clinical periodontal parameters and quantified periostin and transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) levels in the saliva and gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) of patients with stage I-II periodontitis and periodontally healthy controls. A total of 60 systemically healthy, nonsmoking participants aged 20-60 years were included (30 periodontitis patients and 30 periodontally healthy controls). Clinical periodontal parameters, including the plaque index, gingival index, probing depth, and clinical attachment level, were recorded. GCF and saliva samples were analyzed using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Compared with periodontally healthy controls, stage I-II periodontitis patients had significantly greater numbers of clinical periodontal parameters (p < 0.001). They also had elevated salivary periostin (1,234.5 ± 505.82 ng/mL vs. 596.32 ± 320.47 ng/mL; p = 0.001), GCF TGF-β1 (10.14 ± 4.44 pg/mL vs. 6.50 ± 3.13 pg/mL; p = 0.003), and salivary TGF-β1 (31.59 ± 7.69 pg/mL vs. 20.25 ± 9.48 pg/mL; p = 0.001) levels. GCF periostin levels did not significantly differ between the periodontitis group (311.3 ± 210.3 ng/mL) and the periodontally healthy control group (208.6 ± 147.6 ng/mL) (p = 0.092). These findings suggest that salivary periostin and TGF-β1, together with GCF TGF-β1, may serve as promising noninvasive biomarkers for the diagnosis and monitoring of early-stage periodontitis. Salivary periostin showed particularly strong discriminatory potential and may hold promise for future chairside diagnostic applications.
Most drugs target proteins, and proteome-wide genetic analyses in diverse populations could discover potential novel and repurposed targets for improved prevention and treatment of ischemic heart disease (IHD) beyond statin therapy.The purposes of this study were to use cis-acting single nucleotide polymorphisms (cis-pQTLs) identified for plasma proteins in East Asians and Europeans to discover and validate potential drug targets for IHD.We measured plasma levels of 9,520 (Olink/SomaScan: 2,923/7,297) proteins in a case-cohort study of IHD (1,976 incident cases and 2,001 subcohort controls) in statin-free individuals in the prospective China Kadoorie Biobank (CKB). Genome-wide association studies identified 2,895 (Olink/SomaScan: 1,301/1,594) cis-pQTLs for these proteins in CKB. Two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) and colocalization analyses assessed associations of all available cis-pQTLs for these proteins with IHD in East Asians (n = 29,319 cases), with further replication in Europeans (n = 181,522 cases) and comparison with findings in previous MR studies.In CKB observational analyses, a total of 959 (Olink/SomaScan: 426/533) proteins were associated at false discovery rate-corrected P < 0.05 with IHD after adjusting for major IHD risk factors. Two-sample MR analyses provided genetic support for 54 unique (Olink/SomaScan: 36/28) proteins in IHD etiology. Colocalization analyses confirmed shared gene-protein-IHD associations (posterior probability of hypothesis 4 [PPH4] ≥0.8) for 15 unique (Olink/SomaScan: 10/10) proteins, including 8 lipid-related, 3 inflammation-related, 1 blood pressure-related, and 3 alcohol-related proteins in East Asians. In Europeans, MR analyses of 12 non-alcohol-related proteins showed directionally concordant results for 8 proteins, with 5 having strong colocalization evidence of shared gene-protein-IHD associations (PPH4 ≥0.8), including 4 lipid-related (proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9, LPA, APOE, cadherin-1) and 1 systolic blood pressure-related (fibroblast growth factor 5) protein. However, 4 proteins showed directionally discordant MR results, including 2 lipid-related (APOA5, SORT1) and 1 inflammation-related (transforming growth factor beta 1) proteins with strong colocalization evidence of shared gene-protein-IHD associations (PPH4 ≥0.8). Comparison with previous MR studies revealed little consistency across studies in the number and identity of target proteins for IHD beyond well-established lipid-related (low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, lipoprotein(a), and triglycerides) or inflammation-related (interleukin-6) protein targets.The findings support a role for lipid-driven chronic inflammation in IHD etiology, and treatment strategies simultaneously targeting multiple lipid and inflammation pathways should be prioritized for further research to improve drug treatment of IHD beyond statin therapy.Copyright © 2026 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Autosomal Recessive Spastic Ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay (ARSACS) is a neurodegenerative disease caused by pathogenic variants in SACS. ARSACS is characterized by mitochondrial abnormalities and disruptions of the neurofilament cytoskeleton. In other conditions, these features have been linked to activation of Sterile Alpha and TIR Motif Containing 1 (SARM1), an enzyme that can trigger axon degeneration and neuronal death. Inhibition of SARM1 is an attractive therapeutic strategy because SARM1 is inactive in healthy cells and knockout of SARM1 has little or no deleterious effects. We therefore asked whether SARM1 activity contributed to Purkinje cell degeneration and motor defects present in a Sacs -/- mouse model of ARSACS.We studied 4 cohorts of mice: (1) Sacs -/-; Sarm1 +/+ ; (2) Sacs +/+; Sarm1 +/- ; (3) Sacs -/-; Sarm1 +/- ; and (4) Sacs -/-; Sarm1 -/- . In 9-month-old mice, we analyzed protein markers of Purkinje cells (n = 3-4 mice per genotype) and counted surviving Purkinje cells in folia III, IV, and VIII of cerebellar sections (n = 3 mice per genotype, 6 sections per mouse), and tested motor function at 3, 6, and 9 months by quantifying parameters of gait (Digigait) and coordination and balance (Rotarod) (8 male, 8 female mice of each genotype).Probing of cerebellar extracts showed that the Purkinje cell protein markers Calbindin-1, RGS8, and PCP2 were decreased in Sacs -/- mice but restored to normal levels in Sacs -/-; Sarm1 -/- mice. Purkinje cell loss in Sacs -/- mice was most prominent in anterior folia, as previously noted. Sarm1 loss partially mitigated the Purkinje cell death in folium III of 9-month-old Sacs -/- mice. Similarly, longitudinal behavioral assessment of motor functions showed that disturbances in gait pattern (slower cadence, prolonged swing, and stance phases) were partially alleviated. Rotarod tests gave more ambivalent results, as the homozygous loss of Sarm1 was less effective than heterozygous loss in ameliorating the Sacs -/- phenotype.We conclude that SARM1 contributes to neurodegeneration in ARSACS, and its downregulation or inhibition could constitute a significant therapeutical strategy in the treatment of the disease.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.
The sterile alpha and TIR motif containing 1 (SARM1) enzyme is a key driver of axonal degeneration in response to injury, making it an attractive target for treating chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) and other nervous system diseases. In this study, we identified and optimised a class of base-exchange inhibitors (BEXi) targeting human SARM1 and explored their molecular interactions and conformational effects using cryo-EM, HDX-MS and SAXS. Although BEXi produced robust inhibition across all biochemical and cellular assay formats, application at sub-inhibitory concentrations consistently led to paradoxical SARM1 activation, and in neuronal assays, accelerated neurite degeneration. Further analysis showed that BEXi only delayed, rather than prevented, neurite degeneration when applied to primary neuronal cells, even at exceedingly high inhibitor concentrations. These results prompted us to discontinue BEXi development in favour of alternative strategies, underscoring the complexity of SARM1 as a therapeutic target and the need for comprehensive, mechanistically informed screening cascades.© 2026. The Author(s).
Peripheral nerve injuries remain a major clinical challenge due to slow axonal regeneration, rapid Wallerian degeneration (WD), and degeneration of target organs prior to reinnervation.Strategies to enhance regeneration can be broadly divided into three categories: preventing or delaying WD, speeding up axonal regeneration, and improving the molecular environment at the injury site. Approaches to delay WD include polyethylene glycol-mediated axonal fusion, which may restore early axonal continuity and conduction, and inhibition of sterile alpha and TIR motif-containing 1, the central executioner of WD, with small-molecule inhibitors now in clinical trials. Methods to accelerate axon regrowth include brief intraoperative electrical stimulation, which activates regeneration-associated gene programs and improves motor and sensory recovery in both preclinical and early clinical studies, and pharmacologic augmentation with 4-aminopyridine, which enhances conduction across demyelinated fibers and promotes remyelination.Optimizing the local microenvironment through cellular and molecular adjuncts, including mesenchymal stem cells, Schwann cells, exosomes, surgical angiogenesis, and local delivery of neuroregenerative drugs such as FK506, has also shown promise in experimental models. Across all approaches, progress is hindered by heterogeneous outcome measures, a lack of standardized protocols, and barriers to multicenter collaboration.Coordinated efforts among academia, industry, and regulatory agencies are needed to standardize methodologies, develop objective outcome measures, and enable well-structured multicenter clinical trials to achieve meaningful clinical translation. Ultimately, meaningful functional recovery will depend on integrating complementary approaches and bridging gaps in mechanistic understanding, delivery systems, and trial design, creating the synergy needed to translate promising therapies from bench to bedside.© 2026 The Authors.
Sterile Alpha and TIR Motif Containing 1 (SARM1) is an NAD+ hydrolase enzyme implicated in neurological diseases with prominent axonopathies. A reported method for SARM1 inhibition involves the design of small molecules bearing reactive heterocyclic warheads, which intercept the hydrolysis of NAD+ in the active site of SARM1 and subsequently inhibit enzymatic function of the TIR domain. Herein, we describe the discovery of a series of bicyclic SARM1 inhibitors, initially identified via a unique workflow for free-energy perturbation (FEP+) simulations. Subsequent hit expansion efforts identified potent and cell-active inhibitors with slow off-rates, which impart a unique conformational state of W662 in the SARM1 catalytic site, as assessed via X-ray crystallography. Finally, we discuss an identified liability associated with substrate-based SARM1 inhibitors such as 19, whereby insufficient target engagement results in an increase in biomarkers of neurodegeneration at low doses in vivo and exacerbates neuronal degeneration and cell death in vitro.
Cardiac aging is associated with progressive cardiac fibrosis and dysfunction, yet the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Extrachromosomal circular DNA (eccDNA) has been reported to participate in tumor and age-related genomic instability, while its role in cardiac fibrosis during aging remains to be fully elucidated. In this study, circular DNA sequencing and RNA seqencing were performed to analyze eccDNA profiles in young and aged cardiac tissues. The number of eccDNAs in the cardiac tissue of aged mice is higher than that in young mice. Combining the annotation of eccDNAs and the key genes related to aging identified in the transcriptome, we identified sterile alpha and TIR motif containing 1 (Sarm1), a key regulator of NAD+ metabolism and neurodegeneration located in eccDNAs, as a novel driver of cardiac aging via pro-fibrotic signaling. In aged mice, Sarm1 knockdown significantly restored cardiac function and reduced fibrosis. Conversely, Sarm1 accelerated cardiac aging phenotypes in young Sarm1-overexpressing transgenic mice. Mechanistically, co-immunoprecipitation combined with mass spectrometry identified TGF-β-Smad2/3 as the dominant pathway, with pharmacological inhibition by SIS3 abolishing Sarm1-driven Smad2/3 phosphorylation. Our findings reveal that Sarm1-containing eccDNA drives cardiac aging by amplifying pro-fibrotic signaling through the TGF-β-Smad2/3 pathway, proposing eccDNAs clearance and Sarm1 inhibition as novel therapeutic strategies for aging-related cardiac fibrosis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Journal of Molecular Cell Biology, CEMCS, CAS.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41651318 is a review article
The sterile alpha and TIR motif-containing 1 (Sarm1) NAD+ hydrolase drives neurodegeneration, but how Sarm1 activity is regulated remains poorly defined. Using CRISPR-Cas9 screening, we found that loss of Vhl suppressed Sarm1-mediated cellular degeneration. Vhl promotes O2-dependent constitutive ubiquitination and degradation of hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1), but during hypoxia, HIF-1 is stabilized and regulates gene expression. We observed neuroprotection in primary neurons after depletion of Vhl or other factors required for HIF-1 degradation, and expression of a non-ubiquitinated HIF-1 variant led to strong blockade of axon degeneration in primary mouse neurons and Drosophila. Neuroprotection required HIF-1 DNA binding and prolonged expression and resulted in broad gene expression changes. Unexpectedly, stabilized HIF-1 prevented NAD+ loss driven by Sarm1 activation in neurons, despite NAD+ hydrolase activity being intrinsic to the Sarm1 TIR domain. Our work argues that hypoxia inhibits Sarm1 activity through HIF-1-driven transcriptional changes, rendering neurons in a hypoxic state less sensitive to Sarm1-mediated neurodegeneration.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
High consumption of colorful fruits and vegetables correlates with low dementia risk, but the exact molecules and the underlying biological mechanisms governing their bioactive profiles are largely unknown. Using a 10-year observational cohort study coupled with an AI-driven systems pharmacology platform, we identified a natural triterpenoid compound found in colorful fruits and vegetables, α-Amyrin (αA), as a therapeutic candidate for Alzheimer's disease (AD). The efficacy of αA in treating the symptoms of AD, such as Tau tangles, damaged mitochondria, and memory loss, was examined using cross-species models; αA retained memory in AD-like animal models while also strongly inhibiting Tau pathology, especially p-Tau217, in a cellular 'Tau seeding' system and in Tau[P301S] mice, followed by validation using a human 3D microfluidic system. At molecular level, αA is a robust mitochondrial regulator, enhancing mitochondrial stress resilience and activation of mitophagy. Mechanistically, αA inhibits dual leucine zipper kinase (DLK), leading to the inhibition of DLK-Sterile Alpha and TIR Motif Containing 1 (SARM1)-dependent neurodegeneration; this inhibition frees unc-51 Like Autophagy Activating Kinase 1 (ULK1) from the ULK1-SARM1 complex, allowing it to participate in autophagy/mitophagy. αA also shows strong translational potential with a 10.1 h half-life and the ability to cross the blood-brain barrier. Our results indicate that αA may act as a mitochondrial guardian against AD via modulating the DLK-SARM1-ULK1-autophagy/mitophagy axis while further preclinical and clinical studies are warranted.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Bone metastasis is a severe complication of advanced cancers, disrupting bone remodeling by hijacking the RANK/RANKL/OPG axis, which leads to excessive osteoclast activation and bone resorption. Current therapies, such as bisphosphonates and denosumab, offer limited survival benefits and carry significant safety risks, highlighting the need for novel agents that effectively inhibit osteolytic progression.This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic potential of a recombinant extracellular domain of leucine-rich repeat-containing G-protein coupled receptor 4 (rLGR4-ECD), produced in CHO cells, to inhibit RANKL signaling, suppress osteoclastogenesis, and prevent bone metastasis in preclinical models.The human LGR4-ECD (residues 25-540) was cloned into the pcDNA4/TO vector and expressed in CHO-K1 cells. Stable monoclonal lines were established, and recombinant protein was purified via Ni-NTA affinity chromatography. Binding affinity to RANKL and RSPO4 was assessed by co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP). In vitro, bone marrow-derived monocytes were treated with RANKL and varying concentrations of rLGR4-ECD (0-80 ng/mL), and osteoclast formation was evaluated by TRAP staining, qPCR, and Western blotting for osteoclast markers. For in vivo evaluation, a breast cancer bone metastasis model was established by intracardiac injection of 4 T1-Luc cells into BALB/c mice. Mice were treated daily with 1 mg/kg rLGR4-ECD or PBS via tail vein injection. Metastatic burden was monitored by bioluminescence imaging, osteoclast activity by TRAP staining of calvaria, and gene expression in bone tissue by qPCR. Survival was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier curves.rLGR4-ECD was successfully expressed and purified with over 95% purity and a yield of 2.38 mg/L. It bound specifically to RANKL and RSPO4 in co-IP assays. In vitro, rLGR4-ECD dose-dependently inhibited osteoclast formation, with near-complete suppression at 80 ng/mL (IC50 = 42.38 ng/mL). Expression of osteoclast genes Acp5, Ctsk, and Nfatc1 was reduced by 91.4% (***p < 0.001), 87.1% (***p < 0.001), and 81.2% (***p < 0.001), respectively, at 80 ng/mL. Protein levels of TRAP, Cathepsin K, and NFATc1 were also significantly suppressed. In vivo, rLGR4-ECD treatment reduced metastatic burden by 67.3% (***p < 0.001) and decreased osteoclast surface per bone surface by 56.2% (***p < 0.001). Gene expression in bone tissue showed reductions of 71.3% for Acp5 (***p < 0.001), 40.1% for Ctsk (***p < 0.001), and 86.5% for Nfatc1 (***p < 0.001). rLGR4-ECD median survival by 41.7% (12 vs. 17 days) without affecting lung metastasis.rLGR4-ECD effectively inhibits RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis and reduces bone metastasis burden through specific suppression of osteoclast activity, leading to improved survival in a preclinical model. Its excellent efficacy and manufacturability support its potential as a novel therapeutic agent for bone metastatic disease.© 2026 The Author(s).
Despite advances in therapy, lung cancer remains the leading cause of cancer-related mortality. R-spondin (RSPO) 3 and its receptor, leucine-rich repeat-containing G protein-coupled receptor 4 (LGR4), drive tumor progression in a subset of lung adenocarcinomas by potentiating Wnt signaling. In addition to RSPO3, LGR4 is also a receptor for receptor activator of nuclear factor-кB ligand (RANKL). Here, we investigated whether MHP1-AcN, our previously developed RANKL-derived peptide, acts on LGR4 and examined its effects on RSPO3-LGR4 signaling in A549 lung cancer cells.An A549 xenograft model was established by subcutaneous inoculation in BALB/c nude mice, followed by daily intraperitoneal administration of MHP1-AcN. Tumor growth was assessed by volume and weight. In vitro, the effect of MHP1-AcN on A549 cell proliferation, cytotoxicity, migration, and invasion were evaluated. Molecular interactions and signaling pathways were analyzed using immunoprecipitation and immunoblotting.Intraperitoneal administration of MHP1-AcN significantly reduced tumor volume and weight in the subcutaneous A549 xenograft model. Mechanistically, MHP1-AcN directly interacted with LGR4 and disrupted RSPO3-induced LGR4-IQ motif-containing GTPase activating protein 1 complex formation. MHP1-AcN inhibited A549 cell proliferation without inducing cytotoxicity and suppressed RSPO3-enhaced phosphorylation of LRP6 and accumulation of β-catenin. Furthermore, MHP1-AcN dose-dependently inhibited A549 cell migration and invasion by reducing focal adhesion kinase phosphorylation and disrupting F-actin organization.These findings demonstrate MHP1-AcN as a novel LGR4 antagonist that inhibits RSPO3-LGR4-Wnt signaling, tumor growth, and metastatic potential in lung adenocarcinoma, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic agent targeting this pathway.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the third leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, remains a therapeutic challenge because of its propensity for early recurrence and metastasis. Our previous study has identified adenylate cyclase 7 (ADCY7), a member of the adenylate cyclase family, as a tumor suppressor in HCC through T cell-dependent immunity. Nevertheless, the exact role and underlying mechanisms of ADCY7 in HCC metastasis remain largely unknown.Immunohistochemistry was used to measure the expression levels of ADCY7 in HCC and its clinical relevance (n = 142). Transwell assay was conducted to examine cell migration and invasion. Tail-vein lung metastasis HCC model was utilized for in vivo experiments. Furthermore, the role of ADCY7 in regulating N-cadherin levels was investigated via quantitative PCR, Western blot, immunofluorescence, and co-immunoprecipitation.Our results demonstrated that ADCY7 functioned as a critical suppressor of HCC metastasis. Clinically, reduced ADCY7 expression correlated with metastatic progression and poor prognosis (p = 0.02) in patients with HCC. Functional studies showed that ADCY7 re-expression potently inhibited HCC cell migration (p <0.0001) and invasion (p <0.0001) in vitro and attenuated pulmonary metastasis (p <0.05) in vivo. Mechanistically, ADCY7 served as a molecular scaffold to enhance the interaction between N-cadherin and the E3 ubiquitin ligase SMURF2 (SMAD Specific E3 Ubiquitin Protein Ligase 2), facilitating N-cadherin's K48 linked polyubiquitination at lysine 896 (K896) and promoting its degradation through proteasomal and lysosomal pathways. Importantly, exosomes harboring ADCY7 could be internalized by other HCC cells, suppressing N-cadherin expression and thus reducing metastatic burden.Collectively, our findings unveil ADCY7 as a metastasis suppressor and highlight its therapeutic potential as a molecular target for combating HCC.We have identified ADCY7 and exosomal ADCY7 as potential therapeutic targets for inhibiting HCC metastasis. Our experimental results indicated that ADCY7 could induce the ubiquitination and degradation of N-cadherin by acting as a molecular scaffold to enhance the interaction between N-cadherin and the E3 ubiquitin ligase SMURF2, consequently impeding HCC metastasis. Therefore, ADCY7 holds great promise as a therapeutic target for HCC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The glucocorticoid receptor (GR) is a ligand-activated transcriptional regulator that translocates from the cytoplasm to the nucleus and modulates gene expression by binding DNA elements and recruiting coregulators. Synthetic glucocorticoids promote osteoclast overactivation, but the transcriptional mechanisms in osteoclast precursors remain incompletely defined. In glucocorticoid-stimulated monocytes, the leucine-rich repeat-containing G-protein-coupled receptor 4 (LGR4), a gene inhibiting osteoclastogenesis, is significantly repressed and osteoclast differentiation genes are upregulated. In our previous work, we found that classical monocytes contribute to osteoclastogenesis and display low expression of LGR4. However, the underlying mechanism has not been fully elucidated. In this study, we show that the glucocorticoid receptor occupies a negative glucocorticoid response element (nGRE) within the LGR4 promoter and recruits histone deacetylase 4 (HDAC4), thereby repressing LGR4 transcription and enhancing osteoclast differentiation programs. These findings suggest that disrupting GR-HDAC4-mediated repression of LGR4 may provide a strategy to mitigate glucocorticoid-enhanced osteoclastogenesis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is a common type of lung cancer with poor prognosis and high mortality in advanced stages. Although secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1) is associated with the progression of NSCLC, its specific mechanisms remain to be explored.Through integrated bioinformatics analysis combining weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), differential expression analysis, gene enrichment analysis with the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG)/Gene Ontology (GO), and machine learning techniques incorporating database predictions, core genes were identified. Experimental validation was conducted using Western blot, co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), cycloheximide (CHX) chase assay, Ubiquitin Immunoprecipitation (Ub-IP), colony formation, flow cytometry, transwell assay, reactive oxygen species (ROS) detection, and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). The functional impact of SPP1 on tumor growth was further confirmed through mouse models and immunohistochemistry (IHC).Based on WGCNA and machine learning, SPP1 was identified as a core gene. SMURF2 ubiquitinated and degraded SPP1. Rescue experiments confirmed that SMURF2 inhibited proliferation and invasion, and promoted apoptosis in NSCLC cells, which were reversed by SPP1 overexpression. Furthermore, SMURF2 enhanced ferroptosis and modulated macrophage polarization via the same ubiquitination mechanism. Animal studies verified that SMURF2-mediated ubiquitination and degradation of SPP1 suppressed tumor growth.This study aims to investigate the role of SMURF2-mediated ubiquitination of SPP1 in inhibiting malignant progression, promoting ferroptosis, and modulating macrophage polarization in NSCLC, thereby providing a theoretical foundation and new insights for understanding and targeting NSCLC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
BACKGROUND: Protein disulfide isomerase A6 (PDIA6), a member of the PDI family, catalyzes disulfide bond formation and assists protein folding. However, its function in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) remains largely unknown. METHODS: Functional experiments, including CRISPR/Cas9 knockout, overexpression, rescue assays, and patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models, were performed to evaluate the role of PDIA6 in ESCC proliferation and tumor growth. Pull down-mass spectrometry assays, co-immunoprecipitation, and protein-protein docking assays were used to investigate PDIA6–tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 4 (TRAF4) interactions and disulfide bond formation. Ubiquitination and cycloheximide chase assays were applied to assess the stability of TRAF4. Antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) targeting PDIA6 were tested for therapeutic efficacy in vitro and in vivo. RESULTS: We found PDIA6 was markedly upregulated in ESCC tissues, with a positive correlation to a poor prognosis. Functional assays demonstrated that PDIA6 significantly promoted the proliferation of ESCC cells both in vitro and in vivo. A pull down–mass spectrometry assay identified TRAF4 as a direct binding partner of PDIA6. Protein-protein docking revealed that PDIA6 interacted with the N-terminal (1-277) domain of TRAF4, enhancing disulfide bond formation at Cys39/Cys42 and Cys83/Cys106. These bonds were indispensable for TRAF4’s E3 ubiquitin ligase activity in facilitating the ubiquitination of AKT. PDIA6 further stabilized TRAF4 by competing with SMAD-specific E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 (SMURF1), thereby preventing TRAF4 ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. The absence of PDIA6 led to the destabilization of TRAF4, resulting in the inactivation of the AKT/mTOR pathway. Rescue experiments using TRAF4 C42A or C83A mutants failed to restore AKT signaling or tumor growth. Notably, ASOs targeting PDIA6 suppressed ESCC growth in vitro and in patient-derived xenografts. CONCLUSIONS: PDIA6 drives ESCC progression by stabilizing TRAF4 and sustaining AKT/mTOR signaling. Targeting PDIA6 with ASOs offers a promising therapeutic strategy for ESCC.
Kidney toxicity remains a major dose-limiting complication of radiation therapy and platinum-based chemotherapy, yet the molecular determinants of renal susceptibility and resilience to these genotoxic treatments are incompletely understood. Podocytes are particularly vulnerable to such insults, and emerging evidence implicates lipid dysregulation in podocyte injury. This study investigated the role of sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase acid-like 3B (SMPDL3B), a podocyte-enriched lipid-modulating enzyme, in radiation- and cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity. Using a doxycycline-inducible, podocyte-specific SMPDL3B transgenic mouse model, renal injury was assessed following focal kidney irradiation, cisplatin administration, or their combination through functional assays, histopathology, ultrastructural analysis, immunofluorescence, and targeted lipidomics. Combined radiation and cisplatin exposure markedly reduced podocyte SMPDL3B expression, accompanied by podocyte depletion, glomerular basement membrane remodeling, proteinuria, and impaired renal function. These structural and functional abnormalities were associated with the selective accumulation of long-chain ceramide-1-phosphate species. In contrast, podocyte-specific induction of SMPDL3B preserved glomerular architecture, maintained renal function, and prevented pathological ceramide-1-phosphate elevation. Collectively, these findings identify SMPDL3B as a key regulator of podocyte stability and lipid homeostasis during chemoradiation stress. Enhancing SMPDL3B activity may represent a mechanistically grounded strategy to mitigate treatment-induced kidney injury while preserving anticancer efficacy.
Cardiac fibrosis following myocardial infarction (MI) is a pivotal driver of ventricular dysfunction and heart failure, yet the molecular checkpoints orchestrating the persistent activation of cardiac fibroblasts remain incompletely defined. Here, we uncover a non-canonical, metabolism-independent function of Uridine-Cytidine Kinase 2 (UCK2) and Uridine-Cytidine Kinase Like-1 (UCKL1) as synergistic regulators of pathological remodeling. We demonstrate that both proteins are robustly upregulated in the border zone of ischemic murine hearts and transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β)-activated human cardiac fibroblasts (HCFs). Mechanistically, UCK2 and UCKL1 physically assemble into an obligate functional complex that acts as a molecular scaffold rather than a metabolic enzyme. This complex recruits the E3 ubiquitin ligase Tripartite Motif Containing 21 (TRIM21) to orchestrate the specific ubiquitination and degradation of the negative regulator SMAD Specific E3 Ubiquitin Protein Ligase 2 (Smurf2), thereby sustaining SMAD Family Member 3 (Smad3) phosphorylation and amplifying fibrogenic TGF-β signaling. Disruption of this axis via combined genetic silencing exerts a synergistic protective effect by abrogating myofibroblast differentiation and extracellular matrix production. Furthermore, therapeutic intervention using adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated knockdown of UCK2/UCKL1 significantly attenuates adverse ventricular remodeling, limits scar expansion, and preserves cardiac function in a murine MI model. Collectively, these findings identify the UCK2/UCKL1-TRIM21-Smurf2-Smad3 axis as a novel, druggable signalosome linking kinase "moonlighting" functions to transcriptional reprogramming, offering a transformative therapeutic strategy to arrest the progression of post-ischemic heart failure.© 2025. The Author(s).
Pathological cardiac hypertrophy represents an adaptive alteration in cardiac structure and function and serves as a critical process in heart failure. Ubiquitination, a classical post-translational modification that regulates protein function and degradation, plays a crucial role in cardiac hypertrophy. In this study, the E3 ubiquitin ligase ring finger protein 115 (RNF115) is identified as a key pro-hypertrophic factor. RNF115 expression is significantly elevated in heart tissues from patients with heart failure, in mice subjected to transverse aortic constriction (TAC) surgery, and in cardiomyocytes treated with angiotensin II (Ang II). RNF115 knockdown attenuates Ang II-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy in vitro, whereas cardiomyocyte-specific RNF115 knockout protects against TAC-induced cardiac hypertrophy and dysfunction in vivo. Mechanistically, upregulation of RNF115 promotes the ubiquitination and degradation of spectrin β, non-erythrocytic 1 (SPTBN1), causing filamentous actin (F-actin) depolymerization, thereby inactivates the Hippo-Yes associated protein (YAP) pathway and drives pro-hypertrophic gene expression. DTD (dithiocarbamate disulfide derivatives) is a potent inhibitor of RNF115 that suppresses SPTBN1 degradation and exerts a protective role in cardiac hypertrophy, indicating that inhibition of RNF115 may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for pathological cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Acute lung injury (ALI) is a significant post-operative complication of liver transplant (LT), with mounting evidence suggesting a role for the gut-lung axis. However, the mechanistic link between gut microbiota dysbiosis and ALI pathogenesis in LT recipients remains poorly understood. This hybrid translational investigation integrates transcriptomic profiling (bulk and single-cell RNA-seq), immune infiltration analysis, fecal microbiota composition (16S rRNA), and predictive functional profiling in ALI vs. non-ALI (NALI) LT patients. Machine learning algorithms (LASSO, SVM-RFE, Random Forest) were used to identify key gene biomarkers. Microbiota-host gene correlations and canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) were performed to evaluate multi-omic relationships. ALI patients exhibited reduced gut microbial diversity and increased abundance of Enterococcus and Escherichia-Shigella, alongside a depletion of beneficial taxa (Faecalibacterium, Bacteroides). CXCL3, CD48, and IRAK3 were identified as robust ALI biomarkers (Area Under the Curve >0.83), validated in both serum and Bronchoalveolar Lavage Fluid. These genes correlated positively with pro-inflammatory microbes and immune cell infiltration. Functional prediction revealed enrichment in lipopolysaccharide biosynthesis, Toll-like receptor signaling, and bacterial chemotaxis. CCA confirmed that microbiota variation significantly explained host transcriptomic variance. Our study uncovers a functional gut-lung immunological axis in post-LT ALI. Gut dysbiosis modulates immune gene expression and lung inflammation, suggesting that the microbiome serves as a potential source of diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets in transplant-associated lung injury.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a common degenerative joint disorder associated with aging, marked by chondrocyte senescence, cartilage degradation, and chronic inflammation. Although cellular senescence significantly contributes to OA progression, the molecular mechanisms governing this process are not fully understood. Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 3 (IRAK3) acts as a negative regulator of Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling; however, its role in OA and chondrocyte senescence remains unclear. We employed bioinformatics analysis, human OA cartilage samples, a destabilization of the medial meniscus (DMM) mouse model, and in vitro assays in ATDC5 chondrocytes to explore the expression and functional role of IRAK3 in OA. To evaluate senescence, mitochondrial function, reactive oxygen species (ROS), and inflammatory signaling, we conducted gain- and loss-of-function experiments alongside biochemical and histological analyses. IRAK3 expression was markedly reduced in both human and murine osteoarthritis (OA) cartilage. Silencing IRAK3 intensified hydrogen peroxide-induced senescence, mitochondrial dysfunction, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, and catabolic metabolism, whereas its overexpression offered protective effects. Mechanistically, IRAK3 inhibited the TLR7/TLR9–NF-κB pathway, leading to decreased secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines and reduced chondrocyte senescence. In vivo, intra-articular injection of adeno-associated virus (AAV) to knock down IRAK3 can promote the progression of OA in DMM mice. IRAK3 serves as a crucial inhibitor of chondrocyte senescence and the progression of osteoarthritis (OA) by reducing TLR-mediated inflammation and oxidative stress. These findings highlight IRAK3 as a promising therapeutic target for addressing senescence-related osteoarthritis.
Psoriasis, a common chronic inflammatory skin disease, is characterized by epidermal hyperplasia and inflammatory cell infiltration. While endosomal Toll-like receptors (TLRs), particularly TLR7, are key drivers of psoriatic exacerbations, the regulatory mechanisms governing TLR7 activity in psoriasis remain incompletely understood. This study aims to investigate the role of G protein-coupled receptor 108 (GPR108) in regulating TLR7 activity during imiquimod (IMQ)-induced psoriasiform dermatitis.We established IMQ-induced psoriasiform lesions in Gpr108-null mice, as well as IMQ-treated GPR108-deficient keratinocyte and macrophage models. The psoriasis-like phenotype was assessed in vivo using PASI scoring and H&E staining. Protein expression was examined by Western blotting, immunohistochemistry, and immunofluorescence. Additionally, RNA-seq and flow cytometric analyses were performed to verify the involvement of the TLR7/NF-κB signaling in regulating GPR108-deficient macrophage polarization.We found that Gpr108 deficiency exacerbates IMQ-induced psoriatic lesions in mice. Mechanistically, GPR108 deficiency enhances TLR7/MyD88/NF-κB signaling in both keratinocytes and macrophages following imiquimod stimulation. This increased TLR7 activation promotes keratinocyte hyperproliferation and dysregulated differentiation, and alters the M1/M2 macrophage balance, leading to elevated production of cytokines, including TNF-α and IL-6.GPR108 functions as a negative regulator of TLR7 signaling in psoriasis.© 2026 The Author(s). Immunity, Inflammation and Disease published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Uric acid, a product of purine metabolism, is predominantly excreted via the kidneys. Chronic hyperuricemia, often driven by high-purine diets, contributes to renal injury marked by inflammation, tubular damage, and interstitial fibrosis with epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). G protein-coupled receptor 108 (GPR108), a negative regulator of NF-κB-mediated inflammation, remains unexplored in hyperuricemia-induced chronic kidney disease (CKD). This study investigates GPR108's role in uric acid nephropathy using adenine-fed mice and in vitro models. Gpr108-deficient mice exhibited aggravated renal fibrosis, EMT activation, and elevated cytokine levels compared to controls. In vitro, renal tubular epithelial cells of primary cultured Gpr108 knockout mice heightened sensitivity to uric acid-induced EMT, accompanied by increased TGF-β1 production and NF-κB activation. These findings demonstrate that GPR108 deficiency exacerbates renal inflammation and fibrosis by amplifying NF-κB-driven EMT and TGF-β1 signaling. Our study identifies GPR108 as a protective modulator in hyperuricemia-induced CKD, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target to mitigate renal interstitial fibrosis.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Tumour necrosis factor (TNF) is a potent inducer of endotoxin tolerance-associated molecules, such as interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 3 (IRAK3), and also a therapeutic target in inflammatory autoimmune diseases, as it upregulates the production of inflammatory mediators. The role of IRAK3 was assessed in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), a disease which is amenable to TNF blockade. As a variant of IRAK3 lacks the death domain required for its canonical role, isoform expression was determined in different inflammatory milieu by immunoblotting. RA synovial explant expression of IRAK3 was measured by qPCR. The expression of the larger, "classical" IRAK3 isoform predominated in macrophages treated with various stimuli. The expression of IRAK3 was higher in RA synovium compared to osteoarthritis synovium. Using collagen-induced arthritis, a murine model of RA, the immunomodulatory role of IRAK3 was investigated with wild-type (WT) and IRAK3-deficient mice expressing the MHC-II Aq allele. Disease progression was significantly accelerated in IRAK3-/- mice. In addition, the circulating levels of IL-1β were greater, and there were fewer Tregs both before and after the onset of disease. Inflammatory gene expression was higher in the arthritic paws of IRAK3-/- mice. This study demonstrates that IRAK3 deficiency accelerates the progression of arthritis and increases molecular markers of disease severity."Copyright © 2025 Borghese, Williams and Clanchy.
RNA 5-methylcytosine (m5C) plays an important role in the progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Dysregulation of ferroptosis is closely associated with HCC. However, the effect of the epigenetic mRNA m5C modification on ferroptosis in HCC remains unclear.In this study, ferroptosis was evaluated by detecting lipid reactive oxygen species (lipid ROS), ferrous ion and 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) in xenograft mouse model, diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-initiated HCC model and so forth. The regulatory mechanisms of YBX1 in mRNA translation were elucidated using RNA sequencing, ribosome sequencing, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP)-sequencing, bisulphite sequencing and immunoprecipitation (IP)-mass spectrometry assays. Dual-luciferase reporter, RIP-qPCR, Co-IP, RNA pulldown and methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP)-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) assays were performed to validate the mechanism of YBX1 in regulating mRNA translation by m5C modification.Here, we found that YBX1 promoted the translation of Ring Finger Protein 115 (RNF115) mRNA through m5C modification, thereby inhibiting ferroptosis and promoting HCC development. Moreover, RNF115 was identified as an E3 ubiquitin ligase for dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHODH), promoting Lys27 (K27) ubiquitination and inhibiting its autophagic degradation to counteract ferroptosis. In addition, YBX1 bound to the m5C modification sites of RNF115 3'-untranslated region (UTR) and interacted with Eukaryotic Translation Initiation Factor 4A1 (EIF4A1) to bridge the 5'-UTR regions, promoting mRNA circularisation and translation, while NOP2/Sun RNA methyltransferase 2 (NSUN2) was identified as responsible for m5C modification of RNF115 mRNA in HCC.The current work revealed that YBX1 promoted RNF115 mRNA translation in an m5C-dependent manner, thereby regulating DHODH ubiquitination and expression to suppress ferroptosis. This research sheds light on the mechanism of YBX1 in m5C-modified mRNAs translation and ferroptosis, highlighting its promise as a biomarker for prognosis and a target for therapy in HCC.YBX1 inhibits ferroptosis in HCC by regulating the RNF115-DHODH axis. RNF115, an E3 ligase, mediates K27 ubiquitination and autophagic degradation of DHODH. YBX1 binds to the m5C sites of RNF115 mRNA 3'-UTR and interacts with EIF4A1 to bridge the 5'-UTR, promoting mRNA circularisation and translation. High expression of YBX1/RNF115 predicts the poor overall survival in HCC.© 2025 The Author(s). Clinical and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Institute of Clinical Bioinformatics.
The Asian citrus psyllid (ACP), Diaphorina citri, serves as the primary vector for Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus (CLas), the pathogen responsible for citrus Huanglongbing (HLB). D. citri modulates the expression of its key proteins in response to CLas infection. Previous research has revealed that CLas infection significantly alters the expression levels of E3 ubiquitin ligases in D. citri; however, the specific functions of these E3 ligases remain largely uncharacterized. In this study, a total of 11 E3 ubiquitin ligases were identified from the proteomics database of D. citri, among which E3 ubiquitin ligase RNF115 was significantly upregulated following CLas infection. RING finger protein 115 (RNF115) consists of 156 amino acids and contains a RING finger domain at its N-terminus. Silencing RNF115 via RNA interference (RNAi) and injecting the inhibitor disulfiram, which targets RNF115, significantly increased CLas bacterial content in D. citri. In contrast, injection of recombinant RNF115 protein markedly inhibited CLas bacterial proliferation. Furthermore, interaction between RNF115 and D. citri histone H1 was confirmed using yeast 2-hybrid assay, pull-down experiments and molecular docking analysis. Knockdown of histone H1 via RNAi significantly reduced CLas bacterial content, whereas injection of recombinant histone H1 protein led to an increase in CLas content within D. citri. These findings suggest that CLas infection may induce an upregulation of RNF115 expression in D. citri, leading to subsequent interactions with histone H1 that facilitate the ubiquitination of histone H1, ultimately resulting in reduced expression levels and inhibiting CLas proliferation within D. citri.© 2025 Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Neuroinflammatory reactions are crucial factors in secondary brain damage following intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Although previous studies have shown that IRAK3 is involved in immune responses, the potential effects of IRAK3 on ICH remain unclear.Collagenase IV-induced ICH mouse model. Western blotting was used to determine the expression of IRAK3 at different time points following ICH. Immunofluorescence was used to investigate the cellular localization of IRAK3. The ICH model was treated with recombinant human IRAK3 (rh-IRAK3) or IRAK3 siRNA via an intracerebroventricular injection. The effect of IRAK3 on ICH mice was assessed by Western blotting and short-term and long-term neurological function evaluation. RNA-seq was performed to explore the mechanism by which IRAK3 promotes inflammation after ICH. The mechanisms of IRAK3 and neuroinflammation will be further investigated by Western blotting, qRT-PCR and immunofluorescence. Recombinant IL-17A was used to investigate the connection between IRAK3 and the NF-κB/IL-17A signaling pathway in vivo and in vitro experiments.The expression of IRAK3 increased, peaking at 24 h, followed by a subsequent decrease after ICH. IRAK3 is mainly expressed in the microglia. RNA-seq analysis revealed 1,797 differentially expressed genes around the perihematomal brain tissue after IRAK3 siRNA treatment, with multiple inflammatory pathways being downregulated. Rh-IRAK3 treatment resulted in upregulation of the levels of inflammatory cytokines around the perihematomal tissue and exacerbated neurological function deficits. Furthermore, IRAK3 siRNA treatment markedly decreased the expression of inflammatory cytokines and microglial activation via the NF-κB/IL-17A signaling pathway. Recombinant IL-17A exacerbated the inflammatory response in vivo and in vitro; however, IRAK3 knockdown reversed this process.IRAK3 aggravates neuroinflammation by activating the NF-κB/IL-17A signaling pathway, thereby exacerbating neurological deficits following ICH. Therefore, inhibition IRAK3 may be a promising approach for treating ICH.© 2025 Wang et al.
Osteoarthritis (OA), characterized by progressive degeneration of cartilage and reactive proliferation of subchondral bone, stands as a prevalent condition in orthopedic clinics. However, the precise mechanisms underlying OA pathogenesis remain inadequately explored.In this study, Random Forest (RF), Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO), and Support Vector Machine-Recursive Feature Elimination (SVM-RFE) machine learning techniques were employed to identify hub genes. Based on these hub genes, an Artificial Neural Network (ANN) diagnostic model was constructed. The Drug Signatures Database (DSigDB) was utilized to screen small-molecule drugs targeting these hub genes, and molecular docking analyses and molecular dynamics simulations were employed to explore and validate the binding interactions between proteins and small-molecule drugs. Expression changes of the hub genes under inflammatory conditions were validated through in vitro experiments, including RT-qPCR and Western blotting, and the therapeutic effects of the identified small-molecule drug on chondrocytes under inflammatory conditions were further verified in vitro. Lastly, Mendelian randomization analysis was conducted to examine the causal association between progesterone levels and various OA phenotypes.In this study, we identified three hub genes: interleukin 1 receptor-associated kinase 3 (IRAK3), integrin subunit beta-like 1 (ITGBL1), and Ras homolog family member U (RHOU). An Artificial Neural Network (ANN) diagnostic model constructed based on these hub genes demonstrated excellent performance in both training and validation phases. Screening with the Drug Signatures Database (DSigDB) identified progesterone as a small-molecule drug targeting these key proteins. Molecular docking analysis using AutoDock Vina revealed that progesterone exhibited binding energies of ≤ -7 kcal/mol with each of the key proteins, indicating strong binding affinity. Furthermore, molecular dynamics simulations validated the stability and strength of these interactions. RT-qPCR and Western blotting confirmed the downregulation of the hub genes in IL-1β-treated chondrocytes. Western blotting also demonstrated the potential therapeutic effects of progesterone on IL-1β-treated chondrocytes. Finally, Mendelian randomization analysis established a significant association between progesterone levels and multiple OA phenotypes.In our study, IRAK3, ITGBL1, and RHOU were identified as potential novel diagnostic and therapeutic targets for OA. Progesterone was preliminarily validated as a small-molecule drug with potential effects on OA. Further research is crucial to elucidate the pathogenesis of OA and the specific therapeutic mechanisms involved.© 2025. The Author(s).
To access the effect of SIRT1 in cerebral infarction and to explore its mechanism of ferroptosis. Bioinformatic Analysis was used to discover the associations between Ferroptosis-Related Genes and Cerebral Infarction.Rat cerebral infarction model was induced by transient middle cerebral artery occlusion followed by reperfusion.In vitro experiments, astrocytes were subjected to different stimuli.HE staining was used to observe the area of cerebral infarction in rat models.The expression of autophagy proteins and ferroptosis-related proteins in vivo and vitro experiments was accessed by using Western blot analysis and immunofluorescence, and apoptosis was detected by flow apoptosis assay. Detection of MDA, Fe2+, and SOD expression using ELISA. SIRT1 was upregulated in cerebral infarction model and the area of cerebral infarction increased when SIRT1 was actived, while it decreased in Notch-1 over oxpressing.In cell experiments, SIRT1 inhibited the expression of nuclear E2F1,Notch-1,nuclear YAP and up-regulated the expression of FOX1,Beclin-2, P62 and NCOA4,which led to the apoptosis of astrocytes. Furthermore, activation of SIRT1 suppresses the expression of MDA and Fe2+ while promoting the expression of SOD. SIRT1 ultimately accelerated cerebral infarction progression by inhibiting the E2F1/NOTCH-1/YAP signaling pathway and thereby inducing FOXO1/autophagy/NCOA4-induced ferroptosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
To investigate the therapeutic mechanisms of miR-9-5p-overexpressing human umbilical cord mesenchymal stromal cells (hUC-MSCs) in neonatal rat models of hypoxic-ischemic brain damage (HIBD).Fresh neonatal umbilical cords were collected to isolate and culture human umbilical cord mesenchymal stromal cells (hUC-MSCs). Recombinant adenovirus was used to amplify miR-9-5p and transduce hUC-MSCs, generating miR-9-5p-overexpressing cells. Functional assessments included: ELISA to evaluate secretory function (e.g., neurotrophic and anti-inflammatory factors), real-time cell analysis to measure proliferation capacity, Transwell and Dunn chamber assays to assess chemotactic migration ability. Healthy 7-day-old Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats of both sexes were randomly allocated into four groups (n = 12/group, with 4 rats per group assigned to TTC staining, Western blot, or Morris water maze assay, respectively): Sham-operated control group (mock surgery), Hypoxic-ischemic brain damage (HIBD) model group, miR-9-5p-hUC-MSCs treatment group, and Adenovirus-transduced hUC-MSCs (Ad-hUC-MSCs) treatment group. The HIBD model was induced in groups 2-4. At 24 h post-modeling, 1×106 miR-9-5p-hUC-MSCs or Ad-hUC-MSCs were transplanted into the left lateral ventricle (injured side) of the pups. Neurological function was evaluated 48 h later using righting reflex tests for short-term neurobehavioral assessment. Subsequently, 4 rats per group were sacrificed for 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining to quantify cerebral infarction volume. Hippocampal tissues from another 4 rats per group were analyzed by Western blot for Beclin-2 and Caspase-3 protein expression. The remaining 4 rats per group underwent 28-day Morris water maze testing for long-term neurobehavioral evaluation.Spindle-shaped and polygonal adherent cells emerged within 3-5 days following umbilical cord tissue block inoculation, with flow cytometric analysis confirming their identity as mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs). Compared to the Ad-hUC-MSCs treatment group, miR-9-5p enhanced the secretion of neuroreparative and anti-inflammatory factors (e.g., NGF, BDNF, IL-6) in hUC-MSCs while suppressing pro-inflammatory cytokines (e.g., IL-1, IL-2) (p < 0.05). Furthermore, miR-9-5p significantly promoted hUC-MSCs proliferation and augmented the chemotactic migratory capacity of miR-9-5p-hUC-MSCs. At 48 h post-transplantation in the miR-9-5p-hUC-MSCs group, the sham-operated controls showed no detectable cerebral infarction, whereas the model group exhibited distinct pale infarct foci occupying 33.15% ± 4.38% of total brain volume (vs. controls, p < 0.05), indicating severe cerebral injury. Both miR-9-5p-hUC-MSCs and Ad-hUC-MSCs treatments markedly reduced infarct volumes to 14.85% ± 2.79% and 19.11% ± 4.57%, respectively, with the miR-9-5p-hUC-MSCs group demonstrating a statistically superior therapeutic effect compared to Ad-hUC-MSCs (p < 0.05). Transplantation of either Ad-hUC-MSCs or miR-9-5p-hUC-MSCs significantly improved short- and long-term neurobehavioral outcomes in hypoxic-ischemic brain damage (HIBD) rats. At 48 h post-HIBD induction, upregulated expression of Beclin-2 and Caspase-3 proteins was observed in brain tissue. Notably, these elevated protein levels were attenuated following treatment with miR-9-5p-hUC-MSCs or Ad-hUC-MSCs.MiR-9-5p enhances the secretion of immunomodulatory factors and improves the migratory and proliferative capacities of hUC-MSCs. Overexpression of miR-9-5p promotes in vivo homing of hUC-MSCs, which mitigate cerebral injury and exert neuroprotective and reparative effects through dual mechanisms: modulating immune responses and providing neurotrophic support. Furthermore, hUC-MSCs significantly reduce cerebral infarct volume in hypoxic-ischemic brain damage (HIBD) rats and downregulate levels of apoptotic proteins (Beclin-2 and Caspase-3) in brain tissue, demonstrating potent cerebroprotective effects.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Nutritional and cooling strategies to abate the negative effects of heat stress during the dry period have been used to improve the performance of dairy cattle. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of feeding an immunomodulatory supplement (OmniGen-AF®, OMN) before, during, and after exposure to either heat stress or active cooling during the dry period on immune function and mammary development in dairy cows. During late lactation (at least 60 d before dry off), cows were provided with evaporative cooling systems (shade, fans, and soakers) and assigned to two groups: placebo (56 g/d of AB20® top-dressed; CON) or OmniGen-AF® (OMN, 56 g/d top-dressed). Cows were dried off ~46 d before the expected calving date and further split into evaporative cooling (shade, fans, and soakers; CL) or heat stress (only shade; HT) pens. Thus, after dry off, there were four treatment groups: heat stress with placebo (HT, n = 17), HT with OMN supplementation (HT + OMN, n = 19), CL with placebo (CL, n = 16), and CL with OMN supplementation (CL + OMN, n = 11). From a subset of cows (n = 6-8 per group), four blood samples were collected during the dry period (-43, -39, -32, and -21 d relative to calving) to evaluate neutrophil function and blood hematology. In addition, mammary biopsies (4-6 cows/treatment) were collected at -43, -39, -32, and -21 d relative to calving to evaluate mammary gland gene expression and histology, i.e., Tdt dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) and Ki67. Genes related to autophagy, apoptosis, and cell proliferation were analyzed by qRT-PCR. Relative to CL, HT downregulated the expression of beclin-2 (BECN2) but upregulated the expression of beclin-1 (BECN1) on days -43 and -39 relative to calving, respectively. Also, relative to CL, HT upregulated the expression of BAX and FAS on day -39 relative to calving. These differences in gene expression were followed by HT cows having a lower total cell apoptosis rate during involution relative to CL cows. Further to these effects, HT leads to a lower alveoli number relative to CL cows. As in the CL treatment, OMN cows have a higher total cell apoptosis rate and alveoli number relative to CON cows. In addition, OMN cows have higher total cell proliferation relative to CON. Prolactin (PRL) and cortisol concentrations were evaluated during the dry period at days -45, -26, -3, and -1 relative to calving. Relative to CL, HT cows had higher PRL at day -45 but lower PRL on day -1 relative to calving, and a similar trend was observed for cortisol concentrations. In summary, HT impacts mammary gland gene expression, compromises mammary involution, reduces alveoli number, and alters hormone dynamics throughout the dry period. Following the same trends as the CL treatment, OMN increases mammary gland turnover by having a higher cell apoptosis and cell proliferation rate and lower connective tissue relative to CON cows.
Despite the booming targeted protein degradation technologies, degrading cell membrane proteins remains an enormous challenge. In particular, only a limited approach is appropriate for the degradation of the G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) superfamily. It is encouraging that accelerating GPCRs' endocytosis and switching their post-endocytic fate from recycling to lysosomal degradation would represent a promising strategy for developing chemical degraders of GPCRs.This study aimed to elucidate the mechanism underlying post-endocytic sorting of internalized α1A-adrenergic receptor (α1A-AR) upon agonist stimulation and put forward a unique strategy for designing chemical degraders of GPCRs utilizing α1A-AR as an exemplary target.The protein-protein interaction (PPI) of GASP1, Beclin 2, and α1A-AR was investigated by co-immunoprecipitation and GST pull-down, and the regulatory mechanism was explored using immunofluorescence imaging and biotin protection degradation assay. By conjugating the agonistic phenylephrine moiety and a Beclin 2-recruiting moiety, ML246 with linkers, the Endolysosomal Trafficking TArgeting Chimera (ETTAC) molecules were constructed as GPCR degraders for proof-of-concept studies.Mechanistically, the binding of Beclin 2 to GASP1 is crucial to the endolysosomal sorting and degradation of α1A-ARs. Recruiting Beclin 2 to enhance the Beclin 2-GASP1 binding, the ETTAC molecular proved to be highly efficient in reducing recycling and facilitating the degradation of α1A-AR. Furthermore, the representative ETTAC, PMA-37, effectively induces the α1A-ARs degradation in transfected and cancerous cells at the nanomole range in a GASP1 and Beclin 2-dependant manner and thus exhibits significant therapeutic effects against prostate tumor and benign prostatic hyperplasia.Proof-of-concept studies of the ETTAC degraders for GPCR successfully elucidate the roles of post-endocytic sorting proteins and applied to directing the lysosomal degradation of α1A-ARs. Consequently, the ETTAC strategy represents a promising approach for the selective degradation of GPCRs and paves the way for future drug development.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The medicinal application of pomegranate peel extract enriched with polyphenols (PPE) as a therapeutic strategy for managing inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) is still limited. Integrating pomegranate peel extract (PPE) into an effective nanocarrier system could enhance its mechanistic actions, potentially aiding in the remission of colitis. Therefore, this approach aimed to enhance PPE's stability and bioavailability and investigate mitigating impact of pomegranate peel extract-loaded nanoparticles (PPE-NPs) in a colitis model. Colonic injury was induced by 5% dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) and efficacy of disease progression after oral administration of PPE-NPs for 14 days was assessed by evaluating clinical signs severity, antioxidant and inflammatory markers, expressions of endoplasmic reticulum associated genes and histopathological and immunostaining analysis in colonic tissues. Clinical signs and disease activity index were effectively reduced, and the levels of fecal calprotectin were decreased in groups treated with PPE-NPs compared to DSS group. The colitic group showed a significant increase (P < 0.05) in C-reactive protein (CRP) and myeloperoxidase (MPO) and nitric oxide (NO) (35.60, 163.30 and 280 nmol/g tissue respectively) and higher expression (P < 0.05) IL-17, TNF-α, and IL-1β (increased up to 2.99, 4.36 and 4.90 respectively unlike PPE-NPsIII that recorded reduced levels of CRP, MPO and NO (8,96, 78.30 and 123 nmol/g tissue respectively) and much lower (P < 0.05) levels of IL-17, TNF-α, and IL-1β expression (decreased to 1.23, 1.69 and 1.64, respectively). The most improvement of colon damage PPE-NPsIII group was also associated with the reduction MDA level (P < 0.05) (decreased to 21.60 vs 90.65 in DSS non treated group). The highest glutathione peroxidase, superoxide dismutase and catalase activities were noted in PPE-NPsIII received group (42.60, 50.30 and 62.70 U/mg). Notably, prominent free radical scavenging activities were noticed in group received 150 mg/kg of PPE-NPs as supported by higher scavenging of 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (9.85 mg/g) and 2,2-azinobis-(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid tested radicals (19.98 mg/g). Balancing between endoplasmic reticulum stressors (ERS), inflammation and autophagy was prominently noted in group treated with 150 mg/kg of PPE-NPs. These findings were supported by subsiding the excessive expression of ERS related genes (CHOP, JUNK, ATF6, BIP, and Elf-2) and immunostaining expression regulation of key markers regulating autophagy (Beclin-2) in this group. The histopathological changes in the colon were less severe in the PPE-NPs received groups (especially at the level of 150 mg/kg) compared to DSS group. Collectively, these findings suggest that the nanoencapsulation of PPE enhances its effectiveness in promoting recovery of colonic tissue damage and achieving remission of colitis.Copyright: © 2025 Mansour et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Although activation of autophagy is vital for cellular survival during exposure to ambient heat and exercise, it remains unclear if autophagic activity differs between these heat stress conditions and if aging mediates this response. Young [n = 10, mean (SD): 22 (2) yr] and older males [n = 10, 70 (5) yr] performed 30 min of semi-recumbent cycling (70% maximal oxygen uptake). On a separate day, participants were immersed in warm water for 30 min, with the water temperature adjusted to induce the same increase in core temperature (rectal) as the prior exercise bout. Proteins associated with autophagy, inflammation, apoptosis, and the heat shock response (HSR) were assessed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells via Western blot before and after each exposure and during a 6-h seated recovery in a temperate environment (∼22°C). No differences in core temperature occurred at end-exposure to exercise or passive heating in either group (both, P ≥ 0.999). Older adults exhibited greater autophagic regulation (significant LC3-II accumulation) to exercise when compared with passive heating at all time points (all, P ≤ 0.022). However, passive heating alone may have impaired autophagy (elevated p62; P = 0.044). Pro-inflammatory IL-6 was elevated during both conditions (P < 0.001) in older adults. Conversely, greater autophagic initiation (i.e., beclin-2) occurred in young adults at end-exercise and 3-h recovery when compared with passive heating (both, P ≤ 0.024). The HSR and apoptotic responses were similar between conditions in both groups. Although brief exercise stimulates autophagy, exposure to ambient heat stress of an equivalent heat load may underlie autophagic dysregulation in older adults.NEW & NOTEWORTHY We show that a short-duration (30-min) bout of vigorous-intensity exercise stimulates autophagy in young and older males when performed in a temperate environment. However, when exposed to an equivalent heat load as achieved during the prior exercise bout to elicit the same relative increase in core temperature via warm-water immersion, autophagic dysregulation occurs in older but not younger males.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), characterized by its lack of traditional hormone receptors and HER2, presents a significant challenge in oncology due to its poor response to conventional therapies. Autophagy is an important process for maintaining cellular homeostasis, and there are currently autophagy biomarkers that play an effective role in the clinical treatment of tumors. In contrast to targeting protein activity, intervention with protein-protein interaction (PPI) can avoid unrelated crosstalk and regulate the autophagy process with minimal interference pathways.Here, we employed Naive Bayes, Decision Tree, and k-Nearest Neighbors to elucidate the complex PPI network associated with autophagy in TNBC, aiming to uncover novel therapeutic targets. Meanwhile, the candidate proteins interacting with Beclin 2 were initially screened in MDA-MB-231 cells using Beclin 2 as bait protein by immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry assay, and the interaction relationship was verified by molecular docking and CO-IP experiments after intersection. Colony formation, cellular immunofluorescence, cell scratch and 3-(4,5-Dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) tests were used to predict the clinical therapeutic effects of manipulating candidate PPI.By developing three PPI classification models and analyzing over 13,000 datasets, we identified 3733 previously unknown autophagy-related PPIs. Our network analysis revealed the central role of Beclin 2 in autophagy regulation, uncovering its interactions with 39 newly identified proteins. Notably, the CO-IP studies identified the substantial interaction between Beclin 2 and Ubiquilin 1, which was anticipated by our model and discovered in immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry assay results. Subsequently, in vitro investigations showed that overexpressing Beclin 2 increased Ubiquilin 1, promoted autophagy-dependent cell death, and inhibited proliferation and metastasis in MDA-MB-231 cells.This study not only enhances our understanding of autophagy regulation in TNBC but also identifies the Beclin 2-Ubiquilin 1 axis as a promising target for precision therapy. These findings open new avenues for drug discovery and offer inspiration for more effective treatments for this aggressive cancer subtype.© 2025 The Authors.
The process of autophagy is vital in maintaining normal cellular function, especially during exposure to elevated states of physiological stress associated with exercise and hot ambient temperatures. Although prior observations are primarily limited to responses in males, the autophagic response to acute physiological stress in females represents a considerable knowledge gap. Therefore, we assessed autophagy and related pathways of cellular stress in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 20 healthy young [n = 10, mean (SD): aged 23 yr (3)] and older [n = 10, aged 69 yr (3)] females in response to 30 min of semi-recumbent high-intensity cycling exercise (70% of predetermined maximal oxygen consumption) in temperate (25°C) and hot (40°C) ambient conditions (15% relative humidity). Mean body temperature (rectal and skin) was measured throughout, whereas cellular responses were evaluated before and after exercise, including up to 6 h of seated recovery. Proteins associated with autophagy and related pathways were assessed via Western blot. Mean body temperature was elevated after exercise in both conditions, with significant elevations observed after exercise in the heat (all, P ≤ 0.05). Although young females displayed signs of elevated autophagic activity [elevations in microtubule-associated light chain 3B (LC3)-II and beclin-2] in response to exercise performed in both temperate and hot ambient conditions (all, P ≤ 0.05), responses were attenuated in older females. This was accompanied by elevations in chaperone-mediated autophagy in young but not in older females in response to exercise independent of ambient temperature. Our findings indicate exercise, with and without ambient heat exposure may stimulate the autophagic response in young but not in older females.NEW & NOTEWORTHY We show for the first time that an acute bout (30 min) of high-intensity intensity exercise stimulates autophagy in young females irrespective of ambient heat exposure. However, older females did not display the same increase in autophagy as their younger counterparts when high-intensity exercise was performed in temperate or hot ambient conditions. Consequently, older females may be at an elevated risk of heat-induced cellular damage during exertional heat stress.Copyright © 2025 The Authors.
Lung inflammation as a result of exposure to toxicants is a major pathological problem. Autophagy (AP) is a process of cell self-digestion and can be disrupted by environmental toxicants, leading to oxidative stress, inflammation and cellular damage. Bryophyllum pinnatum (Lam.) Oken has been used in folklore medicine to manage pathological abnormalities, including inflammation, but mechanisms remain unclear. This work investigated the effects of Bryophyllum pinnatum ethanol leaf extract (BP) on dysfunctional AP in the lungs of Wistar rats exposed to zinc oxide nanoparticles (ZONPs). The experimental rats were orally administered ZONPs for seven days (10 mg/kg). Some exposed rats were post-treated with BP (62.5 and 125 mg/kg) through oral gavage. Oxidative stress, inflammation, and apoptotic and autophagic parameters were assessed using biochemical assay and gene expression methods. Several indices of pulmonary damage were also evaluated. PCR analysis suggested that ZONP downregulated the expression of pro-autophagy-related genes (Beclin 2, ATG5, DAPK, and FOXP3) and upregulated the expression of the TNF-alpha, NF-Kb, LC3 and Bcl2 genes. In contrast, BP significantly (p < 0.0001) reversed ZONP-induced pulmonary toxicity and oxidative stress. It reduced MDA levels and increased SOD, CAT, GSH and GPxD activities. BP significantly (p < 0.0001) downregulated the expressions of proinflammatory genes (IL-6 and JNK) and upregulated the expressions of IL-10, CAT and SOD genes in ZONP-exposed rats. BP restored the lung's histoarchitectural structure after ZNOP-induced distortion. The results suggested that BP has antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, and could effectively restore ZNOP-induced dysfunctional AP in the lungs of Wistar rats.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Hypothermia is a critical consequence of extreme cold exposure that increases the risk of cold-related injury and death in humans. While the initiation of cytoprotective mechanisms including the process of autophagy and the heat shock response (HSR) is crucial to cellular survival during periods of stress, age-related decrements in these systems may underlie cold-induced cellular vulnerability in older adults. Moreover, whether potential sex-related differences in autophagic regulation influence the human cold stress response remain unknown. We evaluated the effect of age and sex on mechanisms of cytoprotection (autophagy and the HSR) and cellular stress (apoptotic signaling and the acute inflammatory response) during ex vivo hypothermic cooling. Venous blood samples from 20 healthy young (10 females; mean [SD]: 22 [2] years) and 20 healthy older (10 females; 66 [5] years) adults were either isolated immediately (baseline) for peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) or exposed to water bath temperatures maintained at 37, 35, 33, 31, or 4 °C for 90 min before PBMC isolation. Proteins associated with autophagy, apoptosis, the HSR, and inflammation were analyzed via Western blotting. Indicators of autophagic initiation and signaling (LC3, ULK1, and beclin-2) and the HSR (HSP90 and HSP70) increased when exposed to hypothermic temperatures in young and older adults (all p ≤ 0.007). Sex-related differences were only observed with autophagic initiation (ULK1; p = 0.015). However, despite increases in autophagic initiators ULK1 and beclin-2 (all p < 0.001), this was paralleled by autophagic dysfunction (increased p62) in all groups (all p < 0.001). Further, apoptotic (cleaved-caspase-3) and inflammatory (IL-6 and TNF-α) signaling increased in all groups (all p < 0.001). We demonstrated that exposure to hypothermic conditions is associated with autophagic dysfunction, irrespective of age or sex, although there may exist innate sex-related differences in cytoprotection in response to cold exposure as evidenced through altered autophagic initiation.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
In mammals, glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) exerts a potent hypoglycemic effect, whereas its role in fish remains controversial. In this study, synthetic grass carp GIP was administered via intraperitoneal injection, and its effects were evaluated over 24 h. GIP significantly elevated blood glucose levels at 0.5 h post-injection compared to the saline control. This hyperglycemia was accompanied by increased hepatic expression of the gluconeogenic genes glucose-6-phosphatase (g6pc) and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1 (pck1) and decreased expression of the glycolytic gene pyruvate kinase (pk). Postprandial expression of the gip gene was also significantly upregulated in the foregut at 6 h. Furthermore, GIP administration modulated central appetite regulators within 1 h, increasing expression of the anorexigenic cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (cart) and decreasing expression of the orexigenic neuropeptide Y (npy) and agouti related neuropeptide (agrp). Collectively, these results indicate that in grass carp, GIP functions primarily as an appetite regulator rather than as a hypoglycemic incretin, highlighting its potential as a target for studies on appetite control in fish.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40707058 is a review article
Adipokines regulate body weight and metabolism by targeting the hypothalamus, influencing feeding, energy expenditure (EE) and insulin sensitivity. Angiopoietin-like 2 (Angptl2) is a pro-inflammatory adipokine linking obesity to insulin resistance. Both Angptl2 and its receptor are expressed in the central nervous system. Yet, the contribution of Angptl2 to the regulation of energy metabolism and relevant hypothalamic neuropeptides in male and female mice is unknown. We aim at determining the impact of Angptl2 knockdown (KD) on energy balance, nutrient partitioning and hypothalamic responses to a standard (STD) or high-fat diet (HFD) in mice.Three-month-old male and female Angptl2-KD mice and wildtype (WT) littermates were fed 16 weeks either a STD or a HFD. Body weight, food consumption and insulin sensitivity were assessed along with measurements of EE, respiratory exchange ratio (RER) and locomotor activity. We quantified the expression of Angptl2 and its receptors itga5, mag and pirb in the medio-basal hypothalamus (MBH) of WT mice, and MBH neuropeptide Y (NPY), agouti-related neuropeptide (AgRP) and proopiomelanocortin (POMC) gene expression in both KD and control fasting mice.Lack of Angptl2 reduced food intake in males on both diets, and in females on HFD. In KD males, this anorexigenic effect was associated with lower body weight, increased EE, improved insulin sensitivity and lower hypothalamic orexigenic NPY expression compared to controls. Female Angptl2-KD mice however, exhibited unaltered body weight, EE and insulin sensitivity, and elevated NPY, AgRP and MC4R expression compared to controls. Fasting caused an increase in the MBH of mag expression in males and females but Angptl2 expression only in female mice.Angptl2 KD improved diet-induced obesity and associated metabolic dysfunction in male mice. The lack of similar changes in female mice and divergent MBH neuropeptide profile suggest that sex-dependent mechanisms underly the anabolic effects of this proinflammatory adipokine.© 2025. The Author(s).
Obesity is the result of positive energy balance in which various hormones and neurotransmitters are involved. Using Dietary supplements is a common and popular method to lose weight. Medicinal plants with specific effects on metabolizing enzymes, blocking adipogenesis, and improving energy metabolism can be a suitable alternative to these supplements. In this study, the role of hydro-alcoholic extract of Dactylorhiza maculate (Salep) plant on obesity and its related hormones and antioxidants was investigated. Forty male Wistar rats were divided into five groups: Control, Sham, and Salep extract (three doses): 80, 160, and 320 mg/kg. The extract was fed by gavage for 29 days. After the 29th day, blood and tissue samples were taken. Rats' ELISA kits were used to measure adiponectin, obestatin, resistin, orexin-A, insulin, epinephrine, Agouti Related Neuropeptide (AgRP), omentin, chemerin, amylin, neuropeptide-Y (NPY), and ghrelin. In addition, we measured leptin, cholecystokinin (CCK), antioxidants, and lipid profile factors. Evaluation of weight changes showed that Salep extract helped the animals to lose weight significantly in the 160 and 320 mg/kg Salep groups. Leptin, adiponectin, AgRP, obestatin, CCK, chemerin, adiponectin, and total antioxidants displayed a significant increase compared to the control group. In contrast, ghrelin, omentin, resistin, NPY, amylin, orexin-A, epinephrine, and Malondialdehyde (MDA) decreased in the Salep groups. The lipid profile was also affected by the extract. These findings suggest that the Salep extract prevents appetite, reduces ghrelin, and affects digestive factors; the Salep extract can change the secretory factors of adipose tissue and lipid profile and ultimately help to lose weight.
Aging generally affects food consumption and energy metabolism. Since the feeding center is located in the hypothalamus, it is a major target for understanding the mechanism of age-related changes in eating behavior and metabolism. To obtain insight into the age-related changes in gene expression in the hypothalamus, we investigated genes whose expression changes with age in the hypothalamus. A DNA microanalysis was performed using hypothalamus samples obtained from young (aged 24 weeks) and old male mice (aged 138 weeks). Gene Ontology (GO) analysis was performed using the identified differentially expressed genes. We observed that the expression of 377 probe sets was significantly altered with aging (177 were upregulated and 200 were downregulated in old mice). As a result of the GO analysis of these probe sets, 16 GO terms, including the neuropeptide signaling pathway, were obtained. Intriguingly, although the food intake in old mice was lower than that in young mice, we found that several neuropeptide genes, such as agouti-related neuropeptide ( Agrp ), neuropeptide Y ( Npy ), and pro-melanin-concentrating hormone ( Pmch ), all of which promote food intake, were upregulated in old mice. In conclusion, this suggests that the gene expression pattern in the hypothalamus is regulated to promote food intake.Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic progressive interstitial lung disease. This study aimed to investigate the involvement of endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) in IPF and explore its correlation with immune infiltration.ERS-related differentially expressed genes (ERSRDEGs) were identified by intersecting differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from three Gene Expression Omnibus datasets with ERS-related gene sets. Gene Set Variation Analysis and Gene Ontology were used to explore the potential biological mechanisms underlying ERS. A nomogram was developed using the risk signature derived from the ERSRDEGs to perform risk assessment. The diagnostic value of the risk signature was evaluated using receiver operating characteristics, calibration, and decision curve analyses. The ERS score of patients with IPF was measured using a single-sample Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (ssGSEA) algorithm. Subsequently, a prognostic model based on the ERS scores was established. The proportion of immune cell infiltration was assessed using the ssGSEA and CIBERSORT algorithms. Finally, the expression of ERSRDEGs was validated in vivo and in vitro via RT-qPCR.This study developed an 8-ERSRDEGs signature. Based on the expression of these genes, we constructed a diagnostic nomogram model in which agouti-related neuropeptide had a significantly greater impact on the model. The area under the curve values for the predictive value of the ERSRDEGs signature were 0.975 and 1.000 for GSE70866 and GSE110147, respectively. We developed a prognostic model based on the ERS scores of patients with IPF. Furthermore, we classified patients with IPF into two subtypes based on their signatures. The RT-qPCR validation results supported the reliability of most of our conclusions.We developed and verified a risk model using eight ERSRDEGs. These eight genes can potentially affect the progression of IPF by regulating ERS and immune responses.Copyright © 2024 Zhu, Zhou, Zhang, Pan, Wu, Fu, Gong, Yang, Liu and Cheng.
Spexin2 (SPX2), a paralog of SPX1, is a newly identified gene in non-mammalian vertebrates. Limited studies in fish have evidenced its important role in food intake and energy balance modulation. However, little is known about its biological functions in birds. Using the chicken (c-) as a model, we cloned the full-length cDNA of SPX2 by using RACE-PCR. It is 1189 base pair (bp) in length and predicted to generate a protein of 75 amino acids that contains a 14 amino acids mature peptide. Tissue distribution analysis showed that cSPX2 transcripts were detected in a wide array of tissues, with abundant expression in the pituitary, testis, and adrenal gland. cSPX2 was also observed to be ubiquitously expressed in chicken brain regions, with the highest expression in the hypothalamus. Its expression was significantly upregulated in the hypothalamus after 24 or 36 h of food deprivation, and the feeding behavior of chicks was obviously suppressed after peripheral injection with cSPX2. Mechanistically, further studies evidenced that cSPX2 acts as a satiety factor via upregulating cocaine and amphetamine regulated transcript (CART) and downregulating agouti-related neuropeptide (AGRP) in hypothalamus. Using a pGL4-SRE-luciferase reporter system, cSPX2 was demonstrated to effectively activate a chicken galanin II type receptor (cGALR2), a cGALR2-like receptor (cGALR2L), and a galanin III type receptor (cGALR3), with the highest binding affinity for cGALR2L. Collectively, we firstly identified that cSPX2 serves as a novel appetite monitor in chicken. Our findings will help clarify the physiological functions of SPX2 in birds as well as its functional evolution in vertebrates.
Loss of agouti related neuropeptide (AgRP) does not lead to overt phenotypes in mammals unless AgRP neurons are ablated. In contrast, in zebrafish it has been shown that Agrp1 loss of function (LOF) leads to reduced growth in Agrp1 morphant as well as Agrp1 mutant larvae. Further, it has been shown that multiple endocrine axes are dysregulated upon Agrp1 LOF in Agrp1 morphant larvae. Here we show that adult Agrp1 LOF zebrafish show normal growth and reproductive behavior in spite of a significant reduction in multiple related endocrine axes namely reduced expression in pituitary growth hormone (gh) follicle stimulating hormone (fshb) as well as luteinizing hormone (lhb). We looked for compensatory changes in candidate gene expression but found no changes in growth hormone and gonadotropin hormone receptors that would explain the lack of phenotype. We further looked at expression in the hepatic and muscular insulin-like growth factor (Igf) axis which appears to be normal. Fecundity as well as ovarian histology also appear largely normal while we do see an increase in mating efficiency specifically in fed but not fasted AgRP1 LOF animals. This data shows that zebrafish can grow and reproduce normally in spite of significant central hormone changes and suggests a peripheral compensatory mechanism additional to previously reported central compensatory mechanisms in other zebrafish neuropeptide LOF lines.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Thyroid hormones (THs), thyroxine (T4), and triiodothyronine (T3), regulate growth, metabolism, and neurodevelopment. THs secretion is controlled by the pituitary thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) and the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid (HPT) axis. The organic anion-transporting polypeptide 1C1 (OATP1C1/SLCO1C1) and the monocarboxylate transporter 8 (MCT8/SLC16A2) actively transport THs, which bind to their nuclear receptors and induce gene expression. A mutation in OATP1C1 is associated with brain hypometabolism, gradual neurodegeneration, and impaired cognitive and motor functioning in adolescent patients. To understand the role of Oatp1c1 and the mechanisms of the disease, we profiled the transcriptome of oatp1c1 mutant (oatp1c1 -/-) and mct8 -/-xoatp1c1 -/- adult male and female zebrafish brains. Among dozens of differentially expressed genes, agouti-related neuropeptide 1 (agrp1) expression increased in oatp1c1 -/- adult brains. Imaging in the hypothalamus revealed enhanced proliferation of Agrp1 neurons in oatp1c1 -/- larvae and adults, and increased food consumption in oatp1c1 -/- larvae. Similarly, feeding and the number of Agrp1 neurons increased in thyroid gland-ablated zebrafish. Pharmacological treatments showed that the T3 analog TRIAC (3,3',5-tri-iodothyroacetic acid), but not T4, normalized the number of Agrp1 neurons in oatp1c1 -/- zebrafish. Since the HPT axis is hyperactive in the oatp1c1 -/- brain, we used the CRISPR-Cas9 system to knockdown tsh in oatp1c1 -/- larvae, and inducibly enhanced the HPT axis in wild-type larvae. These manipulations showed that Tsh promotes proliferation of Agrp1 neurons and increases food consumption in zebrafish. The results revealed upregulation of both the HPT axis-Agrp1 circuitry and feeding in a zebrafish model for OATP1C1 deficiency.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Mutation in the thyroid hormone (TH) transporter OATP1C1 is associated with cognitive and motor functioning disturbances in humans. Here, we used an oatp1c1 -/- zebrafish to understand the role of organic anion-transporting polypeptide 1C1 (Oatp1c1), and the characteristics of OATP1C1 deficiency. Transcriptome profiling identified upregulation of agrp1 expression in the oatp1c1 -/- brain. The oatp1c1 -/- larvae showed increased thyroid-stimulating hormone (tsh) levels, proliferation of Agrp1 neurons and food consumption. Genetic manipulations of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid (HPT) axis showed that Tsh increases the number of Agrp1 neurons and food consumption. The T3 analog TRIAC (3,3',5-tri-iodothyroacetic acid) normalizes the number of Agrp1 neurons and may have potential for the treatment of Oatp1c1 deficiency. The findings demonstrate a functional interaction between the thyroid and feeding systems in the brain of zebrafish and suggest a neuroendocrinological mechanism for OATP1C1 deficiency.Copyright © 2022 the authors.
Spexin2 (spx2) is a newly identified gene in vertebrates, but its biological functions remain unclear. In this study, we cloned the full-length cDNA of spx2 in zebrafish. The 288-bp open reading frame encodes a protein of 95 amino acids that contains a 14 amino acids mature peptide. Spx2 is highly expressed in brain and testis. Its expression was significantly downregulated in the hypothalamus after feeding treatment and 7 days of food deprivation. Using a zebrafish spx2-/- mutant line, we observed a greater amount of food intake and changes in mRNA levels of feeding factors. We found that, SPX2 acts as a satiety factor that inhibits food intake by downregulating the expression of agouti-related neuropeptide (agrp). Moreover, spx2 mutant fish exhibited a larger body size, excessive lipid accumulation, and insulin resistance. Taken together, our results revealed that SPX2 functions as a satiety factor involved in energy metabolic regulation in zebrafish.
Endothelial dysfunction is an early event in atherosclerosis development and is centrally linked with insufficient endothelial NO production. However, chronically increased NO levels, including NO from other cellular sources, may induce endothelial dysfunction. Here, we studied how chronically elevated NO production from erythrocytes, achieved by genetic deletion of ARG1 (arginase-1), impacts smooth muscle cell (SMC) lipid accumulation and atherosclerosis progression.Primary aortic SMCs from mice lacking ARG1 in red blood cell (RBC.ARG1-knockout [KO]) were subjected to RNA-sequencing, lipidomic, metabolic, and molecular analyses; atherosclerosis burden was quantified en face and at the aortic root.Increased lipid droplet formation in SMCs from RBC.ARG1-KO mice was observed using brightfield and electron microscopy and confirmed by Oil Red O and boron-dipyrromethene lipid dye staining. RNA sequencing revealed the simultaneous overexpression of genes regulating lipid uptake (Cd36), catabolism (Cpt1a), and de novo lipogenesis (Acaca, Fasn [Fatty acid synthase]) in RBC.ARG1-KO SMCs, and inhibiting fatty acid translocase (CD36), ACC (acetyl-CoA [coenzyme A] carboxylase), or fatty acid synthase prevented the lipid accumulation in RBC.ARG1-KO SMCs. Increased expression of CD36 downstream of NO and overactivated sGC (soluble guanylyl cyclase)-cyclic guanosine monophosphate signaling was identified as a mediator of increased lipid uptake in RBC.ARG1-KO SMCs. Loss of PDE (phosphodiesterase) 2A, coupling cyclic guanosine monophosphate with cyclic adenosine monophosphate and PKA (protein kinase A) activation, was also observed, resulting in AMPK (5' AMP-activated protein kinase) inhibition, thus unlocking acetyl-CoA carboxylase, catalyzing the rate-limiting step in fatty acid synthesis. Inhibiting PDE2A recapitulated the RBC.ARG1-KO SMC phenotype, while inhibiting PKA or ATP generation from cyclic adenosine monophosphate abrogated the lipid droplet accumulation in RBC.ARG1-KO SMCs. Increased Oil Red O-positive aortic atherosclerosis burden in hypercholesterolemic apolipoprotein E-deficient RBC.ARG1-KO mice was confirmed by histology and elevated levels of polyunsaturated long-chain cholesterol esters in aortic atheroma by mass spectrometry lipidomics.Our findings show the importance of erythrocyte-derived NO for metabolically reprogramming SMCs toward increased fatty acid uptake and lipogenesis, and identify PDE2A as a molecular switch linking chronically activated NO signaling with lipid accumulation and atheroma progression.
Diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) results in high mortality with surprisingly rare therapeutic approaches. Anacardic acid (AA) shows broad pharmacological properties, but its effect on DCM was unknown. This study aims to investigate the effect and molecular action of AA on DCM. KKAy mice, a model of spontaneous type 2 diabetes, were fed a high-fat diet, and were subsequently administered with AA by gavage at 5 mg/kg for 14 weeks. AA attenuated cardiac dysfunction, pathological injuries, inflammation, fibrosis, oxidative stress, and apoptosis. Mechanistically, AA was enriched in the colon, but not serum and heart, improving colonic histopathological scores, enhancing colonic tight junction protein expression and reducing serum lipopolysaccharide level, suggesting colonic epithelial barrier integrity (CEBI) as a key target of AA. In vitro experiment employed high glucose and palmitic acid-challenged colonic epithelial cells as a cell model of CEBI, showing that AA at 5 µmol/L reversed the impaired expression of tight junction proteins. RNA-sequencing identified Pde2a gene to be significantly inhibited by AA. Lentivirus-induced Pde2a overexpression in colonic epithelial cells abolished the protective effect of AA on CEBI. The present study reports that AA enhances CEBI to attenuate DCM, possibly through inhibiting colonic epithelial expression of Pde2a.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Phosphodiesterase 2A (PDE2A) plays a vital role in regulating cyclic nucleotide signaling by hydrolyzing cAMP and cGMP in the central nervous system (CNS). This enzymatic activity is essential for neuronal function, and PDE2A has emerged as a molecular target for neuroimaging in neuropsychiatric disorders and neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, we evaluated the novel 11C-labeled positron emission tomography (PET) radioligand [11C]1 derived from a pyrazolopyrimidine-based PDE2A inhibitor. The radiosynthesis of [11C]1 was accomplished via [11C]-methyl iodide-mediated methylation of precursor 9 under mild conditions, yielding [11C]1 with high purity (99%) and high molar activity (154 ± 66 GBq/μmol). In vitro autoradiography demonstrated high radiotracer accumulation in regions with abundant PDE2A expression, including the striatum and substantia nigra. However, dynamic PET imaging in rats showed a relatively uniform distribution throughout the brain and no significant blocking effects. Further optimization in medicinal chemistry is necessary to improve the in vivo performance of the pyrazolopyrimidine-based PDE2A tracer scaffold.© 2025 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a severe clinical condition often accompanied by multiple complications, with neuropathic pain (NP) being one of the most persistent and difficult conditions to treat. The underlying mechanisms of NP remain unclear, and effective clinical treatments are lacking. Some studies suggest that phosphodiesterase 2A (PDE2A) may contribute to the development of NP. This study aims to investigate the role of PDE2A inhibitor Bay 60-7550 in alleviating NP in a rat model of SCI. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly allocated into four groups: sham, SCI, SCI + Bay 60-7550, and SCI + vehicle. Mechanical thresholds were assessed using the von Frey test from 1 day prior to surgery through postoperative day 21. PDE2A expression in the spinal cord was quantified via qRT-PCR, Western blotting, and immunohistochemistry. Microglial polarization (M1/M2) was analyzed using flow cytometry and qRT-PCR. Downstream biomarkers, including IL-6, IL-1β, IL-10, TGF-β, CCL2, and CCL3, were also quantified via qRT-PCR. Additionally, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was performed to determine the levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). Intrathecal administration of the PDE2A inhibitor Bay 60-7550 significantly alleviated mechanical allodynia in rats following SCI. PDE2A expression was notably elevated in the spinal dorsal horn post-SCI, an effect that was suppressed by Bay 60-7550 treatment. In addition, Bay 60-7550 administration reduced the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-1β), increased anti-inflammatory cytokines (IL-10, TGF-β), and decreased mRNA levels of CCL2 and CCL3 in the spinal cord. Consistently, treatment with Bay 60-7550 elevated the levels of cGMP and cAMP in the spinal cord and shifted microglial polarization by increasing the proportion of M2-type cells while reducing M1-type cells in SCI rats. Inhibiting PDE2A overexpression may mitigate the progression of NP in rats following SCI by modulating microglial polarization. Therefore, PDE2A represents a promising therapeutic target for the management of neuropathic pain after SCI.
Phosphodiesterase-2A (PDE2A) is a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of ganglion dysfunction-related diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia, cognitive impairment, anxiety, and depression. However, most current PDE2A inhibitors have moderate selectivity compared to other PDEs. In this study, we described the discovery of 6 novel PDE2A inhibitors by bioassays, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations. Six molecules out of 2592 compounds from the L6000-Natural Compound Library inhibited PDE2A with affinity ranging from 4.03 to 39.84 μM. Selective experiments were carried out on PDE4D, PDE5A, PDE9A, and PDE10A, among which 5-5H and 16-2H exhibited good dual inhibition against both PDE2A and PDE4D. Their IC50 values for PDE2A were 4.03 and 9.08 μM, respectively, and for PDE4D they were 3.89 and 10.96 μM, respectively. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation were used to explore the binding modes of active compounds with PDE2A. It is shown that in addition to the common interactions with Gln859 and Phe862 of PDE2A, 6 molecules formed extra hydrogen bonds with Ile826 and Leu809. These molecules may serve as starting points for further optimization of selective PDE2A inhibitors.
PDE2 (phosphodiesterase 2) is upregulated in human heart failure. Cardiac PDE2-transgenic mice are protected against contractile dysfunction and arrhythmias in heart failure but whether an acute elevation of PDE2 could be of therapeutic value remains elusive. This hypothesis was tested using cardiac PDE2 gene transfer in preclinical models of heart failure.C57BL/6 male mice were injected with serotype 9 adeno-associated viruses encoding for PDE2A. This led to a ≈10-fold rise of PDE2A protein levels that affected neither cardiac structure nor function in healthy mice. Two weeks after inoculation with serotype 9 adeno-associated viruses, mice were implanted with minipumps delivering either NaCl, isoproterenol (60 mg/kg per day), or isoproterenol and phenylephrine (30 mg/kg per day each) for 2 weeks. In mice injected with serotype 9 adeno-associated viruses encoding for LUC (luciferase), isoproterenol or isoproterenol+phenylephrine infusion induced left ventricular hypertrophy, decreased ejection fraction unveiled by echocardiography, and promoted fibrosis and apoptosis assessed by Masson's trichrome and Tunel, respectively. Furthermore, inotropic responses to isoproterenol of ventricular cardiomyocytes isolated from isoproterenol+phenylephrine-LUC mice loaded with 1 μmol/L Fura-2AM and stimulated at 1 Hz to record calcium transients and sarcomere shortening were dampened. Spontaneous calcium waves at the cellular level were promoted as well as ventricular arrhythmias evoked in vivo by catheter-mediated ventricular pacing after isoproterenol (1.5 mg/kg) and atropine (1 mg/kg) injection. However, increased PDE2A blunted these adverse outcomes evoked by sympathomimetic amines.Cardiac gene therapy with PDE2A limits left ventricle remodeling, dysfunction, and arrhythmias evoked by catecholamines, providing evidence that increasing PDE2A activity acutely could prevent progression toward heart failure.
Phosphodiesterase 2 A (PDE2A) function is stimulated by cGMP to catabolize cAMP. However, neurological and neurochemical effects of PDE2A deficiency are poorly understood. To address this gap, we studied behavioral characteristics and cerebral morpho-chemical changes of adult male heterozygous C57BL/6-PDE2A+/- (HET), and wild type C57BL/6-PDE2A+/+ (WT) mice. Behavioral functions of mice were evaluated by a wide test battery. HET mice exhibited greater tendency to explore novel environments in comparison to WT mice, but spatial working memory, anxiety, and sociability were similar in adult HET and WT mice. In HET mice, PDE2A mRNA, PDE2A protein expression, and cGMP hydrolyzing enzymatic activity were consistently reduced by about 50 %. Consequently, the cyclic nucleotide levels were significantly increased in HET mice, but unexpectedly the mean percentage variation was higher for cGMP equal to 153.23 %, and lower for cAMP equal to 16.41 %. Therefore, to try to explain the preponderant increase of cGMP to cAMP we evaluated other PDE enzymes functionally related to PDE2A. Surprisingly, results were quite contradictory: in HET mice protein levels of the other dual-specificity enzyme PDE3A and PDE10A were reduced, whereas the expressions of PDE5A and PDE9A that selectively hydrolyze cGMP were increased. Therefore, we investigated the involvement of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) expression, as determinant of a possible increased synthesis of NO/cGMP signaling. Interestingly, in HET mice the expression level of brain nNOS, measured by western blot and immune-histochemistry was significantly increased, particularly in interneurons from the striatum. In conclusion, the deficiency of PDE2A could be compensated in the striatum by upregulating nNOS/NO/cGMP pathway, which in turn likely upregulates PDE2A-dependent cAMP hydrolysis. The neuroanatomical correlation between striatal nNOS upregulation and the behavioral phenotype of increased exploratory behavior in HET mice is advanced.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Phosphodiesterase 2A (PDE2A) plays a pivotal role in modulating cyclic nucleotide metabolism. Recent studies have shown that PDE2A is associated with some tumors, but its expression profiles, prognostic significance, and immunological roles in diverse cancer types remain unclear. Utilizing advanced bioinformatics tools, we performed a comprehensive analysis of PDE2A gene expression in multiple human cancers. Our study revealed that PDE2A expression was significantly reduced in the majority of cancer types and clinicopathological stages (I to IV) compared to normal tissues. Additionally, PDE2A expression was closely related to the prognosis of cancers such as stomach adenocarcinoma (STAD), ovarian serous cystadenocarcinoma (OV), and liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC). Cox regression analyses indicated that PDE2A can act as an independent prognostic factor for these cancers. The level of PDE2A DNA methylation was significantly decreased in most cancers. Genetic alterations in PDE2A predominantly manifest in the form of amplifications. Moreover, infiltrating cells and immune checkpoint genes, including PDCD1, exhibited notable correlations with PDE2A expression. Significant associations were observed between PDE2A expression and tumor mutation burden as well as microsatellite instability. Single cell sequencing revealed PDE2A's crucial role in regulating differentiation and angiogenesis of cancer cells. Functional enrichment analysis emphasized the important role of PDE2A in synaptic transmission and tumor development. Aberrant expression of PDE2A influenced the sensitivity of various antitumor and chemotherapy drugs. This research provided a comprehensive analysis of PDE2A in human cancers, highlighting its potential as both a prognostic marker and an immunotherapy target for future research.
Skipped: PubMed ID 38802917 is a review article
Phosphodiesterase 2A (Pde2A) is a dual-specific PDE that breaks down both cAMP and cGMP cyclic nucleotides. We recently highlighted a direct relationship between Pde2A impairment, a consequent increase of cAMP, and the appearance of mouse congenital heart defects (CHDs). Here we aimed to characterize the pathways involved in the development of CHDs and in their prevention by pharmacological approaches targeting cAMP and cGMP signaling. Transcriptome analysis revealed a modulation of more than 500 genes affecting biological processes involved in the immune system, cardiomyocyte development and contractility, angiogenesis, transcription, and oxidative stress in hearts from Pde2A-/- embryos. Metoprolol and H89 pharmacological administration prevented heart dilatation and hypertabeculation in Pde2A-/- embryos. Metoprolol was also able to partially impede heart septum defect and oxidative stress at tissue and molecular levels. Amelioration of cardiac defects was also observed by using the antioxidant NAC, indicating oxidative stress as one of the molecular mechanisms underpinning the CHDs. In addition, Sildenafil treatment recovered cardiac defects suggesting the requirement of cAMP/cGMP nucleotides balance for the correct heart development.© 2024. The Author(s).
Exploring the repertoire of peptides presented on major histocompatibility complexes (MHCs) helps identify targets for immunotherapy in many hematologic malignancies. However, there is a paucity of such data for diffuse large B-cell lymphomas (DLBCLs), which might be explained by the profound downregulation of MHC expression in many DLBCLs, and in particular in the enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2)-mutated subgroup. Epigenetic drug treatment, especially in the context of interferon-γ (IFN-γ), restored MHC expression in DLBCL. In DLBCL, peptides presented on MHCs were identified via mass spectrometry after treatment with tazemetostat or decitabine alone or in combination with IFN-γ. Such treatment synergistically increased the expression of MHC class I surface proteins up to 50-fold and the expression of class II surface proteins up to threefold. Peptides presented on MHCs increased to a similar extent for both class I and class II MHCs. Overall, these treatments restored the diversity of the immunopeptidome to levels described in healthy B cells for 2 of 3 cell lines and allowed the systematic search for new targets for immunotherapy. Consequently, we identified multiple MHC ligands from the regulator of G protein signaling 13 (RGS13) and E2F transcription factor 8 (E2F8) on different MHC alleles, none of which have been described in healthy tissues and therefore represent tumor-specific MHC ligands that are unmasked only after drug treatment. Overall, our results show that EZH2 inhibition in combination with decitabine and IFN-γ can expand the repertoire of MHC ligands presented on DLBCLs by revealing suppressed epitopes, thus allowing the systematic analysis and identification of new potential immunotherapy targets.© 2022 by The American Society of Hematology. Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0), permitting only noncommercial, nonderivative use with attribution. All other rights reserved.
Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) is characterized by hundreds of colorectal adenomas that inevitably progress into carcinomas. This study focused on the heterogeneity during the polyposis progression to identify new targets and signatures for therapeutic development.An integrated analysis of single-cell sequencing (GSE109308) and bulk transcriptomic data (GSE79460, GSE88945, GSE94919, GSE106500, GSE109812, GSE153385, and GSE156172) of FAP patients from the Gene Expression Omnibus database was conducted. The heterogeneous features of epithelial cell clusters were described in terms of evolutionary trajectory, stemness, hypoxia, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), immune infiltration and metabolism. Three machine learning algorithms were applied to identify the key cell subset driving polyp heterogeneity, followed by functional validation with cell cycle and viability experiments. Cell-cell communication landscapes of this significant cell subset and its associations with prognosis and response to chemotherapy or immunotherapy were delineated.Thirteen epithelial cell clusters were determined and further classified into four heterogeneous phenotypes. A specific cell population, G protein-coupled receptor 182 (GPR182)-positive polyp stem cells (GPR182+ PSCs), was identified as a crucial contributor to heterogeneity. The GPR182+ PSCs showed tumor-priming capacity in evolutionary trajectory analysis and exhibited extensive cell-cell communication with immune cells, especially M2 macrophages and T cells. Importantly, high abundance of GPR182+ PSCs correlated with poor prognosis and elevated expression of immune checkpoints (PD-L1 and CTLA-4) in colorectal cancer. GPR182+ PSCs could also predict the responses of colorectal cancer patients to certain drug treatments, such as rapamycin and midostaurin.Our findings map the epithelial heterogeneity in FAP and reveal that GPR182+ PSCs are crucial in driving heterogeneity and immune evasion. GPR182+ PSCs represent promising biomarkers for prognosis and drug responses, providing novel insights into FAP pathology and therapeutic development.© 2026 Wu et al.
The tumour microenvironment (TME) has occupied a potent position in the tumorigenesis and tumor progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Radiogenomics is an emerging field that integrates imaging and genetic information, thus offering a novel class of non-invasive biomarkers with diagnostic, prognostic, and treatment response. However, optimal evaluation methodologies for radiogenomics in patients with HCC have not been well established. Therefore, this study aims to develop a radiogenomics models, associating contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CECT) based radiomics features and transcriptomics data with TME, to increase predictive precision for overall survival (OS) in patients with HCC.Transcriptome profiles of 365 patients with HCC from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA)-HCC cohort were used to obtain TME-related genes by differential expression analysis. TME-related radiomics features of 53 patients with HCC from The Cancer Imaging Archive (TCIA)-HCC cohort matched with the TCGA-HCC cohort were screened via correlation analysis. Furthermore, a radiogenomics score-based prognostic model was constructed using the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) Cox regression analysis in the TCIA-HCC cohort. Finally, the ability to predict prognosis and the value of the model in identifying the abundance of immune cell infiltration were investigated.A radiogenomics prognostic model was developed, which incorporated 1 radiomics feature [original_gray-level co-occurrence matrix (glcm)_inverse difference normalized (Idn)] and 3 genes [spen paralogue and orthologue C‑terminal domain containing 1 (SPOCD1); killer cell lectin like receptor B1 (KLRB1); G protein-coupled receptor 182 (GPR182)]. The model performed satisfactorily in the training and test sets [1-year, 2-year, 3-year area under the curve (AUC) of 0.81, 0.85 and 0.87 in the training set, respectively; and 0.73, 0.83, and 0.84 in the test set, respectively]. Moreover, the model showed that higher radiogenomics scores were associated with worse OS and lower levels of immune infiltration.The novel CECT-based radiogenomics model may provide valuable insights for prognostic stratification and TME assessment of patients with HCC.2023 Quantitative Imaging in Medicine and Surgery. All rights reserved.
For many solid tumors, immune checkpoint blockade therapy has become first line treatment, yet a large proportion of patients with immunologically cold tumors do not benefit due to the paucity of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes. Here we show that the orphan G Protein-Coupled Receptor 182 (GPR182) contributes to immunotherapy resistance in cancer via scavenging chemokines that are important for lymphocyte recruitment to tumors. GPR182 is primarily upregulated in melanoma-associated lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs) during tumorigenesis, and this atypical chemokine receptor endocytoses chemokines promiscuously. In GPR182-deficient mice, T cell infiltration into transplanted melanomas increases, leading to enhanced effector T cell function and improved antitumor immunity. Ablation of GPR182 leads to increased intratumoral concentrations of multiple chemokines and thereby sensitizes poorly immunogenic tumors to immune checkpoint blockade and adoptive cellular therapies. CXCR3 blockade reverses the improved antitumor immunity and T cell infiltration characteristic of GPR182-deficient mice. Our study thus identifies GPR182 as an upstream regulator of the CXCL9/CXCL10/CXCR3 axis that limits antitumor immunity and as a potential therapeutic target in immunologically cold tumors.© 2022. The Author(s).
G protein-coupled receptor 182 (GPR182) has been shown to be expressed in endothelial cells; however, its ligand and physiological role has remained elusive. We found GPR182 to be expressed in microvascular and lymphatic endothelial cells of most organs and to bind with nanomolar affinity the chemokines CXCL10, CXCL12, and CXCL13. In contrast to conventional chemokine receptors, binding of chemokines to GPR182 did not induce typical downstream signaling processes, including Gq- and Gi-mediated signaling or β-arrestin recruitment. GPR182 showed relatively high constitutive activity in regard to β-arrestin recruitment and rapidly internalized in a ligand-independent manner. In constitutive GPR182-deficient mice, as well as after induced endothelium-specific loss of GPR182, we found significant increases in the plasma levels of CXCL10, CXCL12, and CXCL13. Global and induced endothelium-specific GPR182-deficient mice showed a significant decrease in hematopoietic stem cells in the bone marrow as well as increased colony-forming units of hematopoietic progenitors in the blood and the spleen. Our data show that GPR182 is a new atypical chemokine receptor for CXCL10, CXCL12, and CXCL13, which is involved in the regulation of hematopoietic stem cell homeostasis.Copyright © 2021 the Author(s). Published by PNAS.
During vertebrate embryogenesis, fetal hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) exhibit expansion and differentiation properties in a supportive hematopoietic niche. To profile the developmental landscape of fetal HSPCs and their local niche, here, using single-cell RNA-sequencing, we deciphered a dynamic atlas covering 28,777 cells and 9 major cell types (23 clusters) of zebrafish caudal hematopoietic tissue (CHT). We characterized four heterogeneous HSPCs with distinct lineage priming and metabolic gene signatures. Furthermore, we investigated the regulatory mechanism of CHT niche components for HSPC development, with a focus on the transcription factors and ligand-receptor networks involved in HSPC expansion. Importantly, we identified an endothelial cell-specific G protein-coupled receptor 182, followed by in vivo and in vitro functional validation of its evolutionally conserved role in supporting HSPC expansion in zebrafish and mice. Finally, comparison between zebrafish CHT and human fetal liver highlighted the conservation and divergence across evolution. These findings enhance our understanding of the regulatory mechanism underlying hematopoietic niche for HSPC expansion in vivo and provide insights into improving protocols for HSPC expansion in vitro.Copyright © 2021 the Author(s). Published by PNAS.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42089370 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 41927345 is a review article
Regulator of G-protein Signaling 14 Knockout (RGS14 KO) mice exhibit enhanced exercise capacity and health span, however the contribution of the gut microbiota to this phenotype remains unclear. This study integrated long-read rRNA operon amplicon sequencing and metabolomics to first determine how microbial composition and tissue metabolite profiles differ between RGS14 KO and their wild-type littermates. Next, we investigated how administration of antibiotics to perturb the gut microbiota may affect the RGS14 KO phenotype. Prior to antibiotic treatment (ABX), RGS14 KO mice outperformed WT littermates in maximal running distance and work performed, accompanied by elevated skeletal muscle citrate synthase, complex IV activity, and nitric oxide production. One week of ABX significantly reduced exercise capacity in both genotypes and markedly suppressed mitochondrial activity in RGS14 KO skeletal muscle. Gut microbiota profiling revealed similar phylum-level structure between genotypes but distinct species- and strain-level signatures. Metabolomics of brown adipose tissue (BAT) and quadriceps identified genotype-specific metabolic programs that were disrupted by ABX, including pathways related to amino acid metabolism, nucleotide turnover, and mitochondrial energetics. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that RGS14 KO mice harbor unique microbial and metabolic networks that support enhanced thermogenesis and exercise performance, and that microbiota depletion eliminates these advantages. This work establishes a mechanistic foundation connecting the gut microbiota to BAT and skeletal muscle metabolism, highlighting potential microbiome-targeted strategies to improve metabolic health and physical performance.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s00421-026-06191-z.
The plant Peptidase Domain Containing Enzymes (PPPDE) gene family plays crucial roles in plant growth and development, stress response, and signal transduction. Building upon previous work where a deubiquitinating enzyme was identified as an interacting protein of Eucommia ulmoides farnesyl pyrophosphate synthase 1 (EuFPS1), a key enzyme in Eucommia ulmoides rubber biosynthesis, this study systematically identified 9 PPPDE family members encoding deubiquitinating isopeptidases with the peptidase domain C97 from the Eucommia ulmoides genome. The analysis of collinearity and phylogenetic relationships among 86 PPPDE and PPPDE-like proteins from five species, including Eucommia ulmoides, demonstrated a high degree of homology for PPPDEs in rubber-producing plants. The gene encoding the EuFPS1-interacting protein, Eucommia ulmoides peptidase domain-containing enzyme 8 (EuPPPDE8), was cloned. Yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) and Bimolecular Fluorescence Complementation (BiFC) assays confirmed the interaction between EuFPS1 and EuPPPDE8. It was found that under low-temperature conditions, the expression of the EuPPPDE8 was downregulated, while farnesyl pyrophosphate synthase enzyme activity and rubber content in Eucommia ulmoides also decreased significantly. Using EuPPPDE8 as bait, 23 potential interacting proteins were screened, including Eucommia ulmoides mahogunin ring finger 1 (EuMGRN1). Experiments confirmed the interaction between EuMGRN1 and EuPPPDE8. EuPPPDE8 was localized to the cytoplasm. It is hypothesized that EuPPPDE8 may also participate in the EuMGRN1-mediated proteolytic pathway, antagonizing EuMGRN1-regulated proteolysis through its deubiquitinating activity. By overexpressing and silencing the EuPPPDE8 gene, it was discovered that overexpression of EuPPPDE8 led to a significant 51.51% increase in Eucommia rubber compared to the wild type, whereas silencing the gene resulted in reduced rubber synthesis, reaching only 0.82 times the rubber content of the wild type. This proves that the EuPPPDE8 gene functions to promote Eucommia rubber biosynthesis. The research findings provide important foundational data for further elucidating the functional role of deubiquitination regulation in Eucommia ulmoides rubber biosynthesis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Recurrent idiopathic severe fetal structural anomalies present major challenges for reproductive decision-making and genetic counselling. A non-consanguineous healthy Estonian couple had experienced two electively terminated pregnancies at 12-13 weeks' gestation due to unexplained major fetal malformations and one early miscarriage. Their three pregnancies had resulted in unaffected newborns. Exome sequencing of fetal tissues from both terminated pregnancies identified a homozygous rare missense variant in MGRN1 (mahogunin ring finger 1), c.881G>A, p.(Arg294His) (Genome Aggregation Database V.4.1.0 allele frequency<8×10⁻⁵; no homozygotes reported in any population database). MGRN1 functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase critical for protein homeostasis and developmental signalling. The detected substitution compromises a conserved residue within the RING (Really Interesting New Gene) finger domain. Cascade testing revealed that the parents and one unaffected child were heterozygous carriers, while two healthy siblings were homozygous for the reference allele. Both affected fetuses displayed congenital malformations closely mirroring prenatal phenotypes reported in Mgrn1 homozygous mutant mice, including cardiac malformations (ventricular septal defect, outflow tract malposition, pulmonary artery hypoplasia) and abnormal left-right axis patterning. These findings provide the first evidence implicating MGRN1 in human congenital disease and support its role in early embryonic patterning.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41628783 is a review article
Addictive drugs hijack the neuronal mechanisms of learning and memory in motivation and emotion processing circuits to reinforce their own use. Regulator of G-protein Signaling 14 (RGS14) is a natural suppressor of post-synaptic plasticity underlying learning and memory in the hippocampus. The present study used immunofluorescence and RGS14 knockout mice to assess the role of RGS14 in behavioral plasticity and reward learning induced by chronic cocaine in emotional-motivational pathways. We report that RGS14 is strongly expressed in discrete regions of the ventral striatum and extended amygdala in wild-type mice, and is co-expressed with D1 and D2 dopamine receptors in neurons of the nucleus accumbens. Of note, we found that RGS14 is upregulated in the nucleus accumbens following acute cocaine treatment in mice with chronic cocaine history. We found significantly increased cocaine-induced locomotor sensitization, as well as enhanced conditioned place preference and conditioned locomotor activity in RGS14-deficient mice compared to wild-type littermates. Together, these findings suggest that endogenous RGS14 suppresses cocaine-induced plasticity in emotional-motivational pathways, implicating RGS14 as a protective agent against the maladaptive neuroplastic changes that occur during addiction.
Stroke is a crucial cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. The regulator of G protein signaling 14 (RGS14) plays important roles in mediating multiple signaling pathways and various pathophysiological processes. However, the function of RGS14 in cerebral ischemic reperfusion injury (CIRI) remains unknown.In this study, the roles of RGS14 during CIRI were studied in terms of gain- and loss-of-function experiments. Using RT-PCR, western blot, and TCC, HE, TUNEL, immunofluorescence, immunohistochemical staining, etc., we found that RGS14 significantly improved CIRI by reducing inflammation and apoptosis in both a mouse model of transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (t/MCAO) and a primary neuronal model of oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R). In addition, mechanism studies have shown that RGS14 acts by inhibiting the activation of the TAK1-JNK/p38 signaling pathway, which was further confirmed using the TAK1 inhibitor (iTAK1), 5Z-7-oxyzeaenol, during OGD/R treatment of AdshRGS14-infected primary neurons.These findings imply that RGS14 is a novel negative regulator and may serve as a potential therapeutic target for CIRI.©The Author(s) 2025. Open Access. This article is licensed under a Creative Commons CC-BY International License.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559421 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42549333 is a review article
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) frequently exhibits resistance to radiotherapy, limiting treatment efficacy. We investigated the role of an RNA-editing enzyme, adenosine deaminase acting on RNA (ADAR1), in regulating radiosensitivity, using patient samples, ESCC cell lines, and xenograft models. ADAR1 showed high expression in ESCC and was associated with a poor response to neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy. ADAR1 loss suppressed tumor growth and enhanced radiosensitivity in vitro and in vivo. ADAR1 depletion promoted gasdermin E (GSDME)-mediated pyroptosis, thereby sensitizing tumor cells to irradiation. Transcriptome-wide RNA-editing analysis identified C16orf46 (chromosome 16 open reading frame 46) as a functionally relevant ADAR1-dependent editing target, and reduced editing of C16orf46 contributed to radiosensitization. ADAR1 depletion also altered cIAP2 (cellular inhibitor of apoptosis protein 2) and NF-κB signaling, suggesting an additional RNA editing-independent mechanism. These findings identify ADAR1-dependent RNA editing as a regulator of ESCC radiotherapy response and support ADAR1 as a potential target for radiosensitization.© 2026 The Authors.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42538319
Skipped: PubMed ID 42534835 is a review article
Aging impairs intestinal stem cell (ISC) function, disrupting epithelial homeostasis and regenerative repair. Loss of ISC quiescence promotes intestinal dysfunction and contributes to organismal aging. Here, we report an epitranscriptomic mechanism through which a decrease in adenosine-to-inosine (A-to-I) RNA editing by the adenosine deaminase ADAR in ISCs during aging disrupts a conserved signaling axis that maintains ISC quiescence. In Drosophila melanogaster, ISC-specific loss of dADAR triggered hyperproliferation and tissue aging, whereas dADAR overexpression reduced age-related gut dysfunction and extended life span. Intestinal injury induced a decrease in dADAR, which was necessary for tissue regeneration, and in the zinc finger protein dZn72D, which stabilized dADAR to support intestinal homeostasis during aging. dADAR edited transcripts encoding the RNA binding protein Pumilio (dPUM) to generate an isoform that inhibited translation of two components of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), dEGFR and dERK, thereby maintaining ISC quiescence. The abundance of ADAR2 and of the dZn72D ortholog ZFR decreased in human colonic crypts with aging and in mouse colon after injury, suggesting that attenuation of ADAR activity may play a conserved role in ISC aging and in facilitating colonic regeneration. Our work identifies a conserved mechanism of epitranscriptomic regulation that safeguards tissues and the decay of ADAR-mediated RNA editing as a form of age-related epigenetic information loss that disrupts ISC homeostasis.
Postherpetic neuralgia (PHN), whose neuroimmune pathological mechanism remains unclear, is still an urgent clinical problem to be solved. In this study, we identified a key neurometabolic axis driving the occurrence of PHN, and developed a precise intervention strategy based on it. Cohort analysis based on the UK Biobank revealed that systemic inflammatory status was significantly associated with the risk of PHN. To translate this clinical association into actionable mechanistic targets, we integrated Mendelian randomization analysis with spinal cord transcriptomics data from a mouse PHN model, and found that functional deficiency of adenosine deaminase (ADA) was the core driver of the pro-inflammatory network. Mechanistic studies showed that specific downregulation of ADA expression in microglia led to pathological accumulation of local adenosine (ADO). Overloaded ADO broke the physiological analgesic homeostasis mediated by high-affinity A1/A3 receptors, and instead abnormally activated the low-affinity ADORA2B receptor pathologically upregulated in neurons, thereby triggering a neuroinflammatory cascade network that switched pain transmission from 'physiological analgesia' to 'pathological pro-inflammation'. Targeting this pathogenic pathway, we rationally designed a biomimetic nanozyme (HA@Que-Mn NPs). Through structure-oriented virtual screening, quercetin was selected as the conformational stabilizer of ADA; through manganese (Mn) coordination and surface functionalization with sodium hyaluronate (HA), the nanozyme was endowed with enhanced blood-brain barrier penetration ability, microglia-specific targeting and optimized catalytic efficiency of reactive oxygen species scavenging. In the resiniferatoxin (RTX)-induced mouse PHN model, systemic administration of the nanozyme effectively reshaped the neuroimmune microenvironment, inhibited pathological ADORA2B signal transduction, and achieved significant and long-lasting relief of neuropathic pain. This study established the ADA-ADO-ADORA2B pathogenic axis in PHN, and proposed a first-in-class nanozyme therapy with clinical transformation prospects, providing a new option for multi-omics driven targeted nanomedicine in the treatment of neuropathic pain.© 2026 The Authors.
Differentiating tuberculosis (TB) from sarcoidosis, especially in TB endemic regions, is one of the major clinical challenges because these two diseases may show considerable similarity in terms of clinical manifestations, imaging findings, and granulomatous pattern. In addition, the presence of noncaseating granuloma alone is not sufficient for the definitive diagnosis of sarcoidosis because in some cases, TB may also show granulomas without necrosis. In this report, a 83-year-old man is presented with fever, productive cough, chest pain, weakness, and mild dyspnea, who had a history of pleural and pericardial effusion, with elevated pericardial adenosine deaminase (ADA), a positive tuberculin skin test, and pleural granuloma. The patient was initially treated with anti-TB therapy for probable diagnosis of TB pleurisy and also corticosteroid for probable sarcoidosis, but because of the development of drug-induced hepatitis, treatment was interrupted and modified several times. On subsequent presentation, chest high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) showed pericardial thickening, pericardial effusion, pulmonary nodules with a perilymphatic distribution, right hilar lymphadenopathy, and a cavitary lesion in the right upper lobe. Sputum smear was 3+ positive for acid-fast bacilli, and anti-TB treatment was reinitiated. Nevertheless, because of the imaging pattern, relative response to corticosteroid, and pathologic findings including non-necrotizing granulomas, the possibility of concurrent sarcoidosis was also raised. After evaluating the possibility of TB progression and the effect of interruptions in anti-TB therapy caused by drug-induced hepatitis, the patient was treated with anti-TB regimen together with prednisolone and later azathioprine. Hence, the clinical case of pulmonary TB and probable sarcoidosis has been described in this study. The patient underwent anti-TB and immunosuppression therapy and experienced significant improvement.Copyright © 2026 Atousa Hakamifard et al. Case Reports in Infectious Diseases published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Tuberculosis (TB) remains a leading infection because of morbidity and mortality worldwide, with extrapulmonary manifestations occurring less commonly among human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) seronegative individuals. We present the case of a 20-year-old Marshallese male patient with a medical history of hypertension, who presented with dysphagia, weight loss, and altered mental status after a fall and was found to have disseminated TB infection involving the lungs, pleura, and skin of the left auricular region. His hospital course was complicated by a large left middle cerebral artery territory ischemic infarct with mild hemorrhagic transformation and a left lower lobe pulmonary embolism. Of note, the patient was HIV seronegative, and his hypercoagulable workup was also unremarkable, thus suggesting a TB-associated hypercoagulable state as the likely mechanism for his thromboembolic complications. Although markedly elevated pleural fluid adenosine deaminase levels and exudative pleural effusion provided strong corroborating evidence for tuberculous pleuritis, negative Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex polymerase chain reaction (PCR) on both bronchoalveolar lavage and serum added to the diagnostic complexity. This case highlights the importance of maintaining a high index of clinical suspicion for disseminated TB and its thromboembolic complications in young patients from high-TB-burden regions, even in the absence of immunosuppression.Copyright © 2026, Usman et al.
Macropinocytosis is an actin-driven endocytic process mediating nonspecific uptake of extracellular fluid through membrane ruffling. Neutrophil macropinocytosis has been reported only in limited descriptive studies, and its signaling mechanisms have not been defined. Here, we provide a characterization of macropinocytosis in primary human neutrophils and investigate signaling pathways that contribute to the regulation of this process. Quantitative flow cytometry using a high-molecular-weight fluid-phase tracer showed that the diacylglycerol (DAG) mimetic 4β-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (4β-PMA) induces macropinocytic activity in primary human neutrophils. Granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) also promoted fluid-phase uptake. Inhibition of actin polymerization or macropinocytosis reduced tracer uptake, confirming dependence on actin-driven machinery. Scanning electron microscopy revealed dorsal membrane ruffling and cup-like structures after stimulation. Mechanistically, DAG-dependent activation of protein kinase C beta (PKCβ) acted upstream of NADPH oxidase 2 (NOX2)-derived superoxide anion production, driving membrane remodeling. Collectively, these findings define a DAG-PKCβ-NOX2-superoxide signaling axis, as a key regulator of macropinocytosis in primary human neutrophils and provide the first mechanistic framework for its redox-dependent regulation.
To investigate the cardioprotective effects of Wenyang Zhenshuai granules (WYZSG) against doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiotoxicity and elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.Network pharmacology was performed to identify the potential therapeutic targets of WYZSG against doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiac injury. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction, hub gene analysis, and molecular docking were conducted to identify key targets and validate the interactions between the major active compounds and core targets. In vivo, a rat model of DOX-induced cardiac injury was established to evaluate the effects of WYZSG on cardiac injury, histopathological changes, apoptosis, and serpin family E member 1 (SERPINE1) expression. The role of SERPINE1 in the protective effects of WYZSG was further validated through SERPINE1 overexpression experiments.A total of 65 bioactive compounds and 1,057 putative targets were identified, with 49 overlapping targets associated with cardiac injury. Network analysis highlighted genistein, L-phenylalanine, daidzein, nobiletin, and isoliquiritigenin as the major active constituents, while SERPINE1 emerged as a central hub gene. Molecular docking confirmed strong binding affinities between these core compounds and SERPINE1. In vivo, WYZSG attenuated DOX-induced cardiac injury, reduced serum creatine kinase-MB (CK-MB) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels, alleviated myocardial histopathological damage, inhibited cardiomyocyte apoptosis, and dose-dependently downregulated SERPINE1 expression in DOX-treated rats. Notably, SERPINE1 overexpression partially abolished the cardioprotective effects of WYZSG against DOX-induced cardiac injury.WYZSG protects against DOX-induced cardiac injury by suppressing SERPINE1 expression, providing mechanistic insight into its cardioprotective effects and supporting its potential therapeutic application in DOX-induced cardiac injury.© 2026. The Author(s).
Patients who survive stroke usually experience rapid muscle wasting and an increased risk of physical disability. Although multifactorial interactions, including malnutrition, disuse, systemic catabolic imbalance, and neurohormonal dysregulation, are thought to contribute to the progression of stroke-related sarcopenia, the underlying mechanisms of this brain-muscle crosstalk remain elusive. Muscle-resident fibro-adipogenic progenitors (FAPs) are indispensable for maintaining muscle homeostasis and function as initial sensors of external perturbations. In the present study, we report that FAPs rapidly respond to the overactive sympathetic nervous system (SNS) and egress from the muscle niche into circulation during the acute phase of stroke. FAP-specific ablation of adrenoceptor beta 2 (Adrb2) markedly ameliorated stroke-related sarcopenia, highlighting the central role of SNS-mediated FAP loss in its pathogenesis. Mechanistically, increased norepinephrine release initiates FAP mobilization through the activation of pro-migratory signals and the degradation of extracellular matrix components. Using transcriptomic profiling, we further characterized insulin growth factor-1 (IGF-1) as a key anti-atrophic executive factor predominantly derived from FAPs. Collectively, our work demonstrates that the SNS-mediated loss of FAPs and subsequent compromised IGF-1 secretion contribute to sarcopenia in mice following stroke. Targeting this mechanism by early anti-sympathetic treatment with propranolol may effectively restore muscle homeostasis and mass after stroke.© 2026. The Author(s).
Environmental exposures prior to conception are increasingly recognized as modulators of offspring neurodevelopment; however, their functional impact on specific neural circuits remains poorly understood. In the present study, we investigated whether paternal preconception exposure to the neuroteratogen chlorpyrifos induces protein-level and functional alterations in learning-related brain regions of the offspring. Using a chicken (Gallus gallus domesticus) model, we examined the intermediate medial mesopallium (IMM), hippocampal subregions, and lateral striatum, focusing on protein expression of markers associated with neuroplasticity and cholinergic-mediated activation/translocation of protein kinase C beta (PKCβ), a key regulator of synaptic plasticity. Structural endpoints, including neuronal cell counts and dendritic morphology, were also assessed. A pre-hatch exposure paradigm was included for comparison. Paternal exposure resulted in region- and sex-specific alterations in protein expression, including changes in GDNF, DCX, FOS, and MAP2, predominantly in the lateral striatum and IMM, without corresponding transcriptional changes. Notably, no significant alterations were observed in neuronal cell counts or dendritic structure. In contrast, a robust functional deficit was identified, as paternal exposure completely abolished cholinergic-mediated PKCβ activation/translocation, an effect also observed following pre-hatch exposure. These findings demonstrate that paternal preconception exposure is associated with selective alterations in protein expression and impaired cholinergic-mediated PKCβ signaling within learning-related neural circuits, in the absence of overt structural damage. The dissociation between transcriptional and translational outcomes indicates that regulatory processes acting beyond transcription may contribute to the observed phenotype. Further studies are required to determine the underlying mechanisms and functional consequences of these changes.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Taste cell regeneration and taste signaling are regulated by myriad growth factors and signaling molecules secreted by neurons and taste papillae-resident cells. The calcitonin-related polypeptide alpha (Calca) gene is a source of 4 biologically active peptides with varied physiological roles. Alternative splicing of the Calca messenger RNA generates either preprocalcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) or preprocalcitonin-encoding transcripts. Proteolytic processing of preprocalcitonin generates procalcitonin, calcitonin and katacalcin. Calcitonin is a ligand for the G protein coupled receptor calcitonin receptor (CALCR) while CGRP is a ligand for the CGRP receptor (CGRP1R) formed by the calcitonin receptor like receptor (CALCRL)-receptor activity modifying protein 1 (RAMP1) complex. Interestingly, procalcitonin too is a ligand for the CGRP1R where it can antagonize CGRP. CGRP expression in taste and trigeminal neurons has been documented and is posited to regulate taste signaling. Single cell and bulk RNASeq of taste papillae revealed that the preprocalcitonin but not the Cgrp transcript is expressed in Tas1r3-expressing type II taste cells, while CGRP1R subunits are expressed in taste stem/progenitor cells and by subsets of fibroblasts and immune cells in the lingual mesenchyme. We confirmed this expression pattern using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and histological techniques. qPCR of geniculate and nodose-petrosal-jugular ganglia revealed that both express Cgrp and CGRP1R subunit mRNAs, but not preprocalcitonin and Calcr. This interesting expression patterns suggests that procalcitonin and CGRP might reciprocally regulate the CGRP1R in the taste papillae and potentially influence taste signaling, taste cell regeneration, and the taste microbiome.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Endothelial dysfunction is a critical determinant of sepsis-associated organ injury, often driven by its interaction with overactivated immune cells. Neutrophils, the dominant early responders in sepsis, contribute to endothelial barrier disruption, yet the underlying metabolic and epigenetic mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here, we observed elevated intracellular lactate levels in neutrophils from septic patients which correlated with organ dysfunction and systemic inflammatory markers. Mechanistically, lactate-induced histone H3K18 lactylation (H3K18la) enhanced ATG7/GSA7 (autophagy related 7) transcription, initiating a non-degradative, secretory autophagy program. This facilitated the extracellular release of IL1B/IL-1B (interleukin 1 beta), a key driver of endothelial dysfunction. Interference of lactate production, ATG7 expression or IL1B signaling alleviated endothelial dysfunction in vitro. In vivo, myeloid-specific deletion of the lactylation writer EP300/p300 (EP300 lysine acetyltransferase) mitigated pulmonary endothelial dysfunction and lung injury. Additionally, the stress-responsive transcription factor ATF4/CREB-2 (activating transcription factor 4) was found to directly interact with both EP300 and H3K18la, amplifying H3K18la-driven ATG7 transcription. Our findings uncover a metabolically driven, epigenetically regulated secretory autophagy pathway in neutrophils that mediates endothelial dysfunction. Our study provides mechanistic insights into neutrophil-endothelial crosstalk in sepsis and identifies EP300, ATG7, and IL1B as potential therapeutic targets for sepsis.Abbreviations: ALI: acute lung injury; ANOVA: analysis of variance; ATF4/CREB-2: activating transcription factor 4; ATG7/GSA7: autophagy related 7; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BMDN: bone marrow-derived neutrophil; C-CASP1: cleaved-caspase 1; CDH5/CD144: cadherin 5; CRP/PTX1: C-reactive protein; CST3: cystatin C; CXCL8/IL-8: C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 8; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DEG: differentially expressed gene; dHL-60: dimethyl sulfoxide-differentiated HL-60 cell; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; EP300/p300: EP300 lysine acetyltransferase; GOT1/AST: glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT: glutamic - pyruvic transaminase; GSDMD-N: gasdermin D N-terminal; H&E: hematoxylin and eosin; H3K18la: histone H3K18 lactylation; HRP: horseradish peroxidase; ICU: intensive care unit; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IL1B/IL-1B: interleukin 1 beta; IL1R1/CD121A: interleukin 1 receptor type 1; IL6/IL-6: interleukin 6; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LAMP1/CD107a: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LDHA: lactate dehydrogenase A; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; NLRP3/NALP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PCT: procalcitonin; PMN: peripheral neutrophils; Rapa: rapamycin; RNA-seq: RNA-sequencing; SERPINE1/PAI1: serpin family E member 1; SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; SOFA: Sequential Organ Failure Assessment; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TNF/TNF-alpha: tumor necrosis factor; panKla: pan-histone lactylation; VCAM1/CD106: vascular cell adhesion molecule 1.
Orexins, hypothalamic neuropeptides, play a critical role in promoting wakefulness. Suvorexant, a dual orexin receptor antagonist, which is primarily indicated for the treatment of insomnia, also lowers blood glucose. Similarly, in rodent studies, suvorexant has shown beneficial effects on overall glucose homeostasis. Using an animal model of type 2 diabetes (T2D) db/db mice, we hypothesized that suvorexant treatment could improve the ocular complications of T2D.Male db/db mice were treated daily with suvorexant (30 mg/kg, intraperitoneal) or vehicle at Zeitgeber time 0-2 for 12 weeks. The following visual assessments were performed to study the effects of suvorexant: electroretinogram, optomotor response test, and fluorescein angiography. Glucose and insulin tolerance tests were performed to assess the impact on glycemic control. After euthanasia, retinas were isolated, and qPCR and immunofluorescence staining were performed.Suvorexant treatment improved visual acuity and vascular parameters, including reduced avascular and increased vascular areas. There was a decrease in scotopic a-wave and b-wave amplitudes in suvorexant-treated mice, along with increased b-wave implicit time. Suvorexant downregulated mRNA of phospholipase C γ1 and protein kinase C beta, as well as inflammatory markers tumor necrosis factor-α (Tnf-a) and interleukin 1β (Il-1b). Consistent with changes in mRNA levels, suvorexant reduced protein expression of PKCβ and CD45 in immunofluorescence studies of retinal transverse sections. Furthermore, suvorexant-treated mice demonstrated improved glucose tolerance compared with vehicle-treated mice.We found that suvorexant improved visual acuity and retinal vascular insufficiency by reducing retinal inflammation and improving glucose homeostasis in db/db mice. Our findings suggest that orexin receptor inhibition, with suvorexant, may be a potential treatment for ocular complications associated with T2D.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
β2-adrenoceptor (β2AR) agonists are the cornerstone of asthma therapy and promote bronchodilation through Gαs signalling in airway smooth muscle (ASM), but their efficacy is limited by β-arrestin-mediated β2AR desensitization. We recently described allosteric modulators (AMs) of β2AR that preferentially enhance isoproterenol-mediated β2AR-Gαs signalling in ASM. Orthosteric β-agonists differ in efficacy, kinetics and signalling bias, and how this diversity shapes allosteric modulation of β2ARs remains unclear. We investigated whether AMs could selectively modulate β2AR-Gαs signalling and bronchodilation in response to endogenous and clinically relevant β-agonists.The effects of a positive AM (PAM37) and two negative AMs (NAM36 and NAM42) were examined on β-agonist-induced Gαs and β-arrestin recruitment and downstream signalling (cAMP, PKA and ERK) in HEK293 cells expressing β2ARs and primary human ASM cells. Bronchodilation was assessed using murine precision-cut lung slices and in vivo lung mechanics. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were performed to delineate structural determinants of agonist-dependent AM activity.PAM37 enhanced, whereas NAMs attenuated β2AR-Gαs coupling, signalling and bronchodilation with no effect on β-arrestin-ERK signalling, establishing Gαs signalling and functional bias. AM effects differed in magnitude and kinetic profiles across β-agonists, with fenoterol uniquely resistant to modulation. MD simulations revealed that fenoterol stabilizes a quasi-inactive β2AR conformation characterized by an TM6 shift that occludes the allosteric pocket, providing a structural basis for its resistance.These findings establish orthosteric ligand-dependent allostery as a fundamental feature of β2AR pharmacology. PAM37 represents a tool to selectively enhance bronchodilation by β-agonists in asthma.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Pharmacology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Pharmacological Society.
Rosacea is a chronic inflammatory disorder characterized by flushing, erythema, papules/pustules, and telangiectasia. Several clinical studies have investigated the efficacy of botulinum neurotoxin A (BoNT/A) in the treatment of rosacea, but its mechanism of action remains unclear.This study aims to examine the potential role of BoNT/A in a mouse model of rosacea-like skin lesions induced by the 37-amino acid C-terminal cathelicidin peptide (LL-37).Mice were randomly divided into 4 groups: Control, LL-37, LL-37 + BoNT/A, and LL-37 + dexamethasone.BoNT/A treatment alleviated skin damage, reduced skin thickness, and decreased mast cell infiltration. Furthermore, BoNT/A improved redness score severity and redness area while enhancing skin barrier function by suppressing transepidermal water loss and increasing skin hydration. At the molecular level, BoNT/A decreased the mRNA levels of interleukin (IL)-6 and tumor necrosis factor-α, which are known as pro-inflammatory cytokines. It also downregulated the expression of pyrin domain-containing protein 3, caspase-1, and IL-1 beta in the LL-37-injected dorsal skin. Furthermore, BoNT/A prevented LL-37-mediated upregulation of neurovascular-associated factors, including CD31, transient receptor potential vanilloid 1, calcitonin-related polypeptide alpha, vascular endothelial growth factor, chymase 1, and tryptase alpha/beta 1.These results indicate that BoNT/A effectively alleviates inflammatory and vascular responses in a rosacea mouse model, highlighting its potential as a promising preventive approach for rosacea.© 2026 The Korean Dermatological Association and The Korean Society for Investigative Dermatology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42146949 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548510 is a review article
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder increasingly associated with gut microbiota alterations, yet the mechanisms by which microbial metabolites influence PD remain unclear. Here, we applied an integrative computational and experimental strategy to identify key gut microbial metabolites and host genes potentially involved in PD. Differentially abundant gut microbes were obtained from the gutMDisorder database and their corresponding metabolites from gutMGene, with predicted protein targets generated using the Similarity Ensemble Approach. Transcriptomic data from PD brain tissues were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes, which were intersected with metabolite targets, followed by enrichment and protein-protein interaction analyses. Three machine learning algorithms were applied for gene prioritization, while molecular docking evaluated metabolite-gene binding affinities and ProTox3.0 predicted toxicity and blood-brain barrier permeability. In vitro assays further assessed the functional effects of 3-indolepropionic acid in a rotenone-induced SH-SY5Y cell model. Our analyses identified 44 PD-associated microbial taxa linked to 77 metabolites and 905 predicted target genes, with 29 overlapping differentially expressed genes enriched in synaptic signaling and dopaminergic pathways. Dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2) emerged as a central hub gene, with strong docking interactions predicted for two indole metabolites, 3-(1H-indol-3-yl)propanoate and 3-indolepropionic acid. Functional validation showed that 3-indolepropionic acid improved cell viability, reduced apoptosis, and preserved DRD2 expression under neurotoxic stress. Together, these findings suggest that specific gut microbial metabolites may modulate host dopaminergic signaling via DRD2, offering new insights into the microbiota-brain axis and potential targets for further PD research.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42512251 is a review article
Emerging evidence highlights the oncogenic role of the Dishevelled, Egl-10, and Pleckstrin domains containing 1 (DEPDC1) gene in lung cancer progression, making it an attractive therapeutic target. In this study, we investigated the anti-cancer potential of Delafloxacin, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, in DEPDC1-overexpressing non-small cell lung cancer, NCI-H1299 cells. In silico docking of 1399 FDA-approved compounds using AutoDock Vina confirmed the strong binding affinity of Delafloxacin to the DEPDC1 active site (binding energy -7.1 kcal/mol). Delafloxacin treatment resulted in dose-dependent suppression of cell proliferation, with an IC50 of approximately 30 μg/mL. RT-qPCR revealed significant downregulation of DEPDC1 and several key regulators of proliferation (RAS, EGFR), mitotic progression (Cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1), CCNB2, KIF2C), and survival (BIRC5). Cell cycle analysis demonstrated G2/M phase accumulation upon Delafloxacin treatment, consistent with transcriptional repression of CDK1 and CCNB2. In vivo, Delafloxacin administration (15 mg/kg) significantly reduced tumor growth in a xenograft mouse model without overt toxicity. While these findings identify Delafloxacin as a candidate for repurposing in lung cancer, the observed downregulation of DEPDC1 represents a correlative finding rather than validated direct targeting. This study provides a rationale for further investigation of Delafloxacin in DEPDC1-associated malignancies.© 2026 The Author(s). Smart Molecules published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Dalian University of Technology.
Myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury is a complex condition characterized by oxidative stress, inflammation, and mitochondrial dysfunction. Ferroptosis, an iron-dependent form of regulated cell death, plays a critical role in cardiomyocyte damage during I/R. Inhibiting ferroptosis has been shown to reduce myocardial injury and improve cardiac function, making it a promising therapeutic target for enhancing clinical outcomes. An in vivo I/R model was established, and infarct size was assessed using triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining. Histological changes were analyzed using hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining, Masson, immunohistochemistry (IHC), and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assays. Cellular experiments included analyses of reactive oxygen species (ROS), lipid peroxidation, and iron content using specific fluorescent probes, as well as enzymatic markers measured with commercial assay kits. Cell viability and senescence were evaluated using the Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay and senescence-associated β-galactosidase (SA-β-gal) staining, respectively. Mitochondrial ultrastructure was examined using transmission electron microscopy (TEM), while molecular mechanisms, including DNA methylation, were investigated using methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (MSP). Interactions among pleckstrin homology-like domain family A member 3 (PHLDA3), DNA (cytosine-5)-methyltransferase 3 A (DNMT3a), and polypyrimidine tract binding protein 1 (PTBP1) were evaluated using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and RNA pull-down assays. Silencing of PHLDA3 demonstrated protective effects against I/R injury by attenuating cardiomyocyte ferroptosis and cardiac microvascular endothelial cells (CMECs) senescence under hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) conditions in vitro and I/R injury in vivo. Mechanistically, downregulated DNMT3a was responsible for PHLDA3 hypomethylation. Furthermore, PTBP1 was identified as an upstream RNA-binding protein that destabilized DNMT3a mRNA during H/R injury, indirectly enhancing PHLDA3 expression. Our findings suggest that PTBP1-mediated DNMT3a downregulation contributes to PHLDA3 hypomethylation, which may promote cardiomyocyte ferroptosis and subsequent microvascular endothelial cell senescence during I/R injury.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
During inflammation, megakaryocytes (MKs) can expand from hematopoietic stem cells, yet the specific driving factors remain unclear. We investigated whether C-C Motif Chemokine Ligand 5 (CCL5) influences this process in murine and human iPSC-derived bone marrow organoid (BMO) models. Acute CCL5 administration to mice increased hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell (HSPC) populations and increased MKs, including the expansion of MHC II-expressing MKs, characteristic of the immune MK subpopulation. Mechanistically, MK progenitors upregulated CCR1 and CCR5, and MKs showed increased phosphorylation of JAK1, SRC, and STAT1-5. Phenotypically, transcriptomic profiling revealed enhanced expression of genes associated with the cell cycle, inflammatory pathways, and mitochondrial metabolism in MKs isolated from CCL5-treated mice, which was functionally supported by increased mitochondrial activity. Similarly, in human BMOs, CCL5 treatment increased MK numbers. Together, these findings implicate CCL5 as a direct mediator of acute megakaryopoiesis and immune MK expansion during inflammation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
NLRP3 inflammasome plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of intervertebral disc (IVD) degeneration (IDD). This study aimed to identify NLRP3 inflammasome-related biomarkers in IDD and analyze their functions.First, the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) (IDD vs. control) in GSE124272 were detected. The NLRP3 inflammasome-related genes (NIRGs) scores for all samples were calculated using single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA). Subsequently, the key module with the strongest correlation with NIRGs scores was selected using weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA). Biomarkers were defined as the DEGs and genes showing consistent expression trends across both the GSE124272 and GSE150408 datasets. Function enrichment and immune infiltration were analyzed. The abundance of the key biomarkers was validated by real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). To explore the effect of core targets on IDD by constructing IDD in vitro model.About 1608 intersection genes were derived from overlapping the above 2123 DEGs and 10695 key module genes. Subsequently, the top 10 genes were identified. Based on gene expression analysis, disheveled, EGL-10, and pleckstrin domain-containing 1 (DEPDC1), and Opa interacting protein 5 (OIP5) were selected as biomarkers. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that these biomarkers were primarily enriched in cytosolic ribosomes and DNA replication. Immune infiltration analysis identified 13 differential immune cells. Endothelial cells were inversely correlated with DEPDC1, whereas conventional dendritic cells (CDC) demonstrated a pronounced positive relationship with OIP5. RT-qPCR results confirmed that the expression of OIP5 and DEPDC1 in IDD patients was downregulated by more than 50% (p < 0.05). Cell experiments showed that up-regulation of OIP5 led to a 2-fold reduction in cell proliferation (p < 0.001) and a three-fold increase in apoptosis in nucleus pulposus (NP) cells derived from IDD patients (p < 0.001).Taken together, OIP5 has been identified as a peripheral blood biomarker linked to the NLRP3 inflammasome and may be involved in the pathogenesis of IDD.Copyright © 2026 Yongliang Fu et al. Mediators of Inflammation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Tic disorder (TD) is a common neurodevelopmental disorder in children. Acute histamine deficiency may be involved in the pathogenesis of TDs. In this study, we demonstrate that histamine depletion exacerbates tic-like behaviors in a rat model of TD. Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into control, TD model, TD plus saline, and TD plus α-fluoromethylhistidine (α-FMH) groups. TD was induced by intraperitoneal iminodipropionitrile, and α-FMH was administered intracerebroventricularly. Behavioral assessments showed that α-FMH treatment significantly increased stereotyped and motor behavior scores compared with TD groups (p < 0.05). Immunohistochemistry revealed marked microglial activation in the striatum of TD groups, which was exacerbated by histamine deficiency. Striatal IL-6 and TNF-α levels were elevated in all TD groups; IL-6 was significantly higher in the α-FMH group than in TD groups (p < 0.05). Striatal dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2) expression was also upregulated in TD groups, with the highest levels observed after histamine depletion (p < 0.05). Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry result showed that glutamate levels were significantly reduced in the α-FMH group compared to the TD-NaCl group (p < 0.05). No significant differences were observed in the levels of dopamine, serotonin, or acetylcholine between the TD-NaCl and TD-α-FMH groups. Overall, our findings suggest that acute histamine deficiency aggravates TD-related behaviors by promoting neuroinflammation and upregulating DRD2 expression, highlighting the therapeutic potential of targeting histamine signaling in TD.
Emerging evidence suggests autoimmune diseases (AIDs) are associated with atrial fibrillation (AF) through systemic inflammation. However, causal mechanisms and potential protein mediators remain unexplored.To identify proteins mediating the link between AIDs and incident AF using high-dimensional mediation analysis.This study used UK Biobank data with proteomic profiling (Olink platform). Participants without prevalent AF were grouped into musculoskeletal (MSK), vasculitis, gastrointestinal (GI), neurologic, and rheumatic fever subsets. Fine-Gray models identified AID-AF associations, treating non-cardiovascular death as a competing risk. Two separate Proteome-wide association studies (PWAS) identified proteins linked to AIDs and incident AF, respectively. All models adjusted for age, sex, lipids, BMI, smoking, hypertension, diabetes, coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular disease, stroke, and heart failure. Proteins associated with both AIDs and AF were selected for high-dimensional mediation analysis (HIMA).Among 419,888 participants (median age 58 years, 45.7% male) followed for a median 14.4 years, MSK, vasculitis, GI, and rheumatic fever AIDs significantly increased incident AF risk (HR 1.17, 1.39, 1.17, and 1.46, respectively; P<0.001), but not neurologic AID (P=0.13). In 44,872 participants with proteomic data, HIMA of 232 proteins identified 60 unique mediators, with adrenomedullin, soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor, and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 2 shared across multiple AID groups.The identification of protein biomarkers that may help elucidate potential pathways between AID and AF provides mechanistic insights into immune-related atrial remodeling and suggests possible therapeutic targets for AF prevention and risk stratification in AID patients.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Childhood adversity (CA) is associated with cardiovascular disease (CVD). Proteomic profiling may help elucidate underlying mechanisms. This study aimed to explore how CA and genetic risk jointly impact CVD and the potential role of proteomic biomarkers.A total of 14 508 participants without baseline CVD and with available proteomics data from the UK Biobank were included. CA was assessed using the Childhood Trauma Screener questionnaire. Proteomic signatures were derived using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression. Cox proportional hazard models were used to examine the associations of CA with CVD, and mediation analyses were conducted to assess the extent to which proteomic biomarkers explained these associations.Over a median follow-up of 13.5 years, 2286 incident CVD events were identified. The per-score increase in CA score was associated with all-cause and cause-specific CVD, with hazard ratios (HRs) for all-cause CVD, coronary heart disease, arrhythmia/conduction disorder, and heart failure being 1.049 (95% CI, 1.031-1.068), 1.039 (95% CI, 1.009-1.070), 1.041 (95% CI, 1.015-1.067), and 1.066 (95% CI, 1.012-1.122), respectively. No significant interaction between CA and genetic risk was observed. Participants with both high CA and high genetic risk had the highest all-cause CVD risk (HR, 1.847 [95% CI, 1.380-2.472]). Several proteins (pro-adrenomedullin, agrin, AHNAK, CD302, CD83, and yes-associated protein 1) explained 1.58% to 9.98% of the associations between CA and all-cause and cause-specific CVD. Proteomic signatures statistically mediated 3.68% to 10.80% of these associations.CA and genetic susceptibility jointly contributed to increased CVD risk. Proteomic biomarkers partially mediate the CA-CVD associations, providing insight into biological pathways linking early-life adversity and CVD.
To explore the association between perioperative bioactive adrenomedullin (bioADM) and early postoperative organ dysfunction after major hepatic resection, using the Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score as a measure of organ dysfunction severity.This prospective, observational single-center study included 17 patients undergoing major hepatic resection between January and June 2023. BioADM was measured preoperatively and on postoperative days (POD) 1, 2, 3, and 5. Associations with SOFA were assessed using Spearman's rank correlation. Secondary exploratory analyses evaluated organ-specific and overall postoperative outcomes.Perioperative bioADM was associated with postoperative organ dysfunction severity as reflected by SOFA. Correlations were weak at baseline and POD1 but became moderate to strong from POD2 onward, including POD2 (ρ = 0.74, p = 0.001), POD3 (ρ = 0.64, p = 0.012), and POD5 (ρ = 0.67, p = 0.008). Exploratory secondary analyses suggested associations with vasopressor requirement and renal deterioration, particularly dialysis requirement. In contrast, bioADM showed no consistent association with major complications, Clavien-Dindo grade, 30-day Comprehensive Complication Index, or 30-day mortality.In this small exploratory cohort (n = 17), perioperative bioADM was associated with early postoperative organ dysfunction after major hepatic resection, particularly from POD2 onward, but not with broader measures of postoperative morbidity or short-term mortality. Given the limited sample size and low number of events, these findings are hypothesis-generating and require validation in larger prospective cohorts before any conclusions regarding clinical utility can be drawn.© 2026. The Author(s).
Exercise-induced fatigue (EIF) is closely associated with male reproductive dysfunction, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. This study aimed to explore whether EIF induces oxidative stress and epididymal inflammation, and to clarify the protective role and regulatory pathway of matrix remodeling-associated 7 (MXRA7). Clinical samples from EIF volunteers and an EIF mouse model were used to detect oxidative stress, inflammation, and sperm quality. Mouse caput epididymal PC-1 cells and cauda epididymal DC-2 cells were cultured to establish inflammatory injury models. MXRA7 expression, localization, and function were analyzed by transcriptomic analysis, gene knockdown/overexpression, Western blotting, immunofluorescence, co-immunoprecipitation, and in vitro phosphorylation assays. The results showed that EIF significantly elevated systemic and epididymal oxidative stress and inflammatory responses in both humans and mice, accompanied by impaired sperm motility and epididymal dysfunction. MXRA7 was highly expressed in epididymal epithelial cells, especially in the cauda epididymis, and its expression was negatively correlated with the severity of inflammation. MXRA7 knockdown aggravated inflammatory injury in DC-2 cells, whereas MXRA7 overexpression suppressed oxidative stress, inflammatory factor release, and NF-κB signaling activation. Mechanistically, protein kinase C alpha (PKCα) mediated the expression and phosphorylation of MXRA7, and MXRA7 further inhibited the NF-κB pathway to alleviate epididymal inflammation. In addition, MXRA7 expressed by cauda epididymal epithelial cells directly protected sperm from inflammatory damage. In conclusion, EIF impairs sperm function by triggering epididymal oxidative stress and inflammatory injury. MXRA7, regulated by PKCα-mediated phosphorylation, serves as a key protective factor that attenuates EIF-induced epididymal inflammation via inhibiting the NF-κB signaling pathway. This study provides a novel target for the prevention and treatment of reproductive damage caused by excessive exercise.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Protein Kinase C alpha (PKCα), a key regulator of cellular signaling, is frequently dysregulated in breast cancer. Despite its clinical relevance, there is a dearth of selective and safe PKCα inhibitors. This study aims to identify and characterize novel PKCα inhibitors using computational and experimental methodologies.A structure-based virtual screening of the Enamine Hinge Binders Library against the PKCα receptor (PDB ID: 3IW4) was performed using the Glide module of Schrödinger Suite. Analysis of docking scores, protein-ligand interactions, binding free energies, and ADMET profiles helped identify lead candidates. The stability of protein-ligand complexes was confirmed using MD simulations. The functional activity of identified candidates was validated using a kinase assay, and cell death was analyzed using an MTT assay on breast cancer cell lines.Compounds Z3077775938 (P1) and Z22177390 (P2) exhibited strong binding and stability within the hinge-binding region of PKCα and showed favorable drug-likeness profiles. Structural analysis revealed P1 and P2 as novel scaffolds. The kinase assay revealed dosedependent inhibition of PKCα's ATP-binding activity with IC50 values of P1 and P2 as 0.92 nM and 15.27 nM, respectively. Both compounds induced dose-dependent cytotoxicity in breast cancer cells.This study identified two novel, structurally diverse PKCα inhibitors. Their low IC50 values and dose-dependent cytotoxicity, as observed in both ER+ and triple-negative breast cancer cell lines, validate their functional efficacy and highlight therapeutic potential for breast cancer treatment.Overall, this study identified two PKCα inhibitors that provide a foundation for further optimization as selective therapeutic agents in PKCα-driven malignancies.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune skin disease for which no standardised and reliable molecular biomarkers of disease course or activity are currently available. Here, we aimed to identify serum biomarkers of psoriasis. Serum samples from 40 patients with psoriasis and 40 healthy volunteers were analysed using ELISA and Proximity Extension Assay proteomics. ELISA revealed significantly increased serum levels of AGO2 and APOA1 in psoriatic patients versus controls, with a strong association between APOA1 and psoriasis (OR = 20.72, 95% CI of 4.57-93.87, p = 0.000137). Targeted serum proteomics additionally identified 35 differentially expressed proteins, including well-known psoriasis drivers (e.g., top upregulated IL17A and SERPINB4). The most downregulated was adrenomedullin (ADM, FC = -10.12). For 14 altered proteins, no previous direct associations with psoriasis were reported. Among them, DEFB103A_DEFB103B and DSG3 showed the best discrimination between psoriasis and control samples, while SERPINB4 correlated with psoriasis severity. APOA1, DEFB103A_DEFB103B, and DSG3 emerge as novel candidate circulating psoriasis biomarkers, and SERPINB4 as a biomarker of psoriasis severity. The functional role of DSG3 and other newly identified proteins (ACRV1, HAO1, ADH4, GPD1, GFER, PTGES2, DSG3, AFAP1L1, GALNT3, RASGRP2, MAP2K6, LXN, NBEAL2, and VPS54) in psoriasis requires further studies.
Chordoid glioma (ChG) is a rare, low-grade brain tumor characterized by a novel recurrent point mutation, D463H, in the kinase domain of protein kinase C alpha (PKCα). The mutation is invariably an Asp to His substitution, suggesting a unique function beyond catalytic inactivation associated with other cancer-associated PKCα mutations. Here, we show that this mutation converts PKCα into a pseudokinase, abolishing catalytic activity, and, additionally, confers novel scaffolding functions. Activity assays in vitro and in cellulo revealed that PKCαD463H is catalytically inactive and functions as a dominant-negative to suppress endogenous PKC activity. Molecular dynamics simulations predicted that mutation to His, but not Asn, not only destabilizes the active site, but stabilizes the substrate-binding helices in the kinase C-lobe to potentially promote aberrant interactions. Supporting this, phosphoproteomic, proximity labeling, and coimmunoprecipitation mass spectrometry data from cells overexpressing PKCαD463H identified both altered phosphorylation of substrates and binding to multiple proteins involved in cell-cell junctions compared to WT enzyme. Last, single nuclei RNAseq established that ChG derives from specialized tanycytes. Our data reveal that this disease-defining, fully penetrant mutation converts PKCα into a pseudokinase with novel scaffold functions that uniquely rewire the cellular interactome to impair cell junction function.
Circulating Dipeptidyl Peptidase 3 (DPP3) hydrolyses dipeptides from the amino terminus of its substrates and excess levels represent a target for the treatment of cardiogenic shock. Known substrates include Angiotensin II (Ang II), but there might be more. Adrenomedullin (ADM) is a 52-mer peptide regulating vascular tone and integrity, which also is a therapeutic target for the treatment of shock. The pathways leading to shock involving DPP3 and ADM have been considered independent so far. Here, we assessed the influence of ADM on the activity of DPP3 in vitro using an established assay. ADM inhibited DPP3 activity at a similar IC50 concentration (6.5 µM) as the cognate substrate Ang II (6.6 µM). As opposed to Ang II, ADM was barely cleaved by DPP3 in vitro. Stepwise C-terminal truncation of ADM essentially did not change its inhibitory effect. Inhibition of DPP3 activity by ADM was reversed by an anti-N-terminal ADM antibody.
Acute organ dysfunction is a primary driver of ICU mortality. As clinical scores often act as lagging indicators, early recognition of subclinical endothelial stress may be essential for timely intervention. This exploratory study investigated the association of mid-regional pro-adrenomedullin (MR-proADM)-a stable surrogate of the hormone adrenomedullin-as a potential early indicator of early organ failure.This retrospective, single-center study analyzed a heterogeneous cohort of 26 critically ill patients. Plasma MR-proADM levels were assessed at admission (t0) and daily for 5 days. The primary outcome was the correlation between admission MR-proADM and the 24-h SOFA score. Secondary outcomes included comparisons between septic and non-septic patients and between survivors and non-survivors.Admission MR-proADM showed a moderate correlation with the 24-h SOFA score (rho = 0.488; p = 0.021), with the most prominent associations observed within the cardiovascular and renal SOFA domains. In the septic subgroup, MR-proADM levels were higher than in non-septic patients (10.90 [IQR 5.91-19.00] vs. 1.30 [IQR 0.74-2.53] nmol/L, p < 0.001); ROC analysis yielded an AUC of 0.88 (95% CI 0.73-1.00; p < 0.001), although this estimate should be interpreted descriptively given the small number of septic cases. Despite the low number of mortality events (n = 4), higher admission MR-proADM values were observed in non-survivors than in survivors, although this finding remains preliminary. Furthermore, admission MR-proADM levels showed positive correlations with procalcitonin at each individual timepoint during the first five ICU days (p < 0.001 at each timepoint).Within the limits of this small cohort, MR-proADM might provide a biological window into incipient organ dysfunction. Its possible role in supporting clinical assessment of sepsis and risk stratification-particularly regarding hemodynamic and renal dysfunction-remains strictly hypothesis-generating and requires validation in larger, prospective multicenter studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized not only by progressive motor deficits but also by non-motor symptoms, such as depression, which often emerge during the prodromal stage and significantly impair quality of life. While Akkermansia muciniphila (AKK) has shown potential in modulating neuroinflammation, its specific role and underlying mechanisms in alleviating PD-associated non-motor symptoms remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the effects of AKK intervention in 16-month-old female A53T α-synuclein (α-syn) transgenic mice. Behavioral assessments revealed that oral administration of AKK significantly ameliorated depression-like behaviors, evidenced by reduced immobility in the forced swim test and increased sucrose preference, without affecting motor function, spatial memory, or gastrointestinal motility. Mechanistically, the intervention exhibited genotype-specific effects: AKK significantly increased plasma 5-HT levels in C57 mice. This increase was associated with an enrichment of Lactobacillus taiwanensis and metabolic pathways favoring peripheral tryptophan conversion. Conversely, in A53T mice, the treatment specifically elevated hippocampal 5-HT levels without altering plasma concentrations. This central effect correlated with distinct microbial remodeling, characterized by the enrichment of butyrate/propionate-producing Lachnospiraceae and the activation of purine degradation. Collectively, these findings provide novel mechanistic insights into the therapeutic potential of AKK for managing non-motor symptoms in PD. While limited to a female cohort, our results suggest that AKK ameliorates depression-like behaviors in PD through sex-specific remodeling of the gut microbiome and serotonergic signaling.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Long-term excessive fluoride intake accumulates in brain tissue, causing neuronal degeneration and nervous system dysfunction. This mechanism is closely related to elevated oxidative stress. α-Synuclein (α-Syn) is expressed in neuronal presynaptic terminals; under environmental toxin exposure or oxidative stress, its expression changes and it misfolds into oligomers and aggregates that are cytotoxic and induce oxidative cellular damage. Meanwhile, the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-NAD(P)H: quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1)/heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) pathway is an important cellular system for regulating oxidative damage, and its core kinase is mainly expressed in brain astrocytes.The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of fluoride exposure on oxidative stress levels in astrocytes and the expression of α-Syn within the Nrf2-NQO1/HO-1 pathway. Primary astrocytes were treated with extracellular α-synuclein pre-formed fibrils (αSP) in conjunction with fluoride exposure. The results demonstrated that fluoride exposure induced reactive activation of primary astrocytes, increased levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), decreased activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT), and up-regulated the protein expression within the Nrf2-NQO1/HO-1 pathway. αSP caused oxidative stress in primary astrocytes and exacerbated oxidative damage induced by fluoride exposure. These findings are significant for enhancing the understanding of the mechanisms underlying brain injury associated with chronic fluorosis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Synucleinopathies are a group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by the accumulation of aggregated α-synuclein (α-syn), including Parkinson's disease, Dementia with Lewy Bodies, and Multiple System Atrophy. These diseases are marked by locomotor and non-motor impairments, as well as mitochondrial dysfunction and the loss of dopaminergic (DA) neurons. We have developed several anti-α-syn single-domain antibodies (sdAbs) and demonstrated the diagnostic imaging potential of two of them and the acute therapeutic benefit of one in clearing α-syn in a mouse model. However, whether these sdAbs can suppress α-syn-mediated neuronal loss and locomotor impairment in vivo remains unclear. We evaluated the therapeutic potential of five anti-α-syn sdAbs to clear pathological α-syn in mouse neuronal culture and then demonstrated their in vivo efficacy in a Drosophila model of synucleinopathy. The sdAbs differed in their efficacy to lower levels of phospho-serine 129 α-syn, prevent loss of DA neurons, alleviate mitochondrial dysfunction, improve motor function, and prolong survival in synucleinopathy flies. The most effective sdAb, 2H1, has not been reported before. It binds strongly to the aggregation prone region of α-syn and robustly improves all these disease parameters. Additionally, that sdAb is associated with α-syn in the fly neurons, as shown through proximity dependent turboID biotinylation assays. The sdAb-turboID also biotinylated α-syn-associated proteins involved in synapse/vesicle trafficking pathways, pinpointing the location of their intracellular interaction. Our findings provide an insight into the therapeutic mechanism of action of these sdAbs and strongly support their clinical development.
Post-translational modifications, particularly SUMOylation, plays a crucial role in α-synuclein (α-syn) aggregation, a key pathological feature of Parkinson's disease (PD). Curcumin, a natural polyphenol, has shown neuroprotective potential, but its effects on SUMOylation-related signaling in PD remain unclear.This study aimed to investigate whether curcumin modulates α-syn SUMOylation and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms in PD model mice.A PD model was established in male C57BL/6 mice via unilateral intrastriatal injection of α-syn preformed fibrils (PFFs). Six months after α-syn PFFs injection, mice were treated intravenously with curcumin (25 mg/kg/day) or vehicle for 1 month. Behavioral tests (open field, rotarod) assessed motor function. Neuropathology was evaluated by immunohistochemistry and western blotting for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), phosphorylated α-syn (p-syn), SUMOylation pathway components (SUMO1, SAE2, UBC9, PIAS1/2), and ubiquitin. Striatal dopamine levels were measured by HPLC.Curcumin treatment ameliorated motor deficits and anxiety-like behaviors in PD mice. It partially preserved dopaminergic neurons and reduced p-syn aggregation in the substantia nigra, accompanied by increased striatal dopamine levels. Mechanistically, curcumin was associated with reduced SUMO1 and increased ubiquitin levels, suggesting modulation of SUMOylation-related signaling. Among SUMOylation enzymes, UBC9 expression was decreased, whereas E1 (SAE2) and E3 (PIAS1/2) components were not substantially affected.Our findings demonstrated that curcumin exerted neuroprotective effects in a PD model by attenuating α-syn pathology. The protective mechanism involves the inhibition of α-syn SUMOylation, primarily through the downregulation of the UBC9 enzyme. This study identifies UBC9-mediated SUMOylation as a potential target for curcumin and highlight a promising strategy for modifying α-syn-associated pathology in PD.Copyright © 2026 Li, Zhu and Zhang.
Differentiating early-stage Parkinson's disease (PD) from the parkinsonian variant of multiple system atrophy (MSA-P) remains a significant challenge due to overlapping clinical phenotypes. This study aimed to identify novel, minimally invasive biomarkers by integrating high-resolution peripheral monocyte transcriptomics with erythrocytic alpha-synuclein (alpha-Syn) distribution patterns.We recruited 149 participants (75 PD and 74 MSA-P) to evaluate clinical features and composite peripheral inflammatory indices. To resolve subtle immune heterogeneity often masked in bulk blood analysis, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was performed on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from early-stage patients, followed by Quantitative Real-Time PCR (qRT-PCR) validation. Additionally, immunofluorescence was utilized to characterize the subcellular compartmentalization of alpha-Syn forms in erythrocytes.While MSA-P patients exhibited more rapid progression and severe autonomic failure, standard inflammatory markers (e.g., NLR, MLR) failed to distinguish PD from MSA-P in the early clinical stages. However, scRNA-seq revealed distinct monocyte landscapes. Early MSA-P monocytes displayed an aggressive pro-inflammatory profile driven by chemokine upregulation (CXCL10, CXCL5), interferon pathway activation (IFI27). Conversely, early-stage PD monocytes exhibited a profile of precise homeostatic regulation and protective mitochondrial adaptation, characterized by significant GATD3A downregulation verified by qRT-PCR. Furthermore, distinct pathological patterns were identified: oligomeric alpha-Syn was predominantly sequestered on erythrocyte membranes in MSA-P, whereas pS129 alpha-Syn localized primarily to the cytoplasm in PD.This study uncovers a divergent peripheral immune landscape where GATD3A-mediated monocyte homeostasis distinguishes early PD from the chemokine-driven inflammation and intense oxidative stress of MSA-P. Combined with distinct erythrocytic alpha-Syn membrane distribution patterns, these signatures offer a promising multidimensional strategy for the early differential diagnosis of these synucleinopathies.Copyright © 2026 Jiang, Xu, Jin, Liu, Cai, Zhang, Zheng, Wu, Wang, Piao and Feng.
Based on an early-stage Parkinson's disease(PD) rat model, this study employed 16S rRNA sequencing and untargeted metabolomics to investigate the action mechanism of Tianma Gouteng Yin(TGY) in treating early-stage PD. The early-stage PD rat models were established by subcutaneous injection of rotenone for seven days and were randomly divided into a control group, a model group, a positive drug group(levodopa, 50 mg·kg~(-1)), and TGY groups with low, medium, and high doses(9.82, 19.64, and 39.28 g·kg~(-1)), with intragastric administration for seven days during modeling. Behavioral indicators of rats(open field, inclined plane, and pole tests) were determined. The pathological morphology of brain tissue and the expressions of tyrosine hydroxylase(TH) and α-synuclein(α-syn) were detected. The levels of neurotransmitters including dopamine(DA), 5-hydroxytryptamine(5-HT), 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid(DOPAC), levodopa, and homovanillic acid(HVA) were measured. The inflammatory factors including tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin-6(IL-6), and interleukin-1β(IL-1β) were detected. 16S rRNA sequencing and untargeted metabolomics were conducted on colonic contents to explore the pharmacodynamic effects of TGY and its regulatory mechanisms on gut microbiota and metabolism. RESULTS:: show that TGY can significantly improve motor dysfunction in early-stage PD rats, increase the number of TH-positive cells, inhibit the abnormal aggregation of α-synuclein(α-syn), up-regulate the levels of neurotransmitters, reduce the levels of inflammatory factors in the colon and striatum, thereby exerting a neuroprotective effect. Gut microbiota analysis reveals that TGY can reverse the trends of reduced α-diversity of gut microbiota, increased Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes(F/B) ratio, and increased abundance of pro-inflammatory genera(e.g., Ruminococcus), restore the abundance of beneficial genera(e.g., Bacteroides), and reshape the gut microbiota structure. Metabolomic analysis demonstrates that TGY intervention significantly reverses the differential metabolites in the model group, mainly involving energy and amino acid metabolic pathways such as pyruvate metabolism, β-alanine metabolism, and aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis. In conclusion, TGY may exert therapeutic effects on early-stage PD by regulating the axis of microbiota, inflammation, and neuronal injury, with energy and amino acid metabolism as the hub, through these metabolic pathways.
The pathological accumulation of α-synuclein (α-syn) into amyloid fibrils is a key hallmark of Parkinson's disease and related synucleinopathies. Inhibiting the early stages of α-syn aggregation remains a major therapeutic challenge. In this work, we report the fabrication and investigation of five sugar-based nanoparticles (NPs), including glucose, fructose, maltose, sucrose, and trehalose, and their ability to inhibit α-synuclein aggregation. Using a combination of biophysical strategies, comprising thioflavin-T fluorescence, dynamic light scattering, circular dichroism, and confocal microscopy, we illustrate that sugar NPs prevent β-sheet formation and the growth of α-syn fibrils in a concentration-dependent manner. Isothermal titration calorimetry revealed spontaneous, high-affinity interactions between α-syn and sugar NPs, suggesting direct binding to aggregation-prone regions. Importantly, cytotoxicity assays using SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells showed that NP-treated α-syn aggregates exhibited significantly reduced neurotoxicity. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that sugar-derived nanoparticles act as potent inhibitors of α-syn aggregation during the lag phase, thereby stabilizing non-toxic conformers. These results highlight the promise of sugar-based nanostructures as biocompatible and mechanistically active molecules for modulating synucleopathies associated with various neurodegenerative disorders.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Halting the progression of neurodegenerative diseases remains one of the foremost challenges in medicinal chemistry due to the complex biology that drives disease progression. For example, a hallmark of synucleinopathies, such as Parkinson's disease, is the misfolding and aggregation of the protein α-Synuclein (α-Syn), driving the formation of toxic oligomers and fibrils that avoid natural intracellular clearance mechanisms, participate in unusual protein-protein interactions, and ultimately contribute to the death of dopaminergic neurons. The field of targeted protein degradation (TPD) has emerged as an innovative therapeutic route to selectively degrade proteins of interest that leverage natural intracellular protein degradation machinery. First generation TPD therapeutics have traditionally been designed as bifunctional, chimeric compounds in which a short covalent linker tethers a ligand designed to bind target proteins to a ligand that initiates an either proteosome- or lysosome-dependent protein degradation cascade. While initial studies have indicated the promise of these approaches, translation to the clinical setting has been challenging due to difficulties in achieving cellular internalization, long-term stability, and establishment of a generalizable strategy. To overcome these obstacles, this work has focused on adding modularity and dynamic capability to this classical model by leveraging a multivalent macromolecular approach to TPD. Specifically, peptide amphiphiles (PAs) were designed to self-assemble into high-aspect-ratio supramolecular nanofibers and present peptide epitopes on the surface of the fibers to target simultaneous binding of α-Syn and recruitment of enzymes that facilitate entry into the lysosome-dependent chaperone-mediated autophagy protein degradation pathway. In vitro application of these bioactive PA nanofibers has demonstrated the ability to independently internalize in cells and reduce α-Syn protein levels selectively and effectively. While further optimization of this model has the potential to be a viable therapeutic against α-Syn aggregation, the modularity of these supramolecular nanofibers through facile monomer design and incorporation illustrates the potential of establishing a platform technology for targeting a diverse range of pathologic proteins.
Liancheng white ducks have a distinctive "white feathers, black beak, and green feet" phenotype, making them a useful model for studying pigmentation traits in waterfowl. The previous study found that the F1 generation of Liancheng white ducks crossed with white-feathered ducks and hemp-feathered ducks were all gray-black in color. This indicates the specificity and complexity of melanin deposition in Liancheng white ducks, which makes the selection and breeding of pigment traits through phenotyping difficult. The aim of this study was to investigate the candidate transcriptomic regulatory signals of melanogenesis in Liancheng white ducks. Skin, mouth skin, foot skin, liver, and muscle samples were collected from 130-day-old Liancheng white ducks. Morphological differences were observed via histological analysis, and extraction-based pigment levels were determined. The results showed that melanin granules were clearly observed in tissues other than the liver and were distributed mainly in the basal layer of the epidermis and around feather follicles; the pigment values in the tissues decreased in the order mouth skin > liver > foot skin > muscle and skin. However, the relatively high liver value should be interpreted cautiously because obvious melanin granule deposition was not observed histologically. Whole-transcriptome sequencing was performed on mouth skin and skin samples. In total, 3074 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened; upregulated genes associated with melanogenesis included melanocyte inducing transcription factor (MITF) and tyrosinase (TYR); downregulated genes included agouti signaling protein (ASIP) and adenylate cyclase 2 (ADCY2). Eighteen differentially expressed microRNAs (DEmiRNAs) were identified. Based on target prediction and pathway enrichment analysis, novel_290 and apl-miR-11588-3p were identified as candidate miRNAs potentially associated with melanogenesis-related pathways, and their predicted target genes included phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and Janus kinase 1 (JAK1). Additionally, 364 differentially expressed long noncoding RNAs (DElncRNAs) were identified; TCONS_00063335 and TCONS_00019814 were identified as candidate lncRNAs potentially associated with melanogenesis-related genes, including TYR and TYRP1. A putative ceRNA network was constructed based on the predicted miRNA-mRNA and miRNA-lncRNA relationships, and ENSAPLT00000025522-apl-miR-11588-3p-MAPK8IP3 was identified as a candidate network relationship associated with MAPK-related pigmentation pathways. However, because this relationship was inferred mainly from bioinformatic prediction and expression association analysis, further functional validation is required to confirm whether it contributes to melanogenesis regulation. These findings provide candidate transcriptomic and noncoding RNA information for the further investigation of tissue-specific pigmentation in Liancheng white ducks.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most prevalent gastrointestinal malignancies worldwide. As the third leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, HCC accounts for approximately 830,000 annual deaths. G protein-coupled receptor kinase 6 (GRK6) recognized as a critical protein involved in various human diseases, remains insufficiently investigated in the context of HCC.Bioinformatics analysis was performed to assess the expression and prognostic significance of GRK6 in HCC. Knockdown lentivirus was applied to investigate the functional role of GRK6 downregulated in HCC. Additionally, the therapeutic values of targeting GRK6 was further evaluated using a selective inhibitor (GRK6-IN-1). The effects of GRK6 modulation on cellular functions was examined through EdU, colony formation, transwell, xenograft model, flow cytometry, and western blot assays.The bioinformatics analysis indicated that GRK6 is overexpressed in HCC tissues, and high expression of GRK6 related to lower disease specific survival (DSS), progression free interval (PFI) and overall survival (OS). Further experiment results showed that blocking GRK6 expression by lentivirus or GRK6 inhibitor (GRK6-IN-1) can suppress HCC progression via arresting the cell cycle.In conclusion, GRK6 is highly expressed in HCC, and blocking of GRK6 expression by lentivirus or GRK6 inhibitor (GRK6-IN-1) can suppress HCC progression via arresting the cell cycle. These findings suggest that GRK6 may be present as a molecular biomarker and therapeutic target in HCC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Glucose homeostasis is vital for energy metabolism, and its dysregulation is central to metabolic diseases. To enhance the stability of the endogenous peptide neuronostatin (NST), we designed a conformationally stabilized cyclic NST peptide via disulfide-bridge cyclization. This study demonstrates that cyclic NST serves as a potent agonist for the G protein-coupled receptor 107 (GPR107), and promotes protein kinase activation. Intraperitoneal administration of cyclic NST induced sustained hyperglycemia, which was more effectively than linear NST, it also suppressed insulin and modulating leptin levels in zebrafish and mice. It differentially regulated glycolytic enzymes in pancreas and liver, and stimulated pancreatic α-cells to promote hepatic glucose production. Centrally, cyclic NST reduced food intake by activating the arcuate nucleus and the ventromedial hypothalamus. Notably, it upregulates the expression of key neuropeptides and receptors involved in appetite regulation, including the orexigenic peptides agouti-related protein (AgRP) and neuropeptide Y (NPY), as well as the anorexigenic peptide somatostatin, and the receptors gastric inhibitory polypeptide receptor (GIPR) and glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R). Mechanistically, cyclic NST enhanced mitochondrial energy metabolism in a manner associated with phosphorylation-dependent Golgi retention of GPR107, with Tyr315 identified as a critical site for maintaining mitochondrial protein expression and regulating reactive oxygen species. Collectively, these findings establish the cyclic NST-GPR107 axis as a key regulator of glucose homeostasis and appetite, suggesting a novel therapeutic target for metabolic disorders.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Coat color variation in domestic animals provides important insights into the genetic mechanisms of phenotypic diversity. The gray coat of Hetian gray donkeys is a distinctive breed characteristic, yet its genetic basis remains elusive. We integrated multiomics data from 175 domestic donkeys, including whole-genome sequencing, RNA-seq (n = 6), and Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT) sequencing (n = 8). Genome-wide association study (GWAS) and selection signature analyses identified the agouti signaling protein (ASIP) locus as the top candidate associated with the gray coat phenotype. Transcriptomic analysis revealed a 6.17-fold increase in ASIP expression in Hetian gray donkeys, suggesting that elevated ASIP levels may inhibit eumelanin synthesis. Further, comparative ONT analysis identified a 30 bp deletion in the second intron of ASIP. Dual-luciferase assays demonstrated that this deletion significantly enhances transcriptional activity. The increased ASIP expression appears to prevent melanocyte maturation, resulting in hypopigmentation in the skin and hair of Hetian gray donkeys. Our study provides functional evidence that this structural variant in ASIP modulates pigmentation by enhancing its expression, thereby offering mechanistic insight into both a distinctive donkey breed phenotype and the evolutionary processes shaping coat color diversity in equids.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society of Animal Science. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Temozolomide (TMZ) resistance represents a primary cause of treatment failure and poor outcomes in glioblastoma (GBM). Exosome-mediated intercellular communication is increasingly recognized as a pivotal mechanism driving the dissemination of chemoresistance; however, the specific contribution of exosomal circular RNA cargos to this adaptive process remains elusive. This study systematically characterized the biological function of exosomal circ_0017636 in remodeling the TMZ-resistant microenvironment. We identified that circ_0017636 was significantly downregulated in TMZ-resistant tissues and correlated with poor prognosis. Mechanistically, circ_0017636 functions as a competing endogenous RNA that physically sponges miR-665 to de-repress Arrestin Beta 1 (ARRB1). Crucially, we isolated exosomes from sensitive cells and confirmed their identity via transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and marker analysis. Utilizing CD63-GFP fluorescent tracking, we visually demonstrated the efficient internalization of these vesicles by resistant recipient cells, confirming that circ_0017636 is physically packaged into these exosomes as a transferable cargo. Upon uptake, these circ_0017636-loaded exosomes effectively propagated chemosensitivity signals, significantly reducing the expression of the proliferation marker Ki-67 and the multidrug resistance protein P-glycoprotein (P-gp), thereby suppressing malignant phenotypes. Furthermore, vivo experiments confirmed that intratumoral delivery of circ_0017636-enriched exosomes significantly retarded xenograft tumor growth and overcame TMZ resistance. Collectively, this study elucidates a novel exosome-based communication axis, wherein circ_0017636 acts as a transferable tumor suppressor. Our findings suggest that leveraging exosomes as natural vehicles to deliver circ_0017636 represents a promising therapeutic strategy, while also indicating its potential as a diagnostic biomarker.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
BACKGROUND: Periodontal ligament stem cells (PDLSCs) hold great promise for periodontal regeneration therapy. However, their self-renewal and multilineage differentiation capabilities are often compromised by adverse factors in the periodontal microenvironment. Therefore, identifying novel therapeutic targets and elucidating the underlying molecular mechanisms to protect the proliferative and differentiation potential of PDLSCs is of significant importance. METHODS: PDLSCs were exposed to electronic cigarette extract and various common oral stressors to evaluate the expression of glucagon such as peptide 1 receptor (GLP1R) and gastric inhibitory polypeptide receptor (GIPR). PDLSCs isolated from patients with periodontitis and PDLSCs from a mouse periodontitis model were also analyzed. Functional studies were performed by GLP1R or GIPR knockdown, overexpression, and treatment with single or dual receptor agonists, followed by assessment of cell proliferation and multilineage differentiation capacities. Transcriptome (RNA-seq), chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq), and RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (RIP-seq) were applied to delineate downstream signaling pathways and RNA–protein interactions. Protein synthesis regulation was further investigated by immunoprecipitation of interferon induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats (IFIT)-associated translation initiation factors. For in vivo validation, wild-type and GLP1R/GIPR double-knockout periodontitis mice were transplanted with CRISPR-Cas9 mCherry-labeled PDLSCs and treated with receptor agonists. Disease severity and PDLSC fate were evaluated by histology and lineage tracing. Finally, a questionnaire-based survey was conducted in 150 patients with periodontitis, including 74 individuals with long-term use (> 1 month) of GLP1R or GLP1R/GIPR dual agonists (e.g., semaglutide, liraglutide, tirzepatide), to assess their periodontal outcomes. RESULTS: GLP1R and GIPR expression were markedly downregulated in PDLSCs exposed to multiple stressors and in PDLSCs isolated from periodontitis specimens. RNA-seq, ChIP-seq, and RIP-seq identified downstream pathways and RNA–protein interactions implicated in receptor-mediated regulation. Functionally, GIPR agonism promoted PDLSC proliferation via activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway, whereas GLP1R agonist enhanced multilineage differentiation capacity in vitro. Mechanistically, GLP1R knockdown induced robust upregulation of IFIT1/2/3, while GLP1R agonist suppressed IFIT expression. IFIT1/2/3 were shown to interact with eIF3C and to inhibit translation of differentiation-related mRNAs, linking GLP1R signaling to translational control of PDLSC fate. In vivo, transplantation experiments in both wild-type and GLP1R/GIPR double-knockout periodontitis mice demonstrated that single and dual receptor agonists significantly improved endogenous and exogenous PDLSC-mediated periodontal regeneration. Consistently, a clinical survey of 150 patients with periodontitis (74 receiving GLP1R or dual agonists) revealed significantly better periodontal staging and grading in treated individuals, with longer agonist exposure associated with greater improvement. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings uncover the different molecular roles of GIPR and GLP1R in self-renewal capacity and multipotency of PDLSCs, and open new avenues for developing therapeutic targets and strategies in oral tissue engineering and regenerative medicine.
Background: Melanin protects skin and hair from the effects of ultraviolet (UV) radiation damage, which contributes to all forms of skin cancer, including melanoma. Human melanocytes produce two main types of melanin: eumelanin provides effective photoprotection, and pheomelanin offers less protection against UV-induced skin damage. The agouti signaling protein (ASIP) antagonizes the melanocortin-1 receptor (MC1R), hinders melanocyte signaling, and shifts pigmentation toward pheomelanin, promoting UV vulnerability. In this study, we aim to discover compounds that inhibit ASIP-MC1R interaction and effectively preserve eumelanogenic signaling. Methods: The ASIP-MC1R interface-based pharmacophore model from ASIP is implicated in MC1R receptor protein engagement. We performed virtual screening with a validated pharmacophore model for ~4000 compounds curated from ZINCPharmer and applied drug-likeness filters, viz. ADMET and toxicity profiling tests. Further, the screened candidates were targeted for docking to the ASIP C-terminal domain corresponding to the MC1R-binding moiety. Top compounds underwent a 100-nanosecond (ns) run of molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to assess complex stability and persistence of key contacted residues. Results: Sequential triage, including pharmacophore, ADME-toxicity (ADMET), and docking/ΔG, yielded a focused group of candidates against ASIP antagonists with a favorable fit value. The MD run for 100 ns supported pose stability at the targeted pocket. Based on these predictions and analyses, compound ZINC14539068 was screened as a new potent inhibitor of ASIP to preserve α-MSH-mediated signaling of MC1R. Conclusions: Our in silico pipeline identifies ZINC14539068 as a potent inhibitor of ASIP at its C-terminal interface. This compound is predicted to disrupt ASIP-MC1R binding, thereby maintaining eumelanin-biased signaling. These findings motivate experimental validation in melanocytic models and in vivo studies to confirm pathway modulation and anti-melanoma potential.
Periodic patterning is fundamental to biological organization. In birds, colour stripes and spots on growing embryonic surface and elongating feather filaments provide a unique system to study continuous periodic patterning in expanding domains. Agouti-signaling protein (ASIP) directly reports epigenomic activity during colour patterning. Using a neural-network-like architecture, we show that ASIP's cis -regulatory landscape functions as hidden layers, integrating morphogen feedback, chromatin topology, and tissue geometry to generate discrete colour outputs. Single-nucleus multiome and Micro-C uncover stage- and context-specific enhancer-silencer coalitions. Epidermal Wnt ligands activate ASIP while inducing Wnt inhibitors in fibroblasts, forming a negative-feedback loop coupling periodic patterning to domain expansion. Comparative cross-tissue and cross-species analyses define cis -regulatory modules comprising an epigenetic grammar; functional assays highlight retrotransposon co-option expanding ASIP's cis -regulatory repertoire, potentially contributing to colour pattern evolution. Together, these findings motivate a Turing-principle-based communication model: ASIP reflects epigenetic coalitions shifting to drive diverse, environmentally tunable colour motifs for adaptation.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by progressive neurodegeneration in regionally vulnerable brain areas, yet molecular insights into early pathogenic mechanisms remain limited.We conducted a meta-analysis of transcriptomic datasets from brain regions affected in early-to-moderate AD - including entorhinal cortex, CA1 hippocampus, angular gyrus, and frontal cortex synaptoneurosomes - using data from seven mRNA and one microRNA (miRNA) microarray studies (GSE16759, GSE110226, GSE37264, GSE26972, GSE36980, GSE37263, GSE39420, and GSE157239). Preprocessing included background correction, log2 transformation, quantile normalization, and batch correction via ComBat. Differentially expressed features were defined as false discovery rate <0.05 and | logFC| ≥ 1.23 (genes) or ≥ 2 (miRNAs).We identified 172 differentially expressed genes (122 upregulated and 50 downregulated) and 82 significant miRNAs. Hub genes included Inositol-trisphosphate 3-kinase B (ITPKB), Synaptotagmin 1, Dystrobrevin alpha (DTNA), X Inactive Specific Transcript, and Regulator of G protein signaling 4 (RGS4). Functional enrichment highlighted calcium signaling, synaptic failure, and neuroinflammation. Notably, hsa-miR-30d-5p was predicted to target both ITPKB and DTNA, suggesting a regulatory axis linking miRNA dysregulation to calcium dyshomeostasis. Receiver operating characteristic analysis revealed that only RGS4 showed moderate discriminative capacity (area under the curve [AUC] =0.70), while other hub genes (e.g., ITPKB, AUC = 0.40) exhibited below-chance performance, underscoring the limitations of single-gene classifiers in postmortem tissue.This study provides mechanistic hypotheses - rather than diagnostic biomarkers - by uncovering region-specific, miRNA-mediated regulatory networks in AD-affected brain tissues. Future validation in accessible biofluids is essential before clinical translation.Copyright: © 2026 Journal of Medical Signals & Sensors.
The molecular determinants underlying the heterogeneity and proliferative behavior of Steroidogenic Factor-1 (SF-1) lineage Pituitary Neuroendocrine Tumors (PitNETs) remain insufficiently defined.We performed an integrated analysis of single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and bulk transcriptomic datasets from SF-1 lineage PitNETs to identify molecular subgroups and their defining biomarkers. The functional significance of the top candidate gene, Regulator of G-protein Signaling 4 (RGS4), was examined using gain- and loss-of-function approaches and pharmacological inhibition in pituitary adenoma cell lines. Mechanistic studies were conducted using protein interaction and stability assays.We identified a previously unrecognized SF-1 lineage subgroup characterized by markedly elevated RGS4 expression, which correlated with larger tumor size and higher MIB-1 proliferation index. Functional experiments demonstrated that Rgs4 enhances tumor cell proliferation and inhibits apoptosis. Mechanistically, RGS4 promotes p53 ubiquitination, resulting in its destabilization and proteasomal degradation.This study defines a new SF-1 lineage PitNETs subgroup characterized by high-RGS4 expression. RGS4 promotes tumor proliferation by destabilizing p53, highlighting the RGS4-p53 axis as a promising therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Han, Fang, Zhang, Yuan, Xu, Yang, Wang, Gao, Xiong and Xu.
Hospitalization in older adults often leads to disability in daily living activities, thereby increasing the risk of functional and cognitive impairments. Thisrandomized controlled trial analyzed the serum protein profile of patients admitted to an acute geriatric unit who engaged in supervised multicomponent functional exercise program compared with a control group. Potential protein biomarkers were assessed using the Olink serum proteomics platform employing two predefined panels: Cardiometabolic and Inflammation. Notably, the short-term exercise intervention was associated with moderate but consistent changes in the serum proteome. Nominal differences (p < .05, unadjusted) were observed for amyloid beta precursor-like protein 1 (APLP1), complement C1q tumor necrosis factor-related protein 1 (C1QTNF1), interleukin-8 (CXCL8), interleukin-7 (IL-7), M-phase phosphoprotein 8 (MPHOSPH8), neurotrophin 3 (NTF3), tissue-type plasminogen activator (PLAT), SFRS1-interacting protein (PSIP1), pleiotrophin (PTN), cardiac-type troponin I (TNNI3), and von Willebrand factor (vWF); conversely, levels of CD40 ligand (CD40LG) were reduced. These findings suggest that short-term multicomponent functional exercise during acute hospitalization can induce changes in the serum proteome. These molecular alterations provide exploratory insights into the biological processes associated with the functional benefits observed following the intervention in hospitalized older adults.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Gerontological Society of America.
Despite a growing body of evidence implicating genetic variants and proteins encoded by them with risk and pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), this knowledge has not been successfully translated into effective AD treatments. We integrated current genomic, transcriptomic and proteomic profiles of AD into a network pharmacology framework that leverages comprehensive gene-gene and drug-target interactions. This approach allowed us to screen 2,413 drugs for repurposing opportunities in AD. Computational validation and drug prioritization was followed by experimental validation in 33 cell culture-based phenotypic assays combined with Bayesian hypothesis testing. Our network-based screen rediscovered drugs in clinical trials for AD, providing computational validation. Besides many cancer drugs, the screen identified three drugs previously implicated in AD-related endophenotypes: the primary bile acid chenodiol, arundine (3,3'-diindolylmethane), and cysteamine. In analysis of results from culture-based phenotypic assays, large Bayes factors supported the hypothesized benefits of arundine and the chenodiol derivative, tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA), in amyloid- β clearance and release and neuroinflammation. Follow-up network analyses mechanistically implicated Regulator of G protein signaling 4 (RGS4) in the plausible therapeutic actions of arundine and TUDCA. A network pharmacology approach identified TUDCA and arundine as promising repurposing candidates in AD that rescue disease-relevant molecular phenotypes by acting on AD-associated genes through regulation of G protein signaling.
Renal fibrosis, a progressive pathological feature of chronic kidney disease (CKD), is driven by impaired autophagic processes and persistent immune activation. The molecular mechanisms that interconnect these pathways remain inadequately understood. This study investigates the role of regulator of G-protein signaling 19 (RGS19), a novel autophagy-associated gene, in the pathogenesis of renal fibrosis. By analyzing transcriptomic data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and applying machine learning algorithms, RGS19 was identified as a key fibrosis-related gene. In both in vitro and in vivo renal fibrosis models, we validated its functional role, focusing on autophagic flux and immune responses. We observed that RGS19 expression was elevated in fibrotic kidneys and correlated with increased CD8 + T cell infiltration. Knockdown of RGS19 using siRNA led to reduced p62 accumulation, suppressed rapamycin (p-mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR)) activity, and restored LC3B-II levels, reflecting enhanced autophagic flux. Additionally, the secretion of T cell chemoattractants, such as C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9 (CXCL9) and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10), was diminished. Notably, targeted delivery of RGS19 siRNA via RDYH58 nanoparticles effectively alleviated renal fibrosis in murine models by reducing collagen deposition and immune cell infiltration. These findings suggest that RGS19 plays a central role in linking autophagy dysfunction with immune activation in renal fibrosis and highlight its potential as a therapeutic target for CKD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Amyloid beta precursor-like protein 1 (APLP1), a member of the APP protein family, has been associated with the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. However, its role in the peripheral nervous system remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that APLP1 binds to sterile alpha and TIR motif-containing 1 (SARM1), an NAD+ hydrolase critical for peripheral axonal degeneration, and plays a role in axonal maintenance and post-injury degeneration. To identify potential regulators of SARM1-dependent axonal degeneration, we performed yeast two-hybrid screening using the SARM1 auto-inhibitory domain as bait and identified APLP1 as a SARM1-binding protein. We observed a significant increase in APLP1 levels after axonal injury in the proximal axon segments of cultured sensory neurons and mouse sciatic nerve. Knockdown of Aplp1 in vitro reduced neuronal NAD+ levels and caused spontaneous axon degeneration in a SARM1-dependent manner. Furthermore, Aplp1 knockdown also accelerated injury-induced axonal degeneration. Collectively, these results show that APLP1 interacts with SARM1 and contributes to axonal maintenance in the peripheral nervous system.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA) is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder marked by progressive loss of cerebellar function. Over 40 genetically defined SCA subtypes have been identified, arising from mechanisms such as cytosine-adenine-guanine (CAG) trinucleotide repeat expansions, point mutations, and gene deletions. Spinocerebellar ataxia type 14 (SCA14) stems from mutations to the protein kinase C gamma (PRKCG) gene, which codes for protein kinase C gamma (PKCγ), a signaling protein predominantly expressed in cerebellar Purkinje cells. Although the genetic basis of SCA14 is well established, the mechanisms driving Purkinje cell dysfunction remain poorly understood. Notably, transgenic mice expressing the common PKCγ-Gly118Asp (G118D) mutation, located in the protein's regulatory domain, do not exhibit an overt disease phenotype, raising questions about potential compensatory changes at the molecular level.We examined the expression of regulator of G protein signaling 8 (Rgs8), a molecule implicated in SCA-related pathways. Organotypic slice cultures and primary cerebellar cell cultures were generated in vitro to assess Purkinje cells from the non-manifesting PKCγ-G118D transgenic mouse line.A significant increase in Rgs8 expression was observed in both slice cultures and primary cerebellar cell cultures derived from the non-manifesting SCA14 mouse line.Elevated Rgs8 expression in Purkinje cells from symptom-free PKCγ-G118D mice suggests molecular adaptations that may underlie the non-manifesting phenotype, offering insight into the subclinical SCA14 pathophysiology.© 2025 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Multiple lines of evidence show that the microRNA system plays a prominent role in regulating behavioral responses to psychostimulants. Suppressing microRNA degradation is an effective strategy for elucidating the impact of these intracellular messengers on cellular function. The translin/trax complex is an RNase that appears to mediate degradation of a small number of microRNAs. In this study we investigated the effect of deleting the translin/trax microRNA-degrading enzyme on cocaine-induced behavioral responses in mice. Wild type and Translin (Tsn) KO mice were injected with cocaine and their open-field locomotor activity was monitored. We found that the locomotor activity in response to repeated (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg, i.p.), but not acute (20 mg/kg, i.p.), cocaine exposure was significantly impaired in Tsn KO mice. We identified several microRNAs (412-5p, 412-3p, 93-3p, 7b-3p, and 204-5p) that were significantly increased in the NAc of Tsn KO mice. As regulator of G-protein signaling 8 (RGS8) is a predicted target gene shared by three of these microRNAs, and expressed in the NAc, we confirmed its reduced expression in this region in Tsn KO mice. Moreover, shRNA-mediated knockdown of RGS8 in the NAc attenuated locomotor sensitization to repeated cocaine administration. Taken together, our results suggest that microRNAs targeted by the translin/trax RNase inhibit cocaine-induced locomotor sensitization, in part, by silencing expression of RGS8.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
Globally, gastric cancer (GC) is among the most prevalent cancers. The development and spread of stomach cancer are significantly influenced by angiogenesis. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this process remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the role of the regulator of G protein signaling 4 (RGS4) in GC angiogenesis and its potential mechanisms.Through in vitro and in vivo experiments, including tube formation assays and xenograft models in nude mice, we evaluated the effects of RGS4 on GC angiogenesis and metastasis. In addition, we employed techniques such as immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence double staining to explore the interaction between RGS4 and midkine (MDK). Survival analysis was also performed to evaluate the association between the prognosis of patients with GC and the expression levels of RGS4 and MDK.Our findings revealed that RGS4 is a crucial factor in GC metastasis, significantly inducing angiogenesis. Further studies indicated that RGS4 directly interacts with MDK and upregulates its expression. By upregulating MDK, RGS4 stimulates the angiogenesis and metastasis of GC. Furthermore, a poor prognosis for patients with GC is directly linked to high expression of RGS4 and MDK.This work is the first to clarify the molecular mechanism by which RGS4 upregulates MDK expression to increase GC angiogenesis. These findings not only enhance our understanding of the mechanisms underlying GC progression but also provide potential targets for developing new anti-angiogenic and antimetastatic therapies. RGS4 and MDK could serve as effective biomarkers for predicting the prognosis of patients with GC and offer new insights into personalized treatment approaches.© 2025 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
Traditional Chinese medicine Ailanthone (AIL) has been confirmed to possess antimalarial, anti-inflammatory, and anticancer effects. Here, this study aimed to excavate the biological role and mechanism of AIL on osteosarcoma (OS) progression. Levels of Regulator of G protein signaling 4 (RGS4) and Twist Family BHLH Transcription Factor 1 (TWIST1) were detected by qRT-PCR and western blotting. In vitro and tumor formation experiments were conducted for functional analysis. The protein interaction between RGS4 and TWIST1 was verified by using a Co-immunoprecipitation assay. AIL impeded the proliferation, invasion, migration, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) progression, but induced apoptosis in OS cells. RGS4 was highly expressed in OS tissues and cells and was decreased by AIL in cells. RGS4 silencing suppressed the growth and metastasis of OS cells, and RGS4 overexpression reversed the anticancer action of AIL in OS cells. Mechanistically, RGS4 interacted with TWIST1 and positively regulated its expression. TWIST1 was highly expressed in OS tissues and cells and could be reduced by AIL in cells. Moreover, TWIST1 overexpression abolished RGS4 silencing-triggered growth and metastasis inhibition in OS cells. Importantly, AIL impeded OS growth and metastasis in vivo by regulating RGS4 and TWIST1. Ailanthone restrained OS growth and metastasis by decreasing RGS4 and TWIST1 expression.© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Nerandomilast, a preferential phosphodiesterase 4B inhibitor, is approved for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and progressive pulmonary fibrosis in some countries. The objective of this study was to evaluate the safety and pharmacokinetics of nerandomilast in healthy volunteers through single- and multiple-rising-dose studies, and a human mass balance study evaluating absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion.Healthy participants received oral nerandomilast doses ranging from 0.02 mg to 24 mg in the single-rising-dose trial, 1 mg or 6 mg twice daily for 14 days in the multiple-rising-dose trial, and a single oral dose of 18 mg [14C]-labeled nerandomilast in the mass balance trial. In each trial, pharmacokinetic blood samples were collected for determination of nerandomilast plasma concentrations. In the mass balance study, urine, feces, and blood samples were collected, and [14C]-radioactivity was quantified from these matrices. All pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated via noncompartmental analysis.Nerandomilast was rapidly absorbed postadministration, with peak plasma concentrations occurring between 0.5 and 1.25 h postdose before declining in a multiphasic manner. Nerandomilast exposure increased dose proportionally following single- and multiple-dose administrations. Steady state was reached by day 7 after twice-daily dosing with up to 1.69-fold drug accumulation. Following a single oral dose administration of [14C]nerandomilast, 58.0% and 36.4% of radioactivity was excreted in feces and urine, respectively. Of the administered dose, 11.9% was excreted as unchanged parent compound in urine. Nerandomilast safety was acceptable across all three studies and nerandomilast was well tolerated in healthy participants.Nerandomilast exhibited rapid oral absorption, multiphasic elimination profile, dose-proportional exposure, and was excreted via urine and feces.NCT01594515 (registered 2012-05-07), NCT01835899 (registered 2013-04-11), and NCT04771286 (registered 2021-02-23).© 2026. The Author(s).
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease involving complex immune pathways. Natural compounds derived from Aloe vera are attracting increasing attention for their potential in the treatment of dermatological disorders.A virtual screening of 110 A. vera-derived phytoconstituents was performed against three key protein targets implicated in AD: interleukin-4 receptor alpha, Janus kinase 1, and phosphodiesterase 4D. The top-ranked compounds were further assessed using absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, and toxicity (ADMET) properties to evaluate drug-likeness and safety profiles. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations over 100 ns were conducted to examine the structural stability of the selected ligand-protein complexes.Quercetin and kaempferol showed the highest binding affinities across all three targets. ADMET analysis confirmed their favorable pharmacokinetic and safety profiles. MD simulations revealed stable and compact protein-ligand interactions, supporting their potential as multitarget inhibitors of AD.Quercetin and kaempferol from A. vera emerge as promising multitarget lead candidates for AD treatment, particularly for topical therapeutic applications. These findings warrant further in vitro and in vivo validation to support their potential clinical translation.© 2026 Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, Polish Academy of Sciences.
Over the last 34 years, the Eilat Conference on New Antiepileptic Drugs and Devices has provided an interactive forum for stakeholders to discuss investigational and recently licensed treatments for seizures and epilepsy. The Eighteenth Eilat Conference on New Antiepileptic Drugs and Devices (EILAT XVIII) took place in Madrid, Spain, on May 3-6, 2026. This article provides summaries of eight treatments in preclinical and early clinical development that were presented at EILAT XVIII. These include AUT00206, a positive allosteric modulator of Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 voltage-gated potassium channels in development for the treatment of rare epilepsy syndromes as well as neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders; ION283, an antisense oligonucleotide designed to suppress the expression of glycogen synthase 1, under investigation for the treatment of Lafora disease; MSCA-7136, a selective allosteric RAS/mitogen-activated protein kinase-extracellular signal regulated kinase (MEK) inhibitor being developed for the treatment of focal seizures associated with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy and seizures associated with tuberous sclerosis complex; OV329, a selective inhibitor of γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) aminotransferase, in development for the treatment of drug-resistant focal seizures; PTI5803 (probenecid), an uricosuric agent and a blocker of pannexin 1 channels, repurposed as a treatment for seizures associated with focal cortical dysplasia; simufilam, a filamin A modulator under investigation for the treatment of tuberous sclerosis complex-related epilepsy; SN-2000, a selective allosteric phosphodiesterase 4B inhibitor, in development for the treatment of focal seizures; and sodium selenate, a promoter of the dephosphorylation of pathological hyperphosphorylated tau in the brain, under investigation as a disease-modifying agent in mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Treatments in more advanced clinical development are discussed in an accompanying article.© 2026 The Author(s). Epilepsia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International League Against Epilepsy.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) and other progressive pulmonary fibrosis (PPF) forms are associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Pirfenidone and nintedanib are the currently approved antifibrotic drugs in Germany. Based on the positive results of both Phase-3 trials FIBRONEER-IPF and FIBRONEER-ILD, the phosphodiesterase-4B inhibitor nerandomilast was approved in 2025 for the treatment of IPF in USA, but not yet in Germany.We performed a comparative analysis of the results of phase 3 randomized clinical trials of pirfenidone, nintedanib and nerandomilast regarding patient characteristics, efficacy and safety.Eight phase 3 trials were included: 3 with pirfenidone, 3 with nintedanib, und 2 with nerandomilast. The characteristics of the trials' populations showed substantial differences. In terms of the primary endpoint reduction of FVC decline over one year, all the three compounds demonstrated similar efficacy. Secondary endpoints across the trials were heterogeneous, and no positive efficacy for patient-reported outcomes was observed for any of the three drugs. The best tolerability and safety profile was demonstrated for nerandomilast.In the near future, nerandomilast could become the third available antifibrotic drug in Germany for the treatment of IPF and PPF, showing a similar efficacy profile to pirfenidone and nintedanib, with a better tolerability. The different trials populations should be considered when comparing the clinical trials results. New guidelines are mandatory to unravel the role of nerandomilast in the treatment algorithm of IPF and PPF.Thieme. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42381622 is a review article
Ambra1, a key regulator of protein homeostasis, controls both autophagy and ubiquitin-mediated proteasomal degradation. Although Ambra1 is implicated in metabolic regulation, its role in adipose tissue homeostasis remains unclear. In this study, Ambra1 conditional knockout mice exhibited impaired fasting-induced weight loss in white adipose tissue. Ambra1-deficient adipocytes exhibited defective lipolysis, accompanied by impaired translocation of adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL), the rate-limiting lipolytic enzyme, to the surface of lipid droplets. However, ATGL translocation was restored by the inhibition of phosphodiesterase 3B, which antagonizes lipolysis by reducing protein kinase A activity. Collectively, these findings suggest that Ambra1 plays an important role in fasting-induced lipolysis via phosphodiesterase 3B-mediated ATGL control.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Inherited retinal diseases (IRDs) are major causes of vision loss and often associated with the degeneration of retinal neurons, such as photoreceptors. Adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors hold therapeutic potential for IRDs; however, their off-target expression has prompted the development of refined engineering strategies to enhance cell-type preference without compromising transgene expression. Here, we present G5mP, a streamlined 315-bp synthetic promoter-enhancer construct designed for robust retinal gene expression. G5mP integrates three components: G5, a G protein-coupled receptor kinase 1-derived enhancer; mP, a minimal promoter from phosphodiesterase 6B; and a 5'-untranslated region (UTR) derived from retinoschisin 1 (RS1). Compared with the clinically used 742-bp RIR cassette-comprising the RS1 promoter, interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein enhancer, and RS1-derived 5'-UTR-G5mP drove stronger overall retinal expression and showed enhanced activity within photoreceptor cells in retinal cell lines, human retinal organoids, and mouse retina without inducing detectable cytotoxicity in vivo. Notably, across retinal cell lines, human retinal organoids, and mouse retina, G5mP induced more robust and distinct photoreceptor-preferential transgene expression than the ubiquitous CAG promoter did. These results highlight its potential as a compact and efficient regulatory element suitable for AAV-mediated gene delivery across retinal cell types, including the effective targeting of photoreceptors.© 2026 The Author(s).
Can oocyte maturation be adapted to a phenotypic assay within a drug screening pipeline to identify compounds that block meiotic progression for female non-hormonal contraceptive drug discovery?A complex phenotypic assay of mouse oocyte maturation identifies potent compounds that reversibly block meiotic progression at specific stages.During oocyte maturation, prophase I-arrested oocytes resume meiosis, undergo germinal vesicle (GV) breakdown, and complete meiosis I with extrusion of the first polar body. Oocyte maturation is critical for generating a fertilizable gamete, and thus, blocking meiotic progression is a promising target for non-hormonal contraception. Moreover, this process can be recapitulated in vitro, providing a powerful phenotypic assay for drug screening.Oocytes were collected from CD-1 mice following hyperstimulation and in vitro matured for 14-16 h in the presence of a single dose (10 µM) of compounds from a bioactive compound library. Incubation in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) only or 10 µM milrinone, a known phosphodiesterase 3A (PDE3A) inhibitor, was used as vehicle and positive control, respectively. Primary screening and subsequent concentration-response testing were performed in duplicate.Oocytes were incubated with compounds during IVM to identify compounds with inhibitory effects on meiotic progression. We were specifically interested in compounds that maintained arrest at prophase of meiosis I (GV-intact) or prevented extrusion of the first polar body. Brightfield images were taken before and after IVM to assess maturation status based on morphological criteria. Using this platform, we screened a subset of 818 compounds from the compound library based on annotated target and structural diversity. A hit was defined as a compound that inhibited meiotic progression by ≥80%. Hits were validated through an independent source of compound and concentration responsiveness. Hit compounds were also tested in a prolonged culture treatment to confirm maintenance of meiotic arrest. A counterscreen assay was performed on compounds that maintained arrest at prophase of meiosis I to rule out phenotypes due to inhibition of PDE3A activity.From our primary screen, 29 hits were identified that blocked meiotic maturation. Following hit validation via independent sources and concentration-response, 18 compounds were confirmed. Five compounds resulted in arrest at prophase of meiosis I, but only one was not based on PDE3A inhibition. Thirteen compounds enabled resumption of meiosis but not polar body extrusion, and 12 of these maintained arrest during prolonged culture. Thus, using this screening pipeline, we identified a total of 13 compounds for an overall confirmed hit rate of 1.6%. Using this phenotypic assay, we also compared the activity of structural analogs, enabling the establishment of preliminary structure-activity relationships. Additionally, washout of compound-treated oocytes allowed for normal meiotic resumption in 33% and 50% of oocytes arrested at GV and GV breakdown stages, respectively, demonstrating the potential for reversibility.N/A.Although this screening platform can identify potent compounds, their protein targets and potential mechanisms of action are unknown. As such, further studies are required to deconvolute targets and generate more specific compounds. Given that our phenotypic oocyte screening assay is based on the mouse model, validation using human oocytes will also be necessary for translational consideration. Lastly, all experiments were conducted on denuded oocytes and do not account for activity within an intact cumulus-oocyte complex.Through our screening pipeline, we identified compounds that potently inhibit meiotic progression. Beyond furthering our understanding of oocyte maturation, we highlight potent compounds as promising starting points toward novel drug candidates or in novel target identification for female non-hormonal contraception.This work was supported by the Gates Foundation [INV-003385]. Under the grant conditions of the Foundation, a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 Generic License has already been assigned to the Author Accepted Manuscript version that might arise from this submission. The authors have no conflict of interest to disclose.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.
Pinealectomy leads to melatonin deficiency, which is known to disrupt circadian clock regulation and may increase vulnerability of the hippocampus to oxidative stress and neuroinflammatory processes. The objective of this study was to examine the gene expression levels of circadian locomotor output cycles kaput (CLOCK), brain and muscle ARNT-like 1 (BMAL1), period circadian regulator 1 (PER1), cryptochrome circadian regulator 1 (CRY1), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and interleukin-6 (IL-6) in the hippocampus to elucidate the impact of pinealectomy-induced circadian dysregulation on these gene expressions and to assess its association with hippocampal alterations. A total of 30 Wistar rats were randomly divided into three groups: Control, Sham, and Pinealectomy (PNX) (n = 10 per group). Gene expression levels were analyzed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Immunohistochemical analysis was performed to assess caspase-3 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunoreactivity. In addition, oxidative stress parameters, including malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and glutathione (GSH), as well as the inflammatory marker tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), were measured. The pinealectomy group showed a significant downregulation of BMAL1, BDNF, CLOCK, CRY1, and PER1 gene expression levels, with decreases ranging from approximately 60% to 83% compared with the sham and control groups, whereas IL-6 expression was significantly increased by approximately 185% (p < 0.05). Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated significantly increased caspase-3 and GFAP immunoreactivity in the PNX group. Furthermore, pinealectomy resulted in a significant increase in MDA and TNF-α levels, accompanied by marked decreases in SOD, CAT, and GSH levels (p < 0.05). In conclusion, pinealectomy is associated with significant disruption of hippocampal circadian clock gene expression, accompanied by oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and histopathological alterations. These findings highlight the critical role of circadian regulation in maintaining hippocampal cellular integrity.
To describe novel variants in the G protein-coupled receptor kinase 1 (GRK1) gene associated with Oguchi disease and to analyze the different multimodal imaging results.Five members of a single family were enrolled, including two confirmed cases of Oguchi disease and three carriers with novel variants in the GRK1 gene. All subjects underwent a comprehensive ophthalmological examination, including color vision testing, visual field testing, wide-field retinography, fundus autofluorescence, macular optical coherence tomography (OCT), and full-field electroretinography (ERG).The study found that both cases of Oguchi disease showed positive Mizuo-Nakamura phenomenon, moderate retinal thickening and packing of the three outermost hyper-reflective bands in the parafoveal region. After establishing a clinical diagnosis of Oguchi disease in patients IV-II and IV-III, molecular analysis revealed a similar genotype in the patients, both carrying two heterozygous variants in the GRK1 gene, the variants c.1055_1056delAC, p.(Tyr352CysfsTer32) and c.699+2T>C. Genetic testing also revealed that individual III-I was a heterozygous carrier of the novel variant c.1055_1056delAC in the GRK1 gene. In addition, the novel intronic variant c.699+2T>C was detected in the same gene in the heterozygous state in individuals III-II and IV-I. Family segregation showed that Oguchi disease was transmitted in an autosomal recessive pattern in this family.Two novel variants in the GRK1 gene are reported that are linked to Oguchi disease in a naïve Algerian family. The common findings observed on the OCT scans of our affected patients include packing of the three outer hyper-reflective bands, and thickening of the retina in the parafoveal region. These features are present not only in the affected patients but also in the carriers of the disease.International Journal of Ophthalmology Press.
Immune system is regulated by circadian rhythms, which promote inflammation and facilitate pathogen elimination. Antimicrobial peptides secreted by milk somatic cells and mammary gland epithelial cells play a crucial role in protecting the mammary gland from pathogenic invasion and mastitis. In this study, we aimed to investigate the circadian rhythms of clock gene and antimicrobial peptide gene expression in goat milk somatic cells, as well as the circadian variation in antimicrobial peptide concentrations in milk.Milk and blood samples were collected from eight goats every 4 h for three days, with light exposure from 6:30 to 19:00. Notably, plasma prolactin level, milk Na+ concentration, and somatic cell count exhibited circadian rhythms (cosinor: P < 0.05; time: P < 0.01). Expression levels of some clock genes (Clock, cryptochrome circadian regulator 2, period circadian regulator 2, and nuclear receptor subfamily 1 group D member 1) exhibited circadian rhythms (cosinor: P < 0.05), whereas those of other clock genes, such as basic helix-loop-helix ARNT-like 1, period circadian regulator 1, cryptochrome circadian regulator 1, and retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor-α, did not exhibit circadian rhythms. Among the milk antimicrobial peptides, gene expression level of cathelicidin-7 (cosinor and time: P < 0.05), but not that of lactoferrin (cosinor: P = 0.079), exhibited a circadian rhythm in somatic cells. Additionally, goat β-defensin-1, cathelicidin-7, and lactoferrin levels exhibited circadian rhythms in milk (cosinor and time: P < 0.01).Overall, our results suggest that leukocyte migration and antimicrobial peptide production exhibit circadian rhythms in the mammary glands. These findings provide valuable insights to ensure safe milking conditions by milking during periods of high immune activity in the mammary glands.© 2026. The Author(s).
The malignant progression of pituitary neuroendocrine tumors (PitNETs) is closely associated with abnormalities in the phosphoinositide signaling pathway. This study aims to investigate the regulatory role and molecular mechanism of inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase A (INPP5A) in the malignant progression of PitNETs, with a focus on its interaction with the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway and the epigenetic regulator MBD2.Tongji Hospital of Tongji medical college of Huazhong University of Science and Technology.Analyze genes related to IP3 metabolism in single-cell sequencing samples of PitNETs from NCBI, and perform immunofluorescence staining and statistical analysis on samples from 62 patients with PitNETs.INPP5A was significantly downregulated in PitNETs, and its expression was negatively correlated with tumor invasiveness, Ki67 index, and volume, Overexpression of INPP5A inhibited tumor cell proliferation, migration, and hormone secretion, while knockdown of INPP5A promoted these malignant phenotypes, INPP5A negatively regulated the PI3K/Akt pathway by degrading IP3, MBD2 directly bound to the INPP5A promoter region to mediate transcriptional repression, Activation of PKA signaling phosphorylated MBD2 (at S99), recruited 14-3-3σ to stabilize the MBD2 protein, and enhanced the inhibition of INPP5A.INPP5A acts as a tumor suppressor gene in PitNETs, and its downregulation promotes tumor malignant progression by activating the PI3K/Akt pathway. MBD2 and its PKA-mediated phosphorylation are key mechanisms for INPP5A transcriptional repression. Targeting the MBD2-INPP5A-PI3K/Akt axis may provide a new strategy for the treatment of PitNETs.© 2026 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Background: Deprivation of sleep (DS) might affect mood and cognitive abilities, including psychomotor functions (PF). Molecular mechanisms underlying these effects remain unclear, though studies suggest that the circadian rhythm plays a role. Methods: Seventy participants underwent polysomnography (PSG) and DS. PF was evaluated using Bimanual Eye-Hand Coordination Test (BEHCT). Mood, PF, and clock gene expression (Circadian Locomotor Output Cycles Kaput (CLOCK), Brain and Muscle ARNT-Like 1 (BMAL1), Period Circadian Regulator 1 (PER1), Cryptochrome Circadian Regulator 1 (CRY1), Nuclear Receptor Subfamily 1 Group D Member 1 (NR1D1), and Neuronal PAS Domain Protein 2 (NPAS2)) were analyzed post-PSG and post-DS. Mood changes after DS classified participants as responders (RE) or non-responders (NR). Results: In NRs, but not REs, the BEHCT error count positively correlated with the expression of BMAL1, CRY1, PER1, NR1D1 (R = 0.60, p = 0.002; R = 0.49, p = 0.018; R = 0.57, p = 0.023; and R = 0.53, p = 0.011, respectively), with PER1 explaining its variability in 57.8% (b = 0.174, R2 = 0.578, F = 20.144, and p < 0.001). Conclusions: Obtained results suggest that altered clock gene expression may contribute to individual differences in mood and PF following DS.
Circadian regulation in peripheral cells depends on calcium dynamics, but the upstream mechanisms remain unclear. We identify endoplasmic reticulum lipid raft-associated protein 2 (ERLIN2) as a regulator of the peripheral clock. Knockdown and overexpression of ERLIN2 in C2C12 skeletal muscle cells show that ERLIN2 positively regulates cryptochrome circadian regulator 1/2 (CRY1/2) transcription and maintains rhythmicity. ERLIN2 regulates inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R)-mediated Ca2+ release and activates the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII)-mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) pathway. ATP induced IP3R-dependent Ca2+ transients, CREB phosphorylation, and Per1 expression, reshaping circadian rhythm, effects blocked by IP3R, Ca2+, or CaMKII inhibition. CRY1 enhances and CRY2 suppresses CREB signaling, establishing a feedback loop with ERLIN2. This ERLIN2-Ca2+-CREB-CRY1/2 axis couples membrane contact sites to circadian regulation. Impact statement This study reveals ERLIN2 as a key regulator linking calcium signaling to circadian rhythms, establishing an ERLIN2-Ca2+-CREB-CRY1/2 axis that advances understanding of cellular clock control.© 2026 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Human platelets express 2 thrombin-activated G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), protease activated receptor (PAR)1 and PAR4. Previous studies have demonstrated PAR1 activation to be fast on-fast off while PAR4 activation was slower but more sustained. However, how PARs regulate second messengers such as cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), a negative regulator of platelet activation, remain unknown.This study investigated how PAR1 and PAR4 activation by thrombin regulates cAMP levels and platelet activation.PAR1 and PAR4 on washed human platelets were inhibited with vorapaxar or BMS-986120, respectively, in the presence or absence of prostaglandin (PG)I2. Platelets were stimulated with various thrombin concentrations, and calcium flux and platelet aggregation were measured. PAR regulation of cAMP in megakaryocytes (MKs) was also studied by genetic disruption of PAR1 or PAR4 using CRISPR/Cas9 editing.In the presence of PGI2, cAMP was significantly reduced after thrombin stimulation when platelets or MKs were activated through PAR1, but not PAR4. Calcium flux was highly associated with cAMP level changes. High concentrations of cAMP were associated with low calcium flux with PAR4 stimulation. In contrast, stimulating PAR1 decreased cAMP levels, and this was associated with a more pronounced calcium flux. Phosphodiesterase (PDE)3A is involved in regulating cAMP levels. Blocking PDE3A with a pharmacological inhibitor in platelets or genetic knockout in MKs reversed PAR1-induced decrease of cAMP level, while PAR4 was not affected by PDE3A inhibition.The data suggest differences between PAR1 and PAR4 induced thrombin activation are due, in part, to cAMP regulation by PDE3A.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a serious complication of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF), for which no targeted therapies are currently available. Endothelial dysfunction plays a crucial role in PH associated with HFpEF (PH-HFpEF), yet its molecular drivers remain poorly defined.Transcriptome profiling uncovered endothelial characteristics of PH-HFpEF. Endothelial-specific GPRASP1 (GPCR [G protein-coupled receptor]-associated sorting protein 1 deletion in mice was conducted to investigate its participation in PH-HFpEF pathology. Multimodal metabolomics, isotope tracing, proteomics, and mechanistic biochemical assays were used to map downstream pathways and identify druggable mediators.GPRASP1 was significantly lowered in pulmonary endothelial cells of PH-HFpEF models. Endothelial Gprasp1 knockout mice exhibited major PH-HFpEF features, including pulmonary vascular remodeling, elevated pulmonary pressure, diastolic dysfunction, and abnormal glucose/lipid metabolism. GPRASP1 loss impaired tricarboxylic acid cycle activity by stabilizing ASNS (asparagine synthetase), preferentially shifting aspartate toward asparagine synthesis over oxaloacetate production. This metabolic reprogramming led to adenosine triphosphate depletion, reactive oxygen species accumulation, endothelial nitric oxide synthase uncoupling, and nitric oxide deficiency. We discovered that, beyond its classic role in GPCR sorting, GPRASP1 functioned as a noncanonical adaptor protein that scaffolded the E3 ubiquitin ligase PRKN (Parkin) and ASNS, promoting PRKN-dependent K48-linked ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of ASNS via its C-terminal domain. In parallel, under mitochondrial stress, GPRASP1 strengthened PRKN interactions with MFN1/2, enhanced their K63-linked ubiquitination, and facilitated PRKN-mediated mitophagy. Restoration of GPRASP1 expression or pharmacological inhibition of ASNS activity with olopatadine normalized aspartate utilization, improved mitochondrial bioenergetics, rescued endothelial function, and attenuated cardiopulmonary pathology in PH-HFpEF models.Our findings unlocked a noncanonical role of GPRASP1 in preserving pulmonary endothelial homeostasis and delineated a novel GPRASP1-PRKN-ASNS axis that connected proteostasis with endothelial metabolic integrity, highlighting aspartate metabolism as a targetable vulnerability in cardiopulmonary disease.
Melanocortin-2 receptor accessory protein-2 (MRAP2) modulates the activity of hypothalamic melanocortin-4 (MC4R) and growth hormone-secretagogue (GHSR) receptors, which suppress and promote appetite, respectively. We investigate whether obesity-associated variants of MRAP2 alter their ability to modulate MC4R and GHSR signalling as a possible mechanistic link to the development of obesity. Functional effects of five obesity-associated MRAP2 variants were analysed in HEK293 cells by co-expressing wild-type or variant MRAP2 with MC4R or GHSR. Endpoints included cell-surface and total expression, and ligand-induced second-messenger responses, β-arrestin-2 recruitment, and alternative G-protein activation. MRAP2 decreased basal MC4R cell-surface expression while GHSR cell-surface expression was not affected. In MC4R/MRAP2 expressing cells, maximal α-MSH-induced cAMP and β-arrestin-2 recruitment responses were increased. Similarly, ghrelin-induced Ca2+-mobilization in GHSR/MRAP2 expressing cells was increased, but β-arrestin-2 recruitment was suppressed. MRAP2 did not bias G-protein activation by either receptor, although previous reports show MRAP2 biases MC4R signalling towards Gαq/11. The variants did not significantly affect the ability of MRAP2 to modulate MC4R and GHSR signalling. Our results indicate that MRAP2 potentiates the ligand responsiveness of MC4R and GHSR, but has differential effects on β-arrestin-2 recruitment. The MRAP2 variants had no significant effects on the signalling endpoints tested. This suggests that, despite their association with obesity, the variants may be functionally benign, or that the absence of effects reflects limitations inherent to our cellular model. In addition, since MRAP2 can modulate multiple receptors and differentially modulate their signalling, we cannot rule out their influence on body weight regulation via other mechanisms.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
The melanocortin-2 receptor accessory protein (MRAP) family interacts with and regulates the signaling of diverse G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). MRAP2 modifies the signaling of three distinct GPCRs, melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R), MC3R, and ghrelin receptor (GHSR), all essential for appetite regulation. The nature of MRAP2/GPCR complexes and whether there are shared mechanisms for complex assembly, critical structural regions, or consistent effects on receptor signaling remains unknown. Here, we show that all three GPCRs preferentially interact with MRAP2 as 1:1 complexes and MRAP2 binding disrupts GPCR homodimerization. MRAP2 interacts with shared receptor transmembrane regions to promote GPCR signaling and impairs β-arrestin-2 recruitment to prolong signaling and delay internalization. Deletion of the MRAP2 cytoplasmic region impairs GPCR signaling by modulating constitutive activity. Human MRAP2 variants associated with overweight/obesity modify the constitutive activity of all three GPCRs. Thus, MRAP2 regulates GPCR function using shared molecular mechanisms, and we provide further evidence for the importance of GHSR constitutive activity.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Melanocortin-2 receptor accessory protein 2 (MRAP2) is essential for the intricate regulation of energy balance. Although rare MRAP2 variants have been reported in obese individuals, their overall impact on human obesity risk remains uncertain because previous studies were small, heterogeneous, and often lacked systematic functional characterization. To address this gap, we conducted a comprehensive systematic review and cohort-level meta-analysis to quantify the association between rare coding variants in MRAP2 and obesity. We systematically searched five major databases (Embase, PubMed, Scopus, Google Scholar, and Web of Science) and identified five eligible publications comprising seven independent cohorts. In total, 27 rare coding MRAP2 variants were observed in 46 (1.01%) individuals with obesity and 18 (0.34%) individuals with normal weight, among 9771 individuals (5223 with normal weight and 4548 with obesity). Using inverse-variance-weighted random-effects models fitted with restricted maximum likelihood, carriers of rare coding MRAP2 variants had higher odds of obesity (OR = 2.61; 95% CI, 1.49-4.58; p = 8.0 × 10-4). Taken together, these findings, derived predominantly from European-ancestry cohorts, support MRAP2 as a biologically plausible susceptibility gene for human obesity and indicate that rare coding MRAP2 variants are associated with higher odds of obesity, providing a quantitative framework to guide future large-scale genetic and functional studies.
Delta-opioid receptor (DOR) agonists display antinociceptive properties with less adverse effects than morphine derivatives and other opioids targeting mu-opioid receptor. However, a loss of their antinociceptive effect (tolerance) rapidly develops upon repeated treatments and could be due to the fast degradation of DOR. The G Protein-coupled Receptor-Associated Sorting Protein 1 (GPRASP1) has been involved in DOR sorting for degradation in vitro. Here, using a novel mouse line combining a knock-out for GPRASP1 and a knock-in for a fluorescent DOR-eGFP, we show that GPRASP1 is mandatory for the development of antinociceptive tolerance to the DOR agonist SNC80 in models of neuropathic and inflammatory pain. Surprisingly, DOR down-regulation upon repeated activations, phosphorylation kinetics of SNC80-activated DOR and DOR coupling to Gi proteins were unaffected by the loss of GPRASP1. Instead, changes in the dynamics of DOR plasma membrane localization were observed in GPRASP1 knockout neurons. Affinity-Purification of DOR followed by Mass Spectrometry analyses revealed, for the first time in the brain, that SNC80 alters DOR's interactome. In the absence of GPRASP1, the association of activated DOR with newly identified partners, particularly Synapse differentiation-inducing gene protein 1 SYNG1, was reduced. These findings indicate that SNC80-induced antinociceptive tolerance is not driven by DOR down-regulation but rather by GPRASP1-mediated changes in DOR trafficking and downstream signaling.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
The central melanocortin system links nutrition to energy expenditure. Melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) controls appetite and food intake, and its signaling is potentiated by melanocortin-2 receptor accessory protein 2 (MRAP2). Human mutations in MC4R and MRAP2 are associated with obesity. Here, we sought to determine whether MRAP2 affected the activity of MC3R, which is structurally similar to MC4R and which regulates sexual maturation, linear growth rate, and lean mass accumulation. Single-molecule pull-down assays showed that MC3R and MRAP2 interacted in HEK293 cells. Analysis of fluorescence photobleaching steps showed that MC3R and MRAP2 readily formed heterodimers, most commonly with a 1:1 stoichiometry. Mining of previously published human single-nucleus and spatial transcriptomic data showed coexpression of MRAP2 and MC3R in hypothalamic neurons that function in energy homeostasis and appetite control. In HEK293 cells, MRAP2 enhanced cAMP signaling downstream of MC3R, impaired β-arrestin recruitment to MC3R, and reduced MC3R internalization. The ability of MRAP2 to promote MC3R signaling was suppressed by alanine mutagenesis of five MRAP2 and two MC3R transmembrane residues identified by structural homology models as important for the interaction. We showed that variants of MRAP2 found in individuals who are overweight or obese did not enhance MC3R-driven signaling. Thus, these studies implicate MRAP2 as an important regulator of MC3R function and provide further evidence for the crucial role of MRAP2 in energy homeostasis.
Adipocyte deposition is believed to be a primary characteristic of age-related thymic involution, but the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms remain unknown. We show here that thymic mesenchymal stromal cells (tMSCs) have a higher tendency to differentiate into adipocytes and melanocortin-2 receptor accessory protein (MRAP) is a potential driver of tMSCs adipogenesis. Furthermore, we discover that thymosin-α1 promotes MRAP expression in tMSCs through FoxO1 signaling pathway. Additionally, the proportion of tMSCs increase in older mice compared to young mice. Importantly, MRAP is also necessary for human thymic MSCs to differentiate into adipocytes when exposed to thymosin-α1. Single-cell RNA-seq analysis of human thymus revealed an accumulation of tMSCs and adipocytes during aging, indicating a strong potential for adipogenic differentiation in age-related thymic involution. Thus, we have revealed MRAP as a key factor in promoting thymic MSCs adipogenesis triggered by thymosin-α1 and FoxO1 pathway, which may serve as potential target to hinder adiposity in age-related thymic involution.© 2025. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
Accessory proteins such as members of the melanocortin-2 receptor accessory protein family (MRAP) have been described to interact with and regulate the signaling of diverse G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), however, surprisingly little is known about the mechanisms by which they mediate these effects. MRAP2 modifies signaling of three distinct GPCRs, melanocortin receptor 4 (MC4R), MC3R and the ghrelin receptor (GHSR), which each play essential roles in appetite regulation. Human mutations in MRAP2 cause obesity with hyperglycaemia and hypertension, suggesting that its regulation of GPCRs is critical for maintaining metabolic homeostasis. However, the nature of MRAP2/GPCR complexes and whether there are shared mechanisms for complex assembly, critical structural regions or consistent effects on receptor signaling and trafficking remains unknown. Here we showed all three GPCRs preferentially interact with MRAP2 as 1:1 complexes and that MRAP2 binding disrupts GPCR homodimerization. MRAP2 interacts with the same receptor transmembrane regions to promote GPCR signaling, and the accessory protein impairs β-arrestin-2 recruitment to prolong signaling and delay internalization. Deletion of the cytoplasmic region of MRAP2 impairs GPCR signaling by modulating receptor constitutive activity. Genetic variants in MRAP2 associated with overweight or obesity modulate the constitutive activity of all three GPCRs. Thus, MRAP2 regulates GPCR function using shared molecular mechanisms and these studies provide further evidence of the importance of GHSR constitutive activity.
BACKGROUND: Maternal consumption of monosaccharides during pregnancy and lactation can program long-term metabolic and neurobehavioral outcomes in offspring. The melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) is a key regulator of metabolism and behavior. However, the impact of maternal monosaccharide diets on MC4R signaling within mesocorticolimbic regions remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the effects of maternal glucose (GLU) and fructose (FRU) diets on metabolic, molecular, and neurochemical outcomes in offspring. METHODS: Adolescent and young adult male and female Wistar rat offspring, following maternal GLU and FRU exposure during pregnancy and lactation, underwent sucrose preference testing, intraperitoneal glucose tolerance tests, and serum lipid profiling. In addition, the gene expression of Mc4r, proopiomelanocortin (Pomc), agouti-related peptide (Agrp), and melanocortin-2 receptor accessory protein 2 (Mrap2) was quantified in the nucleus accumbens, prelimbic cortex, dorsal striatum, and basolateral amygdala, while the levels of MC4R protein were assessed in synaptosomal fractions from these brain regions. RESULTS: The maternal GLU diet reduced total calorie intake during lactation, while the FRU diet increased the dams’ caloric intake from sugar during both pregnancy and lactation. In the offspring, a maternal FRU diet increased sucrose consumption in young adult males and dysregulated glucose homeostasis in both adolescent and young adult males. Maternal monosaccharide diets also influenced serum lipid profiles and increased the body weights of their offspring. At the molecular level, region-, sex-, and age-specific changes in gene expression were observed, particularly the upregulation of Mc4r. Neurochemical analyses showed that maternal FRU diet increased synaptosomal MC4R levels in the mesocorticolimbic regions of young adult offspring. Principal component analysis revealed distinct clustering of metabolic and MC4R-related variables based on diet and sex, while regression analyses indicated significant diet-dependent correlations between MC4R levels and lipid parameters. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that maternal monosaccharide diets induce persistent alterations in the metabolic profiles of offspring and MC4R signaling, potentially contributing to the development of programmed metabolic and behavioral outcomes. CLINICAL TRIAL NUMBER: Not applicable.
Primary lung tumours are rare in paediatric patients. Mucoepidermoid carcinoma (MEC), typically low-grade and diagnostically straightforward, is the second most common tumour of the bronchus after carcinoid tumours. However, rare MEC may show divergent differentiation, be misdiagnosed as low-grade adenocarcinoma, not otherwise classified, and pose clinical challenges, especially when mastermind-like protein 2 (MAML2) gene arrangement is negative by fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH). Here, we report an MAML2 FISH-negative low-grade bronchial tumour in a juvenile patient that demonstrates both mucoepidermoid and acinar differentiation based on morphology and immunophenotype. Next-generation sequencing identified a CREB regulated transcription coactivator 3 (CRTC3::MAML2) fusion gene, located upstream of traditional translocation points and potentially undetectable by currently available FISH probes. This tumour appears to be a novel presentation of a bronchial tumour with dual mucoepidermoid and acinar differentiation, first described as mucoacinar carcinoma-a newly proposed subtype of MEC, originally described in the major salivary gland.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
With the ongoing rise in global temperatures, the prevalence of heat-stress-related chronic health disorders has increased. However, whether heat stress has an enduring impact on metabolic health remains unclear. Here, we report that mice exposed to heat stress were more susceptible to metabolic dysfunction upon subsequent exposure to an obesogenic diet. Upon heat stress, we found that elevated skin-derived kallikrein-related peptidase 14 (KLK14) imprinted hypothalamic LRRC7+ astrocytes. These astrocytes further suppressed neighboring paraventricular nucleus (PVN)OXT neuron activity via alkB homolog 1, histone H2A dioxygenase (ALKBH1)-mediated epigenetic modification of γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) synthesis, thus driving visceral fat deposition in a sympathetic nervous-system-dependent manner. Heat stress exposure also increased susceptibility to metabolic dysfunction in human subjects, with vitamin A treatment limiting the production of KLK14 and ameliorating metabolic disturbances in humans and mice. Together, our findings reveal a skin-hypothalamus axis linking heat memory and metabolic dysfunction and highlight that global warming is exacerbating metabolic diseases.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) is a G protein-coupled receptor expressed at hypothalamic neurons that has an important role in appetite suppression and food intake. Mutations in MC4R are the most common cause of monogenic obesity and can affect multiple signaling pathways including Gs-cAMP, Gq, ERK1/2, β-arrestin recruitment, internalization and cell surface expression. The melanocortin-2 receptor accessory protein 2 (MRAP2), is a single-pass transmembrane protein that interacts with and regulates signaling by MC4R. Variants in MRAP2 have also been identified in overweight and obese individuals. However, functional studies that have only measured the effect of MRAP2 variants on MC4R-mediated cAMP signaling have produced inconsistent findings and most do not reduce MC4R function. Here we investigated the effect of twelve of these previously reported MRAP2 variants and showed that all variants that have been identified in overweight or obese individuals impair MC4R function. When expressed at equal concentrations, seven MRAP2 variants impaired MC4R-mediated cAMP signaling, while nine variants impaired IP3 signaling. Four mutations in the MRAP2 C-terminus affected internalization. MRAP2 variants had no effect on total or cell surface expression of either the MRAP2 or MC4R proteins. Structural models predicted that MRAP2 interacts with MC4R transmembrane helices 5 and 6, and mutations in two MRAP2 residues in putative contact sites impaired the ability of MRAP2 to facilitate MC4R signaling. In summary, our studies demonstrate that human MRAP2 variants associated with obesity impair multiple MC4R signaling pathways and that both Gs-cAMP and Gq-IP3 pathways should be assessed to determine variant pathogenicity.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.
The central melanocortin system links nutrition to energy expenditure, with melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) controlling appetite and food intake, and MC3R regulating timing of sexual maturation, rate of linear growth and lean mass accumulation. Melanocortin-2 receptor accessory protein-2 (MRAP2) is a single transmembrane protein that interacts with MC4R to potentiate it's signalling, and human mutations in MRAP2 cause obesity. Previous studies have been unable to consistently show whether MRAP2 affects MC3R activity. Here we used single-molecule pull-down (SiMPull) to confirm that MC3R and MRAP2 interact in HEK293 cells. Analysis of fluorescent photobleaching steps showed that MC3R and MRAP2 readily form heterodimers most commonly with a 1:1 stoichiometry. Human single-nucleus and spatial transcriptomics show MRAP2 is co-expressed with MC3R in hypothalamic neurons with important roles in energy homeostasis and appetite control. Functional analyses showed MRAP2 enhances MC3R cAMP signalling, impairs β-arrestin recruitment, and reduces internalization in HEK293 cells. Structural homology models revealed putative interactions between the two proteins and alanine mutagenesis of five MRAP2 and three MC3R transmembrane residues significantly reduced MRAP2 effects on MC3R signalling. Finally, we showed genetic variants in MRAP2 that have been identified in individuals that are overweight or obese prevent MRAP2's enhancement of MC3R-driven signalling. Thus, these studies reveal MRAP2 as an important regulator of MC3R function and provide further evidence for the crucial role of MRAP2 in energy homeostasis.
Preeclampsia is a leading cause of maternal and perinatal morbidity and mortality. However, the current understanding of its underlying biological pathways remains limited.In this study, we performed a cross-platform proteome- and transcriptome-wide genetic analysis aimed at evaluating the causal relevance of >2000 circulating proteins with preeclampsia, supported by data on the expression of over 15 000 genes across 36 tissues leveraging large-scale preeclampsia genetic association data from women of European ancestry.We demonstrate genetic associations of 18 circulating proteins with preeclampsia (SULT1A1 [sulfotransferase 1A1], SH2B3 [SH2B adapter protein 3], SERPINE2 [serpin family E member 2], RGS18 [regulator of G-protein signaling 18], PZP [pregnancy zone protein], NOTUM [notum, palmitoleoyl-protein carboxylesterase], METAP1 [methionyl aminopeptidase 1], MANEA [mannosidase endo-alpha], jun-D [JunD proto-oncogene], GDF15 [growth differentiation factor 15], FGL1 [fibrinogen like 1], FGF5 [fibroblast growth factor 5], FES [FES proto-oncogene], APOBR [apolipoprotein B receptor], ANP [natriuretic peptide A], ALDH-E2 [aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 family member], ADAMTS13 [ADAM metallopeptidase with thrombospondin type 1 motif 13], and 3MG [N-methylpurine DNA glycosylase]), among which 11 were either directly or indirectly supported by gene expression data, 9 were supported by Bayesian colocalization analyses, and 5 (SERPINE2, PZP, FGF5, FES, and ANP) were supported by all lines of evidence examined. Protein interaction mapping identified potential shared biological pathways through natriuretic peptide signaling, blood pressure regulation, immune tolerance, and thrombin activity regulation.This investigation identified multiple targetable proteins linked to cardiovascular, inflammatory, and coagulation pathways, with SERPINE2, PZP, FGF5, FES, and ANP identified as pivotal proteins with likely causal roles in the development of preeclampsia. The identification of these potential targets may guide the development of targeted therapies for preeclampsia.
Inherited retinal dystrophies (IRDs) are progressive diseases leading to vision loss. Mutation in the eyes shut homolog (EYS) gene is one of the most frequent causes of IRD. However, the mechanism of photoreceptor cell degeneration by mutant EYS has not been fully elucidated. Here, we generated retinal organoids from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) derived from patients with EYS-associated retinal dystrophy (EYS-RD). In photoreceptor cells of RD organoids, both EYS and G protein-coupled receptor kinase 7 (GRK7), one of the proteins handling phototoxicity, were not in the outer segment, where they are physiologically present. Furthermore, photoreceptor cells in RD organoids were vulnerable to light stimuli, and especially to blue light. Mislocalization of GRK7, which was also observed in eys-knockout zebrafish, was reversed by delivering control EYS into photoreceptor cells of RD organoids. These findings suggest that avoiding phototoxicity would be a potential therapeutic approach for EYS-RD.
HECW2 (HECT, C2, and WW domain-containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 2, also known as NEDL2) has been implicated in numerous tumors, whereas its effect in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains unknown. This study aimed to investigate the role of HECW2 in NSCLC and its underlying mechanisms. The mRNA profiles GSE27262, GSE43458, GSE19804, and GSE19188 were collected from the Gene Expression Omnibus database, and the E3 ubiquitin ligases were obtained from the Ubibrowse database. Moreover, we investigated the expressions and clinical prognosis of HECW2 using the online databases. To assess the effect of HECW2 on the phenotype of NSCLC, we performed both in vitro and in vivo functional experiments. Co-Immunoprecipitation, GST pull-down, and Western blot assays were used to verify the regulation of SCNN1A by HECW2. The relationship between SCNN1A and AKT/mTOR pathway was further verified using MK2206 and SC79. HECW2 was downregulated in NSCLC and the HECW2-low expression was associated with the poor prognosis of lung cancer. HECW2 overexpression inhibited cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in H1975 cells and restricted tumor growth in tumor-bearing mice, whereas an opposite effect was observed in the HECW2-knockdown PC9 cells. SCNN1A overexpression and AKT inhibition reversed the inhibiting proliferation and migration abilities of HECW2 overexpression and the promotion effect of SCNN1A overexpression, respectively. HECW2 binds to SCNN1A and promoted SCNN1A ubiquitination with the K48-linked manner and proteasomal degradation. In conclusion, HECW2 inhibited the development of NSCLC via mediating SCNN1A ubiquitination by inactivating the AKT/mTOR pathway and could be a potential target in NSCLC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a major contributor to trauma-related deaths and disability worldwide. Management of TBI is currently limited to supportive care. We have previously shown that global knockout of PAD2 confers neuroprotection, but its therapeutic potential was unclear. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that selective inhibition of PAD2 following TBI would improve neurological outcomes.Male mice (c57bl6/j, 11-14 wk) were subjected to controlled cortical impact-induced TBI, and 5 to 10 minutes later, randomly given either PAD2 inhibitor ("loading dose" 60 mg/kg AFM41a dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) or vehicle (DMSO), (n=6/group). One day post-TBI, frozen brain sections were Nissl-stained to determine lesion size. In a separate experiment, the long-term impact of AFM41a treatment on motor, sensory, and cognitive recovery after TBI was evaluated. In addition to the loading dose, animals received a "maintenance dose" of 30 mg/kg of AFM41a or vehicle on postinjury days (PIDs) 2 to 5. Neurologic Severity Scores (NSS on PIDs 1-8) and visuospatial learning via Morris water maze test (MWM on PIDs 21-30) were assessed.Mice treated with AFM41a had significantly smaller lesion sizes compared with the control group (p<0.05). Treatment with AFM41a also increased the rate of sensory and motor recovery, as evidenced by reduced NSS on PIDs 1 to 5 (p<0.05), and improved visuospatial learning and memory as shown by MWM (p<0.05).PAD 2 is a promising therapeutic target in TBI, and its inhibition with AFM41a, a first-in-class PAD2-selective inhibitor, confers early neuroprotection as well as sustained cognitive benefits.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
Machine learning (ML) has the potential to revolutionize antibody design and selection, but its success depends on access to well-curated datasets of antibody-antigen interactions. We developed a synthetic Fab yeast display library optimized for seamless integration with ML processes, focusing on sequence diversity within the complementary determining region heavy chain CDRH3 loop. The library incorporates key sequence features derived from human B cell repertoires captured in a compact antigen recognition module (ARM) format. Built with the VH1-69 heavy chain and four light chains, the library was evaluated against ten human and murine cell surface antigens, including programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1), T cell immunoreceptor with immunoglobulin and immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibitory motif domains (TIGIT), and roundabout guidance receptor 1 (ROBO1). This approach yielded hundreds of antibodies with robust biophysical properties, some of which were validated by flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry. Furthermore, ML analysis identified additional antibodies for ROBO2 and PD-L2 from the aggregate sequencing data. The publicly available dataset establishes an ML-compatible framework designed to accelerate and streamline antibody discovery and development. A record of this paper's transparent peer review process is included in the supplemental information.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, necessitating the identification of novel therapeutic targets. The E3 ubiquitin ligase WW domain-containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 2 (WWP2) has been implicated in various cancers, yet its specific role and underlying molecular mechanisms in CRC are poorly understood. This study aimed to investigate the functional role of WWP2 in CRC progression and to elucidate its regulatory mechanisms.WWP2 expression was evaluated in CRC patient tissues and cell lines using immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, and western blotting. The biological functions of WWP2 were assessed using in vitro assays for cell proliferation, migration, and invasion following adenovirus-mediated overexpression. The molecular mechanism was investigated by analyzing the protein expression levels of p53 and its downstream target, p21, via western blot. An in vivo xenograft mouse model was used to confirm the oncogenic role of WWP2.WWP2 expression was significantly upregulated in CRC tissues. Overexpression of WWP2 promoted CRC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Mechanistically, increased WWP2 expression led to a marked reduction in the protein levels of the tumor suppressor p53. Consequently, the expression of the p53 downstream target, the cell cycle inhibitor p21, was also suppressed. In the xenograft model, WWP2 overexpression significantly enhanced tumor growth.Our findings demonstrate that WWP2 functions as an oncogene in CRC. It promotes cancer progression by destabilizing the tumor suppressor p53 and downregulating p21. This study highlights the WWP2-p53-p21 axis as a potential novel therapeutic target for CRC.Copyright © 2026, the Korean Surgical Society.
Glial crosstalk surrounding amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques establishes a self-propagating inflammatory niche fueling Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet the molecular triggers remain incompletely defined. We found that the calcium-dependent enzyme peptidyl-arginine deiminase 2 (PAD2) was selectively upregulated in plaque-associated astrocytes in human AD cortex and multiple APP AD transgenic mouse models. Astrocyte-specific deletion of Padi2 in 5×FAD mice rescued learning and memory, lowered Aβ load, restrained pro-inflammatory microglial activation, and restored microglial phagocytosis. Multi-omics profiling tied these benefits to rewiring of the astrocytic proteome and the microglial transcriptome toward homeostasis. PAD2 converted astrocytic vimentin to citrullinated Cit-Vim175/184. The released Cit-vimentin drove a proinflammatory phenotype while dampening Aβ clearance in microglia-a process dependent on TLR4 signaling. Pharmacological PAD2 inhibition mimicked the genetic rescue, normalizing glial signatures and cognition. These findings identify PAD2-dependent vimentin citrullination as a key inter-glial signaling hub that worsens AD pathology and highlight PAD2 as a promising therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
BACKGROUNDCurrent diagnosis and surveillance of bladder cancer rely on cystoscopy, which is invasive and user dependent. The urine mRNA panel, uRNAp, measures expression of 3 genes for identification of bladder cancer. Here we report validation of uRNAp for patients undergoing initial workup for suspected bladder cancer and surveillance for bladder cancer.METHODSUrine specimens were prospectively collected prior to cystoscopy at 2 health care systems from patients without (detection cohort) or with (surveillance cohort) a history of bladder cancer. RNA was isolated from urine sediment for RT-qPCR to determine roundabout guidance receptor 1, corticotropin releasing hormone, and insulin-like growth factor 2 expression and calculate the uRNAp bladder cancer probability score.RESULTSIn the detection cohort, 547 samples were collected from 529 patients. There were 123 new diagnoses of bladder cancer in the detection cohort, and uRNAp demonstrated 98% sensitivity and 51% specificity for identification of bladder cancer. In the surveillance cohort, 1,543 samples were collected from 447 patients with 286 recurrences. uRNAp demonstrated 94% overall sensitivity with 43% specificity and 99% sensitivity for high-grade recurrence. The receiver operating characteristic area under the curve was 0.92 in the detection and 0.81 in the surveillance cohort. uRNAp scores significantly increased with tumor size and grade.CONCLUSIONProspective validation of uRNAp demonstrated a strong potential clinical utility as a noninvasive adjunct to cystoscopy for management of bladder cancer. uRNAp may be a useful triage tool to defer or expedite cystoscopy for patients undergoing detection or surveillance of bladder cancer.FUNDINGDepartment of Veterans Affairs BLR&D Merit Review I01 BX004962 to JCL.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is a highly prevalent chronic liver disease worldwide and is closely associated with obesity, diabetes, and other metabolic disorders. Because MASLD progression poses serious health risks, elucidating the underlying mechanisms is essential to guide early intervention and therapeutic strategies.Proteomic analysis was used to identity high-fat diet (HFD)-induced proteins in mouse liver. Galectin-1 (GAL1) expression was assessed via immunohistochemistry in human liver tissues. Liver-specific GAL1-deficient mice were generated using adeno-associated virus. Mice were fed either a chow diet or an HFD. Functional studies were performed in cell lines using western blotting, RT-qPCR, immunofluorescence, co-immunoprecipitation, mass spectrometry, and molecular docking analysis.GAL1 expression was elevated in liver tissues from patients with MASLD and in mouse models. Liver-specific GAL1 knockdown alleviated hepatic steatosis and enhanced fatty acid oxidation (FAO). Mechanistically, GAL1 competitively bound to the BRCT domain of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1), thereby interfering with its interaction with the WW domain -containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 2 (WWP2). Hepatic GAL1 knockdown promoted the PARP1 -WWP2 interaction and subsequently facilitated ubiquitin-dependent degradation of PARP1. This degradation led to increased NAD+ levels, which in turn activated the SIRT1-CPT1A pathway, thereby promoting FAO and alleviating hepatic steatosis.Hepatic deficiency of GAL1 alleviates hepatic steatosis by enhancing FAO through promotion of ubiquitin-dependent PARP1 degradation, thereby restoring NAD+ levels and activating the SIRT1-CPT1A pathway.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Temporomandibular joint osteoarthritis (TMJOA), a prevalent subtype of temporomandibular disorders, is characterized by progressive cartilage degradation and subchondral bone destruction. Despite advancements in understanding TMJOA pathogenesis, the molecular mechanisms underlying its progression remain unclear. In this study, elevated Slit guidance ligand 2 (SLIT2) expression was observed in TMJ tissues of unilateral anterior crossbite-induced TMJOA mice and synovial fluid from patients with TMJOA, correlating with disease severity. Furthermore, SLIT2 overexpression in transgenic mice intensified TMJOA progression, whereas heterozygous deletion of roundabout guidance receptor 1/2 (ROBO1/2) alleviated cartilage and bone damage. Mechanistically, SLIT2 promoted ROBO1-LRP6 complex formation, facilitating LRP6 phosphorylation and β-catenin nuclear translocation. This cascade upregulated matrix-degrading enzymes while downregulating cartilage structural proteins, exacerbating cartilage destruction and subchondral bone loss. These findings suggest that the SLIT2/ROBO1/LRP6 axis may represent a potential therapeutic target for TMJOA and provide mechanistic insights into disease progression.
Among the chronic and progressive autoimmune disorders that primarily affect joints in the hands, wrists, and knees, rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a highly prevalent one. A significant number of patients develop severe adverse events, display weak responses, or cannot afford long-term use of the current RA medications, requiring more efficient and safer curative alternatives. increasing evidence recommends the application of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs)-based therapy for mitigating chronic inflammation and boosting tissue renewal in intractable disorders. Moreover, sodium hydrosulphide (NaHS) has recently been found to have anti-inflammatory effects. Therefore, this study compared the therapeutic outcomes of four approaches; bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSCs), their conditioned media (CM), BM-MSCs pre-conditioned with NaHS, and their conditioned media in a rat model of adjuvant-induced polyarthritis. The process involved the isolation of MSCs from rat bone marrow, propagation, and characterization of the isolated cells. polyarthritis was induced in male Wistar rats via intradermal injection of type II collagen on day 0 and day 21. Affected rats were treated with naproxen, BM-MSCs, BM-MSCs-CM, NaHS, BM-MSCs preconditioned with NaHS, or BM-MSCs preconditioned with NaHS-CM. The results indicated that the administered cells homed to the bone marrow and bone trabeculae of the knee joint tissue of the afflicted rats. The proposed treatments brought about significant down-regulation of peptidyl arginine deiminase 2 (PAD2) and chemokine ligand 13 (CXCL13) genes as well as angiopoietin-1 (Ang-1) protein expression, along with substantial upregulation of the galectin-1 (GAL-1) gene and osteoprotegerin (OPG) protein expression. Compared with BM-MSCs therapy, the treatment with BM-MSCs preconditioned with NaHS and their CM exhibited superior effect, with values close to those of the controls. In addition, treatment with the CM of BM-MSCs offered a lesser effect compared to BM-MSCs therapy alone. In conclusion, NaHS has the potential to improve the therapeutic capability of BM-MSCs for RA in rats by enhancing their anti-inflammatory, immunomodulatory, and regenerative capacity.© 2025. The Author(s).
Defects in mitochondrial energy metabolism in injured tubular epithelial cells (TECs) are a well-recognized hallmark of kidney injury pathogenesis; however, the key target leading to this defect during the acute kidney injury (AKI)-to-chronic kidney disease (CKD) transition remains elusive. Here, we found that during the AKI-to-CKD transition, the increased WW domain containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 2 (WWP2) was shuttled to the mitochondria and disabled TEC mitochondrial energy metabolism by ubiquitinating and degrading complex II subunit succinate dehydrogenase complex subunit C (SDHC), leading to oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) disability and aggravated TEC maladaptive repair. Preemptive and late depletion of Wwp2 both ameliorated unilateral ischemia-reperfusion (UIR) injury-induced AKI-to-CKD transition, and tubular-specific Wwp2 depletion resulted in the same protective phenotype. Furthermore, Sdhc knockdown abolished the protective effects of Wwp2 deletion in UIR mice. Conversely, SDHC overexpression attenuated OXPHOS impairment and TEC injury following WWP2 overexpression. Finally, we leveraged high-throughput virtual screening, enzyme activity assays, and binding affinity assays to identify two candidate WWP2 inhibitors. Both inhibitors significantly improved TEC maladaptive repair and deferred the AKI-to-CKD transition. Overall, we identified WWP2 as a critical regulator of mitochondrial OXPHOS integrity in maladaptive repairing TECs and identified two WWP2 inhibitors as potential drug candidates for interrupting the AKI-to-CKD transition.Copyright © 2025 The American Society of Gene and Cell Therapy. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42422112 is a review article
Synovial joints are complex organs composed of specialized tissues whose coordinated formation is essential for proper joint function. The cellular composition and regulatory programs governing late synovial joint development are less well characterized as compared to earlier stages of joint development. Here, we generated single-cell transcriptomic data of Growth differentiation factor 5 (Gdf5)-lineage cells from the embryonic mouse knee joint at embryonic day 17.5 and integrated these data with those from earlier developmental stages to infer transcriptional state progression across joint development. We identified nine distinct Gdf5-lineage populations corresponding to major joint tissues, including articular chondrocytes, superficial lining cells, ligament-tenogenic progenitors, synovial fibroblasts, and progenitor populations, and we validated their localization within the embryonic joint. We found a meniscus-associated progenitor state characterized by low expression of canonical chondrocyte markers and high expression of pleiotrophin (Ptn), distinguishing it from conventional articular chondrocytes. In addition, we found that Col22a1 and tetraspanin 15 (Tspan15) mark a transcriptionally and spatially distinct superficial lining cell population. To identify potential regulatory mechanisms underlying articular chondrocyte development, we reconstructed dynamic gene regulatory networks along the progenitor-to-chondrocyte trajectory, revealing a transition from a common regulatory state to cell type-specific regulatory program at later stages. In summary, our study provides data that improves our understanding of the developmental transcriptional programs that contribute to the major tissues of the synovial joint.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The early identification of patients with sepsis among those presenting with suspected infection in the emergency department (ED) remains challenging. Delta-like canonical Notch ligand-1 (DLL-1), a Notch pathway ligand involved in immune and endothelial signaling, has been shown to reflect disease severity and outcomes in ICU-based sepsis cohorts. Its value for early risk stratification at ED presentation is less well defined.We analyzed DLL-1 concentrations in serum samples from a prospectively enrolled ED cohort of adults presenting with clinically suspected acute infection. Blood samples were obtained during the initial clinical assessment. Sepsis was defined according to Sepsis-3 criteria and adjudicated by an expert panel, including evaluation of organ dysfunction within 72 h after presentation. DLL-1 concentrations were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and diagnostic performance was assessed using AUROC analysis.Among 300 enrolled patients, 74 (24.7%) were classified as having sepsis. DLL-1 concentrations were significantly higher in patients with sepsis than in those without sepsis (median 11,454 vs. 8,085 pg/mL; p < 0.001). DLL-1 demonstrated moderate discriminatory performance for sepsis at ED presentation (AUROC 0.69, 95% CI 0.62-0.76). Performance was lower than that of procalcitonin and NEWS2 but comparable to C-reactive protein and lactate. DLL-1 showed a moderate correlation with SOFA score. Importantly, correlations with CRP and white blood cell count were nonsignificant.When measured at ED presentation, DLL-1 concentrations are elevated in patients with sepsis but showed only moderate diagnostic performance. These findings are consistent with earlier disease stages and lower degrees of organ dysfunction compared with ICU populations. DLL-1 may offer complementary host-response information beyond established biomarkers, but does not support stand-alone use for early sepsis diagnosis and warrants further evaluation within multimodal risk stratification strategies.DRKS00017395.© 2026. The Author(s).
Ovarian cancer (OV) remains the most lethal gynecological malignancy, owing to late‑stage diagnosis, high metastatic potential and limited therapeutic efficacy. Although the transcription factor zinc finger and BTB domain‑containing 7A (ZBTB7A) has been implicated in several types of cancer, its role in OV has not yet been systematically characterized. The present study comprehensively investigated the expression pattern, prognostic relevance, functional role and downstream mechanisms of ZBTB7A in OV progression. Multi‑cohort transcriptomic analyses across independent public datasets revealed consistent upregulation of ZBTB7A in OV tissues, and high expression predicted a significantly poor prognosis. Single‑cell RNA sequencing demonstrated that ZBTB7A‑high tumor cells were enriched in proliferative, migratory and epithelial‑mesenchymal transition‑related programs, accompanied by activation of oncogenic pathways such as Wnt/β‑catenin and Hippo‑YAP. Functional assays using overexpression and RNA interference demonstrated that ZBTB7A enhanced malignant phenotypes, including increased cell proliferation, DNA synthesis, clonogenic survival and migration. Further analyses identified cytokine receptor‑like factor 1 (CRLF1) as a key downstream effector of ZBTB7A. ZBTB7A overexpression elevated CRLF1 transcription, whereas CRLF1 knockdown abrogated ZBTB7A‑induced proliferation and migration, defining a functional ZBTB7A/CRLF1 oncogenic axis. Collectively, these findings establish ZBTB7A as an important transcriptional driver of OV aggressiveness and highlight the ZBTB7A/CRLF1 regulatory pathway as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target.
Zinc finger and BTB domain-containing 7A (ZBTB7A) is a transcription factor repressor of fetal hemoglobin (HbF; α2γ2) in erythroid cells. Reactivating γ-globin expression represents a promising therapeutic strategy for β-hemoglobinopathies, including β-thalassemia. While ZBTB7A knockdown is known to elevate HbF levels in HUDEP-2 erythroid cell line and human hematopoietic stem/progenitor cell (HSPC)-derived erythroblasts, its effects in patient-derived cells remain less defined. This study investigates the effects of ZBTB7A downregulation in erythroid cells derived from both β0 thalassemia/hemoglobin E (β0-thal/HbE) patients and healthy donors. ZBTB7A knockdown upregulated embryonic and fetal globin genes (ε-, ζ-, γ-globin), and robust HbF induction while suppressing adult globin gene expression (α-, β-, δ-globin) in both groups. Notably, partial ZBTB7A inhibition was sufficient to achieve HbF reactivation. ZBTB7A depletion delayed erythroid maturation in healthy cells, but not in β⁰-thal/HbE cells, revealing a context-dependent effect on differentiation. These findings support ZBTB7A as a compelling target for β-thalassemia therapy, where partial inhibition could potentially offer therapeutic benefit while minimizing adverse effects on erythroid differentiation.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skeletal muscle possesses a significant regenerative capacity, which is largely mediated by myogenic satellite stem cells. MicroRNAs are known regulators of muscle development. miR-182-5p plays important roles in cell proliferation and migration in various cell types and pathologies. However, its specific role in myogenesis remains unclear. In this study, we elucidated the function of miR-182-5p in the differentiation of C2C12 myoblasts.We evaluated the effects of overexpression and inhibition of miR-182-5p in C2C12 cells on its myogenic differentiation ability using Giemsa staining. We also determined the mRNA and protein levels of myogenic differentiation marker genes in these cells at different time points after the induction of differentiation in these cells. The target of miR-182-5p was predicted using bioinformatics tools and validated using luciferase reporter assay.Overexpression of miR-182-5p via mimic transfection promoted differentiation, while its inhibition by a specific compound attenuated this process. Furthermore, using bioinformatic prediction and validation via a dual-luciferase reporter assay, we identified zinc finger and BTB domain containing 7A (Zbtb7a) as a direct target gene of miR-182-5p during C2C12 myogenic differentiation.Our findings indicate that miR-182-5p positively regulates C2C12 differentiation, partly via the suppression of Zbtb7a and suggest that appropriate miR-182-5p expression is essential for normal myogenesis.Copyright © 2025 Zhang, Wang, Shan and Liu.
Chemotherapy remains a pivotal strategy in the treatment of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). Nonetheless, the emergence of drug resistance has limited the clinical efficacy of chemotherapeutic agents, especially gemcitabine. Here, we identified tetraspanin-15 (TSPAN15), a member of the tetraspanin family, that is frequently overexpressed in human PDAC and is correlated with tumor progression and poor prognosis. Elevated levels of TSPAN15 are involved in mediating gemcitabine resistance of in cancer cells, primarily by inhibiting ferroptosis. Knocking down TSPAN15 increases the sensitivity of PDAC cells to gemcitabine in vitro and in vivo by increasing the susceptibility of cancer cells to ferroptosis. Mechanistically, TSPAN15 directly interacts with integrin-β1 (ITGB1) and maintains its stability by inhibiting ITGB1 ubiquitination. This interaction activates the downstream p-FAK/p-AKT/p-mTOR axis and promotes the expression of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), a central negative regulator of ferroptosis, ultimately attenuating gemcitabine-induced ferroptosis in PDAC cells. Venetoclax, a newly identified targeted inhibitor of TSPAN15, exhibits synergistic efficacy when combined with gemcitabine for treating PDAC both in vitro and in vivo. This study reveals, for the first time, a major clinically relevant chemoresistance mechanism in PDAC mediated by TSPAN15 in sustaining ITGB1/p-FAK/p-AKT/p-mTOR-GPX4 signaling and tuning ferroptosis, revealing its potential as a viable therapeutic target for chemosensitization.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Bladder cancer is a common malignancy in the genitourinary system with its incidence rate among the world's highest. Neuralized E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 (NEURL1) belongs to the RING E3 ubiquitin ligase family, and its role in bladder cancer has not been reported yet. We aimed to explore the expression and roles of NEURL1 in bladder cancer. The NEURL1 expression was determined in clinical samples of bladder cancer. We stably overexpressed NEURL1 and NEURL1 with the RING domain deletion in human bladder cancer cell lines 5637 and RT-112 to investigate its functions. NEURL1 was confirmed to be significantly down-regulated in clinical bladder tumor specimens. NEURL1 overexpression significantly inhibited the growth, colony formation, and Ki-67 protein expression in both bladder cancer cells. The overexpression of NEURL1 also increased the apoptosis rate and cleaved caspase-3 protein expression in 5637 and RT-112 cells. As expected, the RING-deleted NEURL1 had no such effect. Moreover, NEURL1 overexpression facilitated the apoptosis of 5637/RT-112 cells under cisplatin conditions. NEURL1 promotes ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of PDE9A. PDE9A protein expression was notably increased in bladder tumors from clinical specimens. Overexpressed NEURL1 inhibited PDE9A protein expression in both cell lines, whereas NEURL1 with the RING domain deletion did not. The addition of proteasome inhibitors MG-132 reversed the decrease in PDE9A expression by NEURL1 overexpression. Cell viability was inhibited and apoptosis was increased in the 5637 and RT-112 cells with stable knockdown of PDE9A. NEURL1 may be involved in the bladder cancer progression by increasing apoptosis, thereby leading to tumor cell growth inhibition.© 2025. The Society for In Vitro Biology.
Soluble Delta-like ligand 1 (sDLL1) has demonstrated promising results as an early biomarker of bacterial sepsis, but its role in viral infections remains unclear. This study investigated the association between sDLL1 levels and clinical outcomes in patients hospitalized for COVID-19. In this secondary analysis of a single-center prospective observational trial, we measured plasma sDLL1 levels in 46 patients admitted with PCR-confirmed SARS-CoV2 infection between December 2020 and April 2021. Patients were divided into a high-sDLL1 group, upper quartile of patients with the highest measured sDLL1 levels, and low-sDLL1 group, lower three quartiles of patients. Clinical outcomes, including secondary infections, organ dysfunction, and mortality, were compared between groups. Patients in the high-sDLL1 group (n = 11, 24%) showed higher rates of secondary infections (63% vs. 20%, OR 7, CI 1.6 to 31, p = 0.01) with higher odds of pulmonary secondary infections (46% vs. 11%, OR 6.5, CI 1.3 to 31, p = 0.03). Organ dysfunction was more prevalent in the high-sDLL1-group, indicated by a higher maximal Sequential Organ-Failure Assessment (SOFA) score (median (IQR) 11 (8.5-14) vs. 3 (0.5-8), p < 0.01) as well as higher rates of vasopressor support (64% vs. 26%, OR 5.1, CI 1.2 to 21, p = 0.03) and renal replacement therapy (36% vs. 9%, OR 6.1, CI 1.1 to 3.6, p < 0.05). The high-sDLL1 group also showed increased 90-day mortality (45% vs. 11%, OR 6.5, CI 1.3 to 31, p = 0.03). These findings suggest that high levels of sDLL1 are associated with adverse outcomes in viral sepsis, warranting further investigation in larger, prospective studies.© 2025. The Author(s).
Cumulative evidence shows that Tetraspanin 15 (TSPAN15) shows a high degree of consistency in a variety of tumor characteristics, which has attracted extensive attention from researchers. We used TSPAN15 as a starting point to explore the role and mechanism of TSPAN15 in in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).Using database analysis, recombinant plasmid transfection technology, transwell, autophagic flux analysis and western blotting, the effects of TSPAN15 on autophagy, invasion, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of HCC cells, and tumor growth and metastasis were elucidated after silencing TSPAN15 in HCC cells. The effect of TSPAN15 on tumor growth was detected by using xenograft model of nude mice.Based on the online database and immunohistochemistry analysis, it was found that the mRNA and protein expression of TSPAN15 in HCC tissues was significantly higher than that in normal liver tissues or adjacent non-cancerous tissues. High expression of TSPAN15 was an independent risk factor for poor prognosis in TCGA-LIHC patients. TSPAN15 silencing inhibited HCC autophagy and autophagy-induced migration, invasion and EMT as well as tumor growth and metastasis. Mechanistically, TSPAN15 contributed to programmed cell death 4 (PDCD4) proteasomal degradation through physical interaction with beta-transducin repeat containing (BTRC), thus activing autophagy. Rescue experiments revealed that PDCD4 effectively inhibited TSPAN15-induced autophagy, migration, invasion and EMT.Abnormally expressed TSPAN15 promotes the degradation of tumor suppressor gene PDCD4 through ubiquitination, thereby promoting autophagy and autophagy-mediated EMT and metastasis of HCC cells, demonstrating the importance of TSPAN15 in the molecular etiology of HCC and its potential therapeutic value.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
CDK8 exerts important physiological functions, particularly in CRC, by forming intermediate complexes with cyclin C, MED12, and MED13. In this work, different from the design of traditional single CDK8 PROTAC degraders, a novel potent dual-target CDK8 and cyclin C PROTAC degrader (compound 3) was designed and synthesized. It exhibited good degradation efficiency against CDK8 (DC50 = 2.58 μM) and cyclin C (DC50 = 5.48 μM), along with high selectivity that had no effect on CDK1-7 and CDK9. Importantly, compound 3 could also suppress the expression of cyclin C by reducing its mRNA levels. The degradation of CDK8 and the reduction in cyclin C levels may disrupt the complex composed of CDK8, cyclin C, MED12, and MED13, thereby attenuating CDK8-mediated biological functions. Mechanism studies have shown that compound 3 has a stronger inhibitory effect on the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway and cell cycle regulation than compound 3. This study provides new insights for the design of CDK8 degrading agents.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Sepsis-associated acute respiratory distress syndrome (SA-ARDS) is a severe disease with high morbidity and mortality. Emerging evidence indicates that ferroptosis plays a critical role in the development of SA-ARDS. However, the key regulatory targets and underlying molecular mechanisms remain to be further elucidated. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was performed based on the GSE66890 dataset to identify SA-ARDS-related gene modules. Candidate genes were screened by intersecting WGCNA module genes with ARDS-related targets from the GeneCards database and ferroptosis-related genes from FerrDb. An in vitro SA-ARDS model was established in HuLEC-5a cells using lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Cell viability, inflammatory cytokine levels, apoptosis, and ferroptosis-related parameters, including ROS, MDA, 4-HNE, and Fe2+ levels, were evaluated using MTT, ELISA, flow cytometry, and corresponding assay kits. The mRNA and protein expression levels were determined by RT-qPCR and Western blot. The transcriptional regulation of topoisomerase II alpha (TOP2A) by GATA binding protein 2 (GATA2) was verified using JASPAR prediction, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), and dual-luciferase reporter assays. All cellular experiments were performed using three independent biological replicates. WGCNA identified the salmon and cyan modules as significantly associated with SA-ARDS. Intersection analysis identified TOP2A as a key ferroptosis-related gene in SA-ARDS. TOP2A was significantly upregulated in LPS-induced HuLEC-5a cells. Knockdown of TOP2A markedly alleviated LPS-induced cellular injury, as evidenced by enhanced cell viability, reduced levels of inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-8, TNF-α), decreased apoptosis rate, and lowered ROS and Fe2+ accumulation, reduced MDA and 4-HNE levels, restored GPX4 and SLC7A11 expression, and decreased ACSL4 expression, along with increased expression of endothelial barrier-related proteins. GATA2 directly bound to the TOP2A promoter and activated its transcription. TOP2A overexpression reversed the protective effects of GATA2 knockdown in LPS-induced HuLEC-5a cells. GATA2 transcriptionally activated TOP2A expression, which in turn promoted ferroptosis and exacerbated LPS-induced HuLEC-5a cell injury.GATA2 transcriptionally activates TOP2A to induce ferroptosis and exacerbate endothelial injury in SA-ARDS.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10616-026-01035-2.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
The aim of this study was to investigate the potential reproductive toxicity of bisphenol S (BPS) and the related molecular mechanisms through a network toxicology approach. By utilizing various databases, including the Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD), GeneCards, Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM), the Pharmacogenomics Knowledgebase (PharmGKB), and the Therapeutics Target Database (TTD), and limiting the species to Homo sapiens, we confirmed 45 potential targets related to both BPS exposure and reproductive injury. Additional analysis via STRING and Cytoscape pinpointed 4 key targets: AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (AKT1), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-1-beta (IL-1β), and tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα). Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses indicated that the principal targets of BPS-mediated reproductive damage are mainly involved in oxidative stress signaling and cell secretion pathways. Because PI3K/AKT regulates the secretion of IL-6, IL-1β, and TNFα, we focus on AKT1 in the molecular docking experiments. Unexpectedly, we found a strong interaction between BPS and AKT1. Furthermore, the results suggested that women may be more susceptible to BPS-mediated reproductive toxicity than men. This study provides a theoretical framework for understanding the molecular mechanisms through which BPS causes reproductive toxicity and lays the foundation for preventing and treating reproductive disorders related to BPS exposure. In addition, our network toxicology-based method can accelerate the discovery of pathways involved in the toxic effects of environmental chemicals that are currently unknown.© 2026 The Author(s). Pediatric Discovery published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University.
A large number of functional disorders and uncomfortable symptoms often remain following ischemic stroke (IS). Existing drug therapy is not ideal for the direct improvement of symptoms, which often leads to poor patient compliance with physical rehabilitation therapy. Buyang Huanwu Decoction (BYHWD) is a famous prescription that is effective in treating IS, especially during the sequela stage of IS. We analyzed the therapeutic mechanism of BYHWD through network pharmacology. This study aims to investigate the potential active ingredients, targets, and signaling pathways of BYHWD for the treatment of IS, utilizing network pharmacology and molecular docking technology. The active ingredients of 7 Chinese herbs in BYHWD were obtained from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology and HERB databases, and IS-related disease targets were searched in the DisGeNET, GeneCards, and OMIM databases. The protein-protein interaction network was constructed using the STRING database and analyzed by Cytoscape 3.10.2 software. Additionally, the target genes were uploaded to the Database for Annotation, Visualization, and Integrated Discovery website for Gene Ontology alongside Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analyses. With the assistance of AutoDockTools and PyMOL software (Schrödinger, Inc.), a validation of molecular docking results and a visualization of the results were performed. The results showed that there were 190 intersection targets between the active drug components and IS, corresponding to 61 active components, among which the top 5 target genes were tumor suppressor protein 53, Jun proto-oncogene, AKT serine/threonine kinase 1, mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, and estrogen receptor alpha. The PI3K-Akt signaling pathway is one of the top 10 pathways. The molecular docking results indicated that most of the top 5 targets had good affinities for the 8 core compounds. This computational analysis suggests that BYHWD may treat IS through multiple targets and pathways. It may play a neuroprotective role by regulating the inflammatory response, oxidative stress, apoptosis, autophagy, and vascular endothelial homeostasis. The identification of core effective components provides a theoretical foundation and candidate compounds for further investigation into new drugs for the treatment of sequelae after IS.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Merkel cell carcinoma is an aggressive neuroendocrine skin malignancy rarely reported in non-domestic species.A cutaneous nodule from an endangered Caucasian squirrel (Sciurus anomalus pallescens) was examined using histopathology, immunohistochemistry, imaging mass cytometry, spatial transcriptomics (10× Visium) and metagenomic sequencing.Histology revealed a high-grade neuroendocrine carcinoma with frequent mitoses (52 per 2.37 mm2) and necrosis. Tumour cells were positive for cytokeratin 20 (paranuclear dot pattern), synaptophysin and chromogranin A, with a high Ki-67 index (68%). Spatial analyses delineated a distinct tumour core and combined invasive front and stromal compartments, revealing upregulation of neuroendocrine (atonal basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor 1 and neurogenic differentiation factor 1) and proliferative (marker of proliferation Ki-67) programmes, and activation of phosphoinositide 3-kinase-AKT serine/threonine kinase 1-mechanistic target of rapamycin and mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways. No evidence of Merkel cell polyomavirus was found. The tumour microenvironment was immune-excluded, with programmed-death ligand 1 expression on ~22% of tumour cells and CD8+ T cells restricted to the stroma.This study provides a comprehensive methodological framework for high-resolution tumour profiling in conservation pathology and highlights the emergence of neoplasia in threatened wildlife.© 2026 Peyman Mohammadzadeh et al.
Sijunzi decoction (SJZD) is a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) commonly used for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), but its mechanisms remain unclear. This study investigates its molecular basis using network pharmacology and molecular docking.Active compounds and targets of SJZD were identified via Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology (TCMSP) Database and Analysis Platform, and PDAC-related targets were retrieved from Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM) and GeneCards. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, Gene Ontology (GO)/Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment, and tissue distribution analyses were conducted. Molecular docking evaluated binding affinities between compounds and targets. The anti-PDAC effects of SJZD were evaluated in vitro using human pancreatic cancer cell lines (CFPAC-1 and MiaPaCa-2) and in vivo using a patient-derived xenograft (PDX) mouse model.SJZD comprises 131 compounds and 260 targets, with key targets such as AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (AKT1), BCL2 associated agonist of cell death (BAD), BCL2 apoptosis regulator (BCL2), and tumor protein p53 (TP53) identified through PPI analysis. Enrichment analyses highlighted the phosphatidylinositide 3-kinases (PI3K)/protein Kinase B (AKT)/mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase (mTOR) and apoptosis pathways as primary therapeutic mechanisms. SJZD exhibited cytotoxic effects against PDAC cells in vitro and suppressed tumor growth in vivo, with mechanistic analyses confirming its regulatory effects on the PI3K/AKT/mTOR and apoptosis pathways. Molecular docking revealed strong binding affinities, particularly for compounds targeting estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) and estrogen receptor 2 (ESR2). These findings suggest that SJZD exerts anti-PDAC effects via multi-target modulation, primarily through inhibition of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling axis, induction of apoptosis and autophagy, and anti-inflammatory activity. The involvement of classic compounds supports the rationale of its traditional use, while experimental validation provides a mechanistic foundation for future clinical development.This study clarifies the active components, targets, and mechanisms of SJZD in treating PDAC, offering insights into the therapeutic potential of TCM.
Due to the increasing pressure of modern society, premature ovarian failure (POF) has become a widespread issue in women. POF not only impacts women's fertility but also heightens the risk of osteoporosis and cardiovascular diseases. Oviductus Ranae (OR) is a natural product that is used as medicine and food to exert "estrogen-like effects." Previous studies have reported that the compound improves follicle growth, which may be beneficial for POF. Thus, an experiment was designed to explore OR's positive effects on POF rats. POF rat models were established by intraperitoneal injection of cyclophosphamide (CTX), and OR was orally administered to the rats. Subsequently, serum estrogen and gonadotropin levels were measured by radioimmunoassay. Uterine status, endometrial epithelial thickness, and follicle numbers at different stages in ovaries were analyzed by H&E staining, and follicle atresia by TUNEL staining. Western blot was used to detect the expression levels of key proteins in the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (Akt) signaling pathway, as well as B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) and Bcl-2-associated X protein (Bax) in ovarian tissues. The results showed that OR administration to POF rats alleviated estrous cycle disorder, increased estrogen levels (p < 0.05), decreased gonadotropin levels (p < 0.05), mitigated uterine atrophy, increased endometrial epithelial thickness (p < 0.01), ovarian weight (p < 0.05), secondary and Graafian follicle numbers (p < 0.05), while reducing secondary and Graafian follicle atresia rate (p < 0.05). These beneficial effects may be attributed to OR-mediated upregulation of the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway and modulation of the Bcl-2/Bax apoptotic axis in ovarian tissue. In conclusion, OR can improve the follicular condition in ovaries and relieve symptoms in POF rats.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
APC/C (Anaphase-Promoting Complex/Cyclosome) plays a critical role in plant organ development by regulating cell cycle progression. SAMBA, a plant-specific regulator of APC/C, modulates cell proliferation efficiency, while its function in floral organ development within Asteraceae species remains poorly characterized. In this study, the homologue in Chrysanthemum lavandulifolium has the elevated expression in in both ray and disc florets at early floral developmental stages. Overexpression of ClSAMBA increases the ray floret number and decreases its area, length, width and length-to-width (L/W) ratio, vice versa in ClSAMBA RNA interference (RNAi) plants. Cytological analysis of leaves revealed that ClSAMBA overexpression plants have enhanced cell division and reduced cell area, and RNAi plants have opposite phenotype, which is correlated with 4 C/2 C ratio determined by flow cytometry. Interestingly, ClSAMBA overexpression promotes the floral transition under the long-day condition, while both wild type and RNAi plants cannot flower. Transcriptome analysis using ClSAMBA overexpression plants identifies many differentially expressed genes enriched in cell cycle (CDC2C, TPX2, MAD2) and plant hormone such as auxin (IAA1/12), gibberellin (GAOX1) and brassinosteroids (BEH4) pathways. Moreover, homologous genes of cyclin-dependent kinase 8 (CDK8) and cyclin C (CycC) in CDK8 module which activates FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) gene transcription have enhanced transcription in ClSAMBA overexpression plants. RT-qPCR analysis reveals that FT transcription is increased in ClSAMBA overexpression plants, but does not exhibit the difference in wild type and RNAi plants under the long-day condition. Taken together, our study illustrates that SAMBA influences the floral organ development and flowering time via the regulation of cell cycle related genes in Chrysanthemum.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Introduction:GATA binding protein 2 (GATA2) deficiency is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by immunodeficiency, progressive cytopenias, and an increased risk of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Novel variants continue to broaden the clinical and genetic spectrum of this condition.Case Presentation:An 11-year-old girl presented with recalcitrant cutaneous warts, recurrent infections, and multilineage cytopenias. Her father had longstanding leukopenia and MDS that progressed to AML. Laboratory evaluation revealed monocytopenia, B- and Natural killer-cell lymphopenia, and dysplastic bone marrow findings. Genetic analysis identified a previously unreported heterozygous splice-site variant in GATA2 (c.1017 + 1 G > A), confirmed in stored DNA from her deceased father. Despite supportive care and allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation from a matched unrelated donor, she developed severe graft-versus-host disease and died from transplant-related complications.Conclusion:This report identifies a previously unreported GATA2 splice-site variant with clinical and familial evidence supporting pathogenicity, contributing to the expanding mutational spectrum and enhancing understanding of genotype-phenotype correlations in GATA2 deficiency.
A key challenge in structure-based drug design is generating three-dimensional molecules while preserving essential protein-ligand interactions. We propose DiffPharma, a structure-based pharmacophore modeling framework based on a conditional diffusion model, to generate molecules that satisfy specified interaction constraints. The proposed method incorporates a semantic fusion architecture that integrates multiple interaction-specific neural networks, each designed to capture distinct molecular interactions such as hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic interactions. Experimental results demonstrate that DiffPharma achieves a residue-level interaction similarity of up to 0.9, significantly outperforming baseline models. To assess the method's generalizability, ligands were generated for AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 and serine β-lactamase, successfully preserving key interaction features. The effectiveness of the method is demonstrated through a practical case study targeting the SARS-CoV-2 main protease. Molecular dynamics simulations indicate that the generated molecules maintain both structural stability and key interactions comparable to those of a bioactive reference ligand. In addition, the molecular mechanics generalized Born surface area (MM/GBSA) calculations based on MD trajectories suggest that several generated molecules may exhibit relatively favorable binding tendencies compared with the reference. The implementation of the DiffPharma, including code and an execution environment on Google Colab, is available under the MIT license at GitHub: https://github.com/sekijima-lab/DiffPharma .© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42023826 is a review article
Loss-of-function alterations in Makorin Ring Finger Protein 3 (MKRN3) and Delta-like Non-Canonical Notch Ligand 1 (DLK1) genes are associated with familial central precocious puberty (CPP) and can result in reduced serum levels of these proteins.This study aimed to evaluate the potential of serum MKRN3 and DLK1 levels for predicting genetic variants associated with CPP.Retrospective study.This retrospective cross-sectional study included 26 girls with CPP: 11 receiving treatment (Group 1) and 15 not yet treated (Group 2). The control group consisted of 26 healthy girls. Serum MKRN3 and DLK1 levels were measured by ELISA, and MKRN3 and DLK1 genes were analyzed by Sanger sequencing.A known pathogenic MKRN3 gene variant (c.482dupC/p.(Ala162Glyfs*15)) was found in one patient with a notably low MKRN3 level of 0.127 ng/mL, consistent with paternal inheritance. Median MKRN3 and DLK1 levels were 1.32 (0.7) and 0.62 (0.4) ng/mL in Group 1, and 1.2 (0.6) and 0.62 (0.2) ng/mL in Group 2 (excluding the patient with the variant). No significant differences were observed between Group 1 and Group 2 (p = 0.279; p = 0.338). Control group median serum levels were 1.177 (0.76) ng/mL for MKRN3 and 0.67 (0.44) ng/mL for DLK1, with no significant differences from the CPP cohort (p = 0.917; p = 0.756).MKRN3 and DLK1 levels do not significantly differ between treated, untreated CPP patients, and healthy controls. Identifying a known MKRN3 variant with low serum levels suggests serum measurements can help predict variants. Familial studies are recommended as these variants may be inherited even in isolated cases.© The Author(s), 2026.
Super-enhancers (SEs), characterized by dense clusters of enhancer elements enriched with transcriptional activator binding sites, are involved in cell differentiation. However, little is known about SE-mediated regulation of adipogenic genes. The aim of this study was to elucidate the functional role of the KLF6-proximal SE during the adipogenesis of human adipose-derived stem cells (hADSCs).Adipogenic induction medium (AIM) was used for differentiation of hADSCs into adipocytes, which were evaluated for adipogenic gene expression and adipogenesis using quantitative PCR and Oil Red O (ORO) staining, respectively. The effects of SE inhibitors, locked nucleic acid-mediated enhancer RNA (eRNA) knockdown, and small interfering RNA-mediated knockdown of KLF6 on adipogenesis and adipogenic gene levels were evaluated. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays were performed to identify transcriptional regulators binding to the promoter regions of KLF6 and the adipogenesis-inhibitory Delta-like non-canonical Notch ligand 1 (DLK1) gene during adipogenesis.In silico screening identified KLF6 as an obesity-susceptibility gene associated with single-nucleotide polymorphisms and located within the domain of SE_00159, which was activated in adipocytes. AIM-cultured hADSCs exhibited time-dependent increases in KLF6 mRNA and protein expression. During adipogenesis, the transcription factor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) bound to the KLF6 promoter. Treatment with the SE inhibitor JQ1 resulted in a dose-dependent decrease in KLF6 mRNA expression and reduced ORO staining. Knockdown of eRNA expressed from the SE_00159 domain decreased KLF6 levels during adipogenesis. Consistently, KLF6 knockdown during hADSC adipogenesis downregulated the adipogenic genes PPARG and CEBPA, while upregulating DLK1. Additionally, KLF6 together with histone deacetylase (HDAC)3 bound to the DLK1 promoter and concomitantly caused dissociation of histone acetyltransferase p300 during adipogenesis.SE activation upregulates KLF6 through PPARγ/p300- and eRNA-mediated transcriptional induction during hADSC adipogenesis. KLF6, in turn, represses DLK1 expression through recruitment of HDAC3 to the promoter and p300 dissociation, thereby facilitating adipocyte differentiation. These findings support a working model in which the epigenetic regulation of KLF6 and DLK1 as a potential therapeutic axis in human obesity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Ovarian cancer is a heterogeneous gynecologic malignancy, with most cases diagnosed at an advanced stage. Despite the availability of effective treatments such as surgery and platinum/taxane-based chemotherapy, advanced ovarian cancer frequently recurs, highlighting the need to investigate mechanisms of chemotherapy resistance. Delta-like non-canonical Notch ligand 1 (DLK1), a transmembrane protein of the EGF-like family, is aberrantly expressed in several cancers. Our previous study demonstrated that DLK1 promotes oncogenic behaviors and epithelial-mesenchymal transition in ovarian high-grade serous carcinoma. In this study, we observed a positive correlation between DLK1 and stemness markers CD44 and CD133 in human epithelial ovarian cancer using tissue microarray analysis. Overexpression of DLK1 by an adenovirus vector accelerated sphere-forming capability and upregulated CD44, CD133, and ABCG2 expression in human ovarian cancer cell lines. Conversely, DLK1 silencing by siRNA abolished the stimulatory effects on the stem cell-like properties and reduced CD44 and CD133 expression in ovarian cancer cells. Furthermore, DLK overexpression by an adenovirus vector enhanced colony formation and suppressed the cisplatin- and taxol-induced death in human ovarian cancer cells. Conversely, DLK1 siRNA reversed cell death and colony formation induced by these chemotherapeutic agents. Finally, we demonstrated that DLK1 regulates CD44, CD133, and ABCG2 expression through the Notch1/AKT/STAT3 signaling pathway, involving the phosphorylation and translocation of STAT3. Collectively, these results suggest that targeting DLK1 may represent a potential therapeutic strategy to improve outcomes in recurrent ovarian cancer following chemotherapy. © 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.© 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
Mutations in Delta Like Non-Canonical Notch Ligand 1 (DLK1), a paternally expressed imprinted gene, underlie central precocious puberty (CPP), yet the mechanism remains unclear. To test the hypothesis that DLK1 plays a role in gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) neuron ontogeny, 75 base pairs were deleted in both alleles of DLK1 exon 3 with CRISPR-Cas9 in human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs). This line, exhibiting More than 80% loss of DLK1 protein, was differentiated into GnRH neurons by dual SMAD inhibition (dSMADi), FGF8 treatment and Notch inhibition, as previously described, however, it did not exhibit accelerated GNRH1 expression. Activation of (WT) DLK1 with CRISPRa during dSMADi suppressed the formation of anterior neuronal precursors, and almost completely inhibited GnRH neuron fate. Instead, it induced the expression of Wnt pathway genes, markers of proliferating and non-proliferating neuronal progenitors, and dorsal spinal cord interneurons. Activation of DLK1 expression, during the FGF8 phase, significantly increased GNRH1 expression and secretion of GnRH decapeptide. In conclusion, significant loss of DLK1 protein did not accelerate GNRH1 expression, suggesting that CPP caused by paternally inherited loss-of-function mutations is due to mechanisms acting up- or downstream of GnRH neurons. Conversely, timing of DLK1 activation emerged as an important factor in determining GnRH neuron fate, with early expression disrupting GnRH lineage commitment and later activation enhancing GNRH1 expression.© 2025. The Author(s).
While immunotherapeutic targeting of cell surface proteins is an increasingly effective cancer therapy, identification of new surface proteins, particularly those with biological importance, is critical. Here, we uncover delta-like non-canonical Notch ligand 1 (DLK1) as a cell surface protein with limited normal tissue expression and high expression in multiple refractory adult metastatic cancers including small cell lung cancer (SCLC) and adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC), a rare cancer with few effective therapies. In ACC, ADCT-701, a DLK1 targeting antibody-drug conjugate (ADC), shows in vitro and in vivo activity but is overall limited due to high expression and activity of the drug efflux protein ABCB1 (MDR1, P-glycoprotein). In contrast, ADCT-701 induces complete responses in DLK1+ ACC and SCLC in vivo models with low or no ABCB1 expression. Genetic deletion of DLK1 in ACC dramatically downregulates ABCB1 and increases ADC payload and chemotherapy sensitivity through NOTCH1-mediated transdifferentiation. This work identifies DLK1 as an immunotherapeutic target that regulates tumor cell plasticity and chemoresistance in ACC and supports an active phase I clinical trial targeting DLK1 with an ADC in ACC and neuroendocrine neoplasms (NCT06041516).© 2025. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
Delta-like non-canonical Notch ligand 1 (DLK1) influences myogenesis, adipogenesis, and other aspects of human development through a process that is largely attributed to the downregulation of Notch signaling. Here, we show that DLK1 does not bind to Notch receptors or affect ligand-mediated Notch activation, but instead engages the TGF-β superfamily member Activin receptor type 2B (ACVR2B). The crystal structure of the DLK1-ACVR2B complex reveals that DLK1 mimics the binding mode of canonical TGF-β ligands to compete for access to ACVR2B. In functional assays, DLK1 antagonizes Myostatin-ACVR2B signaling to promote myoblast differentiation, rationalizing a mechanism for the role of DLK1 in muscle development and regeneration. Crosstalk between Notch and TGF-β is mediated by interactions between the transcriptional regulators SMAD2/3 and the Notch intracellular domain (NICD), and DLK1 inhibits SMAD2/3-NICD colocalization. These findings indicate that DLK1 acts directly on ACVR2B to inhibit signaling, whereas the observed effects on Notch may be an indirect result of DLK1 interference with NICD-SMAD complex formation.© 2025. The Author(s).
Spinal cord injury (SCI) elicits a hostile microenvironment characterized by inflammation, gliosis, and disrupted signaling pathways that collectively impede neural repair. Neural progenitor cells (NPCs) represent a promising regenerative approach, yet their survival and differentiation are often compromised in this setting. Here, we investigated whether engineering NPCs to overexpress the Notch pathway modulator Delta-like non-canonical Notch ligand 1 (DLK1) could overcome these limitations and improve functional outcomes after cervical SCI in rats. NPCs were engineered to express DLK1 under a Pax6 promoter-driven expression system, ensuring elevated DLK1 levels during the progenitor state. Following transplantation of DLK1-overexpressing NPCs or control NPCs, we assessed graft survival, lineage differentiation, behavioral performance, and electrophysiological integration over 12 weeks. DLK1-expressing NPCs exhibited significantly greater retention in the injured spinal cord and showed enhanced neuronal differentiation alongside reduced astrocytic commitment compared to controls. Behavioral tests-including forelimb grip strength and CatWalk gait assessments-demonstrated that DLK1-modified NPCs conferred robust improvements in forelimb motor coordination and overall locomotion. Concordantly, electrophysiological recordings revealed increased motor-evoked potential amplitudes and area-under-the-curve values in animals receiving DLK1-transduced NPC grafts, indicative of strengthened synaptic integration within the host motor circuitry.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a devastating age-related disease with unknown causes and limited effective treatment. Dysregulation of Alveolar Type 2 (AT2) cells facilitates the initiation of IPF. While differentiation of AT2 into AT1 is necessary for restoring alveolar epithelium. Delta-like non-canonical Notch ligand 1 (DLK1) is a paternally imprinted gene that controls stem cell differentiation. However, the role of DLK1 on AT2 during lung fibrosis remains unclear.Lung specimens from 11 patients with IPF or contemporaneous non-IPF controls were collected to determine DLK1 expression. The murine model of bleomycin (BLM) -induced pulmonary fibrosis and cell models of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β)-treated A549, MRC5 or primary lung fibroblasts (PLFs) were established. Epithelial DLK1 knockdown mice were constructed by an alveolar epithelial -specific adeno-associated virus (AAV) 6 vector system. Besides, primary AT2 cells were isolated from SPC-EGFP mice and cultured in 2D and 3D organoids.In the present study, we found that DLK1, predominantly expressed in AT2 cells, was upregulated in both IPF lungs and the murine fibrotic lung induced by BLM. AAV-mediated epithelial-specific knockdown of DLK1 promoted the proliferation and differentiation of AT2 into AT1 and alleviated the established lung fibrosis in murine BLM-induced models. In addition, recombinant DLK1 inhibited the renewal of AT2 and aggravated TGF-β-induced fibrosis in vitro, which can be rescued by si-DLK1 intervention. Mechanically, conditional knockdown of DLK1 upregulated TTF-1, a transcriptional factor that controls AT2 differentiation via CLDN6.DLK1 inhibition regulates AT2 differentiation and contributes to the mitigation of established fibrosis via TTF-1/CLDN6 pathway, which suggests that DLK1 may be a therapeutic target for IPF.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 39839367 is a review article
Progressive neuronal loss and brain atrophy are principal determinants of cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet most mouse models fail to recapitulate these features. Here we identify cyclin-dependent kinase 3 (CDK3) as a key driver of neurodegeneration in AD. CDK3 is elevated in human AD brains and correlates with disease severity. As laboratory mice carry a nonfunctional Cdk3 mutation, we generated two models with restored CDK3 activity and then crossed to AD backgrounds. Both models exhibited substantial neuronal loss, hippocampal atrophy, and cognitive deficits. Single-nucleus RNA sequencing revealed neurons simultaneously activating cell cycle and cell death pathways, indicating cell cycle reentry-induced death. Proteomics implicated synaptic proteins as CDK3 substrates. Finally, we developed BMX330, an inhibitor of CDK3, which mitigated neuronal death and rescued cognitive decline in CDK3-restored AD mice. These findings position CDK3 as a therapeutic target and provide pathologically relevant AD models.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 3 (CDK3) plays a crucial role in regulating cell cycle progression through the G0/G1 and G1/S phases. Although extensively lowered in normal tissue, CDK3 is overexpressed in multiple cancers, making it a promising target for anticancer therapy. Despite its significance, no established inhibitors of CDK3 are currently available.We aimed to identify effective inhibitors of CDK3/cyclin E from a library of 204 derivatives of five potent CDK3 inhibitors-Purvalanol A, NU6102, R547, dinaciclib, and RO-3306, using a multi-tiered computational pipeline. Molecular docking was first used to screen these candidates which has emerged as an efficient technique to elucidate binding energies and interactions of compounds to target receptors, thereby playing indispensable roles in drug discovery. Five top-scoring candidates from docking were evaluated through ADMET profiling, global reactivity studies, 100ns duplicate molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and Our own N-layered Integrated molecular Orbital and molecular Mechanics (ONIOM) calculations. Two hits showing optimal inhibition were subjected to extended 1200ns MD simulations.Docking studies identified interactions of the five selected candidates with crucial residues of CDK3. Global reactivity suggested favourable electronic properties for receptor binding. MD simulations, MM-PBSA and ONIOM revealed stable ligand-receptor interactions and favourable binding energetics. Extended 1200ns simulations of the two hits, CID_11212010 and CID_25211747, demonstrated exceptional stability of CID_25211747 with minimal conformational fluctuation. Additional ONIOM calculations reproduced the strong binding affinity of CID_25211747 with CDK3. Collectively, these results nominate CID_25211747 as a promising lead towards the development of effective CDK3 antagonists, offering valuable insight for future drug design.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells are expected to acquire the ability to produce higher recombinant therapeutic protein levels using various strategies. Genetic engineering targeting the cell cycle and autophagy pathways in the regulation of cell death in CHO cell cultures has received attention for enhancing the production of therapeutic proteins. In this study, we examined the small-molecule compound apilimod, which was found to have a positive influence on recombinant protein expression in CHO cells. This was confirmed by selective blocking of the cell cycle at the G0/G1 phase. Apilimod treatment resulted in decreased expression of cyclin-dependent kinase 3 (CDK3) and Cyclin C and increased expression of cyclin-dependent kinase suppressor p27Kip1, which are critical regulators of G1 cell cycle progression and important targets controlling cell proliferation. Furthermore, total transcription factor EB (TFEB) was lower in apilimod-treated CHO cells than in control cells, resulting in decreased lysosome biogenesis and autophagy with apilimod treatment. These multiple effects demonstrate the potential of apilimod for development as a novel enhancer for the production of recombinant proteins in CHO cell engineering.© 2022 Wiley-VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 35533805 is a review article
The abnormal expression and regulation of circular RNA (circRNA) is involved in the occurrence and development of a variety of tumors. The current study aimed to determine the role of circRNA_141539 in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). CircRNA_141539 expression in ESCC was detected via circRNA chip analysis and verified via reverse transcription-quantitative PCR. Associations between circRNA_141539, patient clinicopathological characteristics and prognosis were also statistically analyzed. Additionally, the effects of circRNA_141539 on ESCC cell proliferation and invasion were assessed. A dual-luciferase assay was performed to analyze the interaction between circRNAs, microRNAs (miRs) and mRNAs. The results revealed that circRNA_141539 was significantly up-regulated in patients with ESCC. Furthermore, high circRNA_141539 expressions were significantly associated with TNM stage, differentiation and poor prognosis, revealing high diagnostic value (P<0.05). Furthermore, circRNA_141539 overexpression promoted cell proliferation and invasion, while circRNA_141539 silencing inhibited cell proliferation and invasion (P<0.05). The dual-luciferase reporter assay identified that circRNA_141539 directly binds to miR-4469 and also revealed that cyclin-dependent kinase-3 (CDK3) was negatively regulated by miR-4469. The results indicated that circRNA_141539 served as an oncogenic factor in ESCC by sponging miR-4469 and activating CDK3 expression. circRNA_141539 may present as a novel diagnostic and prognostic biomarker and a therapeutic target for patients with ESCC.
Two members of the CDK5 and ABL enzyme substrate (CABLES) family, CABLES1 and CABLES2, share a highly homologous C-terminus. They interact and associate with cyclin-dependent kinase 3 (CDK3), CDK5, and c-ABL. CABLES1 mediates tumor suppression, regulates cell proliferation, and prevents protein degradation. Although Cables2 is ubiquitously expressed in adult mouse tissues at RNA level, the role of CABLES2 in vivo remains unknown. Here, we generated bicistronic Cables2 knock-in reporter mice that expressed CABLES2 tagged with 3×FLAG and 2A-mediated fluorescent reporter tdTomato. Cables2-3×FLAG-2A-tdTomato (Cables2Tom) mice confirmed the expression of Cables2 in various mouse tissues. Interestingly, high intensity of tdTomato fluorescence was observed in the brain, testis and ovary, especially in the corpus luteum. Furthermore, immunoprecipitation analysis using the brain and testis in Cables2Tom/Tom revealed interaction of CABLES2 with CDK5. Collectively, our new Cables2 knock-in reporter model will enable the comprehensive analysis of in vivo CABLES2 function.
Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) is the candidate for the treatment of cartilage defects because of their directional induction potential and natural anti-inflammatory properties. As one of the non-canonical receptors of Notch1, Delta Like Non-Canonical Notch Ligand 2 (DLK2) involves in stem cells' adipogenesis and chondrogenic differentiation. However, the specific regulatory mechanism of DLK2 in the chondrogenic differentiation of BMSCs is still unclear. In this study, we found that the expression of DLK2 was reduced and the expression of Col2a1, Col10a1, Acan, Sox9, and Notch1 was raised in the process of BMSCs chondrogenic differentiation. However, the expression of Col2a1, Col10a1, Acan, and Sox9 reduced significantly, and the signal factor Notch1 and the chondrogenic differentiation capacity of BMSCs turned down in the DLK2 overexpression group. Furthermore, the expression of Col2a1, Col10a1, Acan, and Sox9 significantly enhanced, Notch1 expression was also increased, and the chondrogenic differentiation capacity of BMSCs turned up in the DLK2 suppression group. Concurrently, the proliferation of BMSCs was weakened after overexpression of DLK2, and there was no significant change in cell migration. However, the proliferation and migration of BMSCs were significantly enhanced after the inhibition of DLK2 expression. Therefore, these results suggest that DLK2 negatively regulates chondrogenic differentiation and cell proliferation in BMSCs by inhibiting the Notch1 signaling pathway.Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Prostate Potassium channel tetramerization domain containing 1 (KCTD1) is a tumor suppressor that inhibits the Hedgehog (Hh) signaling pathway. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of KCTD1 in lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) and its impact on the Hedgehog (Hh) pathway. Jervine, a known Hh signaling inhibitor, was used to validate the function KCDT1. After ascertaining the expression pattern of KCTD1 in LUSC tissues, gain- and loss-of-function experiments were conducted to analyze the impact of KCTD1 on the malignant behavior and stemness of LUSC cells malignancy, and the activation of Hh pathway. Tumor allografts were established in mice for in vivo validation. Zinc finger and BTB domain-containing 20 (ZBTB20) was identified as a potential upstream regulator of KCDT1 through bioinformatics approaches. To determine the role of ZBTB20 in LUSC progression, the cell lines were transfected with the expression construct, and Jervine was used for functional rescue experiments. Although KCTD1 was upregulated in LUSC, its expression predicted a favorable prognosis. KCTD1 knockdown reduced the proliferation, migration, clonogenic potential, and stemness of LUSC cells by activating the Hh pathway, while Jervine treatment reversed these oncogenic effects. Furthermore, ZBTB20 was downregulated in the LUSC tissues, and its overexpression downregulated KCTD1 through transcriptional repression, and activated the Hh pathway, thereby enhancing the malignant behavior of LUSC cells. However, these oncogenic effects were counteracted by either Jervine treatment, or by restoring KCTD1 expression. Overall, this study shows that KCTD1 reduces malignancy and stemness in LUSC cells by inactivating the Hh signaling pathway.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The potassium channel tetramerization domain-containing 1 (KCTD1) protein has been associated with cancer, whereas pathogenic variants give rise to dental anomalies and aplasia cutis. KCTD1 has been implicated in signaling pathways connected to growth and development. Yet, the spectrum of pathology tied to KCTD1 underscores our nascent appreciation of its multifaceted roles. The objective of this study was to comprehensively examine the role of KCTD1 and its pathogenic variants across multiple signaling pathways in parallel. Here, we uncovered that KCTD1 human polymorphisms are more stable than previously suggested. Luminescence assays in cultured cells found that KCTD1 and its stable variants strongly inhibit Wnt, Hedgehog, and Notch pathways. We further identified that KCTD1 interacts with the Notch transcriptional repressor RBPJ. KCTD1 variants also shape G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling by increasing the abundance of adenylyl cyclase type 5 (AC5), which increases neuronal cAMP signaling in response to evoked dopamine in acute brain slices. Additionally, BRET-based biosensors revealed AC5 can compete with other effectors for Gβγ. Through this mechanism, KCTD1 is able to bias GPCR signals toward the cAMP pathway. Altogether, data demonstrate that KCTD1 is a general regulator of developmental (Wnt, Hedgehog, Notch) and GPCR (AC5→cAMP) signaling. Our study further establishes roles for KCTD1 variants across common signaling pathways.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Potassium channel tetramerization domain-containing 1 (KCTD1) plays a critical role in transcriptional regulation and adipogenesis, but its significance in hepatocellular cancer (HCC) has not been reported.Immunohistochemistry, Western blotting and quantitative real-time PCR analysis were performed to assess the expression of KCTD1 and related genes in HCC cells. MTT assays, colony formation, cell migration, invasion and the in-vivo mouse models were utilized to evaluate the function of KCTD1 in HCC progression. Co-immunoprecipitation, chromatin immunoprecipitation and luciferase reporter assays were conducted to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of KCTD1 in HCC.KCTD1 expression was increased in human HCC tissues and closely associated with advanced tumor stages. KCTD1 overexpression enhanced growth, migration, and invasion of Huh7 and HepG2 cells both in vitro and in vivo, while KCTD1 knockdown reversed these effects in MHCC97H cells. Mechanistically, KCTD1 interacted with hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha (HIF-1α) and enhanced HIF-1α protein stability with the inhibited prolyl-hydroxylases (PHD)/Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) pathway, consequently activating the Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF)/VEGFR2 pathway in HCC cells. Sorafenib and KCTD1 knockdown synergistically inhibited intrahepatic tumor growth following in situ injection of MHCC97H cells. miR-129-5p downregulated KCTD1 by binding to KCTD1 3'UTR. Finally, 45 µg exosomes from miR-129-5p-overexpressing MHCC97H cells combined with 25 mg/kg sorafenib to decrease HCC tumor size.These results suggested that KCTD1 protects HIF-1α from degradation and activates the VEGF signaling cascade to enhance HCC progression. Therefore, KCTD1 may serve as a novel target of HCC and pave the way for an efficient combined therapy in advanced HCC.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 34456244 is a review article
Among the vehicles investigated as delivery agents for antisense RNAs are extracellular vesicles (EVs) released from cultured cells. Arrestin domain-containing 1 (ARRDC1)-mediated microvesicles (ARMMs) are naturally occurring EVs that uniquely are formed by outward budding of cytoplasmic membranes. Previous work has shown that ARMMs production is quantitatively controlled by the ARRDC1 protein and that ARRDC1 and macromolecules attached to it are loaded into nascent ARMMs during ARMM formation. Here, we report a strategy for constructing cell factories that biologically manufacture both ARMMs and short hairpin RNA (shRNA)-like antisense RNA precursors, designated as shT-RNAs. Human HEK293T cells mutated in the endoribonuclease DICER1 were engineered to express a fusion protein containing components of ARRDC1 and the trans-activator of transcription (Tat) peptide encoded by the HIV-1 virus. Prodrug RNAs were constructed by replacing the canonical loop regions of shRNAs with a 24-nucleotide segment derived from the Tat-binding trans-activation response (TAR) element. We show that a truncated TAR sequence embedded within the structural framework of shT-RNAs enables their linkage to the ARRDC1-Tat fusion protein and consequent loading of the RNAs into nascent ARMMs, and that RNA is protected by ARMMs membranes from attack by external ribonucleases. We further show that prodrug modules consisting of shT-RNAs that target different genomic sequences of SARS-CoV-2 virus and are manufactured as components of a single transcript can, when delivered by ARMMs, be activated to suppress virus RNA production. Our results indicate that the ARMMs-based platform we have designed can deliver gene-silencing RNAs in the form of biologically produced shRNA-like prodrugs.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of National Academy of Sciences.
Background: This research sought to screen potential biomarkers in diagnosing breast diseases and elucidating their immune-related mechanisms. Methods: Three datasets were attained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. LIMMA package and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) were used to ascertain differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and key modules in benign breast disease (BBD) and breast cancer (BC). The intersecting genes underwent functional enrichment analysis. Three machine learning (ML) methods (encompassing LASSO regression, random forest, and support vector machine recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE)) were implemented to select core genes. The diagnostic performance of the core genes was evaluated by comparing their expression levels, plotting receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves, and constructing a Nomogram. The TCGA-BRCA dataset was used to estimate the prognostic capability of the core genes among individuals with BC. Finally, the IC infiltration was ascertained utilizing the CIBERSORT algorithm. Results: In total, 2579 DEGs were identified in BBD. WGCNA exhibited that the 1652 genes in green and pink modules were strongly correlated with BBD. In BC, 2742 DEGs were identified. The turquoise and red modules contained 7286 genes exhibiting strong correlations with BC. After intersecting, 41 common genes were obtained, which were predominantly enriched in immune and inflammation regulation pathways. Through integrated screening with three ML algorithms, Arrestin Domain Containing 1 (ARRDC1) and ATPase Sarcoplasmic/Endoplasmic Reticulum Ca2+ Transporting 2 (ATP2A2) were identified as core genes. The ROC curve exhibited that the AUC for the two genes was greater than 0.8. The calibration curve of the nomogram signified a strong alignment between the anticipated risk and detected results. Survival analysis in TCGA-BRCA showed that the high expression of the two genes exhibited a significantly positive association with unfavorable prognosis. Immune infiltration analysis further demonstrated the dysregulation of multiple immune cells in patient samples. Conclusions:ARRDC1 and ATP2A2 are strongly linked to BBD and BC. These findings might enhance our comprehension of the pathogenesis and progression of both BBD and BC, offering prospective biological biomarkers and therapeutic targets for clinical treatment.
Breast cancer (BC) is the most frequently diagnosed malignancy worldwide, necessitating continued research into its molecular mechanisms. Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are increasingly recognized for their role in various cancers, including BC. This study explores the role of circRNA kinesin family member 4A (circKIF4A) in BC progression and its underlying molecular mechanisms.BC cell lines were cultured, and circKIF4A expression was knocked down. Cell viability, proliferation, migration, and invasion were assessed using the Cell Counting Kit-8, colony formation assay, and Transwell assays. The expression of circKIF4A, miR-874-3p, and glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterase domain-containing 5 (GDPD5) was quantified using qRT-PCR and Western blot analysis. Subcellular fractionation was performed to localize circKIF4A within the cell. The interactions between circKIF4A and miR-874-3p, as well as between miR-874-3p and GDPD5, were evaluated using RNA pull-down and dual-luciferase assays. Rescue experiments were conducted with miR-874-3p inhibition or GDPD5 overexpression to confirm the mechanistic pathway.circKIF4A was found to be upregulated in BC cells. Its knockdown significantly inhibited cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. circKIF4A acts as a sponge for miR-874-3p, reducing its expression. miR-874-3p targets and suppresses GDPD5, a key regulator in BC cell growth. Silencing miR-874-3p or overexpressing GDPD5 reversed the tumor-suppressive effects of circKIF4A knockdown.circKIF4A promotes BC cell proliferation and invasiveness by regulating the miR-874-3p/GDPD5 axis. These findings highlight a potential therapeutic target in BC and contribute to the understanding of circRNA involvement in cancer progression.© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Blood biochemical indicators play a crucial role in assessing an individual's overall health status and metabolic function. In this study, we measured five blood biochemical indicators, including total cholesterol (CHOL), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-CH), triglycerides (TG), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-CH), and blood glucose (BG), as well as 19 growth traits of 206 male chickens. By integrating host whole-genome information and 16S rRNA sequencing of the duodenum, jejunum, ileum, cecum, and feces microbiota, we assessed the contributions of host genetics and gut microbiota to blood biochemical indicators and their interrelationships. Our results demonstrated significant negative phenotypic and genetic correlations (r = - 0.20 ~ - 0.67) between CHOL and LDL-CH with growth traits such as body weight, abdominal fat content, muscle content, and shin circumference. The results of heritability and microbiability indicated that blood biochemical indicators were jointly regulated by host genetics and gut microbiota. Notably, the heritability of HDL-CH was estimated to be 0.24, while the jejunal microbiability for BG and TG reached 0.45 and 0.23. Furthermore, by conducting genome-wide association study (GWAS) with the single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs), insertion/deletion (indels), and structural variation (SV), we identified RAP2C, member of the RAS oncogene family (RAP2C), dedicator of cytokinesis 11 (DOCK11), neurotensin (NTS) and BOP1 ribosomal biogenesis factor (BOP1) as regulators of HDL-CH, and glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterase domain containing 5 (GDPD5), dihydrodiol dehydrogenase (DHDH), and potassium voltage-gated channel interacting protein 1 (KCNIP1) as candidate genes of BG. Moreover, our findings suggest that cecal RF39 and Clostridia_UCG_014 may be linked to the regulation of CHOL, and jejunal Streptococcaceae may be involved in the regulation of TG. Additionally, microbial GWAS results indicated that the presence of gut microbiota was under host genetic regulation. Our findings provide valuable insights into the complex interaction between host genetics and microbiota in shaping the blood biochemical profile of chickens. KEY POINTS: • Multiple candidate genes were identified for the regulation of CHOL, HDL-CH, and BG. • RF39, Clostridia_UCG_014, and Streptococcaceae were implicated in CHOL and TG modulation. • The composition of gut microbiota is influenced by host genetics.© 2023. The Author(s).
The Notch-regulated ankyrin repeat protein (NRARP) functions as a molecular link between Notch and Wnt signaling pathways. Although it has recently been identified to be overexpressed in breast cancer (BC), the molecular mechanisms that regulate NRARP remain unknown. Since microRNAs (miRNAs) regulate gene expression post-transcriptionally, miRNA dysregulation could explain the abnormal gene expression. Here, we identified miR-130a-3p as an NRARP regulator and evaluated its effects on the behavior of BC cells. Quantitative real-time PCR was performed to assess the transcriptional levels of miR-130a-3p and NRARP in BC cells. Next, miR-130a-3p was transiently transfected into BC cells to assess its influence on NRARP expression. Owing to the positive regulatory effects of NRARP on the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, we also analyzed the expression levels of five Wnt/β-catenin pathway genes and one downstream target gene in BC cells. We then assessed anti-tumor activities of miR-130a-3p in BC cells using the MTT proliferation assay, the soft agar colony formation assay for anchorage-independent growth (AIG), as well as scratch and transwell assays for cell migration. The results showed that miR-130a-3p was downregulated in BC cells, whereas NRARP was upregulated. Overexpression of miR-130a-3p inhibited the expression of NRARP and some Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway genes, as well as exerted anti-tumor effects as evidenced by decreased cell proliferation, AIG, and migration of BC cells. In conclusion, the tumor-suppressive function of miR-130a-3p in BC may be mediated by inhibiting NRARP and Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. As a result, miR-130a-3p could be introduced as a therapeutic target for miRNA therapy in BC.© 2022 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 3 (IGF2BP3) can epigenetically regulate lung cancer progression, but its regulatory mechanism in the disease lacks sufficient exploration.The study was conducted to probe the regulatory function of IGF2BP3 in lung cancer via modulating the long non-coding RNA CERS6-AS1/microRNA-1202 (CERS6- AS1/miR-1202) axis.Clinical samples were collected to evaluate IGF2BP3, CERS6-AS1, miR-1202 and glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterase domain containing 5 (GDPD5) levels. The interactions among IGF2BP3, CERS6-AS1, miR-1202 and GDPD5 were assessed. IGF2BP3-, CERS6-AS1-, and miR-1202-related constructs were transfected into lung cancer cells to determine cell biological functions. Cell tumor formation ability was further detected in vivo.High expression of IGF2BP3, CERS6-AS1 and GDPD5, and low expression of miR-1202 levels were witnessed in lung cancer tissues. Suppression of IGF2BP3 restrained lung cancer progression. IGF2BP3 positively modulated CERS6-AS1 to regulate miR-1202-targeted GDPD5. Inhibition of CERS6-AS1 or promotion of miR-1202 depressed lung cancer aggravation. CERS6-AS1 silencing or miR-1202 overexpression reversed the impacts induced by IGF2BP3 on lung cancer.IGF2BP3 facilitates the development of lung cancer cells via binding to the CERS6-AS1 promoter and down-regulating miR-1202, which may be related to GDPD5 upregulation.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Tick-borne encephalitis virus (TBEV), the most medically relevant tick-transmitted flavivirus in Eurasia, targets the host central nervous system and frequently causes severe encephalitis. The severity of TBEV-induced neuropathogenesis is highly cell-type specific and the exact mechanism responsible for such differences has not been fully described yet. Thus, we performed a comprehensive analysis of alterations in host poly-(A)/miRNA/lncRNA expression upon TBEV infection in vitro in human primary neurons (high cytopathic effect) and astrocytes (low cytopathic effect). Infection with severe but not mild TBEV strain resulted in a high neuronal death rate. In comparison, infection with either of TBEV strains in human astrocytes did not. Differential expression and splicing analyses with an in silico prediction of miRNA/mRNA/lncRNA/vd-sRNA networks found significant changes in inflammatory and immune response pathways, nervous system development and regulation of mitosis in TBEV Hypr-infected neurons. Candidate mechanisms responsible for the aforementioned phenomena include specific regulation of host mRNA levels via differentially expressed miRNAs/lncRNAs or vd-sRNAs mimicking endogenous miRNAs and virus-driven modulation of host pre-mRNA splicing. We suggest that these factors are responsible for the observed differences in the virulence manifestation of both TBEV strains in different cell lines. This work brings the first complex overview of alterations in the transcriptome of human astrocytes and neurons during the infection by two TBEV strains of different virulence. The resulting data could serve as a starting point for further studies dealing with the mechanism of TBEV-host interactions and the related processes of TBEV pathogenesis.© 2022 The Authors.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is responsible for high morbidity and mortality worldwide. Increasing evidence suggests that microRNAs intensively participate in HCC development and progression. In the current study, we aimed to explore the impact of miR-124-3p in the proliferation and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of HCC. The RT-qPCR assay was employed to determine miR-124-3p expression in human HCC specimens and cell lines. Luciferase assay was used to validate the miR-124-3p target gene. Western Blot and RT-qPCR were performed to study the effects of miR-124-3p modulation on ARRDC1 (Arrestin Domain Containing 1) mRNA and protein expressions. MTT assay, wound healing assay, EdU assay, and Transwell assay were utilized to verify the impact of miR-144-3p modulation on HCC proliferation and EMT via ARRDC1. We found that MiR-124-3p expression downregulates in HCC. Overexpression of miR-124-3p reduced the HCC cell proliferation and EMT. Meanwhile, we determined that the expression of ARRDC1 is increased in HCC, and miR-124-3p directly binds the 3'UTR of ARRDC1 and inhibits its expression at mRNA and protein level, suggesting that miR-124-3p was capable of negatively modulating ARRDC1. Besides, cotransfection of ARRDC1-overexpression plasmid and miR-124-3p mimics increased the cell proliferation and EMT as compared to miR-124-3p mimics. Our study concluded that miR-124-3p directly binds the 3'UTR of ARRDC1 and exerts anti-tumorous effects by inhibiting the HCC proliferation and EMT. Therefore, miR-124-3p/ARRDC1 axis may serve as a novel therapeutic target to inhibit HCC growth and metastasis.
Our study mainly reports the specific mechanisms of microRNA (miR)-874-3p on drug resistance in gastric cancer (GC). Clinical specimen was collected. The upstream long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) and the downstream gene of miR-874-3p were predicted using bioinformatic analysis with the results being ascertained with dual-luciferase reporter assay. The viability, apoptosis, migration and invasion of transfected GC cells with or without cisplatin (DDP) treatment were evaluated by Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), flow cytometric, Scratch, and Transwell assays. An animal xenograft model was constructed. Expressions of long intergenic non-coding RNA 00922 (LINC00922), miR-874-3p and potential target genes were quantified by quantitative real-time polymerase-chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western blot. MiR-874-3p, which was lower-expressed in drug-resistant GC tissues and cells, was upregulated to repress the viability, migration and invasion but enhance the apoptosis and sensitivity in GC cells with or without DDP resistance. Downregulation of miR-874-3p eliminated the effects of silenced LINC00922, a upstream lncRNA of miR-874-3p, on cell viability, apoptosis, migration and invasion, as well as the expressions of Glycerophosphodiester Phosphodiesterase Domain Containing 5 (GDPD5) and the downstream gene of miR-874-3p in DDP-resistant GC cells. GDPD5 silencing diminished the effects of miR-874-3p downregulation on GDPD5 expression, viability, migration and invasion of DDP-resistant GC cells. Additionally, LINC00922 silencing enhanced the inhibitory effect of DDP on tumor growth, whereas reversing the effects of DDP on LINC00922, miR-874-3p and GDPD5 expressions in tumors. MiR-874-3p, an miRNA, which is sponged by LINC00922 and targets GDPD5, inhibits the GC progression yet enhances the DDP sensitivity in GC.
NASH is an advanced stage of liver disease accompanied by lipid accumulation, inflammation, and liver fibrosis. Guanine nucleotide-binding protein G(i) subunit alpha-2 (GNAI2) is a member of the "inhibitory" class of α-subunits, and recent studies showed that Gnai2 deficiency is known to cause reduced weight in mice. However, the role of GNAI2 in hepatocytes, particularly in the context of liver inflammation and lipid metabolism, remains to be elucidated. Herein, we aim to ascertain the function of GNAI2 in hepatocytes and its impact on the development of NASH.Human liver tissues were obtained from NASH patients and healthy persons to evaluate the expression and clinical relevance of GNAI2. In addition, hepatocyte-specific Gnai2-deficient mice (Gnai2hep-/- ) were fed either a Western diet supplemented with fructose in drinking water (WDF) for 16 weeks or a methionine/choline-deficient diet (MCD) for 6 weeks to investigate the regulatory role and underlying mechanism of Gnai2 in NASH. GNAI2 was significantly up-regulated in liver tissues of patients with NASH. Following feeding with WDF or MCD diets, livers from Gnai2hep-/- mice had reduced steatohepatitis with suppression of markers of inflammation and an increase in lipophagy compared to Gnai2flox/flox mice. Toll-like receptor 4 signals through nuclear factor kappa B to trigger p65-dependent transcription of Gnai2. Intriguingly, immunoprecipitation, immunofluorescence, and mass spectrometry identified peroxiredoxin 1 (PRDX1) as a binding partner of GNAI2. Moreover, the function of PRDX1 in the suppression of TNF receptor-associated factor 6 ubiquitin-ligase activity and glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterase domain-containing 5-related phosphatidylcholine metabolism was inhibited by GNAI2. Suppression of GNAI2 combined with overexpression of PRDX1 reversed the development of steatosis and fibrosis in vivo.GNAI2 is a major regulator that leads to the development of NASH. Thus, inhibition of GNAI2 could be an effective therapeutic target for the treatment of NASH.© 2021 by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42492394 is a review article
Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) targeting the programmed cell death 1 (PD-1)/programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) axis has shown promise in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but clinical responses are often limited in durability. Identifying novel drivers of immune evasion is crucial for improving therapeutic strategies.We employed a multi-omics integrative framework to identify HCC-specific immune biomarkers. Functional roles were validated using in vitro and in vivo models, including UDP-glucuronate decarboxylase 1 (UXS1) knockout/overexpression, co-culture assays, and various mouse models. Molecular mechanisms were dissected using immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectrometry, ubiquitination assays, chromatin immunoprecipitation, luciferase reporter assays, and single-cell RNA sequencing.We identified the glycosyltransferase UXS1 as a novel immune-related prognostic hub gene in HCC. UXS1 was upregulated due to copy number gain and MZF1-driven promoter hypomethylation. Functionally, UXS1 promoted HCC malignancy independently of its canonical enzymatic activity. Mechanistically, UXS1 interacted with the E3 ligase F-box and WD repeat domain-containing 7 (FBXW7) to promote histone-lysine N-methyltransferase 2D (KMT2D) ubiquitination and degradation. We further discovered that KMT2D, acting as a non-catalytic scaffold, recruited the transcriptional repressor CCAAT enhancer binding protein beta (CEBPB) to the PD-L1 promoter to maintain its repression. UXS1-mediated KMT2D degradation disrupted this complex, leading to CEBPB dissociation and consequent PD-L1 transcriptional derepression. In vivo, UXS1 suppressed CD8+ T-cell effector function. UXS1 knockout synergized with anti-PD-1 therapy, and in human HCC, high UXS1 correlated with low KMT2D, high PD-L1, and reduced CD8+ T-cell infiltration.This study defines a novel UXS1-KMT2D-CEBPB-PD-L1 signaling axis, revealing how UXS1 drives immune evasion in HCC via epigenetic reprogramming. Targeting this axis may represent a potential strategy to overcome immune resistance, warranting further clinical investigation.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSC) remains a cancer with a poor prognosis despite treatment options of surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, targeted therapy, and immunotherapy. Novel targets and therapeutics await identification. The aim of this study was to identify such targets and therapeutics using a prognosis-based approach and validate them experimentally.UALCAN, cBioPortal, Reactome, L2S2, and TIMER3 were used to study the prognosis, gene expression, pathways, therapeutics, and immunity of HNSC, respectively. Ubiquitin-specific peptidase 53 (USP53) was among the top prognostic factors in HNSC based on the UALCAN analysis. The FaDu human HNSC cell line, which exhibits high USP53 expression, was used in the subsequent experiments. Cell proliferation, cell cycle, sphere formation, and proximity ligation assays were performed.USP53 was found to be downregulated in HNSC and predicted a better prognosis. The pathway and therapeutic analyses revealed that USP53-low HNSC was enriched in cell-cycle dysregulation and could be mimicked by a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor (CDKi). In vitro, USP53 knockdown increased HNSC proliferation and sensitivity to CDKi in two- and three-dimensional assays. Multiomic analyses revealed that USP53 may deubiquitinate F-box and WD repeat domain-containing 7 (FBXW7) and subsequently suppress HNSC proliferation. This was verified using a proximity ligation assay (PLA). Lastly, USP53 is negatively associated with M2 macrophages.USP53 functions as a critical tumor suppressor in HNSC by post-translationally stabilizing the E3 ubiquitin ligase FBXW7. This molecular mechanism establishes a targetable cell-cycle vulnerability sensitive to cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors and uncovers a direct connection between deubiquitinase activity and tumor immune cell infiltration.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Aberrant epigenetic modification is one of the characteristics of the cancer genome. DNA hypermethylation of cytosine-phospho-guanine (CpG) islands, a hallmark of cancer cells, is well-studied and contributes to cancer development by silencing tumor suppressor genes. However, the mechanisms and biological significance of global DNA hypomethylation in cancer are still unclear. Here, using the v-Raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B1 (BRAF) V600E knock-in mouse models, we demonstrate that endogenous expression of oncogenic BRAFV600E in non-transformed cells promotes global DNA hypomethylation by increasing the levels of ten-eleven translocation 3 (TET3), which converts 5-methylcytosine (5-mC) into 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5-hmC). Furthermore, TET3 is targeted for proteasomal degradation by F-box and WD repeat domain containing 7 (FBXW7). BRAFV600E increases TET3 levels by inhibiting glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK3β), which phosphorylates TET3 and leads to its ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. We further found elevated levels of TET3 and 5-hmC in BRAFV600E-induced mouse lung tumors and show that TET3 enhances the ability of BRAFV600E to induce the formation of lung tumors. Notably, endogenous expression of oncogenic Kirsten rat sarcoma virus (KRAS) G12D also promotes global DNA hypomethylation and induces lung tumors through a similar TET3-mediated mechanism. Our findings elucidate one of the unknown mechanisms of global DNA hypomethylation promoted by oncogenic BRAF and KRAS and establish a role for TET3 to promote transformation in cooperation with BRAF and KRAS at an early stage of tumorigenesis.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
The dysregulation of proteostasis is a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD), characterized by the accumulation of misfolded and aggregated proteins. Dysfunction of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway is a major contributing factor to proteostasis imbalance. The E3 ubiquitin ligase, F-box and WD repeat domain-containing 7 (FBXW7), a key hub factor in AD, is significantly downregulated in AD patients. FBXW7 mediates the proteasomal degradation of tau and regulates the development of tau pathology. However, the effect of FBXW7 on β-amyloid pathology and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study demonstrated that FBXW7α, the dominant FBXW7 isoform, was localized in both the cytoplasm and nucleus of neurons. Aging led to a decline in FBXW7α protein levels in the brain tissues of both wild-type and 5×FAD mice. Notably, the level of FBXW7 in the brain tissue of 5×FAD mice is significantly lower than that in wild-type mice after 6 months of age. FBXW7α interacted with BACE1 via the conserved phosphodegron motif and targeted BACE1 for degradation. FBXW7 knockdown diminished the ubiquitination of BACE1, impaired its proteasome-mediated degradation, and increased the accumulation of BACE1 in Golgi fractions. Additionally, restoration of FBXW7α in the hippocampus improved cognitive function and ameliorated amyloid pathology in 5×FAD mice. Our findings suggest that FBXW7α acts as a key regulator of amyloid pathology, and highlight FBXW7α as a promising potential therapeutic target for AD intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42111496 is a review article
Sepsis is a life-threatening dysregulated host response to infection, lacks effective therapies. ChaC glutathione-specific γ-glutamylcyclotransferase 1 (CHAC1) is elevated in sepsis and correlates with severity, but its functional role in the pathogenesis of sepsis-induced organ damage is unclear.We aimed to define the contribution of CHAC1 to sepsis-induced organ injury and elucidate the underlying mechanisms involving gut microbiota-derived metabolites and host immunity.Chac1-/- mice were subjected to LPS-induced endotoxemia to evaluate organ injury. The gut microbiota's role was defined by 16S rRNA gene sequencing, microbiota depletion and fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT). The effect of microbiota-derived metabolite indole-3-carboxylic acid (ICA) was assessed in vivo. Underlying mechanisms were investigated via macrophage depletion, AHR pharmacological/genetic inhibition, and in vitro studies with RAW264.7 cells and bone marrow-derived macrophages.Serum CHAC1 was elevated in septic patients and mice, correlating with disease severity. Chac1 deficiency protected against sepsis-induced multi-organ injury, an effect that was gut microbiota-dependent. Chac1-/- mice exhibited a remodeled gut microbiota, with enrichment of Akkermansia muciniphila and increased levels of the tryptophan metabolite ICA. Exogenous ICA or A. muciniphila supplementation recapitulated the protective phenotype. ICA treatment improved survival, attenuated inflammation, and reduced organ injury by activating the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) in macrophages. This was evidenced by AHR nuclear translocation, and siRNA-mediated AHR knockdown abolished ICA's effects. ICA reprogrammed macrophage metabolism, inhibiting glycolysis (reduced lactate) and enhancing oxidative phosphorylation (increased ATP, oxygen consumption rate), leading to suppressed pro-inflammatory responses.Chac1 deficiency confers sepsis resistance by enriching protective gut microbiota and elevating ICA, which acts as a major downstream effector. ICA activates the AHR in macrophages, driving a metabolic shift from glycolysis to oxidative phosphorylation that dampens inflammation and organ injury. This CHAC1-microbiota-ICA-AHR-macrophage axis identifies ICA as a promising therapeutic candidate and CHAC1 as a potential prognostic biomarker for sepsis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Extensive studies have implicated glycolytic reprogramming and lactate accumulation in immune evasion. However, clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)-based in vivo screens systematically interrogating metabolic drivers of immune checkpoint blockade resistance in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) remain scarce. Consequently, direct in vivo evidence delineating how the lactate exporter solute carrier family 16 member 3 (SLC16A3; monocarboxylate transporter 4, MCT4) rewires tumor lactate metabolism to promote immune escape in ccRCC is still lacking.To identify key metabolic genes governing immune checkpoint blockade resistance in ccRCC via in vivo CRISPR screening, elucidate the molecular mechanisms of SLC16A3-mediated lactate reprogramming in regulating glycolysis and immune suppression, and validate the therapeutic potential of MCT4 inhibition combined with anti-programmed cell death protein-1 (anti-PD-1) therapy for ccRCC.Integrated in vivo CRISPR screening, functional assays, and clinical validation.A metabolic CRISPR library-based screen was conducted in an in vivo immunocompetent ccRCC model treated with an anti-PD-1 antibody. Single-guide RNAs (sgRNAs) targeting glycolysis-associated genes were differentially enriched. Analyses of The Cancer Genome Atlas dataset and the Tumor Immune Estimation Resource database were performed, and an institutional tissue microarray analysis assessed survival outcomes. SLC16A3-knockout and SLC16A3-overexpressing RENCA cells were generated to evaluate tumor growth in immunodeficient and immunocompetent mice, alongside immune cell infiltration profiling. Seahorse metabolic assays, flow cytometry, lactate-treated macrophage assays, and G-protein-coupled receptor 81 (GPR81) antagonism or genetic suppression were used to dissect the lactate export/receptor axis. Additionally, SLC16A3-knockdown and SLC16A3-overexpressing 786-O and SN12C ccRCC cells were established. RNA sequencing, protein stability, ubiquitination, and phosphorylation analyses were conducted to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.Anti-PD-1 therapy selectively reduced sgRNA counts for glycolysis-lactate genes, most notably Ldha and SLC16A3. While SLC16A3 depletion modestly restricted intrinsic ccRCC proliferation in immunodeficient models, its predominant effect was remodeling the tumor immune microenvironment. SLC16A3-mediated lactate export activated macrophage extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling in a GPR81-dependent manner, promoted M2 macrophage polarization, and suppressed CD8+ T-cell function. Concurrently, exported lactate engaged tumor GPR81 to activate autocrine ERK signaling and phosphorylate c-MYC at Ser62, preventing F-box and WD repeat domain-containing 7-mediated degradation. This stabilized c-MYC upregulated lactate dehydrogenase A, glucose transporter 1, and hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha, forming a self-sustaining glycolytic feedback loop uniquely amplified in the von Hippel-Lindau-deficient background of ccRCC. Clinically, tissue microarray analysis indicated a trend toward worse progression-free survival in patients with high MCT4 expression. Furthermore, combining the MCT4 inhibitor MSC-4381 with PD-1 blockade markedly reduced tumor volume in immunocompetent mice, demonstrating enhanced combinatorial efficacy.SLC16A3-induced lactate reprogramming drives immune resistance in ccRCC via two converging mechanisms: extracellular lactate-mediated immunosuppression through M2 macrophage polarization and an autocrine GPR81-ERK-c-MYC glycolytic feedback loop. These findings highlight MCT4 blockade combined with immune checkpoint inhibition as a rational strategy to overcome immunotherapy resistance.
Tissue-resident macrophages receive signals from their microenvironment that coordinate the activity of transcription factors (TFs) to establish distinct transcriptional profiles and identities. However, the molecular mechanisms whereby interactions with other cells of the niche imprint a distinct macrophage identity remain poorly understood. Here, we report that retinoid X receptors (RXRs) determine the differentiation and identity of alveolar macrophages (AM) by regulating chromatin accessibility and transcriptional activity of AM-core and function genes, enabling PPARγ-dependent programs. AM differentiation and maintenance in vivo require RXR upregulation in response to tissue-derived δ-like canonical Notch ligand 4 (DLL4), GM-CSF, and TGF β (TGFβ). Interplay among these signals leads to cooperation between RXRα, RBPJ, STAT5, and SMAD4 for the transcriptional and epigenetic regulation of key AM-core genes. These results underscore the role of RXRs as key TFs that cooperate with other regulatory elements to establish the AM population and determine AM identity.© 2026 Mínguez-Martínez et al.
Translocation of Campylobacter concisus from the oral cavity to the intestinal tract is increasingly recognised as a contributor to inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The C. concisus secreted protein Csep1 has emerged as a molecular marker of C. concisus strains associated with Crohn's disease, a form of IBD. However, its structure and role in inflammation remain unknown. Here, we report the X-ray crystal structure of plasmid-encoded Csep1P that reveals a unique α-helical fold with structural similarity to Helicobacter pylori cysteine-rich proteins HcpB and HcpC. Because HcpA, another Hcp family member, is known to affect monocyte differentiation, this structural similarity led us to hypothesise that Csep1P may modulate monocyte differentiation and macrophage function. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that Csep1P induced a chemokine-dominant inflammatory state in macrophages, M1-chem. Protein-level validation in both THP-1-derived and primary human macrophages confirmed this selective chemokine response. While Csep1P alone did not upregulate proinflammatory cytokines, THP-1-derived macrophages pre-incubated with Csep1P produced a higher level of proinflammatory cytokines in response to commensal Escherichia coli, which was validated on primary human macrophages. Furthermore, silencing the delta like canonical notch ligand 4 (DLL4) gene decreased the proinflammatory response of Csep1P-mediated macrophages to E. coli. Collectively, our data demonstrate that the structurally unique Csep1P reprograms macrophage response, which provides a mechanistic link between C. concisus infection and Crohn's disease pathogenesis, and identifies Csep1P as a potential target for therapeutic intervention.Copyright: © 2026 Luk et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
A 13-year-old girl presented for evaluation of pulmonary hypertension after symptoms of dyspnea and exercise intolerance. Full evaluation was negative except for abdominal ultrasonography with splenomegaly and esophageal varices suggestive of portal hypertension. Cardiac and hepatic vein catheterization confirmed portopulmonary hypertension. Liver biopsy demonstrated sinusoidal dilatation, nodularity, and minimal fibrosis, which was interpreted as possible nodular regenerative hyperplasia but not cirrhosis. Radiographic imaging, including computed tomography venography, demonstrated an elongated and severely stenotic extrahepatic portal vein, and portal hypertension was presumed to be secondary to congenital portal vein hypoplasia. She was treated with ambrisentan with initial improvement in symptoms and estimated pulmonary pressure. Whole-exome sequencing revealed a likely pathogenic missense mutation in Delta-like canonical Notch ligand 4 associated with Adams-Oliver syndrome. After 2 years, pulmonary hypertension and right heart failure symptoms worsened, along with liver failure. She then had fulminant liver failure and cardiorespiratory arrest. Resuscitative efforts included extracorporeal membranous oxygenation (ECMO), but because of hypoxic brain injury, care was compassionately withdrawn. Autopsy limited to the thorax and abdomen revealed high-grade pulmonary plexiform arteriopathy, splenomegaly, esophageal varices, and large splenorenal shunt. The liver was small with a nodular surface but not fibrotic. The entire length of the extrahepatic portal vein was severely stenotic, and intrahepatic portal veins were missing or diminutive-findings diagnostic of hepatoportal sclerosis. Noncirrhotic portopulmonary hypertension is rare and should include evaluation of immunologic, infectious, toxic, thrombotic, and genetic etiologies. Unfortunately, there is no known treatment of hepatoportal sclerosis.Copyright © 2026 by the American Academy of Pediatrics.
Cerebrovascular malformations are a pivotal cause of hemorrhage and neurological disability, orchestrated largely by aberrant vascular homeostasis. However, a malformed angiogenic regulation pattern remains elusive.Single-cell transcriptome analysis uncovered the endothelial features of human cerebral cavernous malformations and brain arteriovenous malformations, 2 typical cerebrovascular malformation diseases. Endothelial AR (androgen receptor, a steroid receptor in the nuclear receptor superfamily) overexpression was conducted to investigate its involvement in tip cell formation. ARD-2585, an AR degrader, was applied to mouse models of cerebral cavernous malformations (endothelial-specific Pdcd10 knockout mice) and brain arteriovenous malformations (endothelial-specific KrasG12D mutant [KrasG12D] mice) to evaluate its vascular rescue potential.We profiled single-cell transcriptomes of 13 human cerebrovascular malformation samples (10 cerebral cavernous malformations and 3 brain arteriovenous malformations) and 13 control brain samples, identifying a crucial pathological tip cell population in lesions. Integrative bioinformatics revealed a systemic endothelial regulatory network, with AR as a key regulator of this aberrant state. AR expression was elevated in endothelial cells from both human cerebrovascular malformations and Pdcd10 knockout/KrasG12D mice, correlating with suppressed Dll4 (delta-like canonical Notch ligand 4)-Notch signaling. AR overexpression augmented endothelial tube formation, filopodia extension, and polarization in vitro and fostered sex-independent vascular sprouting in vivo. High levels of AR facilitated proangiogenic gene transcription by recruiting coactivators EP300 (EP300 lysine acetyltransferase)/CBP (CREB binding lysine acetyltransferase), augmenting histone H3 lysine 18/histone H3 lysine 27 acetylation, and boosting chromatin accessibility, potentially independent of androgen. Notably, ARD-2585 treatment effectively normalized vascular anomalies and alleviated cerebral hemorrhage in Pdcd10 knockout and KrasG12D mice.We delineated a novel androgen-independent AR-mediated endothelial sprouting pattern in malformed cerebrovasculature, highlighting a promising foundation for developing interventions targeting tip cells in angiogenic diseases.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40093978 is a review article
Periodontitis is a chronic inflammatory oral disease affecting half of the adult population. Circular RNA plays a critical role in periodontitis. CircPVT1(hsa_circ_0085536) was abundant in periodontitis tissues and cells but its mechanism are still unclear. We aim to explore the role of circPVT1 in periodontitis and elucidate how circPVT1 acts.Gingival tissues from patients with periodontitis(n=20) and health participants(n=20) were collected and the expression of circPVT1 was measured by realtime quantitative PCR(RT-qPCR). Cell model for periodontitis was performed by PDLCs treated lipopolysaccharide(LPS). Cell Counting Kit-8(CCK-8), flow cytometry, enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay (ELISA), ALP staining and Alizarin red staining were conducted to detect cell viability, apoptosis, inflammatory and oxidative stress factors and osteogenic differentiation. The targeting microRNA(miRNA)/mRNA axis of circPVT1 was predicted and screened.circPVT1 was upregulated in the gingival tissues of patients with periodontitis. Silencing of circPVT1 inhibited cell viability, decreased inflammatory factors(IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6) and oxidative stress factors, activated NRF-2 and HO-1 expression and promoted apoptosis and osteoclast differentiation in PDLCs after treated LPS. However, these effects were reversed by transfected miR-24-3p inhibitor and overexpressed of hypoxia-inducible factor 1 subunit alpha inhibitor(HIF1AN) in PDLCs.circPVT1 promotes the progression of periodontitis by modulating NRF-2/HO-1 pathway via the miR-24-3p/HIF1AN axis.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is a hemorrhagic stroke with high short-term mortality that can lead to cognitive and neurological impairment. Accurate and appropriate treatment strategies are urgently needed. Nimodipine (NDP) can not only improve blood circulation in SAH patients but also repair ischemic neuronal damage. microRNAs (miRNAs) are abundantly expressed in the brain and are involved in brain injury. Therefore, this study investigated the possible regulatory mechanisms of nimodipine on miRNAs in the process of cognitive dysfunction and neurological injury after SAH. The SAH rat model was established, miR-31-5p and hypoxia-inducible factor 1 subunit alpha inhibitor (HIF1AN) expressions were detected 48 h after modeling, and neurobehavioral function, neuronal apoptosis, activation of microglia, and inflammation were evaluated. Finally, the targeting relationship between miR-31-5p and HIF1AN was verified. The study findings explained that NDP treatment could effectively improve cognitive dysfunction, brain injury, neuronal injury, and neuroinflammation in SAH rats. SAH rats expressed down-regulated miR-31-5p and up-regulated HIF1AN. Overexpressing miR-31-5p or knocking down HIF1AN ameliorated cognitive dysfunction and brain damage in SHA rats. Mechanistically, nimodipine can promote miR-31-5p expression, and HIF1AN took part in the development of SAH as a downstream target gene of miR-31-5p. In conclusion, NDP ameliorates cognitive dysfunction and neurological damage in SHA rats by miR-31-5p/HIF1AN axis.
Multi-omic studies have identified three molecular separated pulmonary carcinoid (PC) subgroups (A1, A2, B) with distinctive mRNA expression profiles (e.g., orthopedia homeobox protein [OTP], achaete-scute homolog [ASCL1], and hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 homeobox A [HNF1A]). We aimed to establish an immunohistochemical (IHC) biomarker panel that enables subgroup identification, and assessment of its potential clinical relevance.All patients with resected pulmonary carcinoids (2003-2012) were identified from the Dutch Cancer/Pathology Registry, and tumors were revised. The IHC expression of OTP, ASCL1, and HNF1A was scored in a blinded fashion in a mRNA-profiled (n = 5 per subgroup) and national carcinoid cohort (N = 478). The expression of potential therapeutic targets (somatostatin receptor type 2a [SSTR2A] and delta-like canonical Notch ligand 3 [DLL3]) was assessed. Immunohistochemistry was assessed using H-scoring.OTP, ASCL1, and HNF1A reported similar IHC and mRNA expression patterns in the matched primary samples. In the national cohort, IHC separated PCs into subgroups A1 (n = 224 [53%], OTPhigh-ASCL1high-HNF1Alow), A2 (n = 161 [38%], OTPhigh-ASCL1low-HNF1Ahigh), and B (n = 37 [9%], OTPlow-ASCL1low-HNF1Ahigh). In 12% of PCs, no distinct classification could be provided. Patients with A1 were enriched for older age (83% > 50 y), female individuals (83%), and peripheral location (55%) with low SSTR2A (median = 10) and high DLL3 (median = 52) expression. A2 included younger patients (34% < 40 y) and endobronchial/central (87%) tumors with high SSTR2A (median = 160), but low DLL3 (median 0) expression. Group B included more male individuals (59%) and recurrence was more frequent (19%) than in groups A1 (8%) and A2 (6%). Neuroendocrine cell hyperplasia was enriched in A1 (25%) compared with A2 (3%) and B (0%).An OTP, ASCL1, and HNF1A IHC panel enables the identification of molecular-defined pulmonary carcinoid subgroups with distinct clinical phenotypes and diverging therapeutic vulnerabilities that require further prospective evaluation.Copyright © 2024 International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Vascular injury following spinal cord injury (SCI) can significantly exacerbate secondary SCI and result in neurological dysfunction. Strategies targeting angiogenesis have demonstrated potential in enhancing functional recovery post-SCI. In the context of angiogenesis, the CD146+ and CD271+ subpopulations of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have been recognized for their angiogenic capabilities in tissue repair. Small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) derived from MSCs are nanoscale vesicles containing rich bioactive components that play a crucial role in tissue regeneration. However, the precise role of sEVs derived from CD146+CD271+ UCMSCs (CD146+CD271+ UCMSC-sEVs) in SCI remain unclear. In this study, CD146+CD271+ UCMSC-sEVs were non-invasively administered via intranasal delivery, demonstrating a significant capacity to stimulate angiogenesis and improve functional recovery in mice following SCI. Furthermore, in vitro assessments revealed the effective enhancement of migration and tube formation capabilities of the murine brain microvascular endothelial cell line (bEnd.3) by CD146+CD271+UCMSC-sEVs. MicroRNA array analysis confirmed significant enrichment of multiple microRNAs within CD146+CD271+ UCMSC-sEVs. Subsequent in vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that CD146+CD271+ UCMSC-sEVs promote enhanced angiogenesis and improved functional recovery mediated by miR-27a-3p. Further mechanistic studies revealed that miR-27a-3p sourced from CD146+CD271+ UCMSC-sEVs enhances migration and tube formation of bEnd.3 cells in vitro by suppressing the expression of Delta Like Canonical Notch Ligand 4 (DLL4), thereby promoting angiogenesis in vivo. Collectively, our results demonstrate that a crucial role of CD146+CD271+ UCMSC-sEVs in inhibiting DLL4 through the transfer of miR-27a-3p, which leads to the promotion of angiogenesis and improved functional recovery after SCI.Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Diabetes serves as a severe chronic disease that severely affects the normal life of human beings. Diabetes causes the complication of diabetic wound dysfunction, which is characterized by sustained inflammation, altered angiogenesis, delayed epithelialization and abnormal secretion of protease. Dang-Gui-Bu-Xue decoction (DBD) is a Chinese traditional medicine that comprises Radix Astragali and Radix Angelicae sinensis and is widely applied in treatment of multiple diseases owing to its functions against inflammation, lipid peroxidation and oxidative stress. Nevertheless, the impact of DBD on diabetic wound healing remains elusive. In this study, we aimed to explore the function of DBD in the regulation of wound healing. We observed that the gavage administration of DBD reduced the wound area, inflammatory infiltration, inflammatory factor levesl, and enhanced granulation tissue formation, wound extracellular matrix (ECM) production, and CD31 accumulation in the diabetic rat wound model, and the co-treatment of gavage administration and the external administration of gauze containing DBD further improved the wound healing effect, while the combination of Notch signaling inhibitor DAPT ((N- [N- (3, 5-difluorophenacetyl)-l-alanyl]-s-phenylglycinet-butyl ester)) could attenuate the improvement. Regarding to the mechanism, the expression levels of Notch1, Delta-like canonical Notch ligand 4 (Dll4), Jagged1, and Hairy Enhancer of Split-1 (Hes1) were increased by DBD, while the treatment of DAPT impaired the effect in the rats. Furthermore, we found that the high glucose (HG)-inhibited viability and tube formation were induced by DBD in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), in which DAPT could reverse this effect. Therefore, we concluded that DBD contributed to wound healing by the activation of Notch signaling. Our finding provides new insight into the potential role of DBD in promoting diabetic wound healing.© 2024 Published by Elsevier Ltd.
To investigate the molecular mechanism by which gemcitabine (GEM) inhibits ovarian cancer (OC) progression, focusing on the hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF1A)/UBR5/LATS2 axis and Hippo pathway. Bioinformatics analysis of gene expression omnibus datasets identified HIF1A-associated modules. Transcriptional regulation of UBR5 by HIF1A was validated via ChIP-PCR and dual-luciferase assays. Anti-tumor effects of GEM were assessed in OC cell lines and an orthotopic mouse model using functional assays (CCK-8, transwell), Western blot, Co-IP, and ubiquitination analysis. HIF1A transcriptionally upregulates UBR5 in OC. GEM downregulated the HIF1A/UBR5 axis, suppressing OC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Mechanistically, UBR5 promoted LATS2 ubiquitination and degradation. GEM inhibited this interaction, stabilizing LATS2, activating the Hippo pathway, and suppressing downstream YAP1/FGFR1 signaling. In vivo, GEM inhibited tumor growth and downregulated HIF1A, UBR5, and FGFR1. GEM suppresses OC progression by targeting the HIF1A/UBR5 axis, which subsequently stabilizes LATS2, activates the Hippo pathway, and inhibits YAP1/FGFR1 signaling, revealing a novel therapeutic mechanism.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cell Communication and Signaling published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a serious neurological disease, and microRNA (miRNA) plays an important role in various cellular events after SCI. This study aims to explore the expression of miR-582-5p in SCI patients and its regulatory effects on apoptosis, inflammation and oxidative stress during the SCI process.Serum miR-582-5p was detected in 45 patients with limb fractures and 60 patients with SCI by reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). The in vitro SCI neuroinflammation model was constructed by inducing BV-2 cells with 100ng/mL lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The SCI model of mice was constructed by Allen's percussion method. The expression of miR-582-5p, apoptosis, inflammation and oxidative stress factors in in vivo and in vitro models were detected by RT-qPCR, flow cytometry, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), etc. The motor function of mice in each group was evaluated by the BMS scoring method.MiR-582-5p was significantly downregulated in SCI patients, and this result was consistent with that in both the BV-2 cell model and SCI mice model. Functionally, the upregulation of miR-582-5p improved the recovery of motor function in SCI mice and alleviated inflammatory and oxidative stress injuries. In cell experiments, it was confirmed that Ubiquitin protein ligase E3 component n-recognin 5 (UBR5) is one of the target genes of miR-582-5p, and the overexpression of UBR5 can effectively reverse the improvement effect of miR-582-5p in SCI cell models.This study reveals the key protective role of miR-582-5p in SCI and its molecular mechanism. miR-582-5p exerts the effects of reducing inflammation and oxidative stress and promoting the recovery of neurological function by targeting and inhibiting the expression of UBR5.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42107008 is a review article
Lipophagy, a selective form of macroautophagy/autophagy, degrades lipid droplets (LDs) to provide energy and is implicated in metabolic disorders. The molecular mechanism underlying lipophagy induction remains incompletely understood. This study explored the role of SETDB1 in starvation-induced autophagy and lipophagy. We demonstrate that SETDB1 deficiency exacerbates starvation-induced hepatic lipid accumulation by inhibiting lipophagy. Mechanistically, starvation promotes ATM-mediated phosphorylation of SETDB1, which enhances its interaction with and methylation of the RNA helicase DDX5. In SETDB1-knockout hepatocytes, hypomethylation of DDX5 facilitates the formation of the DDX5-METTL3-METTL14 complex, increasing m6A modification of BECN1 and TFEB mRNAs. This modification promoted YTHDF2-mediated decay of these transcripts, thereby inhibiting starvation-induced autophagy and lipophagy. Furthermore, administration of the SETDB1 activator (R, R)-59 significantly enhances lipophagy and attenuates starvation-induced hepatic steatosis. Collectively, our findings reveal a novel pathway in which SETDB1 deficiency drives m6A-mediated mRNA degradation to suppress lipophagy, thereby contributing to hepatic steatosis.Abbreviations: AA free: amino acid deprivation; ATG14: autophagy related 14; ATG5: autophagy related 5; ATG7: autophagy related 7; ATM: ATM serine/threonine kinase; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; DDX5: DEAD-box helicase 5; FASN: fatty acid synthase; LAMP1: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LAMP2A: lysosome associated membrane protein 2A; LIPE/HSL: lipase E, hormone sensitive type; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MAP3K5/ASK1: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 5; METTL3: methyltransferase 3, N6-adenosine-methyltransferase complex catalytic subunit; METTL14: methyltransferase 14, N6-adenosine-methyltransferase non-catalytic subunit; MGLL/MGL: monoglyceride lipase; OA: oleic acid; OSBPL8/ORP8: oxysterol binding protein like 8; PLIN2: perilipin 2; PNPLA2/ATGL: patatin like domain 2, triacylglycerol lipase; SETDB1: SET domain bifurcated histone lysine methyltransferase 1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; TP53/p53: tumor protein p53; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; YTHDF2: YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein F2.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41992985 is a review article
The transcription factor c-Myc is a master oncoprotein that regulates over 15% of all genes. Protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A), a crucial tumor suppressor, destabilizes c-Myc protein. Classically, PP2A-mediated dephosphorylation of Ser62 followed by Thr58 phosphorylation was thought to promote ubiquitination of c-Myc by the E3 ligase F-box and WD repeat domain containing 7 (FBXW7). However, recent evidence indicates that FBXW7 preferentially recognizes c-Myc when both Thr58 and Ser62 are phosphorylated, leaving the mechanism underlying PP2A-induced c-Myc degradation unsolved. Here, we demonstrate that the PP2A-B55α complex, which directly dephosphorylates c-Myc at Thr58, regulates two distinct degradation pathways in a biphasic manner: B55α suppression increases Thr58 phosphorylation and enhances FBXW7-dependent degradation, whereas B55α overexpression promotes Thr58-independent, ubiquitin-protein ligase E3 component N-recognin 5 (UBR5)-mediated degradation. We further show that the PP2A-B55α complex binds and dephosphorylates UBR5. In contrast, B55δ, which belongs to the same B55 family and shares a common core structure, exhibits weaker UBR5 binding affinity and fails to induce c-Myc degradation. Our findings identify PP2A-B55α as a context-dependent molecular switch for c-Myc degradation and provide a unified framework that resolves the paradox linking PP2A activation to c-Myc destabilization.
BACKGROUND: Astragaloside IV (AS-IV), a key active component derived from the traditional Chinese medicinal plant Astragali, has been reported to exhibit various biological activities, including antioxidative, anti-inflammatory, immunoregulatory, and antineoplastic properties. This study aimed to elucidate the role of AS-IV in inhibiting gastric cancer (GC) growth, focusing on its impact on cell ferroptosis and the underlying molecular mechanisms. METHODS: Proliferation and migration of GC cells upon AS-IV treatment were examined using CCK-8, colony formation, and Transwell assays. Ferroptosis induction was analyzed via ELISA, flow cytometry, and transmission electron microscopy. Ferroptosis suppressor protein 1 (FSP1) mRNA stability was assessed by the ActD assay, while RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) was employed to confirm the interaction between FSP1 mRNA, Fat mass and obesity-associated protein (FTO) demethylase, and YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA-binding protein F2 (YTHDF2). The dual-luciferase reporter assay was used to explore FTO binding to N6-methyladenosine (m6A)-modified sites on FSP1 mRNA. Furthermore, AS-IV’s anti-tumor effects (20 mg/kg) were validated in vivo using gastric cancer xenograft and lung metastasis mouse models. RESULTS: AS-IV significantly suppressed the proliferation and migration of GC cells by inducing ferroptosis. Mechanistically, AS-IV down-regulated FTO, thus impairing its interaction with FSP1 mRNA and leading to increased m6A modification on FSP1 mRNA. This modification facilitated m6A recognition protein YTHDF2-mediated recognition and subsequent degradation of FSP1 mRNA. The reduction of FSP1 triggered ferroptosis, while the overexpression of FSP1 or inhibition of ferroptosis by ferrostatin-1 partially reversed AS-IV’s effects on cell viability and migration. In vivo, AS-IV effectively inhibited tumor growth and metastasis. CONCLUSIONS: This study highlights potent anti-GC effects of AS-IV, mediated by the suppression of FSP1 via the FTO/YTHDF2/m6A axis.
Hypospadias is a common congenital malformation of the male external genitalia, with severe cases presenting considerable surgical and long-term challenges. Despite the clinical importance of severe hypospadias demonstrated by prolonged hospital stays, repeated surgeries, and substantial costs, the genetic etiology of severe hypospadias remains incompletely understood, particularly in diverse populations. To determine the molecular basis, we performed whole-exome sequencing (WES) on 30 Chinese patients from southeastern China with confirmed 46,XY karyotypes. Our analysis identified clinically relevant genetic variants, including single-nucleotide variants (SNVs) and copy number variations (CNVs), with subsequent phenotypic correlation. Clinically relevant genetic variants were identified in 33.3% (10/30) of cases, including novel SNVs in gonadal regulators (nuclear receptor subfamily 5 group A member 1 [ NR5A1 ] c.1344dupC/c.244+1G>T and SRY-box 3 [ SOX3 ] c.1273G>C), morphogenetic modulators (GLI family zinc finger 3 [ GLI3 ] c.4731delA and aristaless-related homeobox [m ARX ] c.644C>G), and syndromic genes (patched domain containing 1 [ PTCHD1 ] c.667G>A and euchromatic histone lysine methyltransferase 1 [ EHMT1 ] c.3081C>T). Additionally, recurrent CNVs at 22q12.3 and a novel CNV exon 18 deletion in myelin regulatory factor ( MYRF ) and 18q11.2 were identified. Mutation carriers showed a significantly higher frequency of cryptorchidism (40.0% vs 5.0%, P < 0.01) and a higher prevalence of ≥3 associated malformations (80.0% vs 35.0%, P < 0.05) than non-carriers, highlighting genotype-phenotype correlations. The 33.3% diagnostic yield tripled conventional estimates, demonstrating WES efficacy in identifying SNVs and CNVs in severe phenotypes. These findings reveal the genetic heterogeneity of severe hypospadias and support WES utility in uncovering novel variants and structural genomic alterations.Copyright ©The Author(s)(2026).
Ubiquitin protein ligase E3 component n-recognin 5 (UBR5) locates on chromosome 8q22, a region that commonly disrupted in a variety of cancers. Emerging evidence suggests UBR5 is involved in cancer progression, yet its oncogenic and prognostic roles, especially in osteosarcoma, remain poorly defined.TCGA, GTEx, and GEO databases were integrated to analyze the expression level, and prognostic and diagnostic value of UBR5 across cancers. UBR5 genetic alterations and protein interactions were assessed using cBioPortal and GeneMANIA. UBR5 expression in osteosarcoma samples was validated by immunohistochemistry, Western blotting, and immunofluorescence staining. Functional assays, including gain- and loss-of-function experiments, CCK-8, colony formation, and transwell assays were used to evaluate the role of UBR5 in osteosarcoma cell lines. Additionally, the impact of Ubr5 knockdown on tumor growth was assessed in a mouse syngeneic transplant model.UBR5 expression was significantly elevated in osteosarcoma and various cancers, and its upregulation was strongly associated with poor prognosis. Furthermore, UBR5 exhibited high diagnostic accuracy in distinguishing cancer from normal tissues. Genomic analysis revealed frequent UBR5 alterations correlated with poor overall survival (OS). Protein interaction analysis showed UBR5's association with chromatin assembly and histone modification. Knockdown of UBR5 inhibited proliferation, migration, invasion of osteosarcoma cell lines, while its overexpression promoted these malignant phenotypes in vitro. Moreover, knockdown of Ubr5 suppressed tumor growth in vivo.This study identifies UBR5 as a key driver of osteosarcoma progression and a promising diagnostic and prognostic biomarker across cancers, highlighting its potential as a biomarker and therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Metastatic progression and treatment resistance determine poor prognostic outcomes of patients with esophageal squamous cellular carcinoma (ESCC), highlighting the urgent need to understand the molecular mechanisms behind this. Reticulocalbin 2 (RCN2) is a calcium-binding protein localized in the endoplasmic reticulum lumen, which mediates tumor progression in various cancer types. However, the role of RCN2 in ESCC remains unexplored.The influence of RCN2 on ESCC progression, metastasis, and cisplatin (CDDP) resistance was assessed both in vitro and in vivo. The downstream regulatory mechanism associated with RCN2 was screened through RNA-seq, TMT 10X mass spectrometry analysis, and LC-MS/MS analysis, which was further validated through Western blot, immunoprecipitation, immunofluorescence, GST pull-down assay, and rescue experiments.We observed high RCN2 expression in ESCC tumor tissues from patients with metastasis, which is correlated with a higher risk of metastasis and worse survival. PPP2CA, a catalytic subunit of protein phosphatase 2 A (PP2A), and ubiquitin protein ligase E3 component N-recognin 5 (UBR5) are determined as novel RCN2 functioning interactors. Mechanistically, RCN2 facilitates PPP2CA ubiquitination and degradation dependent on the HECT domain of UBR5, thereby activating the PI3K-AKT signaling pathway. Furthermore, the activated RCN2-PPP2CA-PI3K-AKT axis is validated in clinical specimens of ESCC. Finally, targeted suppression of RCN2 synergized with CDDP treatment to prevent tumor growth and metastasis in subcutaneous and lung metastasis models.Overall, these findings identify RCN2 as a novel driver of ESCC metastasis and CDDP resistance. RCN2 could be a promising treatment target for ESCC.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is among the most common and fatal primary liver malignancies. Glypican-3 (GPC3) is a useful biomarker for HCC diagnosis and targeted therapy, but reliable noninvasive approaches for predicting GPC3 expression before surgery remain limited.To develop and validate a computed tomography (CT)-based radiomics model using machine learning for the preoperative prediction of GPC3 expression in HCC.This retrospective study included 103 patients with pathologically confirmed HCC who underwent contrast-enhanced CT at two centers between January 2013 and October 2023. Patients were assigned to training (n = 72) and testing (n = 31) sets using a 7:3 stratified random sampling. Regions of interest were manually delineated on non-contrast, arterial, portal venous, and delayed-phase images, followed by radiomic feature extraction. After feature selection, radiomics models were constructed using eight machine learning algorithms. Independent clinical predictors were identified by univariate and multivariate logistic regression and used to construct a clinical model. A combined model was then developed by integrating the optimal radiomics model with the clinical predictors, and a corresponding nomogram was generated. Model performance was evaluated using the area under the curve (AUC), DeLong test, net reclassification improvement, and integrated discrimination improvement. Calibration curves and decision curve analysis were used to assess the clinical utility of the nomogram.Alpha-fetoprotein and total bilirubin were independent clinical predictors of GPC3 expression. After feature selection, 10 radiomic features were retained. Among the radiomics models, the random forest classifier showed the strongest predictive performance, with an AUC of 0.959 in the training set and 0.862 in the testing set. Integration of the radiomics signature with alpha-fetoprotein and total bilirubin further improved model performance, yielding AUCs of 0.979 and 0.948 in the training and testing sets, respectively. In both cohorts, the combined model showed positive reclassification gains, with net reclassification improvement > 0 and integrated discrimination improvement > 0. Calibration curves suggested a better goodness-of-fit for the clinical model. Decision curve analysis indicated that the nomogram derived from the combined model provided greater net clinical benefit across a broad range of threshold probabilities.A nomogram combining a random forest-based CT radiomics model with clinical predictors showed strong performance and potential clinical value for preoperative prediction of GPC3 expression in HCC.©Author(s) 2026.
Treatment options for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain limited, and responses to later-line therapies are modest. Glypican-3 (GPC3), highly expressed in HCC but rarely in normal tissues, is an attractive tumor-specific target. CT0180 is a GPC3-targeted single-chain fragment variable linked to CD3ε designed to integrate into the native T cell receptor (TCR) complex and activate full TCR signaling upon GPC3 binding.In this open-label, dose-escalation phase I trial, patients with advanced GPC3-positive HCC that had progressed on or were intolerant to standard therapies received CT0180 after fludarabine/cyclophosphamide lymphodepletion. The study objectives were safety, preliminary efficacy, and cellular pharmacokinetics. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and TCR sequencing were used to profile immune reconstitution.Seven patients received 15 infusions across four dose levels (DLs): 1×10⁷ (n=1), 3×10⁷ (n=1), 1×10⁸ (n=3), and 3×10⁸ (n=2) cells. Grade 3-4 adverse events were primarily hematologic. Cytokine release syndrome occurred in 85.7% of patients, all grade 1 with no dose-limiting toxicities or immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity observed. Two patients (at DL2 and DL4) achieved partial responses, and three (at DL1, DL3, and DL4) achieved stable disease, yielding an objective response rate of 28.6% and a disease control rate of 71.4%. Median progression-free and overall survival were 7.6 and 11.6 months, respectively. scRNA-seq revealed baseline NK-cell enrichment in patients with clinical benefit and sustained cytotoxic CD8 effector expansion after repeat infusion.CT0180 demonstrated a preliminary manageable safety profile and clinical activity in heavily pretreated HCC, supporting further clinical evaluation.
Evidence has shown that constant light or constant darkness significantly impairs cognitive functions and affects the mood state. The present study investigated the effect of circadian rhythm disturbances (circadian rhythm disruptions, CRDs) on locomotor activity, rearing behavior, pain threshold, novel object recognition memory, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3β) expression levels in the hippocampus of both sexes of rats. CRD was done using a combination of constant light (48 h) and constant darkness (48 h) periods for 8 (short-term), 16 (midterm), or 24 (long-term) days. The results showed CRD in all protocols increased locomotor activity in males, whereas in females, only long-term CRD increased it. Long-term CRD increased rearing only in females, whereas in males, only midterm CRD decreased rearing. Short- and midterm CRD in males decreased pain threshold, whereas in females, only midterm CRD decreased pain threshold. Novel object recognition memory was impaired in both sexes following all protocols of CRD. All protocols of CRD in females downregulated BDNF, whereas in males, short-term CRD had no effect. GSK-3β was increased following long-term CRD in both sexes. Spearman correlation test showed that BDNF function may be associated with changes in some behavioral functions in both sexes; however, GSK-3β function may be associated with some behavioral changes only in females. In conclusion, we showed sex differences in the effect of CRD on locomotor activity, rearing behavior, and pain threshold. Also, GSK-3β may show a sex-dependent role in the modulation of behavioral changes induced by CRD.Copyright © 2026 Zeinab Dalil-Housh et al. Behavioural Neurology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome (SGBS) is an overgrowth syndrome associated with an increased risk of certain malignancies; however, gliomas have not previously been reported in patients with SGBS. Loss-of-function variants in glypican-3 (GPC3) represent the primary molecular mechanism underlying SGBS-related overgrowth and tumorigenesis, although their relationship with gliomas remains unclear. We report a case of an 18-year-old male who had been clinically diagnosed with Sotos syndrome in childhood. He presented with sudden impaired consciousness, and neuroimaging revealed a large tumor in the left occipitoparietal lobe, which was subsequently resected. Histopathological analysis demonstrated a pediatric-type diffuse hemispheric glioma, H3 G34-mutant (CNS WHO grade 4). Next-generation sequencing of peripheral blood DNA identified a germline hemizygous deletion encompassing exons 3-5 of GPC3, leading to a revised diagnosis of SGBS. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of SGBS associated with a glioma. This case raises the possibility that GPC3 alterations may contribute to gliomagenesis, including in H3 G34-mutant diffuse hemispheric glioma.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Background/Objectives: Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains one of the leading causes of cancer-related morbidity and mortality worldwide. Despite advances in treatment, outcomes for advanced CRC remain unsatisfactory due to uncontrolled proliferation, metastasis, and recurrence. This study investigated the anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342, an indolin-2-one-based multi-protein kinase inhibitor with previously reported anti-inflammatory properties, in human colorectal cancer models. Methods: The anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342 were evaluated in colorectal cancer cells and further investigated in three-dimensional (3D) spheroid and patient-derived organoid models. Cell proliferation, migration, apoptosis, and cell cycle progression were assessed. Kinase activity profiling and molecular docking analyses were performed to identify potential targets and characterize the underlying signaling pathways. Results: KMU-11342 significantly inhibited the proliferation and migration of CRC cells. It reduced CRC cell density by 58.9% and 83.3% at 0.5 and 1 μM, respectively. These effects were accompanied by G2/M cell cycle arrest and apoptotic cell death. In 3D models, spheroid formation was markedly reduced and stemness-related characteristics were diminished. Patient-derived CRC organoids also showed decreased viability, exhibiting 38.6% and 77.4% reductions at 1 and 2 μM, respectively. These effects were observed in a dose-dependent manner in both two-dimensional (2D) and 3D colorectal cancer models. Kinase activity profiling and molecular docking analyses identified glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) and cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1) as potential mediators of the anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342 through the p53/nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) and FoxO1 signaling axes, respectively. Conclusions: KMU-11342 exhibits potent anti-tumor activity against CRC through suppressing proliferation, migration, and stemness in both 2D and 3D models, including patient-derived organoids. Its effects may be mediated, at least in part, through modulation of GSK3β and CDK1 via the p53/NF-κB and FoxO1 signaling pathways.
Hepatitis E virus (HEV)-associated acute liver failure (ALF) lacks reliable biomarkers for risk stratification at hospital admission. This study evaluated the diagnostic utility of serum glypican-3 (GPC3) and aldo-keto reductase family 1 member B10 (AKR1B10).Between May 2023 and May 2025, 231 adults with acute HEV infection were classified as HEV-ALF (n = 43) or HEV without ALF (n = 188). Serum GPC3 and AKR1B10 concentrations were measured using enzyme linked immunosorbent assay. Associations were evaluated using Pearson correlation coefficient r; diagnostic performance was assessed by receiver operating characteristic curves, and independent predictors of ALF were identified using multivariable logistic regression.Patients with HEV-ALF had lower albumin, triglyceride, and cholesterol levels and higher total bilirubin, prothrombin time, and international normalized ratio values than patients without ALF (all P < .05). GPC3 and AKR1B10 concentrations were markedly elevated in the HEV-ALF group (both P < .001) and were strongly correlated (r = 0.610, P < .001). The combination of GPC3 and AKR1B10 demonstrated superior diagnostic performance for identifying ALF, with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.931, outperforming either GPC3 alone (AUC, 0.832) or AKR1B10 alone (AUC, 0.792). In multivariable logistic regression analysis, elevated GPC3 (odds ratio [OR], 2.138; 95% CI, 1.213-3.771) and AKR1B10 (OR, 2.304; 95% CI, 1.215-4.368) remained independent risk factors for ALF.Serum GPC3 and AKR1B10 were independent predictors of HEV-ALF and may facilitate risk stratification at hospital admission.https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.
Antigen-escape and on-target off-tumor effects limit the application of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells in solid tumors. Glypican-3 (GPC3) and hepatitis B virus (HBV) are two emerging therapeutic targets for CAR-T cell therapy in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). In this study, we generated single-antigen CARs against HBV surface antigen (HBsAg) and GPC3. HBsAg-CAR-T specifically targeted HBV-positive HCC cells, showing superior antitumor activity compared to GPC3-CAR-T. However, concerns arose about off-tumor liver cytolysis by HBsAg-CAR-T due to the membrane localization of HBsAg in non-malignant liver cells. Moreover, HBsAg and GPC3 were heterogeneously expressed in approximately 27 percent of tested patients with HCC. To address these challenges, we developed bicistronic HBsAg-GPC3-CAR-T cells that selectively recognized double-positive HCC cells, thereby reducing off-tumor toxicity. Co-administration of HBsAg-CAR-T and GPC3-CAR-T cells exhibited superior anticancer efficacy over single CAR-T use in heterogeneous HCC cells and patient-derived xenograft (PDX) HCC xenografts. Our study highlights the potential of HBsAg/GPC3 dual-CAR approaches to enhance therapeutic outcomes and safety in HCC treatment.© 2026 The Authors.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42493531 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 40999994 is a review article
Loss of nucleus pulposus (NP) cells is as one of the primary factors initiating intervertebral disc (IVD) degeneration (IVDD); however, the intrinsic physiological mechanisms of endogenous NP-derived stem cell (NPSC)-based therapy in IVDD remain poorly understood. Disturbed iron homeostasis is commonly observed in degenerative diseases, and an acidic microenvironment has been considered a crucial factor in IVDD. The molecular mechanism of ferroptosis in acidic microenvironments during IVDD has not been reported. Herein, we intended to investigate whether acidic conditions can induce ferroptosis in NPSCs and explore the mechanism of IVDD progression through NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy, which is a type of selective autophagy mediating ferroptosis. The role of ring-box 1 (RBX1) in NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy in NPSC ferroptosis and IVDD pathogenesis was also explored. First, clinical epidemiology research revealed that a reduction in serum ferritin level was an independent risk factor for IVDD. We then demonstrated that ferroptosis progressively increased in human NP tissues as IVDD advanced and the acidic conditions induced ferroptosis-associated decline in cell viability, reactive oxygen species accumulation, and extracellular matrix degradation in human NPSCs. In an acidic microenvironment, ferroptosis is promoted due to enhanced NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy in NPSCs. A mechanistic study demonstrated that RBX1-mediated ubiquitination modulated NCOA4 expression and the inhibition of RBX1 promoted ferroptosis through NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy in the human NPSCs. Our in vivo study further illustrated that RBX1 overexpression ameliorated ferroptotic effects on IVDD progression by suppressing NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy. Results demonstrated the modulating role of RBX1 in NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy and NPSC ferroptosis, providing valuable insights into the potential application of endogenous stem cell-based IVD self-repair and self-regeneration for IVDD treatment.© 2025. The Author(s).
Postmitotic skeletal muscle critically depends on tightly regulated protein degradation to maintain proteomic stability. Impaired macroautophagy/autophagy-lysosomal or ubiquitin-proteasomal protein degradation causes the accumulation of damaged proteins, ultimately accelerating muscle dysfunction with age. While in vitro studies have demonstrated the complementary nature of these systems, their interplay at the organism levels remains poorly understood. Here, our study reveals novel insights into this complex relationship in autophagy-deficient skeletal muscle. We demonstrated that despite a compensatory increase in proteasome level in response to autophagy impairment, 26S proteasome activity was not proportionally enhanced in autophagy-deficient skeletal muscle. This functional deficit was partly attributed to reduced ATP levels to fuel the 26S proteasome. Remarkably, we found that activation of EIF4EBP1, a crucial inhibitor of cap-dependent translation, restored and even augmented proteasomal function through dual mechanisms. First, genetically activating EIF4EBP1 enhanced both ATP-dependent 26S proteasome and ATP-independent 20S proteasome activities, thereby expanding overall protein degradation capacity. Second, EIF4EBP1 activation caused muscle fiber transformation and increased mitochondrial biogenesis, thus replenishing ATP levels for 26S proteasome activation. Notably, the improved performance of the 20S proteasome in EIF4EBP1-activated skeletal muscle was attributed to an increased abundance of the immunoproteasome, a subtype specially adapted to function under oxidative stress conditions. This dual action of EIF4EBP1 activation preserved proteomic integrity in autophagy-deficient skeletal muscle. Our findings uncover a novel role of EIF4EBP1 in improving protein quality control, presenting a promising therapeutic strategy for autophagy-related muscular disorders and potentially other conditions characterized by proteostatic imbalance.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ACAC/ACC: acetyl-Coenzyme A carboxylase; AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; ATG5: autophagy related 5; ATG7: autophagy related 7; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; ATP5F1A/ATP5A: ATP synthase F1 subunit alpha; CKM-Cre: creatine kinase, muscle-Cre; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; CTSB: cathepsin B; CTSK: cathepsin K; CTSL: cathepsin L; CUL3: cullin 3; EDL: extensor digitorum longus; EIF4E: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E; EIF4EBP1: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; EIF4F: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4F complex; FBXO32/ATROGIN1/MAFbx: F-box protein 32; GFP: green fluorescent protein; IFNG/IFN-γ: interferon gamma; KEAP1: kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1; LAMP1: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1; LAMP2: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 2; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MEF: mouse embryonic fibroblast; Myl1/Mlc1f-Cre: myosin, light polypeptide 1 (promoter driving Cre recombinase); mRFP: monomeric red fluorescent protein; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MTORC1: MTOR complex 1; NFE2L1/NRF1: nuclear factor, erythroid derived 2, like 1; NFE2L2/NRF2: nuclear factor, erythroid derived 2, like 2; NFKB1/NFκB1: nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B cells 1, p105; OXPHOS: oxidative phosphorylation; PPARGC1A/PGC1α: peroxisome proliferator activated receptor, gamma, coactivator 1 alpha; PSMB5: proteasome (prosome, macropain) subunit, beta type 5; PSMB6: proteasome (prosome, macropain) subunit, beta type 6; PSMB7: proteasome (prosome, macropain) subunit, beta type 7; PSMB8: proteasome (prosome, macropain) subunit, beta type 8 (large multifunctional peptidase 7); PSMB9: proteasome (prosome, macropain) subunit, beta type 9 (large multifunctional peptidase 2); PSMB10: proteasome (prosome, macropain) subunit, beta type 10; PSME1: proteasome (prosome, macropain) activator subunit 1 (PA28 alpha); PSME2: proteasome (prosome, macropain) activator subunit 2 (PA28 beta); RBX1: ring-box 1; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SREBF1/SREBP1: sterol regulatory element binding transcription factor 1; STAT3: signal transducer and activator of transcription 3; TRIM63/MURF1: tripartite motif-containing 63; ULK1: unc-51 like kinase 1; UPS: ubiquitin-proteasome system.
Tuberculosis (TB), caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), remains a significant global public health issue with high mortality rates and challenges posed by drug-resistant strains, emphasizing the continued need for new therapeutic targets and effective treatment strategies. Transcriptomics is a highly effective tool for the development of novel anti-tuberculosis drugs. However, most studies focus only on changes in gene expression levels at specific time points. This study screened for genes with altered expression patterns from available transcriptomic data and analysed their association with the TB progression. Initially, a total of 1228 genes with altered expression patterns were identified through two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA). We define genes with a P-value less than 0.05 for the combined effect of infection and time on gene expression as those with altered expression patterns. Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis revealed that the biological functions of these genes mainly involve DNA translation, RNA processing, and transcriptional regulation. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis indicated that these genes are primarily associated with fatty acid degradation, pyruvate metabolism, arginine and proline metabolism, as well as cholesterol metabolism signaling pathways. Subsequent Protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis and Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve analysis identified four core genes closely associated with TB progression, namely Rac Family Small GTPase 1 (RAC1), Ring-Box 1 (RBX1), Mitochondrial Ribosomal Protein L33 (MRPL33), and ELAV Like RNA Binding Protein 1 (ELAVL1). Q-PCR experiments confirmed that Mtb infection led to changes in the gene expression patterns of RAC1, RBX1, MRPL33, and ELAVL1 in THP-1 cells. These four genes may serve as core biomarkers for TB progression and can be utilized in the development of more effective anti-tuberculosis drugs and host therapy.© 2025. The Author(s).
Ubiquitination is one of the most important post-translational modifications in eukaryotes. The ubiquitination cascade includes ubiquitin-activating enzymes (E1), ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes (E2), and ubiquitin ligases (E3). The E3 ligases, responsible for substrate recognition, are the most abundant and varied proteins in the cascade and the most studied. SKP1-CUL1-F-Box (SCF)-type E3 ubiquitin ligases are multi-subunit RING (Really Interesting New Gene) E3 ubiquitin ligases, composed of CUL1 (Cullin 1), RBX1 (RING BOX 1), SKP1 (S-phase Kinase-associated Protein 1), and F-box proteins. In vitro ubiquitination assays, used for studying the specific recognition of substrate proteins by E3 ubiquitin ligases, require the purification of all components involved in the cascade, and for assays with SCF-type E3 ligases, additional proteins (several SCF complex subunits). Here, the Duet expression system was used to co-express E1, E2, ubiquitin, ubiquitylation target (substrate), and the four subunits of a SCF-type E3 ligase in E. coli. When these proteins co-exist in bacterial cells, ubiquitination occurs and can be detected by Western Blot. The effectiveness of this bacterial system for detecting ubiquitination cascade activity was demonstrated by replicating both AtSCFTIR1-mediated and human SCFFBXO28-mediated ubiquitylation in bacteria. This system provides a basic but adaptable platform for the study of SCF-type E3 ubiquitin ligases.
AQP3 (aquaporin 3 (Gill blood group)), a member of the AQP family, is an aquaglyceroporin which transports water, glycerol and small solutes across the plasma membrane. Beyond its role in fluid transport, AQP3 plays a significant role in regulating various aspects of tumor cell behavior, including cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Nevertheless, the underlying regulatory mechanism of AQP3 in tumors remains unclear. Here, for the first time, we report that AQP3 is a direct target for ubiquitination by the SCFFBXW5 complex. In addition, we revealed that downregulation of FBXW5 significantly induced AQP3 expression to prompt macroautophagic/autophagic cell death in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells. Mechanistically, AQP3 accumulation induced by FBXW5 knockdown led to the degradation of PDPK1/PDK1 in a lysosomal-dependent manner, thus inactivating the AKT-MTOR pathway and inducing autophagic death in HCC. Taken together, our findings revealed a previously undiscovered regulatory mechanism through which FBXW5 degraded AQP3 to suppress autophagic cell death via the PDPK1-AKT-MTOR axis in HCC cells.Abbreviation: BafA1: bafilomycin A1; CQ: chloroquine; CRL: CUL-Ring E3 ubiquitin ligases; FBXW5: F-box and WD repeat domain containing 5; HCC: hepatocellular carcinoma; HSPA8/HSC70: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 8; 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; PDPK1/PDK1: 3-phosphoinositide dependent protein kinase 1; RBX1/ROC1: ring-box 1; SKP1: S-phase kinase associated protein 1; SCF: SKP1-CUL1-F-box protein.
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a clonal disease of plasma cells that remains, for the most part, incurable despite the advent of several novel therapeutics. The elevated expression of p27 and its association with cell-cycle arrest is speculated to be one of the major mechanisms by which MM cells escape the cytotoxic effects of therapeutic agents. In this study, we demonstrated that RBX1 silencing could inhibit MM cell growth and promote cell drug resistance. RBX1 directly interacted with and triggered the ubiquitination and degradation of p27, ultimately causing p27 reduction. Additionally, cell growth and apoptosis analysis indicated that the role of RBX1 in regulating myeloma cell proliferation and drug resistance resulted from p27 accumulation, which occurred in a Thr187 phosphorylation-dependent manner. Furthermore, the cell-cycle analysis demonstrated that RBX1 overexpression induced cells to enter the cell cycle (S-phase) and partially inhibited chemotherapeutic drugs-mediated cell cycle arrest. Notably, the forced expression of RBX1 also inhibited the cell adhesion-mediated elevation of p27 and induced the accumulation of adherent cells in apoptosis, especially the proteolytic cleavage of caspase-3. Additionally, RBX1 knockdown significantly inhibited myeloma development in SCID-Hu mice and in a human MM xenotransplant model. Overall, these in vitro and in vivo experiments indicated that the RBX1-p27 axis could be a central molecular mechanism by which RBX1 functions as a tumor promoter and stimulates cell growth in chemotherapeutic drugs treated MM cells.
Around 95% of patients with clinical features that meet the diagnostic criteria for von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL) have a detectable inactivating germline variant in VHL. The VHL protein (pVHL) functions as part of the E3 ubiquitin ligase complex comprising pVHL, elongin C, elongin B, cullin 2 and ring box 1 (VCB-CR complex), which plays a key role in oxygen sensing and degradation of hypoxia-inducible factors. To date, only variants in VHL have been shown to cause VHL disease. We undertook trio analysis by whole-exome sequencing in a proband with VHL disease but without a detectable VHL mutation. Molecular studies were also performed on paired DNA extracted from the proband's kidney tumour and blood and bioinformatics analysis of sporadic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) dataset was undertaken. A de novo pathogenic variant in ELOC NM_005648.4(ELOC):c.236A>G (p.Tyr79Cys) gene was identified in the proband. ELOC encodes elongin C, a key component [C] of the VCB-CR complex. The p.Tyr79Cys substitution is a mutational hotspot in sporadic VHL-competent RCC and has previously been shown to mimic the effects of pVHL deficiency on hypoxic signalling. Analysis of an RCC from the proband showed similar findings to that in somatically ELOC-mutated RCC (expression of hypoxia-responsive proteins, no somatic VHL variants and chromosome 8 loss). These findings are consistent with pathogenic ELOC variants being a novel cause for VHL disease and suggest that genetic testing for ELOC variants should be performed in individuals with suspected VHL disease with no detectable VHL variant.© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press.
To explore the neddylation pathway, found to be highly activated in various cancers, as a potential therapeutic target in endometrial carcinoma, one of the three most frequent malignant tumours in the female reproductive system.Data from The Cancer Genome Atlas were analysed using online servers. Expression levels of key neddylation genes were validated by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction and western blots of tumour and adjacent tissues. Underlying mechanisms and the effects on cell activities of the neddylation pathway-specific inhibitor, MLN4924, were investigated in endometrial cancer cell lines.Key neddylation enzymes, ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 M (UBC12), ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 F (UBE2F), ring-box 1 (RBX1) and ring finger protein 7 (RBX2), were significantly overexpressed in endometrial carcinoma tissues versus normal tissues, but only UBE2F and RBX2 positively correlated with patient survival. MLN4924 significantly suppressed proliferation and colony formation in EC cells by inducing DNA re-replication, cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Mechanism study revealed that MLN4924 induced the accumulation of cullin-RING ligase substrates in vitro.The neddylation pathway was identified to play an important role in endometrial cancer. The neddylation specific inhibitor, MLN4924, may be a potential therapeutic drug for endometrial carcinoma.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42421949 is a review article
Current osteoporosis (OP) therapies predominantly suppress osteoclastic bone resorption, highlighting a critical unmet need for anabolic strategies that directly stimulate bone formation. Meteorin-like (Metrnl) is a recently identified adipokine whose role in bone metabolism remains poorly defined and controversial. This study systematically investigated the expression profile, physiological function, and molecular mechanism of Metrnl in skeletal biology.An integrated approach combining clinical bone marrow specimen analysis, proteomics, single-cell RNA sequencing, and conditional genetic ablation mouse models was utilized. Skeletal phenotypes were evaluated via Micro-CT and bone histomorphometry. Intracellular molecular interactions were determined through co-immunoprecipitation and transcriptional activity assays.Clinically, Metrnl expression was significantly diminished in bone marrow samples from postmenopausal women with OP, suggesting potential relevance to human disease. In mice, Metrnl was predominantly expressed in osteoprogenitor cells, and its expression declined progressively with age. Unexpectedly, systemic knockout (n = 6 per group) of Metrnl resulted in a marked increase in trabecular bone mass (bone volume to total volume ratio [BV/TV]: 4.11 ± 0.08% vs. 3.89 ± 0.12%, p < 0.01) and bone formation rate (Bone formation rate per bone surface [BFR/BS]: 0.50 ± 0.03 vs. 0.38 ± 0.03 μm/day*100, p < 0.05) without affecting osteoclast activity. This anabolic phenotype was fully recapitulated in osteoblast-specific (Ocn-Cre) and osteoprogenitor-specific (Prx1-Cre) conditional knockout mice (n = 6 per group), which both exhibited significantly higher BV/TV (4.13 ± 0.06% and 4.04 ± 0.05%, respectively) compared to controls (3.88 ± 0.08%; p < 0.001 and p < 0.01, respectively), establishing a cell-autonomous inhibitory role of Metrnl in osteogenesis. Mechanistically, intracellular Metrnl directly interacts with the scaffold protein Receptor for activated C kinase 1 (Rack1), thereby disrupting the PKC-α-Rack1 complex, reducing Brain and Muscle ARNT-Like 1 (Bmal1) phosphorylation, and facilitating its nuclear translocation. This process subsequently upregulates transcription of the circadian clock gene Cryptochrome 2 (Cry2), thereby suppressing osteoblast differentiation.Collectively, these findings identify Metrnl as a previously unrecognized negative regulator of bone formation and uncover a Rack1-PKCα-Bmal1-Cry2 signaling axis that links circadian regulation to osteogenesis. These results establish a conceptual framework for targeting Metrnl-mediated pathways in the development of anabolic therapies for OP.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Late blight, caused by oomycete pathogen Phytophthora infestans, is one of the most devastating diseases of potato and tomato. Plant resistance to pathogens relies on a sophisticated innate immune system, which is often targeted by pathogen-derived effectors. P. infestans secretes numerous RXLR effectors to suppress host immunity. In this study, we show that the P. infestans core effector Pi05910 functions as a virulence factor and targets the host scaffold protein Receptor for Activated C Kinase 1 (RACK1), which is identified to positively regulate potato resistance to late blight. Functional analyses showed that StRACK1-silencing in potato, and tobacco rattle virus (TRV)-based virus-induced NbRACK1-silencing in Nicotiana benthamiana, consistently increased host susceptibility to P. infestans colonisation, whereas transient expression of NbRACK1 in N. benthamiana or stable overexpression of StRACK1 in potato enhanced late blight resistance. Pi05910 physically interacts with RACK1 and promotes its destabilisation via the host 26S proteasome pathway. The destabilisation of RACK1 led to the inhibition of PAMP elicitor INF1-triggered plant immune responses, including reactive oxygen species burst and expression of defence-related genes such as StWRKY7 and StWRKY8, and suppression of potato and N. benthamiana growth and global protein translation. Our findings reveal a strategy whereby a pathogen effector sabotages a key potato immune scaffold StRACK1 to promote plant susceptibility to P. infestans infection, providing new insight into mechanisms of effector-triggered plant susceptibility.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Plant Pathology published by British Society for Plant Pathology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Visual dysfunction due to optic neuritis (ON) is an early clinical manifestation of multiple sclerosis (MS). ON is characterized by inflammation of the optic nerve, demyelination, axonal damage, and retinal ganglion cell (RGC) loss. Previously, we showed that spermine oxidase (SMOX), a polyamine catabolizing enzyme, modulates visual function in an experimental model of ON. Using proteomic analysis, the present study aimed to identify SMOX-regulated molecular pathways involved in ON-associated visual dysfunction.Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) was induced in wild-type (WT) and SMOX-deficient (Smox KO) mice. Clinical scoring of mice was recorded daily. Optic nerves from WT and Smox KO EAE mice and their controls were collected and analyzed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Pathway enrichment and comparative analyses were performed to identify key processes and pathways regulated by SMOX. Immunofluorescence was performed to detect changes in the expression of key proteins.Smox KO EAE mice showed delayed and reduced clinical scores. Pathway enrichment analysis identified several key processes affected in EAE, including regulation of the actin cytoskeleton, tight junction integrity, and platelet activation/aggregation. The comparative analysis of the WT EAE and Smox KO EAE proteomes, together with false discovery rate (FDR)-corrected pathway enrichment analysis, indicated attenuation of neuroinflammatory pathways in the SMOX-deficient optic nerve. Furthermore, SMOX deficiency restored key cytoskeletal and cellular-adhesion proteins essential for neuronal integrity. Immunofluorescence studies confirmed dysregulation of receptor for activated C kinase 1 (RACK1), actinin alpha 4 (ACTN4), high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), and S100 calcium-binding protein B (S100B), critical proteins involved in immune signaling, cytoskeletal stability, and inflammation.These findings indicate the impact of SMOX on inflammation and cytoskeletal stabilization in ON and its potential as a therapeutic target in preserving vision in MS.
The scaffold protein RACK1 (Receptor for Activated C Kinase 1) integrates signaling and translation, acting as a core component of the 40S ribosomal subunit. It binds activated Protein Kinase C (PKC) isoforms and membrane receptors. We used an auxin-inducible degron (AID2) system in human HAP1 cells to selectively deplete the free (cytoplasmic) pool of RACK1. The engineered RACK1-mAID-mClover3 fusion was rapidly degraded in the cytoplasm upon addition of 5-phenyl-indole-3-acetic acid (5-Ph-IAA), while the ribosome-bound pool remained detectable in ribosomal fractions, indicating that ribosome association makes RACK1 relatively less accessible to AID2-mediated proteolysis. Upon activation of PKCβII with phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA), imaging at defined time points revealed closely matched kinetics of PKCβII membrane recruitment and membrane-proximal enrichment of ribosome-bound RACK1, peaking at ~10 min. Our data support a model in which activated PKCβII engages ribosome-bound RACK1 at membrane-proximal sites, consistent with a diffusion-capture mechanism in which PKCβII first accumulates at the membrane and then captures ribosome-bound RACK1, thereby recruiting the translational machinery to sites of signal input for membrane-proximal translation. These findings provide new insights into the spatial organization of translation.
Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS) signaling is a conserved biological process with parallel functions in all evolutionary branches of life. Here, we identify Receptor for Activated C Kinase 1 (RACK1) as a conserved redox-regulated hub that integrates ROS signals to coordinate cellular stress responses. Using cysteine reactivity profiling in intestinal epithelial cells, we demonstrate that RACK1 undergoes NOX1-dependent oxidation at multiple residues, with C286 serving as a key regulatory site. Functional studies reveal that RACK1 negatively regulates NFκB signaling through redox-dependent interactions with upstream signaling complexes. Upon stress stimulation, RACK1 dynamically redistributes into membrane-less condensates that act as redox-privileged microenvironments enriched for hydrogen peroxide. We find that oxidized RACK1 condensates are conserved through evolution with analogous stress response behavior in bacteria and yeast indicating a ubiquitous and ancient stress sensor-effector system. Functionally, redox-dependent RACK1 activity links environmental stress to translational control, with oxidation promoting inhibition of protein synthesis. Furthermore, RACK1 mediates responses to diverse pathogen-associated stimuli, including viral and bacterial infection, highlighting its role in epithelial innate immune responses. Collectively, these findings establish RACK1 as a cellular node for redox signaling, operating within condensate-based microdomains to spatially encode oxidative signals and regulate environmental stress pathways in cells.
Ureteropelvic junction obstruction (UPJO) is a frequent cause of congenital hydronephrosis. It involves both structural and functional changes at the ureteropelvic junction (UPJ), where the ureter connects with the renal pelvis. The mechanisms behind tissue remodeling and fibrosis in this condition are not fully understood. This study explores the role of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and examines how receptor for activated C kinase 1 (RACK1) may regulate this process in UPJO.Stenotic UPJ tissues were collected from patients with congenital UPJO and analyzed for EMT and RACK1 expression. An in vitro model was established using SV-HUC-1 ureteral epithelial cells treated with transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) to induce EMT. RACK1 expression was manipulated by small interfering RNA (siRNA), and changes in EMT-related markers, Smad2/3 and p65 signaling, extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins, cell proliferation, and migration were evaluated by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), western blotting, and functional assays, respectively.EMT features, including increased expression of N-cadherin, β-catenin, Vimentin, and ECM-related proteins (COL1A1, FN1, α-SMA), and decreased E-cadherin expression, were observed in both UPJO tissues and TGF-β1-treated cells. RACK1 was significantly upregulated in stenotic tissues and after TGF-β1 stimulation. RACK1 knockdown suppressed Smad2/3 and p65 activation, inhibited EMT features, and reduced cell proliferation and migration.EMT features are associated with tissue remodeling and fibrosis in congenital UPJO. RACK1 promotes TGF-β1-induced EMT through activation of Smad2/3 and p65 signaling. These findings provide new insights into the pathogenesis of UPJO and suggest RACK1 as a potential target for therapeutic intervention.© AME Publishing Company.
This study aimed to investigate the Clinicopathologic & prognostic significance of Receptor for Activated C Kinase 1 (RACK1) and Ribosomal Protein S6 (RPS6) in Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma (OSCC) through immunohistochemistry.Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumor tissues of 100 OSCC cases who were treated primarily via surgery were retrieved and immunohistochemical analysis was done for RACK1 & RPS6. Clinicopathological data was gathered for these subjects and each was followed up for a period of 5 years from initial diagnosis. Association of expression of marker with clinicopathological parameters was done using Chi-square test. Prognostic significance was evaluated with Cox proportional hazards regression, Kaplan-Meier method, and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analyses.High expression of RACK1 and RPS6 was significantly associated with age (p = .005, p = .04), nodal involvement (p = .01, p = .05), histopathological grading (p = <0.001), treatment (p = 0.04, p = 0.02), and recurrence (p = .001, p = .03). Subjects with high expression of RACK1 & RPS6 were significantly associated with reduced overall (OS), disease-free (DFS), and cancer-specific survival (CSS) (p < 0.001). Co-expression of both markers correlated with the worst prognosis in terms of OS, DFS and CSS (p < 0.001). Multivariate Cox Regression analysis showed that both the markers can serve as independent prognostic marker in OSCC. Strong positive linear correlation (R2 = 0.718) was observed between expression of RACK1 & RPS6. ROC analysis demonstrated high sensitivity and specificity of both the markers in predicting OS, DFS and CSS.The results of the present study suggest that RACK1 & RPS6 are associated with tumor progression and invasion in OSCC. Individual as well as combined expression of both the markers may be used as prognostic biomarker in OSCC for patient stratification and personalized treatment planning.© 2026 Gupta, Chaudhary, Gupta, Batra, Kumar, Iyer, Ghosh, Koner and Shrivastav.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41967623 is a review article
Chronic alcohol use and stress are major risk factors for psychiatric disorders, frequently disrupting emotion regulation and behavioral inhibition. Yet, many individuals exposed to alcohol or stress do not develop pathology, highlighting the need to identify mechanisms that confer vulnerability or resilience. Using a conditioned inhibition paradigm, we examined how prior alcohol intake and acute stress shape fear- and reward-related behavioral control. Male and female Long Evans rats underwent either intermittent two-bottle alcohol access or water-only control conditions, followed by exposure to an acute stressor or non-stress context. Animals then completed cue discrimination and conditioned inhibition training, after which corticolimbic tissue was processed for parvalbumin, somatostatin, and protein kinase C-δ (PKCδ) immunohistochemistry. Stress exposure delayed discrimination learning across groups, but all subjects ultimately distinguished reward, fear, and inhibitory cues. However, when an inhibitor cue was presented concurrently with a fear cue, females with combined alcohol and stress histories failed to suppress fear responses, unlike all other groups. Across conditions, subsets of animals displayed either resilient or non-resilient behavioral profiles, which were linked to distinctive interregional correlations of parvalbumin- and PKCδ-expressing interneurons within the corticolimbic network. These findings reveal how alcohol and stress interact to disrupt inhibitory control over fear, particularly in females, and show that resilience is associated with coordinated shifts in interneuron network organization. Our conditioned inhibition approach provides a sensitive framework for parsing the neural substrates of vulnerability and resilience across fear and reward systems.© 2026. The Author(s).
Consumption of high fat diet (HFD) is linked to reduced cardiac vagal motor output, a main contributor to progression of cardiovascular disease. HFD for 15 days increases extrasynaptic or tonic gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) current in cardiac projecting neurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (CVN DMV ), which contributes to dampening cardiac parasympathetic output. However, the mechanism underlying this increased inhibition is unknown. Here, we hypothesize that increased activity of protein kinase C δ isoform (PKCδ) enhances tonic GABA current in CVN DMV after HFD. Whole-cell patch-clamp recording of retrogradely labeled CVN DMV demonstrated that pan inhibition of PKC activity with GFX, and isoform specific inhibition of PKCδ with rottlerin normalize 15-day HFD-induced increases in tonic GABA current, suggesting that PKCδ mediates enhanced tonic inhibition. This effect persisted in the presence of dynasore, a clathrin-mediated endocytosis blocker, indicating that the normalization effect of PKCδ inhibition on tonic current in HFD is likely independent of clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Furthermore, no differences in PKCδ mRNA or protein expression were observed between NFD and HFD, suggesting a post-translational mechanism underpinning increased tonic GABA current after 15 days of HFD. Altogether, this study provides evidence that HFD-induces increased PKCδ activity, but not expression, leading to increased tonic GABAergic inhibition in CVN DMV . This increase PKCδ activity could explain the cardiac vagal motor output dampening in CVD and be developed into treatments targeting PKCδ for CVD.
Bladder cancer is characterized by high rates of recurrence and metastasis, underscoring the need for novel molecular targets. Protein kinase C delta (PKC-δ) has been implicated in tumor progression, yet its regulatory mechanisms in bladder cancer remain unclear. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) function as crucial post-transcriptional regulators, and miR-124-3p is recognized as a potent tumor suppressor that inhibits oncogenic signaling across various malignancies. However, its specific interaction with PKC-δ in bladder cancer has not been established. This study aimed to investigate the regulatory role of the miR-124-3p/PKC-δ axis in modulating the malignant phenotypes of bladder cancer cells.Human bladder cancer cell lines TSGH8301 and T24 were treated with the PKC inhibitor rottlerin or transfected with miR-124-3p mimic. Cell viability, proliferation, migration, invasion, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), and stemness were evaluated using cytotoxicity assays, Transwell assays, sphere formation assays, flow cytometry, and western blotting.Rottlerin suppressed bladder cancer cell proliferation and upregulated miR-124-3p expression. Overexpression of miR-124-3p reduced PKC-δ expression and phosphorylation, inhibited migration, invasion, EMT, and stemness, and phenocopied the effects of PKC inhibition.miR-124-3p negatively regulates PKC-δ signaling in bladder cancer cells, forming a novel miR-124-3p/PKC-δ axis that suppresses bladder cancer progression and may offer therapeutic value.Copyright © 2026, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
The adaptive mechanisms enabling cancer cells to withstand oxidative stress through metabolic rewiring remain poorly defined. Here, we decipher a redox-operated phosphorylation-SUMOylation relay that dynamically regulates glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) to drive hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progression. Oxidative stress activates protein kinase C delta (PKCδ), which phosphorylates G6PD at threonine 236 (T236), creating a steric barrier that displaces the deSUMOylase SENP1 and licenses K238 SUMOylation. This dual post-translational modification orchestrates G6PD stabilization through impaired TRIM21-mediated ubiquitination and catalytic activation via dimeric structural reorganization. Functionally, stabilized G6PD amplifies pentose phosphate pathway flux, sustaining NADPH-dependent redox balance and ribose-5-phosphate-fueled nucleotide biosynthesis to promote HCC survival under oxidative duress. Genetic disruption of K238 SUMOylation or pharmacological PKCδ inhibition synergistically enhances cisplatin efficacy by overcoming chemoresistance in preclinical models. Clinically, coordinated upregulation of G6PD and phospho-T236 correlates with aggressive HCC phenotypes and predicts poor patient outcomes. Our study identifies G6PD post-translational control as a potential metabolic vulnerability and suggests that targeted disruption of this axis may represent a promising approach to subvert redox adaptation in HCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Nuclei within the limbic system like the central amygdala (CeA) play a critical role in mediating fear, motivation, reward, and appetitive behavior. Although previous reports demonstrate the presence of the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) in limbic nuclei, how limbic neurons mediate the actions of systemically administrated GLP-1R agonists is unclear. In this study, we investigated the CeA's response to peripherally administered GLP-1R agonist Exendin-4 (Ex-4) in vivo, and determined the functional requirement of select CeA neuron populations in acute Ex-4 induced hypophagia. Using fiber photometry, we observed that Ex-4 promoted a rapid and lasting activation of CeA neurons that was blocked by pretreatment with the GLP-1R antagonist Exendin-9. We then tested the functional requirement of CeA neuron activation in mediating Ex-4 induced hypophagia of standard grain chow using inhibitory chemogenetics. Chemogenetic inhibition of all CeA neurons significantly suppressed the hypophagic actions of Ex-4. Then using selective mouse Cre-drivers, we found that chemogenetic inhibition of protein kinase c delta (PrkcdCeA) and GLP-1R (Glp1rCeA), but not somatostatin (SstCeA), neurons also attenuates the full hypophagic effect of Ex-4. Having observed that inhibition of Glp1rCeA modestly attenuated Ex-4 induced hypophagia of standard chow, we then tested whether these neurons might mediate Ex-4 suppression of energy-dense, palatable diet. We used intermittent high-fat diet (HFD) access and found that inhibition of Glp1rCeA neurons significantly rescued the reduction of HFD consumption by Ex-4. Collectively, these data demonstrate that the CeA responds to peripherally administered GLP-1R agonists and that multiple CeA neuron populations are required for the complete effect of GLP-1R agonist mediated hypophagia.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Organic dust (OD) from animal production facilities contains a complex mixture of microbial products, metabolites, and particulates that engage airway epithelial signaling pathways. Here we investigated the mechanisms by which OD extract (ODE) activates immune signaling pathways in human bronchial epithelial cells. ODE rapidly stimulate reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and a biphasic increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i), consisting of an early transient peak followed by a smaller sustained phase. Antioxidant scavenger pretreatment (glutathione, N-acetyl-cysteine) markedly attenuated both ROS production and Ca2+ mobilization, whereas induction of endogenous antioxidant defenses with bardoxolone abolished the response, indicating redox sensitivity. Pharmacologic inhibition of Gqα with YM-254890 suppressed both phases of the Ca2+ response, implicating Gq-coupled receptor activation. Consistent with an autocrine amplification mechanism, selective antagonists of histamine (H1), cysteinyl leukotriene (CysLT1 and CysLT2), leukotriene B4 (BLT1), and prostaglandin receptors (EP1) each reduced ODE-evoked Ca2+ mobilization. In parallel, inhibitors of histidine decarboxylase, 5-lipoxygenase, and cyclooxygenases (COX-1/COX-2) attenuated Ca2+ signaling, supporting rapid endogenous ligand production and secretion. Downstream of Ca2+ mobilization, ODE activated protein kinase C alpha/beta (PKCα/β) and protein kinase C delta (PKCδ) and induced robust transcription of proinflammatory cytokine and chemokine mRNAs (IL1β, IL6, IL8, IL33, TNFα) within 2 h of exposure. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay confirmed increased secretion of IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, and IL-33, with differential sensitivity to PKC isoforms and NF-κB inhibition. These findings identify a redox-sensitive G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) network that amplifies Gq-dependent Ca2+ signaling in airway epithelial cells and provides a mechanistic framework for epithelial inflammatory activation following ROS-inducing environmental exposures.NEW & NOTEWORTHY This study investigates how agricultural organic dust promotes airway inflammation. We show that organic dust extract rapidly induces ROS production along with a biphasic Ca2+ response through a redox-sensitive, Gq-coupled G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) network involving histamine, leukotrienes, and prostaglandins. This signaling cascade activates PKC isoforms that trigger production and secretion of inflammatory cytokines, linking oxidative stress to Ca2+-dependent inflammatory responses by the airway epithelium following organic dust exposure.
Neurons in the oval subnucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (ovBNST) integrate stress and reward signals to regulate motivated behaviors, including food consumption. However, the contribution of specific ovBNST neuronal subpopulations remains poorly understood. Here, we investigated Vipr2-expressing ovBNST neurons using chemogenetics, immunohistochemistry, and viral circuit mapping.We used stimulatory hM3Dq DREADDs (designer receptors exclusively activated by designer drugs) to chemogenetically activate ovBNST Vipr2 neurons and assess effects on food intake. cFos activation was quantified in Vipr2-tdTomato reporter mice following several feeding-related manipulations, including food restriction (FR). Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) innervation of the ovBNST was analyzed under FR conditions. Given previous reports of reduced food intake following stimulation of ovBNST neurons expressing protein kinase C delta (PKCδ), immunostaining was performed to examine the overlap between Vipr2- and PKCδ-expressing neuronal populations. Cre-dependent anterograde viral tracing was used to map projections of ovBNST Vipr2 neurons.We found that chemogenetic activation of ovBNST Vipr2 neurons significantly increased food intake. Additionally, FR robustly activated ovBNST Vipr2 neurons as indicated by increased cFos expression, and FR was associated with decreased VIP innervation of the ovBNST. Immunostaining revealed that Vipr2 and PKCδ mark largely non-overlapping neuronal subpopulations in the ovBNST, consistent with their opposing effects on feeding. Finally, Cre-dependent anterograde viral tracing showed that ovBNST Vipr2 neurons project prominently to the parasubthalamic nucleus and paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, both key feeding-related regions.Together, these results identify ovBNST Vipr2 neurons as a functionally distinct BNST subpopulation that promotes feeding, is activated by FR, and links ovBNST neuropeptide signaling to hypothalamic feeding centers.© 2026 The Authors.
Metastasis is the principal cause of mortality in breast cancer, but therapies specifically targeting metastatic mechanisms are scarce. In triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), hypoxia within the tumor microenvironment (TME) promotes endothelial dysfunction, increasing vascular permeability and facilitating cancer cell intravasation. This study presents a microfluidic-based idealized microvascular on-chip (iMVoC) model utilizing human umbilical vein endothelial cells and TNBC cells (SUM159PTX) to model a hypoxic TME. This model mimicked dynamic flow perfusion, promoting endothelial alignment along the flow direction, while supporting 3D tumor structures exhibiting varying oxygen levels in the tissue compartment. The iMVoC model enabled cell-cell interactions and the exchange of media and nutrients between compartments. Hypoxia was confirmed by increased nuclear translocation of hypoxia inducible factors (HIF)-1α and HIF-2α in TNBC cells, indicating hypoxia-based signaling. Hypoxia-induced endothelial cell (EC) inflammation was validated through elevated permeability, upregulation of adhesion molecules, and increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, suggesting activation of the HIF-ROS pathway. Enhanced tumor cell intravasation was observed across inflamed endothelium, and cytokine profiling further confirmed EC activation through inflammatory signaling. Application of the protein kinase C delta (PKCδ) inhibitor (PKCδ-TAT) significantly mitigated these effects, shifting HIF localization from the nucleus to the cytoplasm, reducing ROS production, downregulating inflammatory cytokines, and lowering TNBC intravasation. These findings demonstrate PKCδ as a key mediator linking hypoxia to EC dysfunction and tumor dissemination. Protecting EC barrier integrity emerges as a promising strategy to mitigate hypoxia-driven TNBC metastasis, with the iMVoC platform offering a valuable tool for testing anti-cancer therapeutics or drug combinations involving PKCδ-TAT.© 2025 The Author(s). Bioengineering & Translational Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Institute of Chemical Engineers.
Phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) biosynthesis is critical for membrane biology and cellular homeostasis. However, its specific role in antiviral innate immunity remains poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that inhibition of phosphoethanolamine cytidylyltransferase 2 (PCYT2), a key enzyme in PE biosynthesis, promotes TBK1 activation to enhance the antiviral innate immune response. Mechanistically, PCYT2 deficiency leads to the accumulation of diacylglycerol, which activates protein kinase C-δ (PKCδ). We identify PKCδ as a direct kinase for TBK1 and demonstrate that it binds to and phosphorylates TBK1 at Ser716. This Ser716 phosphorylation facilitates the subsequent canonical phosphorylation of TBK1 at Ser172, resulting in hyperactivation of the TBK1-IRF3 axis. Our findings uncover a link between PE metabolism and antiviral innate immunity, suggesting that targeting the PE biosynthesis pathway could be a potential therapeutic strategy against viral infections.
Leniolisib, a selective phosphoinositide 3-kinase δ (PI3Kδ) inhibitor, is approved in several countries for the treatment of activated PI3Kδ syndrome (APDS) in patients 12 years of age and older. We report the first successful compassionate use of leniolisib in another inborn error of immunity, protein kinase C δ deficiency. In addition to infectious complications, the 14-year-old patient experienced lymphoproliferation in the form of splenomegaly, lymphadenopathy, and thymic hyperplasia; trilineage cytopenia; multiple forms of autoimmunity; and interstitial lung disease. Decision to initiate treatment with leniolisib was based on multiorgan-disease progression, lack of therapeutic alternatives, molecular evidence, overlap with APDS manifestations, and mammalian target of rapamycin hyperactivity. We observed improvement in lymphoproliferation, cytopenias, hepatic cytolysis, skin manifestations, pulmonary function, favorable changes in immunophenotypes, and no known drug-related adverse events. This experience supports expanding Leniolisib's potential indications to appropriately selected patients and conditions. Broader repurposing strategies for targeted therapies in diseases involving dysregulated PI3K signaling should be systematically evaluated in clinical trials.© 2026 Lodi et al.
Aberrant activation of the Sonic Hedgehog (SHH)-glioma-associated oncogene 1 (GLI1) signaling pathway is a determinant driver of basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and SHH-subgroup medulloblastoma (MBSHH). Here, we demonstrate the role of S-palmitoylation and depalmitoylation of GLI1 in the regulation of incidence and progression of MBSHH. High expression of acyltransferase ZDHHC13 in MBSHH induces S-palmitoylation of human GLI1 at Cys1034, stabilizes GLI1 by preventing its ubiquitin-dependent proteasomal degradation, and in turn activates this signaling pathway to promote the progression of MBSHH. Conversely, the deacylase ABHD17A depalmitoylates GLI1 at Cys1034, destabilizes GLI1, and in turn inactivates this signaling pathway. As a result, conditional knockout of Zdhhc13 in cerebellar granule neuron precursors (GNPs) significantly alleviates the severity of MBSHH induced by constitutively active Smoothened (Smo-M2) overexpression and markedly extends overall survival, whereas knockout of Abhd17a increases the incidence of MBSHH induced by Patched-1 ablation, rather than its progression. Together, these findings uncover the dynamic regulation of GLI1 palmitoylation and depalmitoylation by the ZDHHC13 and ABHD17A and subsequent GLI1 stabilization and destabilization as a hitherto uncharacterized mechanism controlling SHH/GLI1 signaling and may provide additional targets for therapeutic intervention of MBSHH.© 2026. The Author(s).
Gorlin-Goltz syndrome, also called Basal cell nevus syndrome (BCNS), Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome (NBCCS), or Basal nevus cell carcinoma syndrome (BNCCS) is a rare, inherited, autosomal dominant genodermatoses, with variable expression and complete penetrance, characterized by the occurrence of multiple basal cell carcinomas (BCCs) at a young age, palmoplantar pits, keratocystic odontogenic tumors, intracranial ectopic calcifications, facial dysmorphism, and ocular and skeletal anomalies. It occurs due to a defective hedgehog cell signaling pathway, caused by heterozygous germ-line mutations in either Patched 1 (PTCH1), Suppressor of fused (SUFU), Smoothened (SMO), or Patched 2 (PTCH2) genes, leading to tumorigenesis and various developmental anomalies. Because of variable phenotypic expression, the syndrome is difficult to diagnose and is often diagnosed late, increasing the risk of morbidity and rarely mortality in the patients. The gene mutated also determines the phenotypic expression of the syndrome. Detection of the gene mutated plays an important role in, antenatal diagnosis, confirming the diagnosis when in doubt clinically and predictive diagnosis in family members of the affected individuals, which helps us to diagnose the syndrome early, hence screen for various clinical manifestations at the appropriate age according to the gene that is mutated and initiate early treatment to reduce morbidity and mortality.Copyright: © 2026 Indian Journal of Dermatology.
The liver is a common primary cancer site in humans. Actin-related protein 6 (ACTR6) plays a key role in liver cancer. The aim of this study was to further explore the regulatory molecular mechanism of ACTR6 in liver cancer.In this study, hepatoma cell HuH-7 was evaluated by 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine staining, colony formation, Transwell assay, and wound healing assay. The possible mechanism of the action of ACTR6 on hepatocellular carcinoma cells was evaluated by analyzing sphere formation, the key factors of the Hedgehog (Hh) signaling pathway, and molecules related to cell stemness. Then, xenografted mouse tumor models were used to demonstrate the promotion effect of ACTR6 on liver cancer in vivo.ACTR6 was highly expressed in HuH-7h and HepG2 cells (P < 0.001). Silencing ACTR6 inhibited the migration, invasion capacity, and activity of HuH-7 (P < 0.01). ACTR6 activated the Hh signaling pathway by upregulating the expression of Sonic Hedgehog, patched 1, smoothened, and glioma-associated transcription factor 1. In addition, ACTR6 increased the molecular level of cell stemness by increasing the level of cellular myelocytomatosis oncogene, octamer-binding transcription factor 4, Nanog homeobox, and SRY-box transcription factor 2. Vismodegib reversed the promoting effect of ACTR6 on the Hh signaling pathway and stem-related proteins in cells.ACTR6 regulates the molecular basis of stemness maintenance of liver cancer cells through the Hh signaling pathway and promotes the occurrence of liver cancer. This study provides possible targets for the clinical treatment of liver cancer.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic, progressive lung disease, marked by excessive fibrosis and activation of developmental signaling pathways. Candesartan (CAN), an angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1R) blocker, is primarily used to treat hypertension but also exhibits antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anti-apoptotic effects. AT1R signaling promotes fibrosis through upregulation of transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β). Chlorogenic acid (CGA), a natural antioxidant derived from caffeic and quinic acids, mitigates oxidative stress and inhibits TGF-β-induced apoptosis through glycogen synthase kinase-3β (GSK-3β). The current study aimed to evaluate the effects of CAN (10 mg/kg), CGA (15 mg/kg), and their combination in a bleomycin (BLM)-induced pulmonary fibrosis rat model, focusing on modulation of the Hedgehog signaling pathway. Treatment with CAN, CGA, and their combination significantly reversed BLM-induced elevation in proinflammatory cytokines interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and interleukin-6 (IL-6), restored alveolar and bronchiolar architecture, decreased collagen deposition, and downregulated TGF-β expression, indicating anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic effects. Importantly, all treatments suppressed Hedgehog pathway activation by downregulating Sonic hedgehog (Shh) and Patched 1 (Ptch1) gene expression, along with reduced expression of glioma-associated oncogene homologs (Gli) 1 and Gli3. Increased levels of Gli3 repressor (Gli3-REP) and decreased GSK-3β phosphorylation further confirmed Hedgehog pathway inhibition. In conclusion, the current study provides the first evidence that CAN, CGA, and their combination modulate the Hedgehog pathway, suggesting their potential as novel therapeutic strategies for IPF.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ashwagandha (W. somnifera), known for its broad health benefits, has shown potential in cancer prevention and treatment. The aim of this study was to investigate the potential effect of ashwagandha aqueous extract (ASH-AE) on cell proliferation and therapy resistance markers in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). An in vitro study was conducted using the HepG2 cell line. The HepG2 cells were divided into 4 groups according to the treatment regimen received. ASH-AE was extracted from the whole plant and characterized by GC-MS and HPLC. HepG2 cell viability was determined for all groups. The protein expression of cluster of differentiation 90 (CD90) was determined by flow cytometry technique. Also, the gene expression of Sonic Hedgehog (SHH), Patched 1(PTCH1) and ATP-binding cassette subfamily C1 (ABCC1) was assayed by qRT-PCR. The protein expression and localization of glioma-associated oncogene 1 (Gli1) in HepG2 cells were determined by immunocytochemistry (ICC) assay. The results indicated that ASH-AE either alone or in combination with sorafenib (SOR) significantly reduced HepG2 cell viability in a concentration dependent manner (P ˂0.001) with IC50 was 6.65 mg/ml for ASH-AE, 11.3 µM for SOR, and 5.6 mg/ml + 18.6 µM for ASH-AE in combination with SOR. Moreover, SOR significantly increased the percentage of CD90+ cells and Gli1 protein expression and nuclear translocation as well as ABCC1 gene expression compared to untreated cells. On the other hand, ASH-AE either alone or in combination with SOR significantly decreased the percentage of CD90+ cells and Gli1 expression and nuclear translocation as well as SHH, PTCH1 and ABCC1 gene expression compared to untreated cells and that treated with SOR. We concluded for the first time that the combination of SOR and ASH-AE generates antagonistic antitumor effect in HepG2 cells. Moreover, ASH-AE can inhibit proliferation of HepG2 cells and mitigate sorafenib-induced resistance-associated markers in HepG2 cells by targeting CD90+ cells via Hedgehog pathway modulation.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41478811 is a review article
Basal cell nevus syndrome (Gorlin syndrome) is a rare genetic condition characterized by multiple basal cell carcinomas, often arising before age 20.  Most cases result from a mutation in the patched 1 gene-part of the sonic hedgehog pathway. Rarely, this condition is related to a suppressor of fused gene mutation, which occurs downstream from Smoothened, and is unresponsive to Smoothened inhibitors including vismodegib and sonidegib. Notably, basal cell nevus syndrome, secondary to a suppressor of fused gene mutation, is associated with a higher incidence of childhood medulloblastoma with implications for the patient and offspring.  A 72-year-old man with pearly papules coalescing into plaques across the nose and cheeks presented. The lesions had appeared as a teenager, and the patient reported his sister had similar lesions. Five biopsies, reviewed by three dermatopathologists, were consistent with basal cell carcinoma. Genetic testing was negative for patched 1 and patched 2 mutations but positive for a heterozygous suppressor of fused mutation. Patients with basal cell nevus syndrome should be treated with surgical excision, counseled on sun protection, screened and monitored for complications, and treated with vismodegib (if associated with patched 1 mutation) or itraconazole (if associated with suppressor of fused mutation).
Traumatic brain injury (TBI)-a serious brain damage caused by accidents, falls, and sports-causes vasogenic edema, neuroinflammation, and neurological dysfunction resulting from blood-brain barrier disruption. Sonic hedgehog (Shh), a secretory protein belonging to the hedgehog family, protects cerebrovascular and neuronal function via the patched-1 (Ptch-1)-smoothened (Smo)-Gli pathway. In this study, we investigated the effects of Smo agonists (Shh and SAG) and antagonist (Jervine) on vasogenic edema, neuroinflammation, and neurological dysfunction in mice following TBI. Male ddy mice (8 weeks old) were used to minimize the influence of gonadal hormones on the results. A TBI model was established by inflicting a fluid percussion injury (FPI) on mouse cerebrum or cultured cells. Shh expression increased in mouse cerebrums and cultured astrocytes after FPI. Vasogenic edema was assessed by Evans blue extravasation into brain tissue and increased brain water content. Evans blue extravasation and brain water content increased after FPI. Repeated intracerebroventricular administration of recombinant Shh reduced Evans blue extravasation and brain water content in the cerebrum after FPI, whereas treatment with Jervine, an Smo antagonist, aggravated these conditions. Recombinant Shh administration also decreased the expression of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines in the cerebrum after FPI. Notably, repeated intravenous administration of SAG, a small-molecule Smo agonist, reduced FPI-induced vasogenic edema and neuroinflammation, and improved neurological dysfunction in mice. Furthermore, SAG treatment increased the expression of vascular protective factors and tight junction proteins. These results suggest that Smo agonists are promising therapeutic agents for TBI.© 2025 The Author(s). The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
The National Cancer Institute Molecular Analysis for Therapy Choice (NCI-MATCH) (EAY131, ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT02465060) trial pairs patients with targeted therapies on the basis of tumor genomic alterations. Subprotocol T assessed vismodegib, a hedgehog pathway inhibitor, in patients with Patched-1 (PTCH1) and Smoothened (SMO) alterations (excluding basal cell carcinoma).Eligible patients received oral vismodegib (150 mg daily) until progression or toxicity. The primary end point was objective response rate, with secondary end points including 6-month progression-free survival (PFS), survival, and predictive biomarkers. Optional plasma for cell-free DNA analysis was collected at enrollment, on treatment, and at progression.From June 2016 to September 2020, 34 patients enrolled; 31 eligible patients (nine SMO, 22 PTCH1) received treatment, with 25 confirmed by the central NCI-MATCH assay (primary analysis cohort). Median age of the 31 eligible patients was 64 years, with 48.4% being women. Sixty-one percent received ≥3 previous therapies and 74% had multiple co-occurring mutations. Objective response rate was 8% (2/25 [90% CI, 1.4 to 23.1]) in the primary analysis cohort and 6.5% (2/31 [90% CI, 1.2 to 19]) overall. Partial responses occurred in soft tissue sarcoma (PTCH1) and meningioma (SMO), with response durations of 19 and 9.23 months, respectively. Six-month PFS rates were similar (24%, 23.2%), with an identical median PFS of 1.8 months and median overall survival of 7.3 months for the analyzable and primary analysis patient cohorts. Four patients (12.9%) discontinued therapy because of adverse events. Common toxicities included grade 1-2 fatigue, anorexia, weight loss, alopecia, and dysgeusia. Four on-study deaths occurred, none treatment-related.Vismodegib was well tolerated with mainly grade 1-2 toxicities, but it did not meet the primary end point. Select patients with specific SMO and PTCH1 alterations had notable responses, warranting further comprehensive molecular analyses to elucidate resistance mechanisms.
This study evaluated the morphogenesis of the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) in human fetuses during the third month of gestation through the analysis of immunohistochemistry for the proteins Indian Hedgehog (IHH), Patched-1 (PTCH1), and Smoothened (SMO). These proteins are critical components of the Hedgehog signaling pathway in the embryonic development. Together, they transduce essential intracellular signals for cartilage and bone development and regulate chondrocyte differentiation and growth as part of the synergistic molecular mechanisms that converge to form synovial joints, including the TMJ. A prospective observational study was conducted on six human fetuses at fetal stages ranging from 30 to 80 mm greatest length (estimated to range between 9 and 12 weeks gestational age). Hematoxylin-eosin staining was used for morphological analysis, and protein immunostaining was assessed through immunohistochemistry. The percentage of immunostaining was quantified using digital image analysis with ImageJ software. IHH immunostaining peaked at the 30 mm stage (4.63%), decreased at 60 mm (2.16%), increased at 70 mm (3.70%), and declined again at 80 mm (2.75%). PTCH1 showed the highest immunostaining at 30 mm (5.35%), with a progressive decrease to its lowest level at 80 mm (1.18%). SMO immunostaining was highest at 30 mm (4.07%), decreased at 60 mm (1.80%), and increased at 70 mm (2.63%) and 80 mm (3.52%). Strong correlations were found between IHH and PTCH1 (rho = 0.70) and between IHH and SMO (rho = 0.70), while PTCH1 and SMO showed a moderate correlation (rho = -0.30). These findings highlight the dynamic protein activity and their critical roles in TMJ morphogenesis.© 2025 The Author(s). The Anatomical Record published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Association for Anatomy.
Protein acetylation is increasingly recognized as a key regulator of tumor progression, yet natural compounds capable of modulating this modification remain poorly defined. Apigenin, a dietary flavonoid suppresses bladder cancer progression based on in vitro functional assays and dynamic xenograft models. Mechanistically, we applied an integrated multi-omics approach to unravel that apigenin enhances SIRT6-mediated deacetylation of Nuclear Receptor Coactivator 2 (NCOA2), leading to site-specific deacetylation of NCOA2 at lysine 780 and 785. This modification potentiates PPARα transcriptional activity, reprograms cellular energy metabolism, and disrupts mitochondrial membrane potential. Clinically, reduced SIRT6 expression coupled with elevated NCOA2 and mitochondrial/β-oxidation markers correlates with metastatic progression in bladder cancer. Together, these findings identify a previously unrecognized SIRT6-NCOA2-PPARα signaling axis as a metabolic vulnerability in bladder cancer.© The author(s).
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is of the most prevalent complications among diabetic patients. The potential role of interleukin 15 (IL-15) in modulating immune cell function and angiogenesis has drawn considerable attention. Nevertheless, the precise mechanism through which IL-15 operates in DR remains elusive.The GSE185011 and GSE221521 data sets were harnessed to screen for upregulated genes in the blood and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of patients with DR. The GSE236333 and GSE179568 data sets were used to identify upregulated genes in retinal tissues. In the clinical investigation, IL-15 was detected in T and B lymphocytes, as well as in monocytes/macrophages within the PBMCs of patients. Human retinal microvascular endothelial cells and human umbilical vein endothelial cells were either cocultured with the monocyte/macrophage cell line THP-1 under high-glucose (HG) conditions or treated with IL-15.Among the three cell types in PBMCs, monocytes/macrophages exhibited the most substantial upregulation of IL-15 under HG conditions. In vitro, IL-15 secreted by THP-1 cells augmented the STAT5 in human retinal microvascular endothelial cells and human umbilical vein endothelial cells, thereby enhancing their angiogenic potential. Inhibition of STAT5 expression counteracted the proangiogenic effect of IL-15 on endothelial cells and diminished the expression of epithelial cell adhesion molecule 1 (EFNA1). After the knockdown of nuclear receptor coactivator 2 (NCOA2), the binding affinity of STAT5 to the EFNA1 gene promoter was significantly attenuated, and the influence of IL-15 on EFNA1 expression and angiogenesis was markedly reduced. Intriguingly, knockdown of either EFNA1 or NCOA2 led to a concurrent decrease in the expression of both genes in endothelial cells, suggesting a positive feedback regulatory loop between them.IL-15 secreted by monocytes/macrophages activates STAT5, which in turn induces a positive feedback regulation of the EFNA1/NCOA2 axis, ultimately promoting retinal angiogenesis under HG conditions.Copyright © 2025 Molecular Vision.
Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are responsible for replenishing blood cells under stress conditions through increasing proliferation and differentiation. After the hematopoietic function has reconstructed, HSCs must re-enter a quiescent state to avoid their depletion, whereas the underlying mechanisms remain to be elucidated. Here, we show that the translocation of nuclear receptor coactivator 2 (NCOA2) into the nucleus is gradually increased in HSCs during the hematopoietic recovery phase after sub-lethal dose irradiation (IR). Although deletion of NCOA2 only slightly affects the steady state hematopoiesis, its deficiency leads to HSC pool exhaustion and delayed hematopoietic recovery after exposure to IR. Further investigations reveal that loss of NCOA2 decreases the quiescence, survival, and long-term reconstituting ability of HSCs following IR due to increased mitochondria-derived oxidative stress. Mechanistically, NCOA2 promotes the clearance of activated or damaged mitochondria by coactivating FOXO3a-dependent transcription of PINK1, which drives HSCs to return to quiescence after being activated by IR stress. Collectively, our findings demonstrate a critical role of NCOA2 in facilitating the restoration of HSC homeostasis after IR via the FOXO3a-PINK1-mediated mitophagy axis and thus provide an additional strategy to prevent hematopoietic failure induced by IR.© 2026 The Author(s). HemaSphere published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Hematology Association.
Myocyte-specific enhancer factor 2D gene and nuclear receptor coactivator 2 gene fusion (MEF2D::NCOA2) was recently reported in 2 vulvovaginal myxoid epithelioid smooth muscle tumors. We aimed to perform an integrated approach combining clinical, morphologic, immunohistochemical, and molecular profiling analyses, including targeted RNA sequencing, targeted gene expression analysis profiling with clustering, DNA mutational analysis, and array comparative genomic hybridization in a series of 3 MEF2D::NCOA2 fusion-associated vulvovaginal tumors, to better describe this entity. The median age at diagnosis was 45 years. Tumors were well circumscribed and located deeply within the vulva, vaginal wall, or between the bladder and the vagina (1/3, 33.3% each). The median size of tumors was 2.5 cm. All tumors had a similar morphology, reminiscent of smooth muscle tumor with prominent myxoid stromal changes (3/3, 100%). Tumor cells were haphazardly arranged in short fascicles and were mostly spindle cells. Microcystic spaces lined by epithelioid cells and/or sheets of epithelioid cells were observed in all tumors (3/3, 100%), associated with a myxoid background. Cytologic atypia was none to mild, and the mitotic counts were always low (≤1 mitosis/high-power fields). Immunohistochemistry found smooth muscle actin, desmin, h-caldesmon, estrogen receptors, and CD34 to be intensely and diffusely expressed in all tumors (3/3, 100%). A MEF2D::NCOA2 transcript was observed in all tumors (3/3, 100%), which was the driver of molecular alteration. No pathogenic variants were found, and array comparative genomic hybridization found simple genomic profiles for all tumors (3/3, 100%). On targeted gene expression analysis, MEF2D::NCOA2 fusion-associated tumors clustered distinctly from other gynecologic mimickers and neoplasms with myxoid stromal changes (vulvovaginal leiomyomas, myxoid vulvovaginal leiomyomas, deep angiomyxomas, myxoid leiomyosarcomas, myxoid endometrial stromal sarcomas, and inflammatory myofibroblastic tumors). The signaling pathways involved in this entity included the expression of genes encoding smooth muscle phenotype proteins, favoring a smooth muscle (myoid) differentiation. All patients were alive and free of disease at the last follow-up. To conclude, vulvovaginal MEF2D::NCOA2 fusion-associated tumors are distinct and emerging entities, with a rather indolent behavior.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sepsis can trigger systemic inflammation and lead to detrimental effects on several organs, with particular emphasis on the lungs. In sepsis-associated lung injury, macrophages assume a pivotal role, as their overactivation could facilitate the secretion of inflammatory factors and the imbalance of polarization. Hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 alpha (HNF4A) has been reported its potential involvement in the regulation of inflammatory response and macrophage polarization. This study discusses the role and mechanism of HNF4A in sepsis-induced lung damage. HNF4A exhibits a decrease in expression by analyzing the differentially expressed genes in the lungs of septic mice from the Gene Expression Omnibus dataset GSE15379. Then, we established a mouse sepsis model through a cecal ligation and puncture method and observed that the expression of HNF4A was reduced in both lung tissues and alveolar macrophages. To evaluate the function of HNF4A, we overexpressed HNF4A mediated by adenovirus vectors, which were injected into mice. We found that HNF4A overexpression resulted in a higher survival rate in septic mice and an amelioration of pulmonary damage. Meanwhile, HNF4A overexpression mitigated the infiltration of inflammatory cells and impeded the M1 polarization but facilitated the M2 polarization of macrophages in the lung tissues or the alveolar lavage fluid. In vitro, we treated bone marrow-derived macrophages with interleukin-4. Consistent results were obtained that HNF4A overexpression promoted the M2 polarization of macrophages. Mechanistically, we found that HNF4A transcriptionally regulate the expression of nuclear receptor coactivator 2 (NCOA2) through binding to its promoter region. NCOA2 interacted with glucocorticoid receptor (GR). Stabilin 1 (STAB1) was selected as a possible target by transcriptome sequencing analysis. Functional experiments confirmed STAB1 as a downstream target of the HNF4A/NCOA2/GR axis. Overall, this research investigated the potential impact of HNF4A on pulmonary injury in sepsis. It is suggested that one of the regulatory mechanisms involved in this association may be the NCOR2/GR/STAB1 axis.© 2025. The Author(s).
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a life-threatening disease for which there is no cure. Traditional Chinese medicine is a treasure trove of Medicinals that has been used for thousands of years. In China, the traditional herb pair, Curcumae Rhizoma and Sparganii Rhizoma (CR-SR) represent a classic herbal combination used for the treatment of HCC. However, the drug targets and pharmacological mechanism of action of CR-SR in the treatment of HCC are unclear. To address this, we screened the active components and drug targets of CR-SR from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology (TCMSP) database and a high-throughput experiment- and reference-guided database of traditional Chinese medicines (HERB database). Combined with the weighted co-expression network analysis of dataset GSE76427, we constructed an active component-target-disease regulatory network. It was found that CR-SR's active components for HCC treatment included trans-gondoic acid, beta-sitosterol, stigmasterol, hederagenin, and formononetin. These compounds specifically targeted the genes Estrogen Receptor 1 (ESR1), Cyclin A2 (CCNA2), Checkpoint Kinase 1 (CHEK1), and Nuclear Receptor Coactivator 2 (NCOA2). ESR1, CCNA2, and CHEK1 genes showed significant differences in survival prognosis, expression levels, and statistical significance during the pathological stage. Moreover, their high affinity for formononetin was determined through molecular docking analysis. Cell assays and high-throughput sequencing were performed to reveal that the inhibitory effect of formononetin on HepG2 cell proliferation was related to hepatocyte metabolism and cell cycle regulation-related pathways. This study provides insights into potential HCC treatments.© 2023 The Authors. Chemical Biology & Drug Design published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Nuclear receptor coactivator 2 (Ncoa2) is a member of the Ncoa family of coactivators, and we previously showed that Ncoa2 regulates the differentiation of induced regulatory T cells. However, it remains unknown if Ncoa2 plays a role in CD8+ T-cell function. Here, we show that Ncoa2 promotes CD8+ T cell-mediated immune responses against tumors by stimulating T-cell activation via upregulating PGC-1α expression to enhance mitochondrial function. Mice deficient in Ncoa2 in T cells (Ncoa2fl/fl/CD4Cre) displayed defective immune responses against implanted MC38 tumors, which associated with significantly reduced tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells and decreased IFNγ production. Consistently, CD8+ T cells from Ncoa2fl/fl/CD4Cre mice failed to reject tumors after adoptive transfer into Rag1-/- mice. Further, in response to TCR stimulation, Ncoa2fl/fl/CD4Cre CD8+ T cells failed to increase mitochondrial mass, showed impaired oxidative phosphorylation, and had lower expression of PGC-1α, a master regulator of mitochondrial biogenesis and function. Mechanically, T-cell activation-induced phosphorylation of CREB triggered the recruitment of Ncoa2 to bind to enhancers, thus, stimulating PGC-1α expression. Forced expression of PGC-1α in Ncoa2fl/fl/CD4Cre CD8+ T cells restored mitochondrial function, T-cell activation, IFNγ production, and antitumor immunity. This work informs the development of Ncoa2-based therapies that modulate CD8+ T cell-mediated antitumor immune responses.©2023 American Association for Cancer Research.
T cell activation stimulates substantially increased protein synthesis activity to accumulate sufficient biomass for cell proliferation. The protein synthesis is fueled by the amino acids transported from the environment. Steroid nuclear receptor coactivator 2 (SRC2) is a member of a family of transcription coactivators. Here, we show that SRC2 recruited by c-Myc enhances CD4+ T cell activation to stimulate immune responses via upregulation of amino acid transporter Slc7a5. Mice deficient of SRC2 in T cells (SRC2fl/fl/CD4Cre) are resistant to the induction of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and susceptible to Citrobacter rodentium (C. rodentium) infection. Adoptive transfer of naive CD4+ T cells from SRC2fl/fl/CD4Cre mice fails to elicit EAE and colitis in Rag1/ recipients. Further, CD4+ T cells from SRC2fl/fl/CD4Cre mice display defective T cell proliferation, cytokine production, and differentiation both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanically, SRC2 functions as a coactivator to work together with c-Myc to stimulate the expression of amino acid transporter Slc7a5 required for T cell activation. Slc7a5 fails to be up-regulated in CD4+ T cells from SRC2fl/fl/CD4Cre mice, and forced expression of Slc7a5 rescues proliferation, cytokine production, and the ability of SRC2fl/fl/CD4Cre CD4+ T cells to induce EAE. Therefore, SRC2 is essential for CD4+ T cell activation and, thus, a potential drug target for controlling CD4+ T cell-mediated autoimmunity.
Fetal growth restriction (FGR) is one of the most common fetal complications during pregnancy in the obstetrics department, with poor therapeutic efficacy. The local inflammatory response of the placenta has gradually become known as the main mechanism for the occurrence and development of FGR. The aim of this study was to improve the knowledge of placental inflammatory response mechanisms in regulating gene expression.The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in FGR patients were analyzed through bioinformatics analysis. The expression of gene level was detected by immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The proliferation, migration, and apoptosis of HTR-8/SVneo trophoblast cells stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) was performed by Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay, clone formation assay, Transwell assay, and flow cytometry. The mechanisms of gene expression in regulating placental inflammatory response were elucidated by western blotting.Nuclear receptor coactivator 2 (NCOA2) was identified as a very critical gene in the progression of FGR by bioinformatics analysis and the expression of NCOA2 was shown to be down-regulated in FGR patients. Overexpression of NCOA2 promoted the proliferation, migration, and inhibited apoptosis and pro-inflammatory cytokines secretion in HTR-8/SVneo trophoblast cells stimulated with LPS via the nuclear factor (NF)-κB pathway. In addition, leptin was increased in both tissue and peripheral blood samples of FGR patients, and overexpression of NCOA2 inhibited the secretion of leptin in HTR-8/SVneo trophoblast cells stimulated with LPS.All these findings suggest that NCOA2-induced secretion of leptin leads to FGR progression via the NF-κB pathway and provides a clinical therapeutic target in FGR and a potent marker for the identification of FGR.2023 Annals of Translational Medicine. All rights reserved.
Angiofibroma of soft tissue (AFST) is a rare benign soft-tissue tumor that most frequently occurs in the lower extremities. It has a characteristic genetic feature with a balanced chromosomal translocation t(5;8)(p15;q13), resulting in a fusion of aryl hydrocarbon receptor repressor (AHRR) and nuclear receptor coactivator 2 (NCOA2).A 55-year-old woman presented with a 2-year history of left knee pain and recently noticed the development of a palpable mass. Magnetic resonance imaging exhibited a well-defined intra-articular mass with iso-signal intensity relative to skeletal muscle on T1-weighted sequences, heterogeneous high signal intensity on T2-weighted sequences and avid, diffuse enhancement on contrast-enhanced fat-suppressed T1-weighted sequences. After an ultrasound-guided core needle biopsy, the lesion was successfully treated by arthroscopically-assisted complete excision. Histologically, the tumor was composed of uniform bland spindle cells in a myxoid to collagenous stroma with a prominent vascular network. Immunohistochemically, the spindle cells were diffusely positive for CD163 and CD68 and focally positive for estrogen receptor. Moreover, AHRR-NCOA2 fusion gene was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. There has been no clinical evidence of local recurrence at 1-year follow-up.This is the first report of the detection of an AHRR-NCOA2 gene fusion associated with intra-articular AFST. AFST should be included in the extended differential diagnosis of an intra-articular soft-tissue mass, particularly if the mass is vascular.Copyright 2022, International Institute of Anticancer Research.
Kinesin Family Member 7 (KIF7) regulates ciliary integrity. Cilia-mediated sonic hedgehog signalling regulates tooth number, position, and morphology. The objective of the study was to investigate whether KIF7 variants could contribute to the formation of supernumerary teeth.Whole-exome sequencing was performed on 153 individuals from 130 families with isolated supernumerary tooth types. Immunohistochemistry of Kif7 expression during early odontogenesis was performed in mouse embryos. Mutant KIF7 protein models were generated.We identified 4 rare missense variants (c.160C>T;p.His54Tyr, c.175G>A;p.Val59Met, c.1964C>G;p.Pro655Arg, and c.2551C>T;p.Arg851Cys), 1 novel missense variant (c.1882 G>A;p.Glu628Lys), and 1 insertion variant (c.1893_1894insGAGGAG;p.Glu630_Glu631dup) in the KIF7 gene in patients with various orodental presentations: 5 individuals from 4 families with mesiodens, 1 proband with a supernumerary molar, and 1 proband with a compound odontoma. The p.His54Tyr and p.Val59Met variants, located in the motor domain of the KIF7 protein, are predicted to disrupt its interaction with tubulin, resulting in abnormal localisation of KIF7 in cilia. The Arg851Cys variant in the coiled-coil region and the Glu628Lys, Glu630_Glu631dup, and Pro655Arg variants in the region of unknown structure are predicted to disrupt charge balance.This is the first report demonstrating that KIF7 variants may be contributing factors to supernumerary tooth phenotypes.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background: Methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) and HECT and RLD domain containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 4 (HERC4) have been studied in the field of oncology; however, their roles and interaction in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) await elucidation. Methods: Initially, METTL3 and HERC4 expressions in normal and HCC samples were predicted employing the UALCAN database, and the targeting relationship between these two was explored via coimmunoprecipitation assay. Following the quantification on N6-methyladenosine (m6A) enrichment, the localization of METTL3 and HERC4 on HCC cells was visualized via immunofluorescence assay. The effects of METTL3 and HERC4 on HCC cells proliferation and migration were determined in vitro assays. METTL3 and HERC4 expressions were quantified via quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and those of metastasis-related proteins N-cadherin and vimentin were calculated with immunoblotting assay. Furthermore, the levels of angiogenic factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor and basic fibroblast growth factor were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Results: METTL3 and HERC4 expressed highly in HCC and their expressions were positively correlated with tumor grade. METTL3 overexpression enhanced the expression of HERC4 and promoted the proliferation and migration abilities of HCC cells. Specifically, METTL3 overexpression increased vimentin and N-cadherin expressions, while its silencing did conversely. Besides, HERC4 overexpression reversed the effects of METTL3 silencing on the proliferation and migration as well as the levels of angiogenic factors in HCC cells. Conclusion: This study reveals the upregulation of METTL3 and HERC4 expression in HCC and their role in HCC by enhancing the proliferation, migration, and angiogenesis potential of HCC cells.
Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a pleiotropic ciliopathy caused by dysfunction of the BBSome, a cargo adaptor essential for export of transmembrane receptors from cilia. Although actin-dependent ectocytosis has been proposed to compensate defective cargo retrieval, its molecular basis remains unclear, especially in relation to BBS pathology. In this study, we investigated how actin polymerization and ectocytosis are regulated within the cilium. Our findings reveal that ciliary CDC42, a RHO-family GTPase triggers in situ actin polymerization, ciliary ectocytosis, and cilia shortening in BBSome-deficient cells. Activation of the Sonic Hedgehog pathway further enhances CDC42 activity specifically in BBSome-deficient cilia. Inhibition of CDC42 in BBSome-deficient cells decreases the frequency and duration of ciliary actin polymerization events, causing buildup of G protein coupled receptor 161 (GPR161) in bulges along the axoneme during Sonic Hedgehog signaling. Overall, our study identifies CDC42 as a key trigger of ciliary ectocytosis. Hyperactive ciliary CDC42 and ectocytosis and the resulting loss of ciliary material might contribute to BBS disease severity.© 2024. The Author(s).
Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling regulates embryonic morphogenesis utilizing the primary cilium, the cell's antenna, which acts as a signaling hub. Fuz, an effector of planar cell polarity signaling, regulates Shh signaling by facilitating cilia formation, and the G protein-coupled receptor 161 (Gpr161) is a negative regulator of Shh signaling. The range of phenotypic malformations observed in mice bearing mutations in either of the genes encoding these proteins is similar; however, their functional relationship has not been previously explored. This study identified the genetic and biochemical linkage between Fuz and Gpr161 in mouse neural tube development. Fuz was found to be genetically epistatic to Gpr161 with respect to regulation of Shh signaling in mouse neural tube development. The Fuz protein biochemically interacts with Gpr161, and Fuz regulates Gpr161-mediated ciliary localization, a process that might utilize β-arrestin 2. Our study characterizes a previously unappreciated Gpr161-Fuz axis that regulates Shh signaling during mouse neural tube development.© 2024. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.
Rhapontici Radix ethanol extract (RRE) is derived from the dried root of Rhaponticum uniflorum (L.) DC belonging to the Asteraceae family. RRE exhibits significant anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties; however, the potential of RRE in mastitis treatment requires further investigation.This research was performed to examine the protective properties of RRE against mastitis and the mechanisms underlying the effects of RRE.RRE components were analyzed by HPLC-MS/MS and DPPH methods. Isochlorogenic acid B (ICAB) was obtained commercially. MTT assay was utilized to assess RRE or ICAB cytotoxicity in bovine mammary alveolar (MAC-T) cells. Immunohistochemistry were used to investigate the pathological alterations in mammary tissue. The protein levels of inflammatory cytokines and mediators were analyzed using ELISA, and the expression of MAPK and NF-κB signaling pathways, as well as p65 nuclear translocation, were analyzed through Western blotting and immunofluorescence techniques, respectively. Target proteins of RRE were screened by RNA-seq and tandem mass tag analyses. Protein interaction was revealed and confirmed using co-immunoprecipitation and CRISPR/Cas9-based knockdown and overexpression of target genes.ICAB was revealed as one of the main components in RRE, and it was responsible for 84.33% of RRE radical scavenging activity. Both RRE and ICAB mitigated the infiltration of T lymphocytes in the mammary glands of mice, leading to decreased levels of inflammatory mediators (COX-2 and iNOS) and cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-1β) in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced MAC-T cells. Furthermore, RRE and ICAB suppressed the LPS-induced phosphorylation of NF-κB inhibitor and p65, thereby impeding p65 nuclear translocation in mouse mammary glands and MAC-T cells. In addition, RRE and ICAB attenuated the LPS-triggered activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1/2, p38, and extracellular regulated protein kinase 1/2. Importantly, co-treated with LPS and ICAB in MAC-T cells, an upregulation of G-protein coupled receptor 161 (GPR161) and transmembrane protein 59 (TMEM59) was observed; the interact between TMEM59 and was found, leading to inhibition of NF-κB activity and inflammatory cytokine production.ICAB is a prominent antioxidant in RRE. RRE and ICAB reduce mammary inflammation via MAPK and NF-κB pathways and the interaction between TMEM59 and GPR161 mediates the control of ICAB in NF-κB signaling.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Aberrations in the Hedgehog (Hh) signaling pathway are significantly prevailed in various cancers, including B-cell lymphoma. A critical facet of Hh signal transduction involves the dynamic regulation of the suppressor of fused homolog (SUFU)-glioma-associated oncogene homolog (GLI) complex within the kinesin family member 7 (KIF7)-supported ciliary tip compartment. However, the specific post-translational modifications of SUFU-GLI complex within this context have remained largely unexplored. Our study reveals a novel regulatory mechanism involving prolyl 4-hydroxylase 2 (P4HA2), which forms a complex with KIF7 and is essential for signal transduction of Hh pathway. We demonstrate that, upon Hh pathway activation, P4HA2 relocates alongside KIF7 to the ciliary tip. Here, it hydroxylates SUFU to inhibit its function, thus amplifying the Hh signaling. Moreover, the absence of P4HA2 significantly impedes B lymphoma progression. This effect can be attributed to the suppression of Hh signaling in stromal fibroblasts, resulting in decreased growth factors essential for malignant proliferation of B lymphoma cells. Our findings highlight the role of P4HA2-mediated hydroxylation in modulating Hh signaling and propose a novel stromal-targeted therapeutic strategy for B-cell lymphoma.© 2024. The Author(s).
Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling regulates embryonic morphogenesis utilizing primary cilia, the cell antenna acting as a signaling hub. Fuz, an effector of planar cell polarity (PCP) signaling, involves Shh signaling via cilia formation, while the G protein-coupled receptor 161 (Gpr161) is a negative regulator of Shh signaling. The range of phenotypic malformations observed in mice bearing mutations in either of these two genes is similar; however, their functional relations have not been previously explored. This study identified the genetic and biochemical link between Fuz and Gpr161 in mouse embryonic development. Fuz was genetically epistatic to Gpr161 via Shh signaling during mouse embryonic development. The FUZ biochemically interacted with GPR161, and Fuz regulated Gpr161 ciliary trafficking via β-arrestin2. Our study suggested the novel Gpr161-Fuz axis that regulates Shh signaling during mouse embryonic development.
The Hedgehog (Hh) signaling pathway is essential for organ development and tissue homeostasis; its dysregulation is associated with various congenital anomalies and human diseases. Hedgehog-interacting protein 1 (Hhip1) functions as a membrane-bound negative regulator of Hh signaling by directly binding to Hh ligands and limiting their activity in target tissues. While global knockout models have demonstrated the importance of Hhip1 during embryonic development, perinatal lethality has precluded investigations into its postnatal functions. To overcome this limitation, a novel conditional allele of Hhip1 (hereafter referred to as the Hhip1flox or floxed allele, in which exon 2 is flanked by loxP sites) was generated using CRISPR/Cas9-based gene targeting. Cre-mediated excision of exon 2 produced a conditional null allele (Hhip1ex2Δ ) with a frameshift mutation that annulled the Hedgehog ligand-binding domain. Germline recombination through CMV-Cre recapitulated the known pulmonary defects of global Hhip1 knockout mice, validating the model's functionality. Furthermore, using Prx1-Cre to generate limb-specific Hhip1 conditional knockout (cKO) mice, a previously unrecognized role for Hhip1 in maintaining postnatal growth plate architecture was detected. cKO mice exhibited progressive growth plate expansion and long bone overgrowth, together with sustained upregulation of Gli1 expression. These findings establish the Hhip1flox model as a powerful tool for tissue- and stage-specific functional studies of Hhip1 and provide new insights into the spatiotemporal regulation of Hedgehog signaling in development and disease. Importantly, this model offers broad utility for dissecting Hedgehog signaling mechanisms across diverse biological contexts and disease models.2025 The Japan Society of Histochemistry and Cytochemistry.
Both Ménétrier's disease (MD) and juvenile polyposis syndrome (JPS) are rare premalignant conditions that can lead to gastric cancer. MD is an acquired disease without known causative mutations that is characterized by increased expression of an EGF receptor (EGFR) ligand, transforming growth factor-alpha (TGFα), in the stomach. JPS is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern and is caused by BMPR1A or SMAD4 mutations. Although there are distinct clinico-pathological features that differ between the two diseases, they also share similar features that often lead to misdiagnosis. To identify diagnostic markers for MD and to better understand the pathogenesis of the disease, we performed transcriptomic profiling of stomach tissues from normal (NL), MD, and JPS patients. Comparative analysis between MD and JPS revealed both common and differential gene signatures. Common gene signatures included estrogen receptor signaling, integrin signaling, mTOR signaling, and others, which may be responsible for histopathological similarities. Among differential gene signatures, we found that Hedgehog (Hh) signaling is upregulated in MD and confirmed that protein expression of Hh signaling downstream targets, GLI1 (glioma-associated oncogene homolog 1) and HHIP (Hedgehog-interacting protein), is higher in MD than in JPS, particularly in foveolar cells by immunohistochemistry. We also demonstrated that treatment with an Hh pathway inhibitor partially rescued the histopathological phenotypes in an MD mouse model. This study provides valuable insights into the potential mechanisms underlying the similar clinico-pathological features observed in MD and JPS. We also identified GLI1 and HHIP as diagnostic markers that can help to distinguish MD from JPS. Furthermore, Hh signaling was shown to play an important role in the pathogenesis of MD and may serve as a potential therapeutic target. © 2025 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.© 2025 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
Peripheral artery disease (PAD) often advances to chronic limb-threatening ischemia (CLTI), resulting in severe complications such as limb amputation. Despite the potential of therapeutic angiogenesis, the mechanisms of cell-cell communication and transcriptional changes driving PAD are not fully understood. Profiling long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) from gastrocnemius muscles of participants with or without CLTI revealed that a vascular smooth muscle cell-enriched (SMC-enriched) lncRNA, CARMN, was reduced with CLTI. This study explored how a SMC lncRNA-miRNA signaling axis regulates angiogenesis in limb ischemia. CARMN-KO mice exhibited reduced capillary density and impaired blood flow recovery and tissue necrosis following limb ischemia. We found that CARMN-KO SMC supernatants inhibited endothelial cell (EC) proliferation, spheroid sprouting, and network formation. RNA-seq identified downregulation of the Hedgehog signaling pathway in CARMN-KO models and revealed that CARMN regulates this pathway through its downstream miRNA, miR-143-3p, which targets Hedgehog-interacting protein (HHIP), an antagonist of Hedgehog signaling. Delivery of HHIP-specific siRNA or miR-143-3p mimics rescued EC angiogenic defects and improved blood flow recovery in both CARMN-KO and WT mice. These findings underscore the critical role of CARMN in modulating angiogenesis through the miR-143-3p-HHIP-Hedgehog signaling axis, providing insights into SMC-EC interactions and potential therapeutic strategies for CLTI.
Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have identified multiple genetic loci associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Here, we identify SNPs that are associated with alternative splicing (splicing quantitative trait loci [sQTLs]) and gene expression (expression QTLs [eQTLs]) to identify functions for COPD-associated genetic variants. RNA sequencing on whole blood from 3,743 subjects in the COPDGene Study and from lung tissue of 1,241 subjects from the Lung Tissue Research Consortium (LTRC) was analyzed. Associations between all SNPs within 1,000 kb of a gene (cis-) and splice and gene expression quantifications were tested using tensorQTL. We assessed colocalization with COPD-associated SNPs from a published GWAS. After adjustment for multiple statistical testing, we identified 28,110 splice sites corresponding to 3,889 unique genes that were significantly associated with genotype in COPDGene whole blood and 58,258 splice sites corresponding to 10,307 unique genes associated with genotype in LTRC lung tissue. To determine what proportion of COPD-associated SNPs were associated with transcriptional splicing, we performed colocalization analysis between COPD GWAS and sQTL data and found that 38 genomic windows, corresponding to 33 COPD GWAS loci, had evidence of colocalization between QTLs and COPD. The top five colocalizations between COPD and lung sQTLs include Nephronectin (NPNT), F box protein 38 (FBXO38), Hedgehog interacting protein (HHIP), Netrin 4 (NTN4), and Betacellulin (BTC). Overall, a total of 38 COPD GWAS loci contain evidence of sQTLs, suggesting that analysis of sQTLs in whole blood and lung tissue can provide insights into disease mechanisms.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.2147/JIR.S472124.].© 2025 Wo et al.
The role of Yes-associated protein (YAP) in osteoblasts during subchondral bone remodeling in aberrant mechanical loading-induced osteoarthritis (OA) was investigated.We generated Gli1-CreERT2;YAPfl/fl mice, in which deletion of Yap blocked the YAP signaling in the Gli1+ cell lineage. A mouse model with osteoarthritis (OA)-like changes in the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) was induced by partial discectomy (PD). Smoothened agonist administration was also used intraperitoneally after PD. Micro-computed tomography, histological analysis, immunofluorescence staining, and RNA-seq were conducted for analyses.Our study found that YAP, co-expressed with Gli1+ osteogenic progenitors, was important for maintaining condylar bone microstructure during bone homeostasis. Furthermore, in a TMJOA mouse model, an early and substantial increase in YAP activity (0.6443 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.5673 to 0.7212]), followed by a reduction in Hhip expression (-0.04583 [95%CI: -0.06482 to -0.02683]) and subsequent increase in osteogenesis (0.05554 [95%CI: 0.04231 to 0.06877]), was consistently alongside abnormal subchondral bone remodeling. Critically, specific inhibition of YAP activity in Gli1+ osteogenic progenitors could maintain the expression of Hhip (0.004732 [95%CI: -0.02302 to 0.03249]), inhibit the excessive osteogenesis (0.06062 [95%CI: 0.02971 to 0.09153]), and eventually mitigate the abnormal subchondral bone changes and cartilage degradation. Furthermore, additional activation of Hh-Gli1 signaling could further aggravate the rescued OA phenotype in subchondral bone.Our findings demonstrated that YAP plays a critical role in subchondral bone remodeling in mice. Furthermore, targeting the YAP-Hhip axis through regulation of Hh-Gli1 signaling in Gli1+ osteogenic progenitors could inhibit OA progression. This may offer new therapeutic insights for treating OA in mice.Copyright © 2025 Osteoarthritis Research Society International. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Most of the lung's gas-exchange surface forms during alveologenesis and its disruption causes bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) in infants, characterized by alveolar simplification and myofibroblast accumulation. BPD also increases the risk of adult emphysema, marked by alveolar loss. Despite this connection, mechanisms linking these conditions and effective treatments are still lacking. We identify hedgehog-interacting protein (HHIP), associated with both BPD and emphysema, as a critical regulator of alveologenesis. During this process, Hhip-expressing cells expanded, accompanied by hedgehog (Hh) signaling inhibition and myofibroblast transition. Stromal-specific Hhip deletion led to hyperactivation of Hh-IGF1 signaling axis, causing persistent SMA+ myofibroblasts and epithelial stem/progenitor cell senescence. Hyperactivation of this pathway was also observed in human BPD and hyperoxia-induced BPD models. Early Hhip deficiency resulted in adult emphysema with myofibroblast accumulation. We developed a therapeutic Fc-fused HHIP protein that mitigated BPD in neonatal mice and prevented adult emphysema. These findings establish HHIP as a critical regulator of alveologenesis and a therapeutic target for BPD and emphysema.
The increasing incidence of gastric cancer (GC) in the Kashmir Valley is concerning, but its root causes are largely unknown. Dysregulated activation of the Hedgehog signaling pathway has been linked to various cancers, and the Human Hedgehog Interacting Protein (HHIP), a tumor suppressor, is frequently dysregulated in malignancies. However, the expression of the HHIP gene in GC is inconsistent and poorly understood. This study aimed to examine HHIP gene expression in gastric cancer. We used methylation-specific PCR, Western Blot analysis, and quantitative reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR) to assess the hypermethylation and expression levels of HHIP gene promoters. The correlation between these results and clinical parameters (e.g. age, gender, histological type, class, stage, and lymph node metastasis) was studied with samples from 53 GC patients confirmed by histology. In 69.81% (37 out of 53) of the tumor tissue, HHIP hypermethylation was found. Of the 45 cases examined for mRNA expression, 53.33% (24 out of 45) showed a decrease in the HHIP mRNA level compared to the normal sample. In addition, 49.05% (26 out of 53) showed a decline in the expression of HHIP proteins. Almost all GC samples with reduced protein expression also showed a reduction in mRNA levels. These results suggest that the hypermethylation of the HHIP promoter leads to a decrease in the regulation of HHIP, which contributes to the activation of the hedgehog signal path and may play a critical role in the progress of GC. Our study highlights the significant link between HHIP hypermethylation and reduced gene expression at both mRNA and protein levels, suggesting that target HHIP gene methylation could be a promising treatment strategy for gastric cancer.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Association of Clinical Biochemists of India 2024. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Renal hedgehog interacting protein (Hhip) activates sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (Sglt2) expression and promotes tubular senescence in murine diabetic kidney disease (DKD), yet its underlying mechanism(s) are poorly understood. Here we study the effect of the SGLT2 inhibitor, canagliflozin on tubulopathy (fibrosis and apoptosis) in Akita/HhipRPTC-transgenic (Tg) mice with overexpression of Hhip in their renal proximal tubular cells (RPTCs) and its relevant mechanisms. The DKD-tubulopathy with pronounced Sglt2 expression was aggravated in the kidney of Akita/HhipRPTC-Tg cf. Akita/non-Tg mice. A strong association was observed between Hhip and tubular senescence in Nephroseq from the Nakagawa chronic kidney disease study. Both in vivo and in vitro, excessive Hhip in RPTCs triggered RPTC senescence (polyploidization and cytoskeleton destabilization) and released extracellular vesicles (EVs) carrying Hhip (EVsHhip), most of which were apoptotic bodies (ABsHhip) or microvesicles (MVsHhip) and little exosomes (EXOsHhip). Further, Hhip stimulated β2-microglobulin, which further interacts with EVsHhip, together facilitating RPTC turn-over from cellular senescence to fibrosis and/or apoptosis, ultimately leading to advanced tubulopathy. In contrast, canagliflozin administration offset the action of Hhip in RPTCs, thereby preventing DKD progression. In conclusion, canagliflozin prevented excessive Hhip-mediated tubulopathy, possibly via the inhibition of excessive Hhip carried by extracellular vehicles in DKD.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.
This study elucidates the mechanism by which GLIS Family Zinc Finger 2 (GLIS2) promotes epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in gastric cancer through biglycan (BGN) activation and Wnt/β-catenin stimulation. By analyzing 18 pairs of GC tissues and establishing in vitro models (combining GLIS2 knockdown/BGN overexpression with Wnt pathway modulators), we demonstrated that GLIS2 directly binds to the BGN promoter to enhance its transcription, thereby activating Wnt/β-catenin signaling and significantly promoting GC cell migration, invasion, and EMT. Functional rescue experiments confirmed that BGN overexpression reverses the inhibitory effects of GLIS2 knockdown, while the Wnt/β-catenin inhibitor XAV-939 effectively blocks BGN's tumor-promoting effects. These findings establish the crucial role of the GLIS2-BGN-Wnt/β-catenin axis in regulating GC EMT and identify novel potential therapeutic targets for GC treatment.© 2025 The Author(s). The Kaohsiung Journal of Medical Sciences published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Kaohsiung Medical University.
Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are a specialized circular structure, are deregulated in cancers and play essential roles in biological processes involved in tumor progression. However, the mechanism by which circRNAs affect lung tumorigenesis and progression remains largely unexplored. To investigate the role of circRNA in lung cancer, circRNA expression profile was screened by bioinformatics analysis. The levels of circTAB2, miR-3142, and GLIS family zinc finger 2 (GLIS2) were measured by quantitate real-time (qRT-PCR) or western blot. Cell proliferation, apoptosis, migration and invasion were detected by EdU, flow cytometry, and transwell assays, respectively. Bioinformatics, western blot, RIP, pull down, dual luciferase reporter and rescue experiments were used to verify the direct relationship between miR-3142 and circTAB2 or GLIS2. The xenograft assays were used to assess the role of circTAB2 in vivo.CircTAB2 exhibited low expression in cancer tissues. Gain and loss-of-function assays indicated that circTAB2 could inhibit cell proliferation, migration and invasion. Functional studies revealed that circTAB2 acted as a miRNA sponge, directly interacted with miR-3142 and consequently regulated GLIS2 /AKT. Taken together, circTAB2 serves as an inhibitory role in lung cancer through a novel circTAB2 /miR-3142 /GLIS2 /AKT pathway and could be exploited a novel marker in lung cancer.© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a blinding eye disease affecting nearly two million people worldwide. Dogs are affected with a similar illness termed progressive retinal atrophy (PRA). Lapponian herders (LHs) are affected with several types of inherited retinal dystrophies, and variants in PRCD and BEST1 genes have been associated with generalized PRA and canine multifocal retinopathy 3 (cmr3), respectively. However, all retinal dystrophy cases in LHs are not explained by these variants, indicating additional genetic causes of disease in the breed. We collected DNA samples from 10 PRA affected LHs, with known PRCD and BEST1 variants excluded, and 34 unaffected LHs. A genome-wide association study identified a locus on CFA20 (praw = 2.4 × 10-7, pBonf = 0.035), and subsequent whole-genome sequencing of an affected LH revealed a missense variant, c.3176G>A, in the intraflagellar transport 122 (IFT122) gene. The variant was also found in Finnish Lapphunds, in which its clinical relevancy needs to be studied further. The variant interrupts a highly conserved residue, p.(R1059H), in IFT122 and likely impairs its function. Variants in IFT122 have not been associated with retinal degeneration in mammals, but the loss of ift122 in zebrafish larvae impaired opsin transport and resulted in progressive photoreceptor degeneration. Our study establishes a new spontaneous dog model to study the role of IFT122 in RP biology, while the affected breed will benefit from a genetic test for a recessive condition.© 2021. The Author(s).
This study investigated the effects of low-intensity resistance training with blood flow restriction (LTBFR) compared with higher-intensity resistance training (HT) on circulating irisin, myostatin, and hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF-1α) in young adults with overweight, with particular focus on the relative contributions of mechanical loading and hypoxic stress.Twenty-eight participants with overweight were randomized to LTBFR (40% one-repetition maximum + 60% arterial occlusion pressure, n = 14) or HT (70% one-repetition maximum, n = 14). Both groups trained three times per week for eight weeks. Body composition and serum biomarkers were assessed before and after the intervention.A total of 12 participants in each group (LTBFR and HT) were included in the analysis. At baseline, anthropometric and body composition variables did not differ between groups (p > 0.05). After 8 weeks of training, arm circumference increased in both groups (p < 0.05), whereas thigh circumference increased only in the HT group (p < 0.05). Circulating irisin concentrations increased significantly following training in both groups (p < 0.05), with a significantly greater increase observed in HT compared with LTBFR (group × time interaction, p < 0.05). Myostatin levels remained unchanged (p > 0.05). HIF-1α concentrations increased significantly in both groups (p < 0.05), with no significant group × time interaction.HT elicited greater increases in circulating irisin and increased thigh circumference, highlighting the role of mechanical loading in myokine and muscular adaptations. Both HT and LTBFR increased HIF-1α, indicating engagement of hypoxia- and metabolic-sensitive pathways across modalities, suggesting that LTBFR can serve as an effective low-load alternative to HT when higher-intensity resistance training is not feasible.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs) like semaglutide have transformed type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) management, yet emerging concerns highlight potential risks of accelerated sarcopenia and subsequent metabolic disruptions. This case-driven hypothesis explores a 53-year-old male with T2DM diagnosed in 2014, who experienced progressive glycemic failure despite standard therapies, including metformin, glipizide, sitagliptin, and empagliflozin. Transition to dulaglutide 1.5 mg for 1.5 years followed by semaglutide (titrated from 0.25 to 1 mg weekly starting September 2024) resulted in weight loss from 84 kg to 70 kg by September 2025, accompanied by sarcopenic symptoms (muscle weakness, reduced mobility) and refractory hyperglycemia (fasting glucose 300 mg/dL, HbA1c 9%), persisting post-discontinuation on September 1, 2025, despite metformin and empagliflozin. We posit that semaglutide may precipitate acute sarcopenia via unexpected GLP-1R-mTOR-satellite cells axis crosstalk, disrupting AMPK-mTOR balance to suppress anabolic mTORC1/IGF-1 signaling (potentially by 25-35%) while enhancing catabolic FOXO/ubiquitin-proteasome and excessive autophagy pathways. This could extend to myokine reprogramming (elevated myostatin/GDF15, reduced irisin/IL-15), glucagon/α-cell compensation inducing hyperglucagonemia (15-25% rise), microbiome-bile acid shifts fostering low-grade inflammation (IL-6/TNF-α upregulation by 10-15%), mitochondrial mass reduction (20-25% via AMPK), and NMJ disassembly, collectively impairing muscle as the primary glucose sink (reducing GLUT4-mediated uptake by 35-45%) and initiating a «muscle-glucose feedback loop» with hepatic gluconeogenesis amplification, yielding treatment-resistant hyperglycemia.Supporting evidence from cohorts (e.g., 24-month study showing ASMI/grip strength declines in 432 patients), longitudinal analyses (NMJ degradation with CAF22/NfL elevations in 141 men), secondary trials (9.3% psoas volume loss in 51 MASLD cases), and case reports (fatigue in a 74-year-old, rhabdomyolysis in a 47-year-old) aligns with this framework, as does in vitro data linking GLP-1 excess to kinesin-1/GLUT4 inhibition and ATP depletion (20-30%). This novel hypothesis underscores sarcopenia's role in GLP-1RA-induced metabolic paradoxes, urging prospective studies on muscle-preserving interventions like resistance training or GLP-1R modulators to refine T2DM paradigms and inspire multidisciplinary research into endocrine-muscle interactions.
Skeletal muscle in teleost fish is traditionally regarded as a contractile tissue supporting locomotion; however, increasing evidence in vertebrates suggests that muscle also participates in immune regulation, stress adaptation, and tissue homeostasis. Despite this, the baseline spatial distribution of immune- and stress-associated proteins in teleost skeletal muscle remains insufficiently characterized. Here, we applied an integrated multiscale imaging approach combining histology, histochemistry, immunohistochemistry, semithin sectioning, and transmission electron microscopy to define the structural organization and molecular landscape of skeletal muscle in the molly fish (Poecilia sphenops). Light microscopy revealed highly organized W-shaped myomeres separated by connective myosepta, while ultrastructural analysis demonstrated well-defined sarcomeric architecture with abundant mitochondria, sarcoplasmic reticulum, and glycogen deposits, consistent with high metabolic activity. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated constitutive localization of proteins associated with inflammatory signaling (IL-1β, NF-κB, iNOS), oxidative stress regulation (Nrf2), growth modulation (myostatin, TGF-β), calcium-binding and signaling (S100), and developmental regulation (SOX9) within skeletal muscle fibers. These findings establish the presence of a broad group of immune- and stress-related molecular components in teleost skeletal muscle under physiological conditions. Collectively, this study provides a comprehensive structural and molecular baseline map of P. sphenops skeletal muscle and introduces a reproducible multiscale imaging framework for comparative, environmental, and experimental investigations of muscle biology in teleosts.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42528605 is a review article
Recent studies on cultured meat have shown that muscle satellite cells can be induced to form muscle-like tissues through proliferation and myogenic differentiation. Optimizing these processes is essential for reproducing the structure and texture of conventional meat; however, limited myogenic differentiation remains a major technical challenge. Stanozolol (STZ), a synthetic anabolic steroid derived from testosterone, is known to stimulate muscle protein synthesis and hypertrophy, but its effects on livestock-derived muscle cells for cultured meat production remain unclear. This study aimed to evaluate whether STZ enhances myogenic differentiation and myotube formation in primary porcine muscle satellite cells (PMSCs).PMSCs were treated with STZ at concentrations of 0.1, 0.5, and 1 μM. Cell viability and proliferation were assessed to determine the non-cytotoxic concentration range. Myogenic differentiation was evaluated by measuring the expression of myogenic differentiation 1 (MyoD), myogenin (MyoG), myosin heavy chain (MyHC), and myostatin (MSTN). Myotube formation was analysed by immunofluorescence staining, and the underlying mechanisms were investigated by examining PI3K/Akt/mTOR, Smad2/3, and forkhead box O3a (FoxO3a) signaling.STZ showed no cytotoxicity and did not significantly affect PMSC proliferation at 0.1-1 μM. In differentiation medium, STZ significantly increased the mRNA and protein expression of myogenic markers, including MyoD, MyoG, and MyHC, in a concentration-dependent manner. Notably, 1 μM STZ promoted the formation of larger multinucleated myotubes. In addition, STZ decreased MSTN expression, activated PI3K/Akt/mTOR hypertrophic signaling, and suppressed Smad2/3 phosphorylation and FoxO3a activity.STZ promoted myogenic differentiation and myotube formation in PMSCs by enhancing myogenic marker expression and modulating hypertrophy- and atrophy-associated signaling pathways. These findings suggest that STZ may serve as an effective culture medium supplement for improving PMSC differentiation in cultured meat production.
The somatotropic axis encompassing growth hormone (GH), insulin-like growth factor (IGF), myostatin (MSTN), and prolactin (PRL) signalling cascades is the master regulator of somatic growth, metabolism, and development in vertebrates. African catfish (Clarias gariepinus), a commercially pivotal aquaculture species, now possesses a chromosome-level reference genome (CGAR_prim_01v2); however, a systematic, genome-wide characterization spanning all five interconnected growth-related gene families has not previously been undertaken in this species. Here, we identified and characterized 15 growth-related genes spanning gh1, ghra, ghrb, Igf1, Igf2a, Igf2b, igf1ra, Igf1rb, Igf2r, Mstna, Mstnb, prl, prlra, prlrb, and smtlb distributed across 13 chromosomes. Complete one-to-one orthology with zebrafish confirmed strong dosage-balance conservation across >120 million years of teleost divergence. Physicochemical analysis resolved a clear biochemical dichotomy between compact, basic secreted ligands (19.88-45.81 kDa; pI up to 10.02) and large, acidic, heavily glycosylated membrane receptors (56.82-270.80 kDa; pI 4.85-5.97). Phylogenetic analysis confirmed 3R whole-genome duplication origins for all paralog pairs, while synteny analysis revealed a disruption of the ancestral gh1-prl chromosomal block in C. gariepinus, a finding that warrants further comparative and functional investigation. This genomic atlas provides the sequence and structural information including exon-intron boundaries, domain architecture, and chromosomal coordinates needed as a prerequisite for future marker-assisted selection and CRISPR-based myostatin-editing efforts in African catfish aquaculture, though translation into applied breeding outcomes will require subsequent functional and expression studies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The rapid development of genome editing technologies has enabled precise manipulation of livestock genomes for the improvement of production traits such as meat yield and milk quality. Myostatin (MSTN) and β-lactoglobulin (BLG) are key gene targets for enhancing muscle growth and reducing lactose intolerance, respectively.In this study, we employed an optimized CRISPR/EOCas12i system to simultaneously target MSTN and BLG in bovine fetal fibroblasts (BFFs) using a single plasmid.T7E1 and Sanger sequencing confirmed efficient editing at multiple target sites, with EOCas12i producing deletions ranging from tens to over 100 bp. Furthermore, no off-target (OT) effects were detected at predicted loci, supporting the high specificity of this system in large animals. Gene-edited single-cell clones (SCCs) were expanded in conditioned medium, and selected double-knockout (DKO) clones served as nuclear donors for somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) to produce MSTN/BLG double gene-edited cattle embryos.Collectively, this study demonstrates the feasibility of generating MSTN/BLG double gene-edited cattle embryos using a single CRISPR/EOCas12i plasmid and SCNT, providing a robust platform for multiplex genome editing aimed at improving meat production and milk traits, with potential applications in both agricultural and biomedical research.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Chen, Ning, He, Wang, An, Tian and Xi.
Sodium bicarbonate (SB) and betaalanine (BA) can enhance high-intensity exercise performance. This study examined the effects of eight weeks of resistance training combined with these supplements on muscle cross-sectional area (CSA), serum myostatin and interleukin-15 concentration, and upper- and lower-body muscular strength and power. Twenty active males (age: 18-35) were divided into supplement (SUP) and placebo groups (PL; each group n=10). Participants undertook eight weeks of supervised resistance training, including 3 sessions × 3 sets × maximum repetitions at 70% of 1RM. Supplementations included 3-6 g/day BA and 4-6 g/day SB administered for 8 weeks. Exercise volume, calculated as the total number of repetitions completed in each session, increased to a greater extent following SUP (~29%) than PL (~13%) groups (P=0.014). Central segment of quadriceps CSA, measured using magnetic resonance imaging, demonstrated a greater increase following SUP compared to PL for both right ((~21%; pre to post: 452.47±55.98 to 548.21±73.92 mm3) vs. PL (~5%; 443.81±28.74 to 466.42±31.91 mm3)) and left ((~24%, 456.81±59.77 to 566.71±82.62 mm2) vs. PL (~9%; 438.12±41.54 and 479.06±49.91 mm3)) legs (all P<0.01). However, interleukin-15 concentrations decreased following both conditions (time effect: P<0.001). Also, no difference was observed between groups for the increased 1-RM squat, bench press, and countermovement jump (time effects: P<0.05). The results suggest that co-ingestion of BA and SB may enhance the central segment of the CSA in the quadriceps muscle, possibly by increasing exercise volume. This could be a potential approach in promoting muscle hypertrophy in athletic and clinical rehabilitation settings.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42512404 is a review article
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) is a heterogeneous inflammatory disease with variable outcomes following functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS). Predictive biomarkers for post-FESS CRSwNP recurrence remain poorly defined.Identify tissue-based predictors of CRSwNP recurrence after FESS and assess dupilumab-induced modifications.From a cohort of patients with CRSwNP (including NSAID-exacerbated respiratory disease [NSAID-ERD]) who underwent FESS, we retrospectively identified 91 who could be dichotomized by clinical outcome as post-FESS "rapid recurrence" (<1 year) or "slow/no recurrence" (>2 years without recurrence). Nasal polyp tissue was analyzed for 69 inflammatory mediators using proteomics and ELISA. Logistic regression with LASSO feature selection identified candidate predictors. In an independent, second prospective cohort of 17 CRSwNP patients initiating dupilumab, nasal fluid was collected at baseline and after two months of dupilumab and profiled for the same mediators.Twenty-three tissue mediators strongly predicted rapid CRSwNP recurrence (AUC >0.70), including markers of type (T) 2 inflammation (IL-4, IL-13, IL-5Rα, ECP, IgE) and innate inflammation and/or myeloid involvement (CCL3/4/7/8/13, CSF2, IL-1β, IL-6, OSM, MMP12, HIF-1α, TNF-α, TNFSF14). Of these, dupilumab significantly reduced IL-5Rα and several chemokines (CCL3, CCL4, CCL13) but had no effect on key myeloid mediators (CCL8, CSF2, IL-1β, MMP12, HIF-1α).Both T2 and non-T2 mediators play a role in rapid post-FESS recurrence in CRSwNP. T2 blockade with dupilumab reduces T2-associated mediators but does not suppress a parallel innate/myeloid inflammatory axis. The persistence of this axis during treatment suggests that innate and myeloid mediators may underlie severe CRSwNP and could influence disease recurrence once T2 signaling is no longer inhibited, representing potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets to improve long-term disease control.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The neurohypophysis (NH) is a specialized neuro-glial interface where neuronal, glial, and vascular elements coordinate neuroendocrine secretion and immune signalling. Its intrinsic plasticity supports adaptation to osmotic and inflammatory stress. Osmotic challenges, such as salt loading, induce structural and functional remodelling within the NH, engaging both microglia and pituicytes. To determine these adaptive processes, we examined the effects of 4 and 8 days of salt loading (2% NaCl) on cellular plasticity in the mouse NH. Pituicyte morpho-functional remodelling was assessed by immunohistochemistry using specific markers (GFAP, AQP4), while microglial activation and polarization were evaluated using Iba1 and CD206. These analyses were complemented by Western blot experiments, including the measurement of the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1β. Physiological parameters such as fluid intake, body weight, plasma osmolality and haematocrit were also evaluated. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed a marked morphological transformation of microglia from a ramified to an amoeboid phenotype following osmotic stimulation. Western blot analysis showed stable Iba1 expression, indicating that this activation occurred without microglial proliferation. After 8 days of salt loading, CD206 expression significantly increased, accompanied by a decrease in IL-1β, suggesting polarization of microglia toward an anti-inflammatory M2 profile. Additionally, GFAP expression decreased, whereas AQP4 expression increased, particularly in the perivascular region. Physiologically, salt loading increased fluid intake and haematocrit, reduced body weight, while plasma osmolality remained unchanged. Together, these findings indicate coordinated neuroimmune remodelling in the NH. The shift toward an anti-inflammatory glial profile and increased AQP4 expression likely represents an adaptive mechanism that supports tissue homeostasis during hyperosmotic stress.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a chronic degenerative joint disease characterized by progressive cartilage breakdown driven by inflammatory and oxidative stress mechanisms. Blue turmeric (Curcuma caesia Roxb.), a rare and understudied spice, represents a source of bioactive compounds with anti-inflammatory properties. This study aimed to characterize the phenolic profile of a blue turmeric rhizome extract (BTE) and its bioaccessible fraction obtained after in vitro gastrointestinal digestion, and to assess their biological effects on human chondrocytes (C-28/I2) exposed to interleukin-1 β (IL-1β). HPLC-MS/MS analyses revealed a phytochemical profile rich in phenolic acids and flavan-3-ols, with partial stability maintained after in vitro digestion. Pre-treatment with both native BTE and digested BTE (dBTE) protected chondrocytes against IL-1β-induced cytotoxicity, mitochondrial dysfunction, and nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) inactivation. Furthermore, BTE pre-treatment significantly reduced tumour necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) release and preserved cellular morphology. These findings demonstrate that BTE phenolic compounds are partially bioaccessible and exert chondroprotective effects, supporting further preclinical investigation of BTE as a potential functional ingredient for joint health maintenance and OA prevention strategies.
Globally, the disease burden of colorectal cancer has been gradually increasing. Radical resection is the cornerstone treatment for colorectal cancer, but postoperative gastrointestinal dysfunction has been a potential complication. Current therapies are unsatisfactory. Acupuncture has the merits of inexpensive and easy-operative and has the potential to be a promising strategy.This study aimed to observe the effect and safety of electroacupuncture in facilitating the postoperative recovery of colorectal cancer patients.Randomized controlled study.Prospective, single-center study.Patients over 18 years old who undergone radical resection of colorectal cancer.Electroacupuncture or sham electroacupuncture at 2h after surgery and on the morning of the first 2 days after surgery, with 30 minutes each session.The primary outcome was first flatus time. Secondary outcomes included first oral feeding time, bowel sound recovery time, length of postoperative hospitalization, adverse events, serum inflammatory cytokine indicators and heart rate variability indicators.One hundred fifteen patients met the inclusion criteria and 101 patients completed the treatment and were enrolled into statistical analysis. There was no statistically significant difference (p > 0.05) in baselines. First flatus time, first oral feeding time, bowel sound recovery time were improved in electroacupuncture group (p < 0.05). Length of postoperative hospitalization was not significantly different. On postoperative day 1, interleukin-1β was lower in electroacupuncture group (p < 0.05); On postoperative day 3, interleukin -1 β, and interleukin -6 were lower in electroacupuncture group (p < 0.05). Percentage of difference between adjacent normal RR intervals exceeding 50ms and high frequency were higher in electroacupuncture group (p < 0.05). Kaplan-Meier curve analysis, multiple linear regression and correlation analysis secured the stability of the main results.This is a single-center trial with a small sample size and long-term follow-up was absent. No blank control group was set.EA facilitated postoperative recovery without increasing the incidence of complications. This effect was hypothesized to be related to lower IL-1β/IL-6 levels and the rebalance of autonomic nervous system. See Video Abstract.Clinical trial registration: The trial has been registered at chictr.org.cn (ChiCTR2100050660 https://www.chictr.org.cn/hvshowproject.html?id=167502&v=1.9).Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. on behalf of the American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons.
Prompt reperfusion is the standard treatment for acute myocardial infarction, but it can induce myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury (MIRI). Quercetin, a plant-derived flavonoid, has been investigated as a potential cardioprotective agent in preclinical MIRI models; however, its effect magnitude, dose-exposure relevance, and mechanistic specificity remain uncertain. This systematic review and meta-analysis evaluated quercetin monotherapy in vivo and ex vivo MIRI models.Databases were searched from inception to March 2026 for controlled preclinical studies comparing quercetin monotherapy with vehicle-treated MIRI controls. The primary endpoint was myocardial infarct size. Secondary outcomes included myocardial injury biomarkers, hemodynamic recovery, oxidative-stress markers, and inflammatory cytokines. Random-effects models calculated standardized mean differences (SMDs) or mean differences (MDs). Subgroup, leave-one-out, split-control, risk-of-bias-informed, dose-response meta-regression, and publication-bias analyses were performed where feasible. This review was registered in the International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews (PROSPERO; CRD420261325366).Twenty studies were included. Quercetin was associated with reduced infarct size compared with vehicle controls (SMD = -2.98, 95% confidence interval -4.37 to -1.58; P < 0.00001). A split-control sensitivity analysis showed an attenuated but directionally consistent effect (SMD = -2.22, 95% confidence interval -3.16 to -1.28). Exploratory dose-response meta-regression did not identify a clear linear association between systemic dose and infarct-size effect. Quercetin was associated with an 18.35-percentage-point improvement in left ventricular developed pressure (LVDP) recovery and favorable changes in selected maximal rates of pressure change (±dP/dtmax). It was also associated with reduced myocardial injury biomarkers, decreased malondialdehyde (MDA), increased superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione (GSH), and lower tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β), and interleukin-6 (IL-6). Exploratory subgroup analyses suggested attenuated responsiveness in comorbid or metabolically altered models, but this finding was limited and confounded. Egger testing suggested possible small-study effects for infarct size.Quercetin is associated with a directionally consistent preclinical cardioprotective signal in rodent in vivo and ex vivo MIRI models. However, the magnitude, mechanistic specificity, and translational relevance remain uncertain because of heterogeneity, possible publication bias, unclear methodological quality, limited pharmacokinetic exposure data, and scarce sex-balanced, comorbid, and large-animal evidence.https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/view/CRD420261325366, identifier CRD420261325366.Copyright © 2026 Shi, Liang, Chen, Wang, Zhang, Yao and Jiang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556122 is a review article
The present study investigated the protective effects of ferulic acid against behavioral and neurochemical alterations induced by early life stress (ELS) using a maternal separation model in mice. Swiss albino mouse pups were subjected to maternal separation from postnatal day 2 to 14. During adulthood, animals received ferulic acid (40 and 80 mg/kg, p.o.) or fluoxetine (20 mg/kg, p.o.) for 15 days. Behavioral assessments included the elevated plus maze, open field test, tail suspension test, and Morris water maze. Oxidative stress, inflammatory, cholinergic, monoaminergic, and neuroendocrine parameters were evaluated in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex. Maternal separation stress produced significant anxiety-like and depressive-like behaviors, impaired spatial learning and memory, elevated corticosterone levels, increased thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β), and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, and decreased reduced glutathione (GSH), serotonin, and dopamine levels in both hippocampal and cortical brain regions. Ferulic acid treatment significantly attenuated behavioral deficits, reduced corticosterone concentrations, restored antioxidant status, suppressed inflammatory mediators, normalized AChE activity, and increased serotonin and dopamine levels. Correlation analysis revealed significant associations between behavioral performance and neurochemical alterations, indicating that improvements in cognitive and affective outcomes were accompanied by normalization of oxidative stress, neuroinflammatory, cholinergic, monoaminergic, and neuroendocrine disturbances. These findings demonstrate that ferulic acid attenuates the long-term behavioral and neurochemical consequences of ELS and support further investigation of its neuroprotective potential in stress-related neurobehavioral disorders.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-026-04990-x.© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Cigarette smoke (CS) exposure is a significant environmental trigger for childhood asthma. Although S100 calcium-binding protein A10 (S100A10) is upregulated in asthma patients, its regulatory mechanism in CS-associated asthma remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate how insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 3 (IGF2BP3) influences S100A10 expression via the N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification pathway and to investigate the role of the IGF2BP3/S100A10 axis in CS-exposed childhood asthma. A total of 120 asthmatic children were enrolled, with 120 healthy children selected as controls. Serum levels of S100A10 and IGF2BP3 were measured. A murine model of asthma was established using ovalbumin (OVA) induction combined with CS exposure. Lentivirus-mediated overexpression or knockdown of IGF2BP3 or S100A10 was performed to evaluate lung function, inflammatory infiltration, immune cell proportions, and immunoglobulin E (IgE) levels. Airway epithelial cells (AECs) were isolated and treated with cigarette smoke extract (CSE) and OVA to assess apoptosis and inflammatory cytokine levels. RNA immunoprecipitation, m6A methylated RNA immunoprecipitation, and crosslinking immunoprecipitation (CLIP) were conducted to validate the regulatory mechanism between IGF2BP3 and S100A10. The expression of S100A10 and IGF2BP3 was elevated in asthmatic children and OVA-induced asthmatic mice. In OVA-induced asthmatic mice, CS exacerbated OVA-induced asthma phenotypes, including increased lung resistance, enhanced inflammatory infiltration, elevated T helper 2 (Th2) and T helper 17 (Th17) cell proportions, and raised IgE levels. Knockdown of S100A10 or IGF2BP3 ameliorated these pathological changes, while overexpression of S100A10 reversed the protective effects of IGF2BP3 knockdown. Mechanistically, IGF2BP3 bound to m6A modification sites on S100A10 mRNA and enhanced its stability. CSE and OVA promoted IGF2BP3 expression, thereby increasing S100A10 mRNA stability, leading to enhanced epithelial apoptosis and release of inflammatory factors (interleukin-1 beta, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha). CS exposure aggravates childhood asthma by promoting IGF2BP3 expression and enhancing m6A-dependent stabilization of S100A10 mRNA. Targeting the IGF2BP3/S100A10 axis may provide a novel therapeutic strategy for CS-associated asthma.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42438770 is a review article
Downregulation of ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase 1 (ENPP1) has been implicated in autophagic cell death. However, how ENPP1 regulates the interplay between autophagy and ferroptosis to maintain trophoblast homeostasis in the context of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) remains unclear. To determine ENPP1's role in autophagy-dependent ferroptosis and its contribution to GDM-related placental injury, clinical placental tissues, hyperglycemia-treated HTR8/SVneo trophoblasts, and streptozotocin-induced GDM mice were analyzed. Ubiquitination assays, co-immunoprecipitation, functional studies, and therapeutic interventions were conducted. ENPP1 was significantly reduced in GDM placentas and correlated with increased ferroptosis and lipid peroxidation. Mechanistically, ENPP1 recruited USP2 (ubiquitin-specific peptidase 2) to inhibit the ubiquitination and autophagic degradation of SQSTM1 (sequestosome 1), thereby enhancing its stability. ENPP1 loss promoted NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy, leading to iron overload and ferroptosis. Restoring ENPP1 or inhibiting autophagy alleviated placental thinning and fetal growth restriction in GDM mice. ENPP1 regulates autophagy-dependent ferroptosis via the USP2-SQSTM1 axis, and its deficiency contributes to placental dysfunction.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
To investigate whether early on-treatment expression of ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase 1 (ENPP1) and interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 2 (IFIT2) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) could serve as biomarkers for predicting hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) clearance and therapeutic responses to pegylated interferon-α (Peg-IFN-α) in HBeAg-negative chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients.In this prospective study, HBeAg-negative CHB patients received Peg-IFN-α therapy for 48 weeks. Patients were categorized into virological response (VR) or non-virological response (NVR) groups based on changes in HBV DNA and HBsAg levels at week 48, and further stratified into serological response (SR) or non-serological response (NSR) groups based on the occurrence of HBsAg loss or seroconversion. ENPP1 and IFIT2 mRNA levels in PBMCs were quantified using real-time quantitative PCR. Correlations between gene expression and HBsAg reduction were evaluated using Spearman's rank correlation analysis. Factors independently associated with VR and SR were identified using univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses. The discriminative ability of individual biomarkers and combined predictive models was assessed by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis.Both ENPP1 and IFIT2 mRNA levels were significantly elevated in the VR and SR groups during early treatment. Expression levels of both genes at weeks 12 and 24 positively correlated with the magnitude of HBsAg reduction, and their early induction at week 12 was associated with subsequent HBsAg decline. Multivariate analyses identified ENPP1 and IFIT2 mRNA levels at weeks 12 and 24 as independent predictors of VR and SR. ENPP1 expression at week 12 demonstrated the highest predictive accuracy for VR (AUC = 0.7645), while ENPP1 at week 24 showed moderate predictive value for SR (AUC = 0.7399). In contrast, IFIT2 consistently exhibited superior predictive performance for VR (AUC = 0.8791) and for SR at week 24 (AUC = 0.8879). The combination of ENPP1 and IFIT2 further improved predictive accuracy for both VR (AUC = 0.9098) and SR (AUC = 0.9217).ENPP1 and IFIT2 in PBMCs represent valuable biomarkers for early prediction of Peg-IFN-α treatment efficacy and HBsAg clearance in HBeAg-negative CHB patients.Copyright © 2026 Pang, Fu, Jiang and Qin.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is associated with poor prognosis due to its highly heterogeneous tumor immune microenvironment and the lack of actionable molecular targets, which collectively limit the efficacy of current therapies. To address these challenges, PEI/siENPP1@Mn-ZIF-8 (PEMZ) is reported, an integrated gene-chemodynamic-immune nanocomplex that activates the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase-stimulator of interferon genes (cGAS-STING) pathway through a previously unattainable triple-activation mechanism. PEMZ efficiently encapsulates siENPP1, protects it from degradation, and enables acid-responsive cytosolic release, resulting in sustained ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase 1 (ENPP1) silencing and accumulation of tumor-derived cyclic 2',3'-GMP-AMP (cGAMP). Simultaneously, the Mn2+/Zn2+ ions released from the trienzyme-mimetic nanocomplex, which exhibits peroxidase-, catalase-, and glutathione peroxidase-like activities, amplify intracellular reactive oxygen species, deplete glutathione, and trigger mitochondrial dysfunction. This coordinated redox disruption induces immunogenic cell death and further enhances STING signaling. In vitro and in vivo studies demonstrate that PEMZ markedly suppresses TNBC proliferation and metastasis, promotes dendritic cell maturation, and increases intratumoral CD8+ T-cell infiltration, achieving potent tumor inhibition with minimal systemic toxicity. This work establishes PEMZ as a mechanistically integrated nano-immunotherapy platform, offering a promising and broadly applicable strategy for the precision treatment of TNBC and other ENPP1-overexpressing cancers.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) are pivotal in cellular signal transduction. Recent studies have identified protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 1 (PTPN1), as a novel immune checkpoint. However, its effects and underlying mechanisms in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain underexplored. This study aims to elucidate the impact of PTPN1 on the prognosis of HCC patients, the tumor microenvironment (TME), and the biological behavior of HCC cells, with the goal of assessing its clinical potential in HCC.Expression profiles and clinical data for liver cancer patients were obtained from the TCGA database, while single-cell RNA sequencing data were sourced from the GEO database. Corresponding cell function assays were conducted for further validation.PTPN1 mRNA expression was significantly elevated in liver cancer, with higher levels correlating with increased malignancy. Cox analysis found PTPN1 as an influencing factor for prognosis of HCC patients. Gene function and pathway analyses revealed that PTPN1 is implicated in immune-related pathways associated with cancer and hematopoiesis. Notably, PTPN1 expression was found to suppress infiltration of CD8+ T cells. Further investigations using single-cell RNA sequencing and experimental assays demonstrated that silencing PTPN1 in T cell populations enhanced JAK2 and STAT5 expression in CD8+ T cells, as well as their proliferation. Additionally, PTPN1 overexpression in liver cancer cells promoted cell proliferation and invasion through activation of the PI3K-AKT signaling pathway.PTPN1 may inhibit T cell proliferation via the JAK2-STAT5 axis while simultaneously advancing liver cancer progression by activating the PI3K-AKT pathway in cancer cells. These findings suggest that PTPN1 could serve as a promising target for immunotherapy in liver cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
White spot syndrome virus (WSSV) devastates shrimp aquaculture, yet safe antivirals remain scarce. Here we identify a druggable host-directed pathway centered on hemocyanin (HMC). This pathway coordinates endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-mitochondrial crosstalk to promote WSSV replication, which could be counteracted by the natural anthraquinone emodin. In Litopenaeus vannamei, emodin suppressed viral replication with a half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 1.174 μM, improved survival in both therapeutic and prophylactic regimens, remained effective after per os administration, and retained antiviral activity in water for up to 4 d. Target fishing, orthogonal biophysics, and docking analyses show that emodin binds HMC (Kd = 4.49 μM) and interferes with HMC-HSPA5/BiP (heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5) association. Mechanistically, emodin weakens the ITPR/IP3R (inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor)-VDAC (voltage dependent anion channel)-MCU (mitochondrial calcium uniporter) conduit at ER-mitochondrial contact sites, thereby limiting Ca2+ transfer, restoring mitochondrial membrane potential and organelle spacing, and attenuating ER stress. Untargeted metabolomics revealed that WSSV induced phosphoinositide and amino acid dysregulation, whereas emodin selectively normalizes phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) and phosphatidylinositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (PtdIns[1,4,5]P3) signaling and rebalances amino acid, tricarboxylic acid (TCA) intermediates. Correspondingly, emodin inhibited phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-AKT/protein kinase B-MTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase) complex 1 (MTORC1) signaling and restored lysosome-dependent macroautophagy/autophagy. HMC RNAi or ITPR and MCU inhibition phenocopied emodin, whereas exogenous HMC or ER stress activation exacerbated infection and was mitigated by emodin or MCU blockade. These findings establish HMC-anchored ER-mitochondrial contact as a central proviral vulnerability and position emodin as a practical scaffold for next-generation antivirals in aquaculture.Abbreviations: 2-APB: 2-aminoethyl diphenylborinate; 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ΔΨm: mitochondrial membrane potential; AKT/protein kinase B: AKT serine/threonine kinase; ATG1/ULK1: autophagy related 1; ATG13: autophagy related 13; BSA: bovine serum albumin; CETSA: cellular thermal shift assay; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DDIT3/Chop: DNA damage inducible transcript 3; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; EAS6B: epoxy-activated sepharose 6B; EGTA: ethylene glycol tetraacetic acid; EIF4EBP1: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; EPC: epithelioma papulosum cyprini; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; HMC: hemocyanin; HPLC-MS: high performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; HRP: horseradish peroxidase; HSPA5/BiP: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5; HSPA9/GRP75: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5; ITPR/IP3R: inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LAMP1: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LC-MS: liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; MAMs: mitochondria-associated ER membranes; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MCU: mitochondrial calcium uniporter; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MTORC1: MTOR complex 1; OPLS-DA: orthogonal partial least squares-discriminant analysis; PA: phosphatidic acid; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PC: phosphatidylcholine; PCA: principal component analysis; PE: phosphatidylethanolamine; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; PLS-DA: partial least squares-discriminant analysis; PS: phosphatidylserine; PtdIns: phosphatidylinositol; PtdIns(1,4,5)P3: phosphatidylinositol (1,4,5)-trisphosphate; PtdIns(3,4,5)P3: phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate; PtdIns(4,5)P2: phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate; RPS6KB1/S6K1: ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TCA: tricarboxylic acid cycle; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFEB: transcription factor EB; UPR: unfolded protein response; VDAC: voltage dependent anion channel; WSSV: white spot syndrome virus; XBP1: X-box binding protein 1.
The ENPP1 (Ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase 1) gene, encoding a protein that negatively modulates insulin receptor activation, remains relatively understudied in obesity genetics. K121Q (rs1044498; chr6:132,172,368: A > C) and other ENPP1 genetic variants (rs1799774; chr6:132,203,471: insT> delT and rs7754561; chr6:132,212,694: A > G), as well as the risk haplotype Q-delT-G have been investigated for their association with obesity risk mostly in populations from Central and Northern Europe, yielding controversial findings. Given the significance of reproducibility in genetic association studies and the scarcity of data from Southern Europe, we performed a case-control replication study to test the hypothesis that ENPP1 variants and haplotypes are associated with severe obesity in the underexplored and high-risk Greek population. A total of 979 Greek individuals (mean age: 47.6 ± 12.5years old), including 510 adults with severe obesity (BMI≥35Kg/m2) and 469 normal-weight (18.5 < BMI<25Kg/m2) controls, were studied. Three ENPP1 variants (rs1044498, rs1799774 and rs7754561) were genotyped using the TaqMan allelic discrimination assay. Logistic regression was applied to detect association of variants with obesity. Linkage disequilibrium among the three variants was assessed, and haplotype frequencies were compared between groups. The three variants did not exhibit any association with adult severe obesity. The three variants were in partial linkage disequilibrium (r2 ≤ 0.43). ENPP1 haplotype distribution differed significantly between normal-weight individuals and those with adult severe obesity (likelihood ratio x2 = 13.38, P = 0.020), with the Q-delT-G haplotype found to be present exclusively in individuals with adult severe obesity (frequency 3.3%) and to be associated with adult severe obesity (x2 = 5.66, P = 0.017; reference haplotype K-InsT-A, consisting of the three major alleles of the three variants). Our replication findings contribute novel evidence regarding the genetic architecture of adult severe obesity in a Southern-European population, however larger studies are necessary to validate these results.© 2026. The Author(s).
Acquired drug resistance is a major cause of failure in gastric cancer treatment. The protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type E (PTPRE) plays an oncogenic role in certain tumours; however, its function in chemotherapy-resistant gastric cancer remains unclear. Therefore, we analysed PTPRE expression in gastric cancer using The Cancer Genome Atlas. In vitro experiments were then conducted to investigate the effects of PTPRE on the resistance of cancer cells to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and its potential mechanisms. The results were further validated in vitro using xenograft studies. We found that PTPRE is upregulated in gastric cancer tissues and participates in the induction of 5-FU resistance. Mechanistic studies revealed that PTPRE suppressed ferroptosis in gastric cancer cells and promoted 5-FU resistance by activating the Src/FAK pathway to upregulate TRIB3 expression. In summary, PTPRE suppresses ferroptosis in gastric cancer cells via the Src/FAK/TRIB3 signalling pathway, thereby inducing 5-FU resistance. Intervention with PTPRE and its downstream targets may represent a potential approach for the clinical treatment of 5-FU-resistant gastric cancer.Copyright: © 2026 Liu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
The kidney possesses a poor ability to robustly regenerate and repair after acute injury. We show that the ectonucleotidase ENPP1 (ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase-1) is robustly expressed in diseased human kidneys and strongly correlates with clinical indices of renal dysfunction. Genetic targeting of Enpp1 in mice enhanced renal repair. A humanized monoclonal antibody, targeting human ENPP1 (hENPP1mAb), when administered in humanized mice, led to tubular cell proliferation, enhanced renal glomerular filtration rate, decreased fibrosis, and rescued renal function after kidney injury. hENPP1mAb augmented nucleotide metabolism and cellular energetics, enabling proliferation and rescuing cell cycle arrest. Single-cell transcriptomics demonstrated expanded signatures of effective repair with hENPP1mAb. In a good laboratory practice (GLP)-compliant dose escalation study, hENPP1mAb was found to be non-toxic and highly tolerated in non-human primates. Our findings identify ENPP1 as a central regulator of acute kidney injury and demonstrate the therapeutic benefit of targeting ENPP1 ectonucleotidase activity with a humanized monoclonal antibody.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42548211
Aluminum causes learning and memory impairments, and is an environmental and occupational toxicant. This in vivo and in vitro study assessed the implications of Lnc_000151 on aluminum-induced neurotoxicity through competitive binding to miR-96-5p. Fifty-six male SpragueDawley rats were randomly divided into eight groups: untreated, sham-operated, saline + sham-operated, Al(mal)₃ + sham-operated, saline + AAV-NC, Al(mal)₃ + AAV-NC, saline + AAV-Lnc_000151 shRNA, and Al(mal)₃ + AAV-Lnc_000151 shRNA. PC12 cells were separated into groups of 0, 100, 200, and 400 µM Al (mal)₃, and transfection groups including Lnc_000151 NC/siRNA, miR-96-5p NC/inhibitor, and IRS1 NC/siRNA. The learning and memory functions of rats were assessed via Morris water maze. Hippocampal CA1 neuronal count and synaptic structure were detected with hematoxylin-eosin staining and transmission electron microscopy. Cell apoptosis was measured using flow cytometry. Relative expression of Lnc_000151, miR-96-5p, and the IRS1/AKT/GSK3β pathway was determined using RT-PCR and Western blotting. The dual-luciferase assay confirmed targeted binding of Lnc_000151 to miR-96-5p and miR-96-5p to IRS1. In vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that under aluminum exposure, inhibition of Lnc_000151 expression exacerbated learning and memory impairments, neuronal loss, synaptic damage, increased Tau and p-Tau (Ser396) expression, and cell apoptosis. In vitro experiments further verified that under aluminum exposure and Lnc_000151 inhibition, suppressing miR-96-5p expression reduced Tau and p-Tau (Ser396) expression and cell apoptosis, while activating the IRS1/AKT/GSK3β pathway. However, further inhibition of IRS1 expression abrogated these ameliorative effects. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that Lnc_000151 can competitively bind to miR-96-5p in a competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA)-dependent manner, thereby regulating IRS1 expression, modulating the AKT/GSK3β pathway, and affecting aluminum-induced neurotoxicity.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The disruption of mitochondrial homeostasis is a trigger for insulin resistance. The loss of N-acetyltransferase 1 (Nat1) function, an insulin-sensitivity gene, contributes to mitochondrial dysfunction and insulin resistance. Carnosic acid (CA), a diterpene derived from rosemary, has demonstrated an anti-insulin-resistance effect. This study hypothesized that CA protects against TNF-α-induced insulin resistance in 3T3-L1 adipocytes by regulating mitochondrial dynamics, biogenesis, and function via Nat1. 3T3-L1 adipocytes were pretreated with CA for 12 h, followed by co-treatment with TNF-α for an additional indicated duration. Results showed that treatment of 3T3-L1 adipocytes with TNF-α decreases mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and PGC-1α protein levels and alters mitochondrial fission/fusion dynamics. Pretreatment with CA improved these effects. In parallel, CA prevented the TNF-α-induced reduction in Nat1 protein and improved insulin signaling by suppressing the phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1) at serine307, while restoring the phosphorylation of IRS-1 at tyrosine628 and Akt. Moreover, transfection with Nat1 siRNA inhibited the protective effect of CA against TNF-α-induced reductions in MMP, PGC-1α, and insulin signaling. In conclusion, CA ameliorated TNF-α-induced insulin resistance by reducing mitochondrial dysregulation by Nat1.
Lactation and mammary involution and remodeling are complex biological processes that require the coordinate expression of thousands of genes. Differential expression analyses comparing lactating and dry goats have revealed extensive changes in the expression of protein-coding and non-coding RNAs in the mammary gland. Here, we hypothesize that lactation and mammary involution/remodeling may also involve changes in the abundance of transcripts differing in exon composition and functional properties. To test this hypothesis, we analyzed the mammary transcriptomes of 5 lactating and 4 dry goats by using a hybrid approach based on the integration of data from short-read Illumina and long-read Nanopore sequencing. After data filtering, we detected 21,598 transcripts derived from 12,300 genes (≈1.7 transcripts per locus) in the goat mammary gland. Among them, we found 14,092 annotated isoforms, 6,291 novel isoforms, and 1,215 novel loci. Around 39.3% of expressed genes generated multiple transcript variants. Overall, the goat mammary transcriptome showed exon skipping as the most frequent splicing event, followed by alternative use of initial exons, intron retention, and variations in 3' and 5' splicing sites. We also observed that a limited number of isoforms accounted for a very substantial fraction of the total expression output of the lactating mammary gland, with the top 10 and top 50 genes representing approximately 66% and 82% of total expression, respectively. This transcriptomic specialization is driven primarily by genes encoding caseins CSN1S1, CSN2, and CSN3, and major whey proteins such as progestagen associated endometrial protein (PAEP), α-lactalbumin (LALBA), and lactophorin (GLYCAM1), which are essential milk nutrients. Finally, differential transcript usage (DTU) analysis comparing lactating and dry goats revealed 443 isoform switches affecting 355 unique genes and 563 transcripts. Besides, 266 and 297 transcripts were upregulated and downregulated in lactating goats, respectively, and 413 DTU, affecting 248 genes, were predicted to have functional consequences. Among these functional consequences, the most important ones were protein domain gain, non-reference domain isoform gain, nonsense-mediated insensitivity and coding transcripts. Several of the genes showing DTU have important roles in lactation, being of particular relevance those encoding epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase, mitochondrial (GPAM), hydroxysteroid 11-β dehydrogenase 1 (HSD11B1), insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1), nuclear receptor subfamily 3 group C member 1 (NR3C1), and phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 1 (PIK3R1). Moreover, we also detected DTU for several genes integrated in the mitogen-activated protein kinase and Rho GTPase pathways. In summary, we provide a comprehensive catalog of RNA isoforms expressed in the goat mammary gland and demonstrate that mammary transcript splicing patterns differ substantially between lactating and dry goats.The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of the American Dairy Science Association®. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
Myopia, in particular high myopia (HM), is a major global ocular disorder and genetic factors playing a crucial role in its development. This study aimed to shed light on the genetic association between candidate single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and HM, offering insights into the mechanisms underlying HM.This case-control study involves 1008 unrelated Han Chinese participants, including 508 HM patients and 500 healthy controls. Eleven candidate SNPs that were previously linked to refractive errors in other populations were genotyped using multiplex polymerase chain reaction and high-throughput sequencing. We analyzed the associations between SNPs and HM under five genetic models, adjusting for age and sex. Ocular biometrics, such as axial length (AL) and refractive error, were correlated with the significant SNPs identified. We conducted functional annotation of the target SNP using bioinformatic tools. In addition, a form-deprivation myopia mouse model was employed to validate the role of the candidate gene through Western blot analysis of retinal proteins.Among the 11 SNPs analyzed, rs17036350 in the Mechanistic Target of Rapamycin Kinase (MTOR) gene showed a significant association with HM in the Southern Han Chinese population. Under the heterozygous model, the results for this SNP suggest an association with high myopia (P=0.032, OR=0.727, 95% CI: 0.542-0.975). In individuals with HM, carriers of the C allele of rs17036350 (CC + CT genotypes) had a significantly longer AL than those with the TT genotype (P=0.015), and the association was more pronounced in female patients (P=0.033). Bioinformatics functional analysis revealed that rs17036350 interacts with the MTOR gene in a chromatin regulatory loop, which potentially enhances the transcription factor PBX1 and downstream gene expression. Myopic eyes exhibited significant axial elongation in the FDM mouse model, and elevated levels of phosphorylated mTOR (p-mTOR) were observed in the retina compared to controls (P=0.0128).This study suggested that rs17036350 within MTOR is potentially a genetic marker associated with HM in the Southern Han Chinese population, and showed a specific association with AL. Additionally, MTOR activation may contribute to axial elongation in myopia. These findings provide new insights into the genetic regulation of refractive development and support potential targeted strategies for managing myopia.© 2026 The Authors.
Mitochondria-ER contact sites (MERCs) are crucial signaling hubs, but their role in anti-tumor immunity is unclear. This study revealed that the mitophagy regulator PRKN ubiquitinated CD274 at MERCs in human cervical cancer cells, a key mechanism for anti-tumor immunity. CD274 expression inversely correlated with PRKN in cervical cancer. Upon mitophagy activation, CD274 was recruited from ER to MERCs by PINK1, enhancing its interaction with PRKN. PRKN then ubiquitinated CD274 at residues K89 and K105 within its extracellular domain. Functionally, a ubiquitination-deficient CD274 mutant promoted the anaerobic glycolysis and MTOR signaling, accelerating cancer cell growth. Coculture with ubiquitination-deficient CD274 mutant-expressing cancer cells increased the CD8+ T-cells' exhaustion. Single-cell RNA sequencing of mouse tumors showed the expansion of exhausted CD8+ T cells and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) with ubiquitination-deficient CD274 mutation. In vivo, ubiquitination-deficient CD274 mutant accelerated tumor growth and reduced the therapy efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors. Conversely, clinical sample analysis showed that CD274 localization at MERCs or its ubiquitination levels were closely associated with the improved immunotherapy efficacy. Thus, mitophagy-dependent recruitment of CD274 to MERCs for PRKN-mediated ubiquitination is a novel pathway that activates the anti-tumor immunity and improves the immunotherapy efficacy, presenting a promising strategic target for cervical cancer treatment.Abbreviations: CCCP, carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone; CD, cluster of differentiation; CHX, cycloheximide; FCCP, carbonyl cyanide-p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone; GAPDH, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; GZMB, granzyme B; IFNG, interferon gamma; LDHA, lactate dehygrogenase A; MAP1LC3, microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MFN2, mitofusin 2; MHC, major histocompatibility complex; MTOR, mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; OCR, oxygen consumption rate; PBMC, peripheral blood mononuclear cell; PDCD1, programmed cell death 1; PI, propidium iodide; PINK1, PTEN induced putative kinase 1; PKM, pyruvate kinase, muscle; RPS6, ribosomal protein S6; TNF, tumor necrosis factor; TME, tumor microenvironment.
Compensatory growth, an important adaptive response in fish, holds considerable potential for improving feeding efficiency in aquaculture. To identify an optimal fasting-refeeding strategy for juvenile Qihe gibel carp (Carassius gibelio var. Qihe) and to clarify the mechanisms underlying the compensatory growth, we divided two-month-old fish into four groups, namely S0 group (continuous feeding for 28 days), S2 group (4 cycles of 2-day fasting followed by 5-day refeeding), S4 group (fasting for 4 days followed by refeeding for 24 days), and S8 group (fasting for 8 days followed by refeeding for 20 days), then growth performance, muscle tissue morphology, biochemical responses, and muscle transcriptomic profiles under different feeding regimes were investigated. After a 28-day aquaculture experiment, fish in the S4 group exhibited significantly greater body length and weight than those in the S0, S2, and S8 groups, indicating over-compensatory growth. Histological analysis further showed that muscle growth in the S4 group was mainly associated with myofiber hyperplasia. Different feeding regimes also induced distinct changes in hepatic antioxidant and metabolic enzyme activities, as well as intestinal digestive enzyme activities. Transcriptome analysis revealed that the forkhead box O (FoxO) signaling pathway was significantly enriched during compensatory growth. Key genes, including serum/glucocorticoid regulated kinase 1 (sgk1) and insulin receptor substrate 1 (irs1), were predicted to play important roles in this process. Overall, these results indicate that fasting for 4 days followed by refeeding for 24 days (the S4 regime) is the optimal strategy for inducing compensatory growth in juvenile Qihe gibel carp. This study provides new insights into the morphological, physiological, and molecular basis of compensatory growth and offers a scientific foundation for developing efficient and sustainable feeding strategies for this species.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Nectin-4 has emerged as a clinically relevant target in muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC), primarily because of its role in antibody-drug conjugate-based therapies. However, the broader biological context of Nectin-4 expression and its association with tumor-promoting signaling pathways in MIBC remain insufficiently characterized. In this single-institution study, Nectin-4 expression (H-score 0-300) was assessed by immunohistochemistry in two independent MIBC cohorts. Associations between Nectin-4 expression and key markers related to growth signaling, metabolic regulation, and inflammation were analyzed alongside clinicopathological characteristics. Nectin-4 expression was significantly higher in malignant tissue than in non-malignant tissue (p = 0.0016 and p = 0.0302, respectively). Nectin-4 expression was not associated with demographic or clinicopathological parameters; however, a trend toward lower expression in more advanced disease stages was observed. Significant positive correlations were identified between Nectin-4 expression and protein kinase B (p = 0.0004), cytoplasmic (p = 0.0115) and membranous somatostatin receptor 2 (p = 0.0125), insulin receptor substrate 1 (p = 0.03), and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1RA; p = 0.0045). In contrast, a negative correlation was observed with the IL-1β/IL-1RA ratio (p = 0.0246). Although Nectin-4 expression was not significantly associated with cancer-specific or overall survival, a trend toward shorter relapse-free survival was observed in patients with lower Nectin-4 expression (p = 0.0531). In multivariate analysis, patient age, but not Nectin-4 expression, emerged as an independent prognostic factor. Although Nectin-4 expression does not appear to have independent prognostic value, its biological associations suggest that it reflects an integrated tumor-related signaling context. These findings support further investigation of Nectin-4 as part of rational, biology-driven therapeutic strategies in bladder cancer.
Women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and insulin resistance (IR) commonly have elevated serum advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) that accumulate in their ovaries, potentially altering ovarian function. AGEs have been shown to interfere with insulin signaling in granulosa cells (GCs) by suppressing the translocation of glucose transporters. Additionally, PCOS has been associated with insulin receptor substrate (IRS)-1 polymorphisms and upregulation in IRS-1 gene expression in GCs. We hypothesize that AGEs are partly responsible for ovarian IR by altering IRS-1 in human GCs. Cumulus granulosa cells from women undergoing IVF were cultured in control media or media containing human glycated albumin (HGA) as a source of AGEs. The quantification of mRNA expression was compared using RT-PCR for receptors for AGEs (RAGE), IRS-1, IRS-2, Glucose Transporter Type (GLUT)-1, and nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB). In addition, IRS-1 protein intensity was assessed by immunofluorescence. Compared to the control group, HGA-treated GCs showed a statistically significant upregulation in RAGE mRNA by 314% and in IRS-1 mRNA by 423%. Even though there was a 183% increase in GLUT-1 mRNA, it did not reach statistical significance. There was no change in IRS-2 or NF-κB mRNA expression levels. Immunofluorescence showed that IRS-1 deposition was visualized in GCs, and the addition of HGA resulted in a significant increase in the intensity of IRS-1 protein compared to control cells. The AGE-induced upregulation in IRS-1, the primary insulin receptor substrate, in GCs could indicate compensation for insulin action deficiency and potentially IR. Additionally, immunofluorescence analysis of GLUT-4 revealed a statistically significant reduction in cytoplasmic GLUT-4 signal in HGA-treated GCs compared to controls (2.10 ± 0.21 vs. 3.81 ± 0.22 arbitrary units; p = 0.010), consistent with AGE-mediated disruption of glucose transporter localization. These results suggest that AGE exposure may initiate early molecular changes consistent with altered insulin signaling, but do not establish insulin resistance per se.
Vegaven, an intravenous lipid emulsion based on 18-carbon n-3 (ω-3) fatty acids, reduces the accumulation of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in peripheral organs including the brain of parenterally fed piglets compared with fish oil-containing SMOFlipid. Inflammation may impair brain energy metabolism and growth signaling.This study aimed to compare key brain metabolic and developmental signaling pathways with the use of different lipid emulsions for parenteral nutrition (PN).In this study, 3-4-d-old female piglets were randomly assigned to isocaloric isonitrogenous PN with Vegaven (VEGA, N = 10) or SMOFlipid (SMOF, N = 9). After 14 d of PN, plasma and tissue samples were collected.LPS and tumor necrosis factor-α were lower in brain tissue samples (prefrontal cortex) of VEGA compared with SMOF. Brain pyruvate dehydrogenase activity and the ketone body β-hydroxybutyrate in both liver and brain were higher in VEGA. In contrast, there was higher phosphorylation and activation of adenosine 5'-monophosphate-activated protein kinase (pThr172AMPK), a sensor of energy stress and master regulator of catabolic metabolic pathways, in brain samples of SMOF without compensatory increase in fatty acid oxidation. Anabolic signaling in the brain was higher in VEGA compared with SMOF, as indicated by higher insulin receptor substrate-1 and Akt-substrate of 160 kDa abundance, and higher phosphorylation of mammalian target of rapamycin (pSer2448mTOR), essential for axon growth, dendrite arborization, and memory function. The transcription factors cAMP-response-element-binding-protein-1 (pSer133CREB1) and c-Jun, critical for brain development, showed higher nuclear abundance in brain samples of VEGA compared with SMOF.In neonatal brains of parenterally fed female piglets, Vegaven reduced inflammation and enhanced energy metabolism and developmental signaling compared with SMOFlipid.© 2026 The Author(s).
In T cells, Dual Oxidase 2 (DUOX2) is responsible for reducing NAADPH to NAADP, a potent second messenger that evokes Ca2+ signaling. However, specific DUOX2 activation mechanisms, particularly upon T-cell receptor (TCR) activation, remained unclear. New findings from Winterberg K. et al. identify two key kinases, PKCθ and PKA Cβ2, that directly phosphorylate and activate DUOX2, thereby accounting for basal TCR-independent and TCR-evoked NAADP/Ca2+ signaling and dictating cytokine production.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42103538 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 41979916 is a review article
The role of 12/15-lipoxygenase (12/15-LOX; polyunsaturated fatty acid lipoxygenase ALOX15) in platelet function is not known. Using knockout mice as well as pharmacological and molecular approaches, here we show for the first time that genetic deletion of 12/15-LOX suppresses thrombin-induced proteinase-activated receptor 4 (PAR4) myristoylation and trafficking, causing a reduction in its interaction with proteinase-activated receptor 3 (PAR3) in mouse platelets. We also found that 12/15-LOX, via activation of protein kinase C theta (PKCθ), mediates N-myristoyltransferase 1 (NMT1) phosphorylation, which modulates thrombin-induced PAR4 myristoylation, trafficking, and its interaction with PAR3, leading to PAR3/4 heterodimer formation in mouse platelets. In line with these observations, genetic deletion or inhibition of 12/15-LOX or pharmacological blockade of PKCθ or NMT1 attenuated thrombin-induced PAR4 myristoylation, trafficking, and its interaction with PAR3, leading to reduced platelet activation in mouse platelets. Similarly, mice with genetic deletion or inhibition of 12/15-LOX or blockade of PKCθ or NMT1 exhibited a prolonged bleeding time and delayed clotting and clot retraction times. Intriguingly, we found that thrombin induces myristoylation, trafficking, and thereby dimerization of both PAR1 and PAR4 in human platelets, and inhibition of 15-LOX1, the human orthologue of murine 12/15-LOX, attenuated these effects. Following these observations, inhibition of 15-LOX1 blunted thrombin-induced platelet activation and clot retraction in humans. Thus, our findings unfold an essential role for 12/15-LOX in thrombin-induced platelet activation and hemostasis.© 2026 The Author(s). The FEBS Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Protein kinase C theta (PKCθ) is a unique PKC isoform distinguished by its specific cellular localization in T cells. It plays a critical non-redundant role in regulating T cell activation and is implicated in various autoimmune and inflammatory disorders. Notably, PKCθ is selectively required for detrimental immune responses while being dispensable for beneficial ones; thus, inhibiting PKCθ could specifically reduce detrimental immunity. Moreover, PKCθ has been linked to tumour progression, making it a promising target for cancer therapy. Herein we report the discovery of three new natural compounds as potent PKCθ inhibitors. A comprehensive multistep virtual screening protocol was employed to screen the InterBioScreen database (67,749 compounds) against PKCθ. Molecular docking yielded 40 hits that were subjected to molecular dynamics simulations to assess their stability of binding. In addition to monitoring persistent ligand-protein interactions, binding free energies for the complexes were calculated. Five top compounds that formed stable complexes with PKCθ in silico were then purchased to test their inhibitory activity in vitro. Three of the compounds demonstrated potent, low submicromolar activity against PKCθ, namely STOCK1N-80,922 and STOCK1N-97,911 (IC50 around 0.10 µM) and STOCK1N-93,016 (IC50 around 0.3 µM). The binding free energy decomposition suggests that strong van der Waals/lipophilic binding interactions contribute to the potency of the three compounds. Moreover, these three compounds are predicted to be drug-like and orally bioavailable and, thus, represent promising candidates for further investigation as PKCθ inhibitors. The overall results give insights that may be valuable for the development of PKCθ inhibitors as potential therapeutics.
Protein kinase C θ (PKCθ) is expressed in T lymphocytes, in which it plays a crucial role in cell activation, proliferation, and differentiation. Previously, we discovered that the Thr335-Pro motif within the PKCθ-V3 regulatory domain serves as a critical site for PKCθ activation and demonstrated that phosphorylation of the Thr335-Pro motif creates a binding site for the peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase (PPIase), Pin1. Herein, we elaborate on the functional consequences of the Pin1-PKCθ association and identify Pin1 as a regulator of PKCθ catalytic activity. Pin1 downregulated the activity of PKCθ in vitro in PMA-stimulated human Jurkat T cells and C57BL/6J mouse spleen- and thymus-derived T lymphocytes, an effect that was reversed by juglone, a Pin1-activity inhibitor. Utilizing Pin1 isomerase-deficient mutants, we demonstrate that the functionality of the Pin1 catalytic domain is essential for its regulation of PKCθ, suggesting that Pin1 mediates its inhibitory effect on PKCθ via cis-trans isomerization. In silico docking analysis supported the role of critical residues within the Pin1-PPIase domain that enables the cis-trans interconversion of the PKCθ phospho-Thr335-Pro motif. Retroviral knockdown of Pin1 in Jurkat T cells led to an elevation in PKCθ kinase activity. Furthermore, stimulation of [Lckcre × Pin1lox] F1 mice-derived Pin1-deficient T cells augmented the phosphorylation of SPAK kinase, a bona fide PKCθ downstream substrate. Together, our results support a role for the Pin1 isomerase as a regulator of PKCθ activity and highlight the potential contribution of Pin1 to the fine-tuning of the T cell activation dynamics.© 2025 The Protein Society.
To develop a safe and effective green therapy for triple-negative breast cancer, this study combines hydrogen-rich water with acupuncture point injection, and finds that it can prevent tumor growth and minimize cancer metastasis.After 21 d of hydrogen rich water injection treatment on 4T1 (mouse breast cancer cells) xenograft mice, in order to systematically identify differentially expressed proteins in tumor samples between the model group and the Zusanli (ST36) group injected with hydrogen rich water at acupoints, with a focus on functional proteins or signaling pathways related to tumor occurrence and development, researchers conducted four-dimensional data independent acquisition (4D-DIA) proteomic analysis on tumor tissues. In order to further investigate the dynamic changes of metabolites after therapeutic intervention, researchers conducted liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry untargeted metabolomics identification and analysis on mouse serum. The results of the joint proteomics-metabolomics analysis were validated using experimental methods such as immunofluorescence, Western blotting, and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction detection.Injecting hydrogen-rich water into acupoints significantly inhibited tumor growth (P < 0.05). 4D-DIA proteomics and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses uncovered pathways such as T helper 1 cell (Th1) and T helper 2 cell (Th2) cell differentiation. The KEGG metabolic pathways identified in the metabolomics analysis included galactose metabolism along with fructose and mannose metabolism. Based on the combined proteomics and metabolomics analysis, the key pathways included the C-type lectin receptor signaling pathway. The major cancer-related differential proteins detected in Th1 and Th2 cell differentiation [interleukin 6 signal transducer, nuclear factor of activated T cells 4, recombinant mitogen activated protein kinase 10 (MAPK10), and MAPK11] were upregulated after the injection of hydrogen-rich water into the Zusanli (ST36) acupoint, whereas Linker for activation of T cells (Lat), signal transducer and activator of transcription 1, and protein kinase C, theta were downregulated.The injection of hydrogen-rich water into the Zusanli (ST36) acupoint effectively inhibited the hyperplasia of 4T1 BC cells and enhanced their apoptosis, potentially exerting a therapeutic effect through multiple pathways and targeting various sites.
Breast cancer remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality among women globally. The emergence of chemoresistance and the lack of early detection tools necessitate the identification of reliable molecular biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Protein kinase C theta (PRKCQ/PKCθ), a serine/threonine kinase, has been implicated in immune signaling and cancer. The current study was designed to investigate the relative expression levels of PRKCQ and its downstream components, including TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1), mammalian target of rapamycin (mTORC1), ribosomal S6 kinase (S6K), Jun Proto-Oncogene (JUNB), and the tumor suppressor gene p21, in breast cancer. The study also aimed to evaluate their association with key clinicopathological features.Gene expression analysis was conducted using quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) on breast cancer blood samples. Expression levels were compared between breast cancer patients and healthy controls, and further analyzed to metastasis, cancer stage, histological subtype, molecular classification, family history, BRCA status, menopausal status, and lactation history.Expression of PRKCQ, TBK1, mTORC1, S6K, and JUNB was significantly upregulated in breast cancer blood samples compared to controls, whereas p21 expression was downregulated. Statistically significant associations were observed between gene expression levels and various clinicopathological parameters. Notably, PRKCQ showed strong differential expression across molecular subtypes with the highest expression in TNBC. A signaling axis involving PRKCQ-TBK1-mTORC1-S6K and an independent PRKCQ-JUNB-VEGFR axis was proposed.The relative expression of PRKCQ and its associated signaling components suggests their critical role in breast cancer progression. These molecules, especially PRKCQ, may serve as potential biomarkers for early detection and prognosis, as well as targets for therapeutic intervention following further validation.© 2025. The Author(s).
Background: Cerebral malaria (CM) is a severe and often fatal complication of Plasmodium falciparum infection that causes devastating brain injury largely through immune-mediated mechanisms. Pathogenic brain-infiltrating CD8+ T cells are key drivers of CM pathology, yet the intracellular signals enabling their harmful autoimmune-like activity remain poorly defined. Here, we identify protein kinase C θ (PKCθ), a central antigen receptor-signalling mediator, as a critical contributor to experimental cerebral malaria (ECM). Methods/Results: Using a PKCθ null allele mouse strain on a C57BL/6N background, we demonstrate that PKCθ deficiency significantly improves survival in Plasmodium berghei ANKA (PbA)-infected mice without altering parasite burdens in the blood or brain. Mechanistically, loss of PKCθ skews T cell differentiation towards central memory (Tcm) rather than effector memory (Tem) phenotypes, thereby reducing effector differentiation and sequestration of CD8+ T cells in the cerebral microvasculature. This prevents extensive neurovascular damage, preserves neural tissue integrity, and alleviates neurological signs and symptoms. Our findings provide genetic evidence that PKCθ drives CD8+ T cell-mediated brain injury in ECM. Conclusions: These results underscore the potential for repurposing clinically PKCθ inhibitors as host-targeted interventions to protect against cerebral injury and improve outcomes in patients with CM.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 25719193
Various improvements have been made to chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells to enhance their antitumor effects and expand their indications to various cancer types. Although second-generation CARs directly induce second signals in a linear pathway via their own costimulatory domain such as CD28, CAR-T cells themselves express costimulatory receptors, which induce additional second signals in parallel. To clarify the differences between these two types of second signals, we here reveal CD28-mediated signalosomes using high-resolution imaging. CAR constructed using CD3ζ and CD28 (CD28ζ.CAR)-T cells demonstrate intense and persistent accumulation of the CD28 downstream kinase protein kinase C θ (PKCθ) at CAR signalosomes, and endogenous CD28 on CAR-T cells prolongs the CD28-CAR association. This assembling of PKCθ is correlated with IL-2 production and in vivo tumor suppression by CAR-T cells. These results indicate that the development and improvement of CARs requires analysis of intrinsic T-cell responses, which can be effectively assessed from signalosome dynamics evaluated by molecular imaging.© 2025. The Author(s).
Burn injury frequently leads to heterotopic ossification (HO) during tendon healing, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. This study investigated the role of the ceramide-protein kinase C zeta (PKCζ) signaling axis in burn-enhanced ectopic calcification during Achilles tendon healing and evaluated the therapeutic potential of PKCζ inhibition. A combined burn injury and Achilles tendon puncture model was established in C57BL/6 mice, with sham control, tendon puncture, and burn combined tendon puncture groups. Micro-computed tomography analysis revealed significantly increased bone volume at the calcaneal insertion site in burn-injured animals. Both total PKCζ and phosphorylated PKCζ expression were markedly elevated in the burn combined injury group. In vitro, C2-ceramide treatment significantly enhanced PKCζ activation and promoted osteogenic differentiation of Achilles tendon stem cells, as evidenced by increased alkaline phosphatase activity, calcium deposition, and upregulation of runt-related transcription factor 2 and osteopontin expression. Co-treatment with 2-acetyl-1,3-cyclopentanedione (ACPD), an atypical PKC (aPKC) inhibitor, effectively blocked ceramide-induced PKCζ activation and osteogenic differentiation. In vivo administration of the aPKC inhibitor significantly reduced ectopic calcification (bone volume on micro-CT) and decreased expression of PKCζ and osteogenic markers. These findings suggest that burn injury enhances ectopic calcification during Achilles tendon healing through activation of the ceramide-PKCζ signaling pathway, promoting aberrant osteogenic differentiation of tendon stem cells. Atypical PKC inhibition represents a potential therapeutic strategy for preventing burn-associated ectopic calcification.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Immunogenic cell death (ICD) represents a promising strategy to suppress tumor growth and potentiate immunotherapy efficacy, driving the demand for novel and clinically translatable ICD inducers. Here, we investigated the potential of cepharanthine (CEP) for inducing ICD in multiple representative solid tumors.The ICD-inducing potential of a series of natural alkaloids was screened by flow cytometry. CEP's activity and mechanism were characterized using flow cytometry, western blot, immunofluorescence, ATP quantification, cell thermal shift assay (CETSA), surface plasmon resonance (SPR), bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing. The translational potential of CEP, either as monotherapy or in combination with other immunotherapies, was evaluated in both syngeneic mouse tumor models and patient-derived organoid systems. Toxicity in mice was assessed through hematological and biochemical parameters.CEP effectively induced ICD in multiple representative solid tumor models (breast cancer, colorectal cancer, esophageal cancer, liver cancer, lung cancer) by promoting damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) release, enhancing phagocytosis by antigen-presenting cells, and activating T cell-mediated immunity. Mechanistically, CEP directly bound to protein kinase C zeta (PKCζ), leading to the inhibition of NF-κB signaling via suppressing p65 nuclear translocation, and downregulation of poly ADP-ribose polymerase 1 (PARP1) transcription. PARP1 downregulation triggers intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, subsequently inducing DNA damage and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Furthermore, CEP synergized with PD-1 blockade and OX40 agonism, thereby enhancing antitumor efficacy in vivo.CEP is a potent and preclinically well-tolerated ICD inducer that acts by targeting the PKCζ/NF-κB/PARP1 axis. Its synergy with immune checkpoint inhibitors and co-stimulatory agonists underscores its translational potential for combination cancer immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
The association between the expression of protein kinase C zeta (PKCζ) and chemotherapeutic responses among different subtypes of breast cancer has yet to be fully elucidated. The present study aimed to investigate the association between PKCζ expression and disease-specific survival (DSS) rates, with a particular focus on the influence of chemotherapy and cancer stem cell (CSC)-associated ALDH1A3 expression.Clinical and gene expression data from the Molecular Taxonomy of Breast Cancer International Consortium (METABRIC) dataset (n=2,509) were analyzed using Kaplan-Meier and Cox proportional hazards models. The findings were validated using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) Pan-Cancer Atlas dataset (n=1,084).In the METABRIC dataset, high PKCζ expression (PKCζ high) was associated with poor DSS rates in patients with the normal-like, claudin-low and basal-like subtypes treated with chemotherapy. Consistent results were obtained in TCGA dataset, where PKCζ high expression in basal-like breast cancer predicted poor prognosis, especially among patients treated with cyclophosphamide, an alkylating agent. Combined analysis further revealed that patients with high expression of both PKCζ and ALDH1A3 (PKCζ high/ALDH1A3 high) basal-like tumors treated with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, or fluorouracil had the worst DSS rates compared with other groups. In addition, PKCζ high/ALDH1A3 high basal-like tumors treated with anthracycline- or taxane-based regimens also exhibited poorer prognoses compared with other groups.PKCζ contributes to chemotherapeutic resistance, especially in patients with ALDH1A3-positive basal-like breast cancer, possibly through the regulation of CSC survival and proliferation. Moreover, PKCζ, either alone or in combination with ALDH1A3 expression, may serve as a prognostic biomarker for predicting the therapeutic efficacy of chemotherapy in basal-like breast cancer.Copyright © 2026, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease characterized by the loss of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) and the aggregation of alpha-synuclein (α-syn) in Lewy bodies. Emerging studies find that disruption of the Golgi structure and Golgi stress are involved in PD. Thioredoxin-1 (Trx-1) is a redox regulatory protein that protects DA neurons from methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) damage. However, whether Trx-1 can protect DA neurons against MPTP-induced Golgi stress is still unknown.We first made sure that MPTP led to the loss of DA neurons in the SNpc and motor impairment in mice, which was reversed in Trx-1 overexpression mice. Trx-1 overexpression suppressed Golgi apparatus fragmentation, α-syn aggregation, oxidative stress, and protein kinase C zeta expression increased by MPTP. Trx-1 overexpression restored the colocalization of Trx-1 and tyrosine hydroxylase with Golgi matrix protein 130 (GM130), decreased by MPTP. Moreover, Trx-1 overexpression suppressed the increased co-localization of Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 and Ras-associated binding protein 29 with vacuolar protein sorting-associated protein 52 induced by MPTP. Trx-1 overexpression suppressed the expression changes of ADP-ribosylation factor 4 and heat shock protein 47, and their colocalization with GM130 induced by MPTP.Our study reveals a novel mechanism, whereby Trx-1 inhibits Golgi stress in DA neuron induced by MPTP.These results suggest that Trx-1 may regulate the development of PD through inhibiting Golgi stress and is a potential new molecular target and therapeutic strategy for Golgi stress involved in PD. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 44, 661-675.
Poorly differentiated and anaplastic thyroid carcinomas represent aggressive malignancies with limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis. Protein kinase C zeta (PKCζ), an atypical PKC isozyme, has emerged as a critical regulator in various cancers, but its role in thyroid cancer progression remains largely unexplored. This study investigated PKCζ expression patterns in thyroid cancer and evaluated its therapeutic potential using the specific atypical PKC inhibitor 2-acetyl-1,3-cyclopentanedione (ACPD).PKCζ expression and phosphorylation were analyzed in thyroid tissue samples from 20 patients and multiple thyroid cancer cell lines using Western blot analysis. Functional studies employed PKCζ overexpression, knockdown, and ACPD treatment in BCPAP (papillary) and 8505C (poorly differentiated) cell lines. Cell proliferation, colony formation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers were assessed. Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated in xenograft mouse models with ACPD treatment.PKCζ expression and phosphorylation progressively increased from normal thyroid tissue through papillary, poorly differentiated, to anaplastic thyroid carcinomas. ACPD treatment (5 μM) significantly suppressed malignant phenotypes in 8505C cells, including reduced proliferation, colony formation, migration, and invasion, while reversing EMT marker expression. PKCζ knockdown reproduced these anti-tumorigenic effects, confirming specificity. PKCζ overexpression in BCPAP cells enhanced malignant behaviors, which were effectively counteracted by ACPD treatment. In vivo studies demonstrated that ACPD treatment significantly reduced tumor growth in both cell line-derived xenograft models.PKCζ activation correlates with thyroid cancer aggressiveness and drives malignant progression through EMT regulation. ACPD effectively targets PKCζ-mediated oncogenic pathways, suggesting PKCζ inhibition as a promising therapeutic strategy for aggressive thyroid cancers.Copyright © 2026 Ding and Fu.
The nuclear factor small heterodimer partner (SHP) plays a dual function in maintaining bile acid (BA) homeostasis and exerting anti-inflammatory effects. While SHP might be associated with metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH), its role in patients remains unclear.Liver tissue and serum samples were collected from 69 patients with MASH and 10 healthy controls. The subcellular distribution of SHP and related proteins in liver tissue were analyzed to correlate with MASH-associated pathological characteristics. In vitro studies were conducted to elucidate the underlying mechanisms and clinical relevance of SHP nuclear translocation in MASH.Compared with controls, patients with MASH demonstrated a higher nuclear SHP ratio (51.7% vs. 1.55%, p <0.001), which correlated with the severity of hepatitis and steatosis, but not with serum BA levels. The nuclear SHP ratio increased in parallel with atypical protein kinase C zeta (PKCζ) signal intensity and showed high co-localization with nucleoporin RanBP2. In vitro experiments demonstrated that both toxic fatty acid and inflammatory cytokine could induce SHP nuclear translocation, which was blocked by PKCζ inhibition. SHP knockdown increased basal innate immune activity, accelerated intracellular lipid accumulation, and recapitulated a MASH-like gene profile that facilitates BA accumulation.Nuclear SHP accumulation is a distinctive feature of MASH pathology. This PKCζ-dependent process may exert anti-inflammation and anti-cholestasis function in patients with MASH.The nuclear factor small heterodimer partner (SHP) plays a dual role in maintaining bile acid homeostasis and suppressing inflammation. In patients with metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH), we identified a pathological increase in the hepatocellular nuclear SHP ratio, likely triggered by lipid overload and inflammatory stimuli, and dependent on PKCζ activation. SHP knockdown in vitro induced cellular steatosis, innate immune responses, and leading to a cholestatic gene expression profile. These findings highlight SHP as a potential therapeutic target in MASH.© 2025 The Authors.
Macrophages execute host defense against pathogens by releasing extracellular traps (METs) composed of DNA meshwork and antimicrobial proteins. Although MET-mediated pathogen immobilization is well documented, the induction mechanisms of MET generation by helminth parasites remain elusive. Here, we demonstrate that Strongyloides stercoralis larvae induce rapid chromatin extrusion in murine macrophages. Unlike neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation, MET formation does not require NADPH oxidase and exhibits distinct ultrastructural characteristics, including endoplasmic reticulum vesiculation, perinuclear space dilation, and inner nuclear membrane budding. Phosphoproteomic analysis revealed that MET formation is coordinately regulated by ERK and AKT signaling, F-actin cytoskeletal remodeling, histone acetylation, and phosphorylation of nuclear envelope (NE) proteins. Specifically, we show that protein kinase C zeta isoform (PKCζ)-mediated lamin A/C phosphorylation drives the NE budding and subsequent DNA expulsion. This work represents the first systematic delineation of the cellular dynamics and molecular machinery underlying MET formation, providing new insights into macrophage-directed anti-helminth immunity.Copyright © 2025 Zhou, Zhang, Zhu, Wang, Liu, Gupta and Hu.
Non- synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (nsSNPs) impact disease onset and progression. Protein kinase C zeta (PRKCZ) is involved in oncological, neurological, and diabetes pathogenesis. The goal of the research presented here was to investigate the role of nsSNPs in PRKCZ in breast cancer (BC) pathogenesis.Genotyping analysis was performed to determine the association of PRKCZ genetic variants rs1236161858 (G/T), rs367917640 (G/A/C), rs202071893(A/G), and rs757469768(G/A) with BC risk and clinicopathological variables through Tetra-ARMS PCR.rs1236161858(G/T) was linked to higher BC risk in codominant (OR = 5.227, RR = 2.225), allele model, (OR = 4.701, and RR = 2.186) and log additive (OR = 2.564). rs367917640 (G/A) was associated with increased BC risk in codominant model (OR = 6.419, RR = 2.350), recessive model (OR = 12.09 and, RR = 4.772) and log additive (OR = 3.340). rs367917640(G/C) was linked to higher BC risk in dominant (OR = 4.892, RR = 2.208), recessive (OR = 1.859, RR = 1.34), over dominant (OR = 3.675, RR = 2.028) and log additive (1.579) models respectively. For rs202071893(A/G) codominant model (OR = 2.295 RR = 1.547), dominant model (OR = 5.943, and RR = 1.781) and over dominant model (OR = 3.433, and RR = 1.974) showed significantly higher BC association. rs757469768(G/A) was linked to higher BC risk in both dominant (OR = 0.1479, and RR = 0.4688) and over dominant (OR = 2.005, and RR = 1.455) models. However, rs757469768(G/A) was associated with reduced BC risk in log additive model (OR = 0.4956).rs1236161858 correlated with DCIS and IDC. rs367917640(G/A/C) correlated with early cancer stage, LCIS, DCIS, IDC, luminal A and post-menopause. rs202071893 was associated with HER2+and IDC. rs757469768 was not associated with clinicopathological features and risk factors.All five nsSNPs exhibited potential as predictive and prognostic biomarkers for BC. However, the current study findings should be validated by conducting research on large cohorts with representation from diverse population. Furthermore, biological mechanism by which these nsSNPs cause BC pathogenesis could be explored in future studies.© 2025. The Author(s).
Energy stress triggers the activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) via phosphorylation mediated by liver kinase B1 (LKB1). A pivotal step during this process is the translocation of protein kinase C zeta (PKCζ) to the nucleus, where it facilitates the phosphorylation and subsequent nuclear export of LKB1 to the cytosol. However, the mechanism(s) by which PKCζ translocates to the nucleus remains elusive. Here we demonstrate that energy stress, including glucose starvation or metformin treatment, elevates cellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) that promotes PKCζ nuclear import to promote LKB1 cytoplasmic translocation and subsequent AMPK activation both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, we show that energy stress-induced ROS promotes the S-glutathionylation of PKCζ at Cys48, and enhances the interaction of PKCζ with karyopherin subunit alpha 2 (KPNA2), a key nuclear transport protein, thereby facilitating PKCζ nuclear translocation and the phosphorylation of LKB1 at Ser428, consequently leading to LKB1 cytoplasmic translocation and activation of AMPK. Importantly, the reduction of ROS significantly augments the high-fat diet-induced lipid accumulation in mouse liver and reduces the hypoglycemic efficacy of metformin in an AMPK-dependent manner. Together, these results establish a critical role of energy stress-induced PKCζ S-glutathionylation in LKB1 cytoplasmic translocation, highlighting the activation of the ROS-PKCζ-KPNA2-LKB1 axis as a vital mechanism for AMPK activation in response to energy stress.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Higher Education Press.
The relationship between the protein kinase C zeta (PKCζ) and aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member A3 (ALDH1A3) expression levels and endocrine therapy susceptibility in luminal A and luminal B breast cancer subtypes is unclear. Therefore, the present study aimed to analyze this relationship in terms of disease-specific survival.Open-source datasets with clinical and gene expression information (METABRIC, n=2509; and TCGA Pan-Cancer Atlas, n=1084) were downloaded and analyzed. Kaplan-Meier survival and Cox proportional hazard analyses were performed.The results indicated that high PKCζ and ALDH1A3 expression levels were associated with a poor prognosis in patients with luminal B type breast cancer treated with endocrine therapy, including aromatase inhibitors. These results suggest that high expression of PKCζ and ALDH1A3 contributes to reduced effectiveness of endocrine therapy in patients with luminal B breast cancer.PKCζ may be involved in the progression of ALDH1A3-positive luminal B breast cancer. Furthermore, PKCζ and ALDH1A3 could serve as molecular targets and prognostic biomarkers for predicting the efficacy of endocrine therapy in patients with ALDH1A3 positive luminal B breast cancer.Copyright © 2025 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a highly lethal liver cancer with complex pathogenesis intertwined with metabolic and mitochondrial dysfunction. MEN1/menin is a protein with context-dependent functions in liver diseases. While MEN1 has been linked to HCC progression and mitochondrial homeostasis, its precise regulatory mechanism in these processes remains incompletely understood. Here, we report that MEN1 localizes to the outer mitochondrial membrane (OMM) in HCC cells, which is mediated by its N-terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence and the TOMM20 translocase complex. In a genetically engineered DEN- and CCl4-induced HCC mouse model, hepatocyte-specific men1 deficiency significantly suppressed tumorigenesis, a phenotype associated with impaired mitochondrial homeostasis. Mechanistically, MEN1 deficiency disrupted mitochondrial function by manifesting as promoted mitochondrial fission, impaired oxidative phosphorylation, reduced ATP levels, and elevated reactive oxygen species during energy stress. Critically, MEN1 loss inhibited mitophagy via downregulating the PINK1-PRKN/Parkin pathway, which impaired clearance of dysfunctional mitochondria and promotes their cytotoxic accumulation. Moreover, MEN1 expression was upregulated in human HCC tissues, correlated with poor clinical outcomes and was positively associated with autophagy signatures. Notably, pharmacological activation of mitophagy reversed the tumor-suppressive effects of MEN1 deficiency in vitro and in vivo. These findings identified a noncanonical role of mitochondrial MEN1 in driving HCC progression via regulating mitophagy homeostasis, and highlight the MEN1-mitophagy axis as a potential therapeutic target for HCC.Abbreviations: Alb-Cre: albumin promoter-driven recombinase Cre; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; CCCP: carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone; CCl4: carbon tetrachloride; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; DEN: diethylnitrosamine; DNM1L: dynamin 1 like; DQ-BSA: self-quenched BODIPY-conjugated bovine serum albumin; Gal: galactose; GOT1/AST: glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT: glutamic-pyruvic transaminase; HCC: hepatocellular carcinoma; WT: wild type; HMKO: hepatocyte-specific men1 knockout; IF: immunofluorescence; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IMM: inner mitochondrial membrane; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MEN1-FL: full-length MEN1; MFF: mitochondrial fission factor; MFN1: mitofusin 1; MTS: mitochondrial targeting sequence; OCR: oxygen consumption rate; OMM: outer mitochondrial membrane; OXPHOS: oxidative phosphorylation; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase1; PRKAA1: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; qPCR: RNA extraction and quantitative polymerase chain reaction; RNA-seq: RNA-sequencing; ROS: reactive oxygen species; shMEN1: small hairpin RNA-mediated MEN1 knockdown; TCGA: The Cancer Genome Atlas; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic systemic autoimmune disease characterized by persistent synovial inflammation and progressive joint destruction. Numerous clinical studies have revealed that exercise is extremely beneficial for the outcome of RA. However, the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood. In the present study, we investigated the therapeutic efficacy of irisin, an exercise hormone, on K/BxN serum and collagen-induced arthritis (CIA), two well established mouse models for RA research. Mechanistically, irisin interacted with ITGAV (integrin subunit alpha V) and ITGB5 (integrin subunit beta 5) to activate mitophagy and remove leaked mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and reactive oxygen species (ROS), which suppressed the activation of NLRP3 (NLR family pyrin domain containing 3) inflammasome and then hindered the pathological process of experimental arthritis. Notably, the beneficial effects of irisin on the treatment of experimental arthritis were significantly abolished in mice with atg5 (autophagy related 5) conditional knockout in myeloid cells (atg5fl/flLyz2). Our study elucidated the underlying mechanism through which exercise alleviated experimental arthritis and offered a feasible therapeutic strategy for RA.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine Ac-TUBA: acetylated TUBA; ACP5: acid phosphatase 5, tartrate resistant; AIM2: absent in melanoma 2; ANOVA: analysis of variance; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BAF: bafilomycin A1; BV:TV: bone volume per total volume; BMD: bone mineral density; BMDMs: bone marrow-derived macrophages; CASP1: caspase 1; CTSB: cathepsin B; CIA: collagen-indcued arthritis; DNM1L: dynamin 1 like; CYCS: cytochrome c, somatic; EtBr: ethidium bromide; FNDC5: fibronectin type III domain containing 5; FL-GSDMD: GSDMD full length; GSDMD: gasdermin D; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; iBMDMs: immortalized bone marrow-derived macrophages; IL1B: interleukin 1 beta; IL6: interleukin 6; IL18: interleukin 18; LDH: lactate dehydrogenase; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MSU: monosodium urate; mtROS: mitochondrial reactive oxygen species; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA; NLRC4: NLR family CARD domain containing 4; NLRP1: NLR family pyrin domain containing 1; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; NT-GSDMD: GSDMD N-terminal fragment; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; ox-mtDNA: oxidized mitochondrial DNA; PYCARD: PYD and CARD domain containing; PRKAA: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; RA: rheumatoid arthritis; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SD: standard deviation; SiO2: silicon dioxide; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; Tb.Th: trabecular thickness; Tb.N: trabecular number; Tp.Sp: trabecular separation; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; TUBA: tubulin alpha; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; WT: wild type.
Bilirubin-induced brain damage represents a serious clinical consequence of hyperbilirubinemia, yet the role and underlying molecular mechanisms of autophagy the remain largely elusive. Here, we demonstrate that, for the first time, N6-methyladenosine (m6A) demethylase AlkB homolog 5 (ALKBH5) mediated dysregulated autophagic flux contributes to bilirubin-induced neurotoxicity. Hyperdifferential differentiated PC12 cells and neonatal Sprague-Dawley rats were employed as in vitro and in vivo models, respectively. In vivo experiments first showed a dysregulated autophagy and neuronal damage in hyperbilirubinemia. In vitro further experiments observed that bilirubin exposure inhibited autophagy as illustrated by the downregulated p62 and LC3-II protein expression and transmission electron microscopy results. Furthermore, we found that the autophagic flux impairment was due to the inhibition of initial stage following bilirubin exposure, which was pharmacologically validated using rapamycin and bafilomycin A1 and up-regulated protein expression of p-mTOR and BCL2. More importantly, we found that ALKBH5 overexpression can exacerbate bilirubin-induced autophagic flux damage, whereas ALKBH5 knockdown attenuated the inhibited autophagic flux damage. Mechanistically, Vacuole membrane protein 1 (VMP1), Ras-related GTP-binding protein C (RRAGC), and protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1 (PRKAA1) were identified as the target genes of ALKBH5 to impair autophagic flux with mRNA stability assay, RT-PCR analysis, and bioinfomatic analysis, thereby promoting bilirubin-induced neurotoxicity. Collectively, our findings reveal that ALKBH5 participates in bilirubin-induced autophagic flux impairment, and propose m6A-dependent autophagy as a potential therapeutic target in hyperbilirubinemia.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is characterized by dysregulated lipid metabolism and a high propensity for developing resistance to targeted therapies. Mitophagy is a key process involved in the progression of various cancers, including RCC. Here, using in vivo genome-wide CRISPR screening, we identified PRKAB2 as a crucial tumor suppressor in RCC. Reduced PRKAB2 expression correlated with poor prognosis and aggressive clinical features, whereas overexpression of PRKAB2 markedly inhibited RCC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, tumor growth, and metastasis both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, PRKAB2 overexpression inhibited mitophagy primarily through two distinct mechanisms. First, PRKAB2 enhanced the binding between LRPPRC and PRKN/parkin, competitively reducing PRKN's interaction with PINK1 and thus suppressing ubiquitin-dependent mitophagy. Second, PRKAB2 promoted AMPK phosphorylation, which in turn suppressed SREBF1/SREBP1-mediated transcriptional activation of CRLS1, leading to decreased CRLS1 expression and reduced synthesis of cardiolipin, a lipid essential for mitophagy. Importantly, PRKAB2 overexpression significantly restored sensitivity to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) in sunitinib-resistant RCC cells. Conversely, forced PRKN expression promoted resistance to these drugs, further implicating mitophagy as a key mechanism underlying TKI resistance. Depmap analysis confirmed the association between increased mitophagy and TKI resistance. Overall, our findings identify PRKAB2 as a critical tumor suppressor in RCC, regulating both protein-protein interactions and lipid metabolism to suppress mitophagy. Targeting PRKAB2-associated pathways may provide a promising therapeutic strategy to enhance treatment efficacy and overcome drug resistance in RCC.Abbreviations: ACACA/ACC1: acetyl-CoA carboxylase alpha; AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; ATCC: American Type Culture Collection; ATP5F1A: ATP synthase F1 subunit alpha; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; BNIP3L/NIX: BCL2 interacting protein 3 like; BRCA1: BRCA1 DNA repair associated; Cas: CRISPR-associated; CCCP: carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone; ccRCC: clear cell renal cell carcinoma; ChIP: chromatin immunoprecipitation; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; COX4I1: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4I1; CRISPR: clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats; CRLS1: cardiolipin synthase 1; DNM1L/DRP1: dynamin 1 like; DOX: doxorubicin; FUNDC1: FUN14 domain containing 1; HSPA8: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 8; HSPD1: heat shock protein family D (Hsp60) member 1; GO: gene ontology; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IMM: inner mitochondrial membrane; LDLR: low density lipoprotein receptor; m-SREBF1: mature sterol regulatory element binding transcriptional factor 1; LRPPRC: leucine rich pentatricopeptide repeat containing; MAP1LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MFN1, mitofusin 1; MFN2: mitofusin 2; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; OMM: outer mitochondrial membrane; OS: overall survival; PA: phosphatidic acid; PG: phosphatidylglycerol; PGS1: phosphatidylglycerophosphate synthase 1; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase1; PRKAA1/AMPKα1: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1; PRKAA2/AMPKα2: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 2; PRKAB1/AMPKβ1: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit beta 1; PRKAB2/AMPKβ2: protein kinase AMP-activated non-catalytic subunit beta 2; PRKAG1/AMPKγ1: protein kinase AMP-activated non-catalytic subunit gamma 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; RCC: renal cell carcinoma; SASA: solvent-accessible surface areas; SUCLG1: succinate-CoA ligase GDP/ADP-forming subunit alpha; TCGA: The Cancer Genome Atlas; TKI: tyrosine kinase inhibitors; UCP1: uncoupling protein 1; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; WCL: whole-cell lysate.
Herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE), predominantly caused by herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1), is a life-threatening central nervous system disease and the leading cause of sporadic encephalitis globally. Currently, the treatment for HSE mainly relies on nucleoside drugs such as acyclovir (ACV), but the mortality rate remains 10 %-25 % after treatment, with about half of the survivors suffering from neurological sequelae. Rhoifolin (ROF) is a chromatographic standard component specified in the pharmacopoeia of the traditional Chinese medicine Turpinia leaf. It can be derived from various plants such as rhus succedanea, bitter orange, lemon, grapefruit, tomatoes, lupinus, bananas and grapes. ROF exhibits significant antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective properties, which are intricately linked to the mechanisms underlying neurodamage in HSE.To investigate the therapeutic impact and mechanisms of ROF in treating mice with HSE.We evaluated the efficacy of ROF in combating HSE and its antiviral effects using a lethal HSE mouse model and HSV-1 infected neural cell models. The potential mechanisms were explored through molecular biology and histochemical techniques.ROF significantly rescued mice from lethal HSE induced by HSV-1 infection. HSV-1 infection can affect various brain regions, such as the olfactory bulb, cortex, cerebellum and brainstem. Microglia and astrocytes are predominantly infected, whereas neuron infection is rare. ROF exhibited antiviral activity in various neural cell types, with 50 % effective concentration (EC50) values ranging from 4.15 to 5.30 μM. It mitigated HSV-1-induced oxidative stress by modulating Sestrin2 (SESN2) to regulate the downstream Kelch-like ECH Associated Protein 1/Nuclear Factor erythroid 2-Related Factor 2 (Keap1/Nrf2) and Protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1/ NADPH oxidase (AMPK/Nox) pathway, thus decreasing neural oxidative damage and inflammation.ROF treatment successfully saved lethal HSE mice by curbing viral replication and oxidative stress, leading to improved neural damage and reduced neuroinflammation. The underlying mechanism involves enhancing the expression of SESN2 in various types of neural cells and regulating the downstream Keap1/Nrf2 and AMPK/Nox pathways.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Kinectin 1 (KTN1) is a membrane protein involved in intracellular organelle motility. However, the role of KTN1 in human pan-cancer lacks systematic analysis and evaluation. The aim of this study is to evaluate the expression profile and clinical value in human cancers by performing a pan-cancer analysis of KTN1.The expression of KTN1 and its correlation with cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) infiltration were analyzed in TIMER2.0. The survival analysis, pathological stage correlation, and co-expression gene correlation analysis of KTN1 were performed on GEPIA2.0. We investigated the protein expression level of KTN1 in tumors through UALCAN. The cBioportal platform was used to analyze the variation frequency and type of KTN1. We used STRING database for protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis. Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK8) and colony formation and transwell assay were performed to investigate the proliferation and migration abilities of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSC) cells with KTN1 knockdown.KTN1 was differentially expressed in 12 kinds of cancer tissues compared with correspondent normal tissues. Meanwhile, the high expression of KTN1 was negatively correlated with the prognosis of HNSC, adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC), and liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC). Further analysis suggested that patients with KTN1 mutations had better overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival than those without mutations among several cancers. Moreover, the level of CAFs and KTN1 expression were significantly correlated in 12 types of cancer. Mechanically, co-expression analysis showed the positive association between KTN1 and KTN1 antisense RNA 1 (KTN1-AS1), MNAT1 component of CDK activating kinase (MNAT1), N-alpha-acetyltransferase 30 (NAA30), protein phosphatase 2 regulatory subunit B'epsilon (PPP2R5E), and proteasome 26S subunit (PSMC6), which are mainly involved in the protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1 (AMPK) signaling pathway that regulates the progression of tumors.The functional experiment revealed that KTN1 promotes the proliferation and metastasis of HNSC cells. The pan-cancer analysis of KTN1 revealed its significance in different cancers, which provides a new marker for the diagnosis and prognosis of cancers.2024 AME Publishing Company. All rights reserved.
How AMP activated protein kinase (AMPK) signaling regulates mitochondrial functions and mitophagy in human trophoblast cells remains unclear. This study was designed to investigate potential players mediating the regulation of AMPK on mitochondrial functions and mitophagy by next generation RNA-seq.We compared ATP production in protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1/2 (PRKAA1/2) knockdown (AKD) and control BeWo cells using the Seahorse real-time ATP rate test, then analyzed gene expression profiling by RNA-seq. Differentially expressed genes (DEG) were examined by Gene Ontology (GO) analysis and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment. Then protein-protein interactions (PPI) among mitochondria related genes were further analyzed using Metascape and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) software.Both mitochondrial and glycolytic ATP production in AKD cells were lower than in the control BeWo cells (CT), with a greater reduction of mitochondrial ATP production. A total of 1092 DEGs were identified, with 405 upregulated and 687 downregulated. GO analysis identified 60 genes associated with the term 'mitochondrion' in the cellular component domain. PPI analysis identified three clusters of mitochondria related genes, including aldo-keto reductase family 1 member B10 and B15 (AKR1B10, AKR1B15), alanyl-tRNA synthetase 1 (AARS1), mitochondrial ribosomal protein S6 (MRPS6), mitochondrial calcium uniporter dominant negative subunit beta (MCUB) and dihydrolipoamide branched chain transacylase E2 (DBT).In summary, this study identified multiple mitochondria related genes regulated by AMPK in BeWo cells, and among them, three clusters of genes may potentially contribute to altered mitochondrial functions in response to reduced AMPK signaling.© 2024 The Author(s). Animal Models and Experimental Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Chinese Association for Laboratory Animal Sciences.
Epidemiology has shown a strong relationship between fine particulate matter (PM) exposure and cardiovascular disease. However, it remains unknown whether PM aggravates myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury, and the related mechanisms are unclear. Our previous study has shown that adipose stem cell-derived exosomes (ADSC-Exos) contain high levels of Mir221 and Mir222. The present study investigated the effects of PM exposure on I/R-induced cardiac injury through mitophagy and apoptosis, as well as the potential role of Mir221 and Mir222 in ADSC-Exos. Wild-type, mir221- and mir222-knockout (KO), and Mir221- and Mir222-overexpressing transgenic (TG) mice were intratracheally injected with PM (10 mg/kg). After 24 h, mice underwent left coronary artery ligation for 30 min, followed by 3 h of reperfusion (I/R). H9c2 cardiomyocytes were cultured under 1% O2 for 6 h, then reoxygenated for 12 h (hypoxia-reoxygenation [H/R]). PM aggravated I/R (or H/R) cardiac injury by increasing ROS levels and causing mitochondrial dysfunction, which increased the expression of mitochondrial fission-related proteins (DNM1L/Drp1 and MFF) and mitophagy-related proteins (BNIP3 and MAP1LC3B/LC3B) in vivo and in vitro. Treatment with ADSC-Exos or Mir221- and Mir222-mimics significantly reduced PM+I/R-induced cardiac injury. Importantly, ADSC-Exos contain Mir221 and Mir222, which directly targets BNIP3, MAP1LC3B/LC3B, and BBC3/PUMA, decreasing their expression and ultimately reducing cardiomyocyte mitophagy and apoptosis. The present data showed that ADSC-Exos treatment regulated mitophagy and apoptosis through the Mir221 and Mir222-BNIP3-MAP1LC3B-BBC3/PUMA pathway and significantly reduced the cardiac damage caused by PM+I/R. The present study revealed the novel therapeutic potential of ADSC-Exos in alleviating PM-induced exacerbation of myocardial I/R injury.Abbreviation: ADSC-Exos: adipose-derived stem cell exosomes; AL: autolysosome; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BBC3/PUMA: BCL2 binding component 3; BNIP3: BCL2/adenovirus E1B interacting protein 3; CASP3: caspase 3; CASP9: caspase 9; CDKN1B/p27: cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor 1B; CVD: cardiovascular disease; DCFH-DA: 2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate; DHE: dihydroethidium; DNM1L/Drp1: dynamin 1-like; EF: ejection fraction; FS: fractional shortening; H/R: hypoxia-reoxygenation; I/R: ischemia-reperfusion; LDH: lactate dehydrogenase; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MFF: mitochondrial fission factor; miRNA: microRNA; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; OCR: oxygen consumption rate; PIK3C3/Vps34: phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3; PM: particulate matter; PRKAA1/AMPK: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TRP53/p53: transformation related protein 53; TUNEL: terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling.
This study explores the role of circadian clock genes in the progression of astrocytic tumors, a prevalent type of brain tumor. The aim was to assess the expression patterns of these genes in relation to the tumor grade. Using microarray analysis, qRT-PCR, and methylation-specific PCR, we examined gene expression, DNA methylation patterns, and microRNA interactions in tumor samples from 60 patients. Our results indicate that the expression of key circadian clock genes, such as clock circadian regulator (CLOCK), protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1 (PRKAA1), protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 2 (PRKAA2), protein kinase AMP-activated non-catalytic subunit beta 1 (PRKAB1), protein kinase AMP-activated non-catalytic subunit beta 2 (PRKAB2), period circadian regulator 1 (PER1), period circadian regulator 2 (PER2) and period circadian regulator 3 (PER3), varies significantly with the tumor grade. Notably, increased CLOCK gene expression and protein levels were observed in higher-grade tumors. DNA methylation analysis revealed that the promoter regions of PER1-3 genes were consistently methylated, suggesting a mechanism for their reduced expression. Our findings also underscore the complex regulatory mechanisms involving miRNAs, such as hsa-miR-106-5p, hsa-miR-20b-5p, and hsa-miR-30d-3p, which impact the expression of circadian clock-related genes. This underscores the importance of circadian clock genes in astrocytic tumor progression and highlights their potential as biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Further research is needed to validate these results and explore their clinical implications.
Our previous studies indicated that calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) alleviates hyperoxia-induced lung injury and suggested the possible involvement of autophagy in this process. Herein, we aimed to further explore the potential involvement of tumor protein p53 (TP53) and autophagy in the mode of action of CGRP against hyperoxia-induced lung injury in vitro and in vivo. The study conducted tests on type II alveolar epithelial cells (AECII) and rats that were subjected to hyperoxia treatment or combined treatment of hyperoxia with CGRP, CGRP inhibitor, rapamycin (an autophagy agonist), 3-methyladenine (3-MA, an autophagy inhibitor), TP53 silencing/inhibitor (pifithrin-α), or expression vector/activator (PRIMA-1 (2,2-bis(hydroxymethyl)-3-quinuclidinone)) and their corresponding controls. We found that oxidative stress, apoptosis, and autophagy were all increased by hyperoxia treatment in vitro. However, treating AECII cells with CGRP reversed hyperoxia-induced oxidative stress and apoptosis but further promoted autophagy. In addition, the combined treatment with rapamycin or TP53 silencing with CGRP promoted the effect of CGRP, while contrary results were obtained with combined therapy with 3-MA or TP53 overexpression. In vivo, the number of hyperoxia-induced autophagosomes was promoted in the lung tissue of neonatal rats. Furthermore, hyperoxia increased the expression levels of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) alpha 1 (also known as protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1 (PRKAA1)) but inhibited TP53 and mechanistic target of rapamycin (MTOR); these expression trends were regulated by CGRP treatment. In conclusion, we showed that CGRP can attenuate hyperoxia-induced lung injury in neonatal rats by enhancing autophagy and regulating the TP53/AMPK/MTOR crosstalk axis.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Osteoarthritis (OA), the most prevalent form of arthritis globally, is characterized by debilitating pain driven by inflammatory and degenerative processes in chondrocytes. Here, we demonstrate that arctigenin (ATG), a bioactive lignan from Arctium lappa, alleviates OA pain by suppressing chondrocyte pyroptosis through the POU Class 2 Homeobox 1 (POU2F1)/growth factor receptor Bound Protein 10 (GRB10) signaling axis. In a monosodium iodoacetate (MIA)-induced OA rat model, ATG administration reduced pain hypersensitivity, lowered pro-inflammatory cytokines, and elevated anti-inflammatory interleukin-10 (IL-10), while diminishing expression of pyroptosis effectors including cleaved caspase-1, Gasdermin-D-N (GSDMD-N), and NOD-like receptor thermal protein domain associated protein 3 (NLRP3). In vitro studies in C28/I2 chondrocytes revealed that ATG dose-dependently attenuated inflammation and pyroptosis markers. Mechanistically, ATG upregulated POU2F1, a transcription factor that directly binds and activates the GRB10 promoter, as confirmed by enrichment and binding assays. Silencing POU2F1 or GRB10 reversed ATG's inhibitory effects on pyroptosis. In vivo validation further showed that ATG's pain-relieving effects in OA rats depend on this axis to curb chondrocyte pyroptosis. Collectively, these findings highlight ATG's potential as a novel analgesic agent for OA by targeting pyroptotic pathways, offering insights into inflammation-driven pain mechanisms.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
GIGYF2 (growth factor receptor-bound protein 10 [GRB10]-interacting GYF [glycine-tyrosine-phenylalanine] protein 2) reduces mRNA stability and translation via microRNAs, ribosome quality control, and several RNA-binding proteins. GIGYF2 was first identified in mouse cell lines as an interacting partner with GRB10, which binds to the insulin receptor and the insulin-like growth factor receptor 1. Mutations in the human GIGYF2 gene were reported in autism. In mouse models, Gigyf2 mutations engender several diseases. It was therefore thought that the GIGYF2-associated disease in humans is caused by defective GRB10 signaling. We show here that GIGYF2 does not interact with GRB10 in human cell lines, as determined by co-immunoprecipitation and proximity ligation assays. The lack of interaction is explained by the absence of the critical GYF domain-binding PPGΦ sequence in the human GRB10 protein. These results contrast with the current understanding that a GIGYF2/GRB10 complex is associated with human disease via insulin receptor and insulin-like growth factor receptor 1 signaling and underscore alternative mechanisms responsible for the observed phenotypes associated with mutations in the human GIGYF2 gene.© 2025 Choi et al.
Sepsis is a life-threatening condition characterized by a dysregulated host response to infection, resulting in high mortality rates and complex clinical management. This study leverages transcriptomics and machine learning (ML) to identify critical biomarkers and therapeutic targets in sepsis. Analyzing microarray data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets GSE28750, GSE26440, GSE13205, and GSE9960, we discovered three pivotal biomarkers that BMX (bone marrow tyrosine kinase gene on chromosome X), GRB10 (growth factor receptor bound protein 10), and GADD45A (growth arrest and DNA damage inducible alpha), exhibiting exceptional diagnostic accuracy (AUC >0.9). Functional enrichment analyses revealed that these genes play key roles in reactive oxygen species metabolism and immune response regulation. Specifically, GADD45A was positively correlated with eosinophils and inversely associated with activated NK cells, CD8 T cells, and activated memory CD4 T cells. BMX showed positive correlations with eosinophils, mast cells, and neutrophils, while GRB10 was linked to eosinophils and M2 macrophages. Additionally, we constructed a comprehensive mRNA-miRNA-lncRNA regulatory network, identifying key interactions that may drive sepsis pathogenesis. Molecular docking and dynamics simulations validated Bendroflumethiazide, Cianidanol, and Hexamidine as promising therapeutic agents targeting these biomarkers. In conclusion, this integrated approach provides profound insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying sepsis, pinpointing BMX, GRB10, and GADD45A as pivotal biomarkers and therapeutic targets. These findings significantly enhance our understanding of sepsis pathophysiology and lay the groundwork for developing personalized diagnostic and therapeutic strategies aimed at improving patient outcomes.Copyright © 2025 Cheng, Peng, Chen, Xu and Qin.
Fenvalerate, a typical pyrethroid pesticide, is a neurological toxicant. This study aimed to evaluate the effect of paternal exposure to fenvalerate on depressive-like behaviours in adolescent offspring. Depression-like behavior was determined by Sucrose Preference Test (SPT), Tail Suspension Test (TST) and Forced Swimming Test (FST) in adolescent offspring. The level of dopamine was reduced in the midbrain of fenvalerate-exposed adolescent offspring. Tyrosine hydroxylase (Th), a rate limiting enzyme for dopamine synthesis, was significantly reduced in the midbrain of adolescent offspring exposed to fenvalerate. And Th was decreased in the midbrain and hindbrain of fetuses exposed to fenvalerate. Transcriptome analysis revealed growth factor receptor-bound protein 10 (Grb10) was decreased in the fetal hindbrain exposed to fenvalerate. Grb10 mRNA and protein were reduced in the fetal hindbrain exposed to fenvalerate. Interestingly, in vitro experiments, Th was reduced by si-Grb10. Conversely, Th was increased by oe-Grb10. Mechanistically, the 5mC content of Grb10 gene at one CpG fragment was reduced in the fetal hindbrain exposed to fenvalerate. And the 5mC content of Grb10 gene at eighteen CpG sites was decreased in paternal sperm exposed to fenvalerate. In summary, paternal fenvalerate exposure causes depressive-like behavior by altering DNA methylation of Grb10 gene in the sperm.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Canine and human osteosarcoma are similar in clinical presentation and tumor genomics. Giant breed dogs experience elevated osteosarcoma incidence, and taller stature remains a consistent risk factor for human osteosarcoma. Whether evolutionarily conserved genes contribute to both human and canine osteosarcoma predisposition merits evaluation.A multi-center sample of childhood osteosarcoma patients and controls underwent genome-wide genotyping and imputation. Ancestry-adjusted SNP associations were calculated within each dataset using logistic regression, then meta-analyzed across the three datasets, totaling 1091 patients and 3026 controls. Ten regions previously associated with canine osteosarcoma risk were mapped to the human genome, spanning ∼6 Mb. We prioritized association testing of 5985 human SNPs mapping to candidate osteosarcoma risk regions detected in Irish wolfhounds, the largest dog breed studied. Secondary analyses explored 6289 additional human SNPs mapping to candidate osteosarcoma risk regions identified in Rottweilers and greyhounds.Fourteen SNPs were associated with human osteosarcoma risk after adjustment for multiple comparisons, all within a 42 kb region of human Chromosome 7p12.1. The lead variant was rs17454681 (OR=1.25, 95 %CI: 1.12-1.39; P=4.1×10-5), and independent risk variants were not observed in conditional analyses. While the associated region spanned 2.1 Mb and contained eight genes in Irish wolfhounds, associations were localized to a 50-fold smaller region of the human genome and strongly implicate GRB10 (growth factor receptor-bound protein 10) in canine and human osteosarcoma predisposition. PheWAS analysis in UK Biobank data identified noteworthy associations of the rs17454681 risk allele with varied measures of height and pubertal timing.Our comparative oncology analysis identified a novel human osteosarcoma risk allele near GRB10, a growth inhibitor that suppresses activated receptor tyrosine kinases including IGF1R, PDGFRB, and EGFR. Epidemiologists may benefit from leveraging cross-species comparisons to identify haplotypes in highly susceptible but genetically homogenous populations of domesticated animals, then fine-mapping these associations in diverse human populations.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Optimal size at birth dictates perinatal survival and long-term risk of developing common disorders such as obesity, type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. The imprinted Grb10 gene encodes a signalling adaptor protein capable of inhibiting receptor tyrosine kinases, including the insulin receptor (Insr) and insulin-like growth factor type 1 receptor (Igf1r). Grb10 restricts fetal growth such that Grb10 knockout (KO) mice are at birth some 25-35% larger than wild type. Using a mouse genetic approach, we test the widely held assumption that Grb10 influences growth through interaction with Igf1r, which has a highly conserved growth promoting role.Should Grb10 interact with Igf1r to regulate growth Grb10:Igf1r double mutant mice should be indistinguishable from Igf1r KO single mutants, which are around half normal size at birth. Instead, Grb10:Igf1r double mutants were intermediate in size between Grb10 KO and Igf1r KO single mutants, indicating additive effects of the two signalling proteins having opposite actions in separate pathways. Some organs examined followed a similar pattern, though Grb10 KO neonates exhibited sparing of the brain and kidneys, whereas the influence of Igf1r extended to all organs. An interaction between Grb10 and Insr was similarly investigated. While there was no general evidence for a major interaction for fetal growth regulation, the liver was an exception. The liver in Grb10 KO mutants was disproportionately overgrown with evidence of excess lipid storage in hepatocytes, whereas Grb10:Insr double mutants were indistinguishable from Insr single mutants or wild types.Grb10 acts largely independently of Igf1r or Insr to control fetal growth and has a more variable influence on individual organs. Only the disproportionate overgrowth and excess lipid storage seen in the Grb10 KO neonatal liver can be explained through an interaction between Grb10 and the Insr. Our findings are important for understanding how positive and negative influences on fetal growth dictate size and tissue proportions at birth.© 2024. The Author(s).
Leptin acts on hypothalamic neurons expressing agouti-related protein (AgRP) or pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) to suppress appetite and increase energy expenditure, but the intracellular mechanisms that modulate central leptin signalling are not fully understood. Here we show that growth factor receptor-bound protein 10 (Grb10), an adaptor protein that binds to the insulin receptor and negatively regulates its signalling pathway, can interact with the leptin receptor and enhance leptin signalling. Ablation of Grb10 in AgRP neurons promotes weight gain, while overexpression of Grb10 in AgRP neurons reduces body weight in male and female mice. In parallel, deletion or overexpression of Grb10 in POMC neurons exacerbates or attenuates diet-induced obesity, respectively. Consistent with its role in leptin signalling, Grb10 in AgRP and POMC neurons enhances the anorexic and weight-reducing actions of leptin. Grb10 also exaggerates the inhibitory effects of leptin on AgRP neurons via ATP-sensitive potassium channel-mediated currents while facilitating the excitatory drive of leptin on POMC neurons through transient receptor potential channels. Our study identifies Grb10 as a potent leptin sensitizer that contributes to the maintenance of energy homeostasis by enhancing the response of AgRP and POMC neurons to leptin.© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Diabetes leads to cardiomyopathy and heart failure, the leading cause of death for diabetic patients. Monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibition in diabetic cardiomyopathy prevents oxidative stress, mitochondrial and endoplasmic reticulum stress and the development of diastolic dysfunction. However, it is unclear whether, in addition to the direct effects exerted on the mitochondria, MAO activity is able to post-transcriptionally regulate cardiomyocyte function and survival in diabetes. To this aim, we performed gene and miRNA expression profiling in cardiac tissue from streptozotocin-treated mice (model of type 1 diabetes (T1D)), administered with either vehicle or MAOs inhibitor pargyline for 12 weeks. We found that inhibition of MAO activity in T1D hearts leads to profound transcriptomic changes, affecting autophagy and pro-survival pathways activation. MAO activity in T1D hearts increased miR-133a-3p, -193a-3p and -27a-3p expression. These miRNAs target insulin-like growth factor receptor 1 (Igf1r), growth factor receptor bound protein 10 and inositol polyphosphate 4 phosphatase type 1A, respectively, all components of the IGF1R/PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. Indeed, AKT activation was significantly downregulated in T1D hearts, whereas MAO inhibition restored the activation of this pro-survival pathway. The present study provides an important link between MAO activity, transcriptomic changes and activation of pro-survival signaling and autophagy in diabetic cardiomyopathy.
Glioma is the most common malignant tumor of the central nervous system and is associated with a poor prognosis. This study aimed to explore the function of growth factor receptor-bound protein 10(GRB 10) in glioma.The expression of GRB10 in glioma was determined based on the glioma transcriptome profile downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas (CGGA), and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases. RT-qPCR was performed to detect the expression of GRB10 in tissue samples obtained from 68 glioma patients. The patients were followed up via telephone or in-person outpatient visits to determine survival. Kaplan-Meier survival analyses were used to evaluate the effect of GRB10 on the prognosis of glioma patients. Further, we constructed GRB10 knockdown cell lines were constructed to investigate the effect of GRB10 on glioma. The cell growth, colony formation, cell cycle assay, EdU assay, and tumor formation in xenograft were performed.The expression level of GRB10 was positively correlated to the histological grades of gliomas. In addition, Kaplan-Meier survival curves revealed that glioma patients with lower expression of GRB10 had more prolonged survival. The knockdown of GRB10 was shown to inhibit cell proliferation, colony formation, and tumor formation in the xenograft models. Cell cycle assay revealed that the knockdown of GRB10 can inhibit the cells entering the G2/M phase from the S phase. The analysis of GSEA suggests that the expression of GRB10 was positively correlated with the hypoxia and EMT signaling pathway.Our data revealed that GRB10 regulated tumorigenesis in glioma and played a vital role in promoting the glioma progression, which indicated that GRB10 could be used as a potential prognostic marker.© 2022. The Author(s).
Type 2 diabetes is a major factor contributing to cognitive decline and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Treadmill running is considered to be a critical approach for mice and rats to lower blood sugar and improve learning and memory capacity. The growth factor receptor-bound protein 10 (Grb10) has been proposed to inhibit insulin signaling and defective brain insulin signaling resulted in the cognitive deficits in patients with AD. However, the positive roles of treadmill training on diabetic- related impaired cognitive function and their molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Here, to investigate whether there was neuroprotective effects of treadmill training on impaired cognitive function caused by diabetes, the rats were injected intraperitoneally with streptozotocin at a dose of 30 mg/kg to establish diabetic model (DM). We found that higher Grb10, BACE1 and PHF10 protein levels in the hippocampus of DM rats, lower phosphorylation IGF-1Rβ and IRS-1(ser307). However, 8 weeks treadmill training effectively reduced abnormal Grb10, enhanced postsynaptic density protein PSD-93, PSD-95, SYN expressions of hippocampus, restored PI3K/Akt/ERK and mTOR/AMPK signaling, thus alleviated spatial learning and memory deficit, compared with DM group. Additionally, treadmill training also increased GLUT4 transportation. Overall, our findings suggest that treadmill intervention improved cognitive impairments caused by diabetes disease partly through modulating Grb10/ PI3K/Akt/ERK as well as mTOR/AMPK signaling.Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Growth factor receptor-bound protein 14 (GRB14) has emerged as a significant regulator in cancer progression and prognosis across certain cancer types. Nevertheless, its role in gastric cancer (GC) remain poorly characterized.We conducted a comprehensive investigation of GRB14 in GC, integrating bioinformatics analysis with experimental validation. The prognostic significance and functional profile of GRB14 was evaluated through survival analysis and GSEA. Additionally, we analyzed the variations in immune cell infiltration and responses to immunotherapy between groups with low and high expression levels of GRB14. To confirm GRB14 expression in GC tissues, we utilized RT-qPCR, western blot and immunohistochemistry (IHC) analysis. Subsequently, functional experiments were then employed to evaluate the functional role of GRB14 in GC cells.Analysis of the TCGA_stomach adenocarcinoma (TCGA_STAD) cohort revealed notable GRB14 upregulation in GC tissues, which was subsequently validated through RT-qPCR, western blot and IHC analyses. Elevated GRB14 expression were found to correlate with poor clinical outcomes. GSEA results showed that the vitamin digestion and absorption, and retinol metabolism pathways were obviously inactivated in the high GRB14 expression group. Moreover, this group exhibited notably lower immune score, stromal score, ESTIMATE score, but higher tumor purity compared to the low GRB14 expression group. Meanwhile, patients in the high GRB14 expression group exhibited significant M2 macrophage infiltration and elevated TIDE scores, suggesting that high GRB14 expression may be linked to an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. Functional studies demonstrated that GRB14 deficiency remarkably reduced GC cell proliferation, migration and invasion, but induced cell apoptosis.This evidence highlights that GRB14 may serve as a potential candidate for both prognostic evaluation and therapeutic intervention in GC.© 2025. The Author(s).
Ischemic cardiomyopathy (ICM) is associated with high mortality and hospitalization rates, and current treatments are suboptimal. The aim of this research was to identify novel therapeutic targets for ICM. The datasets GSE57338 and GSE5406 were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Gene modules were constructed using weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), and the three relevant modules associated with ICM were identified. The biological functions and signaling pathways of the genes in these modules were further explored through Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks were employed to identify hub genes within these modules. Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) logistic regression was performed to establish gene models, and 16 genes associated with left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) in ICM were identified. The genes were validated in heart tissues from human using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Among them, growth factor receptor-bound protein 14 (GRB14), ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCHL1), and synuclein alpha (SNCA) were identified as key genes significantly associated with ICM. Additionally, key genes correlated with immune and stromal cell-related types were screened using xCell. In vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that inhibiting SNCA could improve cardiac dysfunction, inflammatory infiltration, and fibrosis in ICM. In conclusion, this study identified 16 genes closely related to LVEF and revealed that SNCA was a key gene in ICM, providing potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets for ICM.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Heart failure (HF) is a life-threatening condition that poses a significant challenge on public health, particularly among the elder populations. To develop new diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for HF, we analyzed large-scale transcriptome sequencing data from HF patients as an exploratory approach. We identified 18 HF-related genes and developed a robust scoring model for HF diagnosis, by applying two machine learning algorithms for data analysis. Meanwhile, we evaluated and compared the predictive abilities of three bioinformatics methods in identifying potential HF treatment drugs. Significantly, an unconventional network-based proximity analysis, integrating multidimensional drug target information, outperformed other methods in the assessment of predictive ability. To validate these findings, we tested several candidate drugs in a mouse model transitioning from acute myocardial infarction (MI) to chronic HF. Among the candidates, mirtazapine exhibited cardioprotective effects in both early (1-week) post-MI and chronic HF (4-week post-MI) settings, while cabergoline showed potential efficacy primarily in the early post-MI phase. Additionally, the screened triamterene, used as a positive control, exhibited protective effects in both early post-MI and chronic HF stages. Mechanistic studies revealed that growth factor receptor-bound protein 14 and Ras-related protein Rab-3A were critical to the observed cardioprotection. These findings provide valuable evidence and insights for exploring potential therapeutic agents for HF treatment.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Gastric cancer (GC) is a prevalent malignancy with a high incidence rate. Growth factor receptor-bound protein 14 (GRB14) is crucial in cell signal transduction and is associated with tumor growth, invasion, and metastasis. The aim of this study is to investigate the impact of GRB14 on GC growth and metastasis. GRB14 expression and prognosis in GC tissues were analyzed using bioinformatics. The GC cell lines, SGC-7901, MGC-803, BGC-823, and normal gastric epithelial cell line (GES-1) were used in this study. Cell viability, cycle progression, and apoptosis were assessed via CCK-8 and flow cytometry. The colony formation, transwell, and wound-healing assays were conducted to evaluate cell proliferation, invasion, and migration. Protein levels involved in the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (AKT) pathway were analyzed by Western blot. GRB14 expression was significantly higher in GC tissues than adjacent healthy tissues, correlating with poor prognosis. GRB14 knockdown promoted apoptosis and inhibited cell growth, invasion, and migration, while its overexpression exhibited opposite effects. GRB14 directly interacted with cordon-bleu WH2 repeat protein like 1, facilitating PI3K/AKT signaling in GC cells. This study highlights GRB14's critical role in GC progression and suggests its potential as a therapeutic target.© 2025 the author(s), published by De Gruyter.
The development and selection of ovarian follicles are essential for continuous egg production in chickens. Non-coding RNAs, particularly circular RNAs (circRNAs), play a critical regulatory role in follicle selection, a process heavily involving granulosa cells (GCs). In this study, we analyzed circRNA expression profiles in small yellow follicles (SYFs) and large yellow follicles (LYFs) of Taihang chickens using RNA sequencing. We identified 14,586 circRNAs, with 57 showing differential expression (DE-circRNAs) between SYFs and LYFs. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that these DE-circRNAs are involved in key biological processes, including signal transduction, cell membrane formation, and nuclear enzymatic regulation. We focused on circGRB14, a circRNA derived from the growth factor receptor-bound protein 14 (GRB14) gene, as a potential regulator of follicle selection. Using qPCR, CCK-8 proliferation assays, and Annexin V/PI apoptosis analysis, we demonstrated that circGRB14 inhibits GC proliferation and promotes apoptosis. In contrast, miR-12264-3p and miR-6660-3p, validated as direct targets of circGRB14 via Dual-Luciferase Reporter assays, exhibited opposing effects by promoting GC proliferation and inhibiting apoptosis. These findings highlight the circGRB14-miR-12264-3p/miR-6660-3p axis as a key regulatory mechanism in GC dynamics during follicle selection. This study provides novel insights into the functional interplay between circRNAs and miRNAs in avian follicle development, offering potential targets for improving egg production in poultry.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is common and partially heritable and has no effective treatments. We carried out a genome-wide association study (GWAS) meta-analysis of imaging (n = 66,814) and diagnostic code (3,584 cases versus 621,081 controls) measured NAFLD across diverse ancestries. We identified NAFLD-associated variants at torsin family 1 member B (TOR1B), fat mass and obesity associated (FTO), cordon-bleu WH2 repeat protein like 1 (COBLL1)/growth factor receptor-bound protein 14 (GRB14), insulin receptor (INSR), sterol regulatory element-binding transcription factor 1 (SREBF1) and patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing protein 2 (PNPLA2), as well as validated NAFLD-associated variants at patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing protein 3 (PNPLA3), transmembrane 6 superfamily 2 (TM6SF2), apolipoprotein E (APOE), glucokinase regulator (GCKR), tribbles homolog 1 (TRIB1), glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase (GPAM), mitochondrial amidoxime-reducing component 1 (MARC1), microsomal triglyceride transfer protein large subunit (MTTP), alcohol dehydrogenase 1B (ADH1B), transmembrane channel like 4 (TMC4)/membrane-bound O-acyltransferase domain containing 7 (MBOAT7) and receptor-type tyrosine-protein phosphatase δ (PTPRD). Implicated genes highlight mitochondrial, cholesterol and de novo lipogenesis as causally contributing to NAFLD predisposition. Phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) analyses suggest at least seven subtypes of NAFLD. Individuals in the top 10% and 1% of genetic risk have a 2.5-fold to 6-fold increased risk of NAFLD, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. These genetic variants identify subtypes of NAFLD, improve estimates of disease risk and can guide the development of targeted therapeutics.© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
Diabetes mellitus (DM) comprises differential clinical phenotypes ranging from rare monogenic to common polygenic forms, such as type 1 (T1DM), type 2 (T2DM), and gestational diabetes, which are associated with cardiovascular complications. Also, the high- -risk prediabetic state is rising worldwide, suggesting the urgent need for early personalized strategies to prevent and treat a hyperglycemic state.We aim to discuss the advantages and challenges of Network Medicine approaches in clarifying disease-specific molecular pathways, which may open novel ways for repurposing approved drugs to reach diabetes precision medicine and personalized therapy.The interactome or protein-protein interactions (PPIs) is a useful tool to identify subtle molecular differences between precise diabetic phenotypes and predict putative novel drugs. Despite being previously unappreciated as T2DM determinants, the growth factor receptor-bound protein 14 (GRB14), calmodulin 2 (CALM2), and protein kinase C-alpha (PRKCA) might have a relevant role in disease pathogenesis. Besides, in silico platforms have suggested that diflunisal, nabumetone, niflumic acid, and valdecoxib may be suitable for the treatment of T1DM; phenoxybenzamine and idazoxan for the treatment of T2DM by improving insulin secretion; and hydroxychloroquine reduce the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) by counteracting inflammation. Network medicine has the potential to improve precision medicine in diabetes care and enhance personalized therapy. However, only randomized clinical trials will confirm the clinical utility of network- oriented biomarkers and drugs in the management of DM.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Protein tyrosine kinases and protein phosphatases play a critical role in cellular regulation. The length of a cellular response depends on the interplay between activating protein kinases and deactivating protein phosphatases. Protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP1B) and growth factor receptor-bound protein 14 (Grb14) are negative regulators of receptor tyrosine kinases. However, in the retina, we have previously shown that PTP1B inactivates insulin receptor signaling, whereas phosphorylated Grb14 inhibits PTP1B activity. In silico docking of phosphorylated Grb14 and PTP1B indicate critical residues in PTP1B that may mediate the interaction. Phosphoinositides (PIPs) are acidic lipids and minor constituents in the cell that play an important role in cellular processes. Their levels are regulated by growth factor signaling. Using phosphoinositide binding protein probes, we observed increased levels of PI(3)P, PI(4)P, PI(3,4)P2, PI(4,5)P2, and PI(3,4,5)P3 in PTP1B knockout mouse retina and decreased levels of these PIPs in Grb14 knockout mouse retina. These observations suggest that the interplay between PTP1B and Grb14 can regulate PIP metabolism.
Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) causes insulin resistance, lipid metabolism dysfunction, and inflammation. We investigated the protective effects and direct regulating target of S-allylmercaptocysteine (SAMC) from aged garlic on liver cell injury. A chronic ethanol-fed ALD in vivo model (the NIAAA model) was used to test the protective functions of SAMC. It was observed that SAMC (300 mg/kg, by gavage method) effectively ameliorated ALD-induced body weight reduction, steatosis, insulin resistance, and inflammation without affecting the health status of the control mice, as demonstrated by histological, biochemical, and molecular biology assays. By using biophysical assays and molecular docking, we demonstrated that SAMC directly targeted insulin receptor (INSR) protein on the cell membrane and then restored downstream IRS-1/AKT/GSK3β signaling. Liver-specific knock-down in mice and siRNA-mediated knock-down in AML-12 cells of Insr significantly impaired SAMC (250 μmol/L in cells)-mediated protection. Restoration of the IRS-1/AKT signaling partly recovered hepatic injury and further contributed to SAMC's beneficial effects. Continuous administration of AKT agonist and recombinant IGF-1 in combination with SAMC showed hepato-protection in the mice model. Long-term (90-day) administration of SAMC had no obvious adverse effect on healthy mice. We conclude that SAMC is an effective and safe hepato-protective complimentary agent against ALD partly through the direct binding of INSR and partial regulation of the IRS-1/AKT/GSK3β pathway.© 2021 Chinese Pharmaceutical Association and Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences. Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V.
This experiment investigated the effects of dietary Artemisia ordosica Krasch. (AOK) supplementation on the n3-polyunsaturated fatty acid (n3-PUFA) profile of subcutaneous adipose tissue (SADT) in Arbas cashmere goats and explored the underlying transcriptional mechanisms. Forty healthy, weaned kids (120 ± 10 days of age; similar body weight) were randomly allocated to two groups (n = 20): a control group (CON, basal diet) and an AOK group (AOK, basal diet with 3% of the roughage replaced by AOK). The feeding trial spanned 104 days, consisting of a 14-day adaptation period and 90 days of data acquisition. Compared with the CON group, AOK significantly reduced the content of saturated fatty acids (SFAs) and n6-polyunsaturated fatty acids (n6-PUFAs)/n3-PUFAs (n6/n3). In contrast, the levels of n3-PUFAs in the SADT of cashmere goats increased markedly (p < 0.05). Compared with the CON group, AOK exhibited significantly higher activities of hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL) (p = 0.027), adenylyl cyclase 2 (ADCY2) (p = 0.010), adenylyl cyclase 5 (ADCY5) (p = 0.046), cluster of differentiation 36 (CD36) (p = 0.013), solute carrier family 27 member 4 (SLC27A4) (p = 0.021), and fatty acid binding protein 4 (FABP4) (p = 0.040), along with significantly lower activities of fatty acid synthase (FAS) (p = 0.002), lipoprotein lipase (LPL) (p = 0.048), and stearoyl-coa desaturase (SCD) (p = 0.026) in SADT. Compared with the CON group, the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) (p = 0.032), catalase (CAT) (p = 0.010), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-PX) (p = 0.029), and total antioxidant capacity (T-AOC) (p = 0.002) were significantly increased in the AOK group. Transcriptomic profiling revealed that AOK supplementation downregulated mRNA levels of ADCY2, ADCY5, LPL, FAS, SCD, stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 (SCD1), stearoyl-CoA desaturase 2 (SCD2), glycogen synthase 1 (GYS1), acyl-CoA oxidase 1 (ACOX1), acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1), fatty acid desaturase 1 (FADS1), solute carrier family 27 member 2 (SLC27A2), erythroblastic leukemia viral oncogene homolog 4 (ERBB4), and carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1B (CPT1B) (p < 0.05). It also markedly induced acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4 (ACSL4) (p < 0.01) in SADT. Genes significantly enriched in the adenosine-monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) signaling pathway included LPL, SCD1, CPT1B, and GYS1 (p = 0.010). Genes significantly enriched in the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-akt (PI3K-Akt) signaling pathway included GYS1 and ERBB4 (p = 0.015). CPT1B, ADCY2, and GYS1 were identified as the genes significantly enriched in the insulin resistance signaling pathway (p = 0.048). LPL was the only gene significantly enriched in the cholesterol metabolism pathway (p = 0.049). Genes showing a tendency toward significant enrichment in the peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signaling pathway included ACSL4, CPT1B, SCD1, and LPL (p = 0.051). These interconnected cascades improve insulin sensitivity, stimulate triglyceride (TG) hydrolysis, and modulate n3-PUFA levels. Supplementation with AOK enhances n3-PUFA content by accelerating TG breakdown while simultaneously restraining FA oxidation in SADT. Consequently, AOK supplementation can be effectively used to enhance the nutritional value of cashmere goat meat through improved n3-PUFA deposition in SADT.
3M syndrome is a rarely inherited autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in cullin-7 (CUL7), obscurin-like 1 (OBSL1), and coiled-coil domain containing protein 8 (CCDC8). It is associated with multiple dysmorphic features, including characteristic facial dysmorphism (a face that is triangular, full lips, frontal bossing, a nasal tip that is fleshy, long philtrum, protruding ears and macrocephaly), severe growth retardation prenatally and postnatally and normal intelligence. Although there are multiple skeletal manifestations of the syndrome, such as joint laxity, there is no mention of developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH) to be associated with it anywhere in the literature. Therefore, we present the first case of bilateral DDH in a patient with 3M syndrome, which was managed similarly to other DDH cases with operative reduction, pelvic osteotomies, and femoral shortening, with a satisfactory outcome after 3 years of follow-up.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press and JSCR Publishing Ltd.
This study evaluated the protective effects of naringin (NG) against intestinal injury in 7-day-old piglets infected with porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV). Eighteen piglets (Duroc × Landrace × Large, body weight = 2.58 ± 0.05 kg) were divided into three treatment groups based on similar body weights and equal numbers of males and females: the blank control group (CON group), the PEDV infection group (PEDV group), and the NG intervention + PEDV infection group (NG + PEDV group) (n = 6 per group). The experiment lasted for 11 days, comprising a pre-feeding period from days 0 to 3 and a formal experimental period from days 4 to 10. On days 4-10 of the experiment, piglets in the NG + PEDV group were orally administered NG (10 mg/kg). On Day 8 of the experiment, piglets in the PEDV and NG + PEDV groups were inoculated with PEDV (3 mL, 106 50% tissue culture infective dose (TCID50) per milliliter). On day 11 of the experiment, piglets were euthanized for sample collection. PEDV infection caused significant intestinal damage, including a decreased (p < 0.05) villus height in the duodenum and ileum and an increased (p < 0.05) crypt depth in all intestinal segments. This intestinal damage was accompanied by an impaired absorptive function, as indicated by reduced (p < 0.05) serum D-xylose. Further results showed that PEDV compromised the intestinal antioxidant capacity by decreasing (p < 0.05) glutathione peroxidase and catalase activities, and it stimulated the intestinal inflammatory response by upregulating (p < 0.05) the expression of key inflammatory genes, including regenerating family member 3 gamma (REG3G; duodenum, jejunum, colon), S100 calcium binding protein A9 (S100A9; ileum, colon), interleukin 1 beta (IL-1β; ileum, colon), and S100 calcium binding protein A8 (S100A8; colon). PEDV also suppressed the intestinal lipid metabolism pathway by downregulating (p < 0.05) the ileal expression of Solute Carrier Family 27 Member 4 (SLC27A4), Microsomal Triglyceride Transfer Protein (MTTP), Apolipoprotein A4 (APOA4), Apolipoprotein C3 (APOC3), Diacylglycerol O-Acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1), and Cytochrome P450 Family 2 Subfamily J Member 34 (CYP2J34). Moreover, PEDV suppressed the intestinal antiviral ability by downregulating (p < 0.05) interferon (IFN) signaling pathway genes, including MX dynamin like GTPase 1 (MX1) and ISG15 ubiquitin like modifier (ISG15) in the duodenum; weakened intestinal water and ion transport by downregulating (p < 0.05) aquaporin 10 (AQP10) and potassium inwardly rectifying channel subfamily J member 13 (KCNJ13) in the duodenum, aquaporin 7 (AQP7) and transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 6 (TRPV6) in the ileum, and TRPV6 and transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 6 (TRPM6) in the colon; and inhibited intestinal digestive and absorptive function by downregulating (p < 0.05) phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1 (PCK1) in the duodenum and sucrase-isomaltase (SI) in the ileum. Notably, NG effectively counteracted these detrimental effects. Moreover, NG activated the IFN signaling pathway in the jejunum and suppressed PEDV replication in the colon. In conclusion, NG alleviates PEDV-induced intestinal injury by enhancing the antioxidant capacity, suppressing inflammation, normalizing the expression of metabolic and transport genes, and improving the antiviral ability.
3M syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by biallelic pathogenic variants in the cullin 7 (CUL7), obscurin-like 1 (OBSL1), and coiled-coil domain-containing protein 8 (CCDC8) genes and is characterized by pre- and postnatal growth retardation, short stature, dysmorphic facial features, and skeletal anomalies, with normal intelligence.In this study, we report a 6-year-old female patient from China diagnosed with 3M syndrome. The patient presented with typical clinical features of growth retardation and short stature, with normal intelligence. The patient's dysmorphic facial features included relative macrocephaly, a protruding forehead, a triangular face, a pointed chin, a flat nasal bridge, full lips, a long philtrum, and a broad lower jaw. The skeletal survey was normal except for clinodactyly of the fifth fingers of both hands. Growth hormone (GH) deficiency was excluded by normal serum hormone levels and the GH stimulation test results. Whole-exome sequencing identified two heterozygous variants in CUL7, NM_014780.5: c.1639_1640del (p.Leu547Alafs*6), and NM_014780.5: c.4505T>C (p.Ile1502Thr). Parental Sanger sequencing confirmed these as compound heterozygous variants, with one variant inherited from each parent. Neither variant has been previously reported. The patient has been treated with recombinant human IGF-1 for 2 years since she was 4 years old and has achieved a growth velocity of approximately 6-7 cm per year.Herein, we describe a Chinese patient with 3M syndrome caused by novel biallelic pathogenic variants in CUL7 from a non-consanguineous family, expanding the genetic spectrum of CUL7 in the Chinese population.© 2025 Liu, Liu, Suo, Han, Wang and Ding.
MicroRNA-34a (miR-34a) was closely associated with liver steatosis. However, the link between changes in miR-34a and the progression of liver steatosis remained unclear. In the work, sixty mice were randomly and equally selected into six groups: normal control group (NC), normal exercise group (NE), high-fat diet group (HFD), high-fat diet plus exercise group (HFE), miR-34a overexpression group (OE), and miR-34a overexpression plus exercise group (OEE). Live morphology showed that treadmill exercise intervention for 8 weeks reduced high-fat diet-induced liver steatosis in mice. 8-week treadmill exercise directly decreased mir-34a expression of mice in HFD group, confirmed in OE group. More, treadmill exercise enhanced the expression of PPARα and SIRT1, thereby affecting the downstream hepatic steatosis-associated target genes, including CPT1(Carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1), CPT2(Carnitine palmitoyltransferase 2), SLC27A1(Solute carrier family 27 member 1), SLC27A4(Solute carrier family 27 member 4), in addition to activating the expression of the central metabolic sensor AMPK. Following aerobic exercise intervention, miR-34a was downregulated, thereby affecting the expression of genes associated with hepatic steatosis, and this mechanism was confirmed in miR-34a overexpression mice. This study contributed to our understanding of the pathogenesis of hepatic steatosis and may provide new therapeutic approaches.Copyright: © 2025 Wu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
NCOA4, a dedicated autophagy receptor for mediating selective autophagy of ferritin (ferritinophagy), plays a vital role in maintaining cellular iron homeostasis. The cellular abundance of NCOA4 is regulated by the E3 ligase HERC2 that can specifically target NCOA4 for proteasomal degradation under iron-replete conditions. However, the detailed molecular mechanism governing the iron-dependent recognition of NCOA4 by HERC2 remains elusive. Here, using multidisciplinary approaches, we systematically characterize the HERC2-binding domain (HBD) of NCOA4 and its interaction with HERC2. We uncover that NCOA4 HBD harbors a [2Fe-2S] cluster and can exist in two different states, the apo-form state and the [2Fe-2S] cluster-bound state. Moreover, we unravel that HERC2 can effectively recognize the [2Fe-2S] cluster-bound NCOA4 HBD through its Cullin-7-PARC-HERC2 (CPH) domain and iron-sulfur cluster-dependent NCOA4-binding domain (INBD) with a synergistic binding mode. The determined crystal structures of HERC2(2540-2700) and its complex with the [2Fe-2S] cluster-bound NCOA4 HBD together with relevant biochemical and cellular results not only elucidate how NCOA4 HBD specifically senses cellular iron level by binding a [2Fe-2S] cluster but also reveal the molecular basis underlying the specific interaction of HERC2 with the [2Fe-2S] cluster-bound NCOA4 HBD. In summary, our findings provide mechanistic insights into the iron-dependent turnover of NCOA4 by HERC2 and expand our understanding of the regulatory mechanism of NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy.
In addition to the tumor suppressor role of Cullin 7 (Cul7), one of the proteins belonging to the Cullin (Cul) family, studies have also suggested that Cul7 may act as an oncogene under certain conditions. The role of the Cul7 molecule in breast cancer is still unclear, and understanding its function could have significant implications for identifying novel therapeutic targets or improving diagnostic strategies in breast cancer management. In this study, the levels of the Cul7 molecule in plasma and noninvasive material saliva were investigated, and its possibility as a marker for breast cancer was discussed. Protein levels of blood and saliva samples taken from breast cancer patients and a healthy control group were measured by the ELISA (Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay) method. Gene expression levels between the two groups were analyzed by the qPCR (quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction) method. In our study, Cul7 mRNA and protein expression levels were examined in 60 breast cancer patients and 20 healthy female controls, and a statistically insignificant difference was found between the patient and control groups in both plasma and saliva samples (p > 0.05). No correlation was found between the clinical characteristics of the patients and plasma and saliva Cul7 gene expression and protein levels (p > 0.05). Considering the possibility of Cul7 being a biomarker at the protein and mRNA levels, plasma is thought to be a better study material for Cul7. Our findings suggest that in the context of a study on salivary material, the expression of Cul7 at the mRNA level may have better potential utility as a biomarker.
The protein Solute carrier family 27 member 4 (SLC27A4) is crucial for fatty acid synthesis and β-oxidation, but its role in hepatic steatosis and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) progression is not fully understood.Mice with AAV-mediated overexpression of Slc27a4 in liver and hepatocytes-specific deletion of Slc27a4 were fed a standard chow diet, a high-fat diet (HFD), or a methionine and choline-deficient diet (MCD). Serum and liver tissues were collected and analyzed by biochemical assay, histology, lipidomic analysis, RNA-seq analysis, qPCR, western blot and immunofluorescence.This study found elevated expression of SLC27A4 in individuals with NAFLD and OAPA-treated MPHs cells, leading to increased lipid accumulation and diet-induced liver steatosis, inflammation, and fibrosis. Conversely, hepatocyte-specific deletion of Slc27a4 improved the development of both NAFLD and NASH. SLC27A4 overexpression resulted in increased hepatic pregnane X receptor (PXR) expression and accumulation of phosphatidylcholine (PC), which activates PXR signaling and inducing SLC27A4 expression. PXR overexpression hinders the protective impact of Slc27a4 deletion on lipid accumulation and inflammation, whereas its deficiency in mice reduces the effect of Slc27a4 overexpression on NAFLD development.These results indicate that SLC27A4 plays a critical role of lipid accumulation and inflammation, and is implicated in the development of NAFLD progression, rendering it potentially actionable target for NAFLD treatment.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Natural products from fungi are a significant source for drug discovery. This study investigates six previously uncharacterized metabolites isolated from the poisonous mushroom Tricholoma pardinum using an integrated in silico approach to evaluate their therapeutic potential. Pharmacokinetic (ADMET) profiling predicted varied drug-likeness and toxicity profiles, with several compounds showing potential to cross the blood-brain barrier. Molecular docking and MM-GBSA calculations identified compound 1 as a potent inhibitor of Poly [ADP-ribose] polymerase 1 (PARP1), with a strong binding affinity (XP GScore: -6.756; ΔGbind: -48.75 kcal/mol). This interaction is anchored by a robust network of hydrogen bonds with key residues, including ASP914, CYS908, and THR866. Similarly, compound 6 emerged as a strong binder to Phosphatidylinositol 5-phosphate 4-kinase type-2 gamma (PIP4K2γ) (XP GScore: -7.705; ΔGbind: -45.94 kcal/mol), with its binding stabilized by extensive hydrophobic interactions complemented by a critical hydrogen bond with the residue Methionine 206 (MET206). Subsequent 100 ns molecular dynamics simulations confirmed the high stability of both protein-ligand complexes, validating the persistence of these key interactions. These computational findings highlight the potential of metabolites from T. pardinum as novel scaffolds for developing anticancer agents targeting PARP1 and PIP4K2γ, warranting further experimental validation.
To date, a single missense variant (Q84R) in TRIB3 (Tribbles pseudokinase 3) has been experimentally characterised. Hence, the functional relevance of the vast majority of reported TRIB3 nonsynonymous single-nucleotide polymorphisms (nsSNPs) remains largely unexplored.We conducted a multi-layered in silico analysis to prioritise TRIB3 nsSNPs with the highest likelihood of disrupting protein structure, stability, and function. A total of 366 TRIB3 nsSNPs was retrieved from public databases and initially screened using SIFT, PolyPhen-2, SNAP, and PhD-SNP, followed by a stringent consensus-based filtering strategy. Subsequently, we evaluated the potential effects of the prioritised nsSNPs on TRIB3 protein structure and function using PANTHER, SNPs&GO, Jalview, HOPE, I-Mutant, MUpro, MEDUSA, and MutPred2. Finally, we examined tissue-specific expression, interaction networks, and regulatory annotations using GTEx, GeneMANIA, STRING, HaploReg, and the Metabolic Disease Knowledge Portal (CMDKP).Twelve high-confidence deleterious nsSNPs were consistently predicted and evaluated by all the tools used, namely, rs1242438181 (G69R), rs1016761523 (G69V), rs534352037 (Y71C), rs376597508 (M144K), rs1164746151 (F163S), rs2014979681 (C173R), rs149447454 (R181C), rs1445306127 (R181H), rs1411860615 (K184R), rs139447354 (R303W), rs201359012 (R303Q), and rs766581672 (W314R).Our integrative in silico approach identifies 12 high-risk TRIB3 missense variants that may contribute to metabolic dysfunction and provide a focused set of candidates for future functional and experimental validation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Programmed cell death (PCD) plays an important role in diabetic retinopathy (DR); however, the underlying genetic mechanisms remain unclear. We used Mendelian randomization (MR) to investigate the causal relationships between PCD-related genes and DR. This study aimed to investigate the effects of PCD on the risk of DR by conducting MR analysis.Summary statistics from gene expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) studies (31,684 Europeans) were analyzed. Genetic instrumental variables were selected using cis-eQTL single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs; P < 5 × 10- 8). Summary data-based MR (SMR) was employed to assess causal associations between PCD-related genes and DR, with three additional MR methods used for sensitivity testing. Bayesian colocalization was used to examine the shared regulatory mechanisms between PCD QTLs and DR risk loci.Sensitivity and colocalization analyses revealed six genes that affected DR: cathepsin H (CTSH), NAD(P)H: quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1), tribbles pseudokinase 3 (TRIB3), and phosphoglycerate mutase 5 (PGAM5), which increased DR risk, and iron-responsive element binding protein 2 (IREB2) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF), which exhibited protective effects. Multivariate MR confirmed significant causal effects for CTSH, IREB2, and PGAM5 (p < 0.050). Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analysis (including 10 STRING-derived genes) revealed that 13 genes were enriched in necroptosis, apoptosis, mitophagy, and TNF signaling pathways in DR.This MR study supports the causal involvement of PCD in DR and identifies candidate genes (CTSH, IREB2, PGAM5, NQO1, TRIB3, and TNF) for therapeutic targeting or biomarker development in DR prevention or diagnosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Metabolic-epigenetic crosstalk accelerates breast cancer (BC) progression; however, the conduit linking glycolytic flux to chromatin remodeling remains incompletely defined. Here, we delineate a kinase-metabolism-epigenetic axis centered on the Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Associated Protein 1 (MAPKAP1, also known as SIN1). Single-cell transcriptomic profiling of highly invasive tumors identifies SIN1 as a central node co-enriched with epithelial-mesenchymal transition and proliferation programs. Biochemical mapping and mass spectrometry demonstrate that SIN1 scaffolds TTK to promote phosphorylation of lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA) at Tyr239 (p-LDHA^239), thereby amplifying glycolysis and lactate production. The resulting lactate accumulation increases histone H3K18 lactylation (H3K18la), which, as shown by ChIP-seq, is enriched at the Solute Carrier Family 2 Member 3 (SLC2A3, also known as GLUT3) promoter, upregulating GLUT3 and enhancing glucose uptake, thus establishing a self-reinforcing SIN1/TTK/LDHA-H3K18la-GLUT3 feed-forward loop. Structure-function analyses using domain truncations, molecular docking, and high-throughput virtual screening nominate LR-90 as a small-molecule inhibitor of the SIN1/TTK/LDHA complex. LR-90 reduces p-LDHA^239, lactate levels, H3K18la occupancy at the GLUT3 promoter, glucose uptake, invasion, and tumor growth, and it synergizes with standard chemotherapy in patient-derived organoids and mouse xenografts. Clinically, elevated SIN1 expression is associated with adverse pathological features and inferior overall survival. Collectively, these findings link SIN1-mediated recruitment of TTK for LDHA phosphorylation to histone lactylation and GLUT3-driven metabolic reprogramming, and suggest that pharmacological disruption of this axis with LR-90, alone or in combination with standard chemotherapy, may offer a therapeutic strategy for high-glycolytic, high-lactate breast cancer.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Tribbles pseudokinase 3 (Trib3) is an inactive protein kinase whose expression increases in response to various stresses. Our previous work showed that Trib3 may play a role in myelin destruction induced by oxidative and endoplasmic reticulum stress in demyelination (dmy) rats. The dmy rat exhibits hind limb ataxia and severe myelin breakdown in the central nervous system. To elucidate how Trib3 contributes to oxidative stress-mediated injury in organs other than the central nervous system, we used two models: an acute liver injury model induced by thioacetamide injection and an acute kidney injury model induced by cisplatin injection. Trib3 mRNA expression increased concurrently with tissue injury and declined during the repair phase. TRIB3 was detected in damaged areas, mainly in degenerated cells and infiltrating macrophages. These results suggest that Trib3 is upregulated in tissues damaged by oxidative stress and may serve as an indicator of tissue injury.©2026 The Japanese Society of Toxicologic Pathology.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), which constitutes approximately 85% of all lung cancer cases, is a leading cause of cancer mortality worldwide. Isoginkgetin (ISO), a biflavonoid isolated from Ginkgo biloba leaves, has demonstrated anticancer effects against various malignancies. However, its anti-NSCLC effects are unclear.To explore the therapeutic potential of ISO and its mechanism of suppressing NSCLC proliferation. To provide experimental evidence for the translational potential of ISO as a candidate clinical drug.Cell cytotoxicity and proliferation were assessed by cell viability, propidium iodide staining, colony formation, and cell cycle detection assays. Cell migration was evaluated by wound healing and transwell assays. Reactive oxygen species and the mitochondrial membrane potential were detected by fluorescent staining. Malondialdehyde and glutathione content were quantified by commercial assay kits. Transcriptome analysis for exploring the mechanism of ISO inhibition in NSCLC. The relationships between ISO and the tribbles pseudokinase 3 (TRIB3)/nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) pathway were investigated through Western blot, siRNA-mediated TRIB3 knockdown, and overexpression of TRIB3. Cellular thermal shift assay and surface plasmon resonance were explored to investigate the binding and direct interaction between ISO and TRIB3. A non-contact co-culture model of NSCLC cells and macrophages was used to assess macrophage polarization. The anti-NSCLC effect of ISO in vivo was evaluated in a BALB/c nude mouse subcutaneous tumor model.ISO suppressed the cell viability, proliferation, and migration of NSCLC cells. ISO induces oxidative stress in NSCLC cells, characterized by an increase in reactive oxygen species and malondialdehyde and a decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential and glutathione. ISO has a strong binding affinity and direct interaction for the TRIB3 protein. Furthermore, ISO inhibited the antioxidant Nrf2 pathway by suppressing TRIB3 expression. Mechanistically, TRIB3 knockdown or overexpression significantly regulated the levels of oxidative stress and the Nrf2 pathway. ISO also promoted M1 macrophage polarization. Furthermore, ISO suppressed tumor growth in vivo.ISO inhibits NSCLC through direct targeting and downregulation of TRIB3, thereby inducing oxidative stress and suppressing the antioxidant Nrf2 pathway. Furthermore, ISO regulates the tumor microenvironment by promoting M1 macrophage polarization. These findings may contribute to improved prognosis for NSCLC patients and provide insights into the mechanism of ISO as an antitumor drug, thereby supporting its potential for clinical translation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) can be categorized as human papillomavirus (HPV)-positive or -negative. The present study explored the potential prognostic value of ferroptosis-related genes (FRGs) and their impact on the tumor immune microenvironment in HPV-negative HNSCC compared with HPV-positive HNSCC, based on data from The Cancer Genome Atlas online database. The bioinformatics analysis results were then verified through cell culture and histological analyses. The prognostic model was developed by evaluating the correlations between prognostic value and the expression of FRGs in HPV-negative HNSCC. This was based on differential analysis of data from The Cancer Genome Atlas between the HPV-negative and -positive patient subgroups. The relationships of the identified hub FRGs with immune cell infiltration were determined by CIBERSORT R scripts for the HPV-negative subgroup. Tribbles pseudokinase 3 (TRIB3) expression in both HPV-negative and -positive HNSCC cells was verified by reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction, western blotting and immunohistochemistry. The role of TRIB3 in mediating ferroptosis in both HPV-positive and -negative cells was validated by transmission electron microscopy and intracellular Fe2+, reactive oxygen species (ROS), glutathione (GSH) and malondialdehyde (MDA) assessments. As a result, it was verified that the prognostic model for HPV-negative patients had a good performance. TRIB3 expression was higher in HPV-negative samples than in HPV-positive samples. Additionally, following cell transfection, TRIB3 knockdown increased intracellular Fe2+, MDA and ROS levels, decreased GSH levels and diminished or eliminated mitochondrial ridges in HPV-negative cells. By contrast, TRIB3 overexpression decreased intracellular Fe2+, MDA and ROS, while increasing GSH in HPV-positive cells. In conclusion, the constructed model may indicate the prognosis of patients with HPV-negative HNSCC. Moreover, TRIB3, via its involvement in ferroptosis, may serve as a potential therapeutic target for both HPV-positive and HPV-negative HNSCC. Thus, the present study has provided a starting point for further investigation into the therapeutic potential of targeting TRIB3.Copyright: © Li et al.
Age-related obesity is a growing healthcare burden. Effectiveness of body weight reducing mediators changes with aging and these alterations may contribute to aging obesity. Our previous results suggested a potential contributions of urocortin 2 (UCN2) to aging obesity and age-related cachexia. Lifestyle interventions, such as caloric restriction or physical activity can improve body weight and body composition. Previous observations suggest that lifestyle interventions may also influence age-associated regulatory changes in energy balance. We aimed to study the effects of a 12-week treadmill training or caloric restriction on the central hypermetabolic responsiveness to UCN2 in middle-aged 6- and 12-month old male Wistar rats. Interventions started at age 3- or 9-months. Following the interventions, acute hypermetabolic/hyperthermic responses were tested upon intracerebroventricular injections of UCN2. Both the training and the caloric restriction lead to weight loss and training led to favorable body composition changes. UCN2-induced hypermetabolism/hyperthermia was diminished by both interventions in both age-groups. The Ucn2 mRNA expression detected by RNAscope in situ hybridization in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus was also decreased by both interventions. UCN2-induced hypermetabolism/hyperthermia in the trained and caloric restricted middle-aged groups resembled those of young adult 3-month rats. Lifestyle interventions appear to delay age-related regulatory alterations of energy balance.© 2025. The Author(s).
Endometrial cancer (EC) is the most prevalent gynecological malignancy globally. Here, we explored the role of E74-like ETS transcription factor 4 (ELF4) in EC progression. Using the TISIDB web tool to analyze TCGA data, we found that elevated ELF4 expression correlates with higher histological grades and reduced overall survival in EC patients. Tissue microarray analysis confirmed a grade-dependent increase in ELF4 protein levels. Knockdown of ELF4 in EC cell lines (AN3CA, HEC-1A) and patient-derived EC cells suppressed proliferation, cell cycle progression, and cancer stem cell (CSC) activity. Database analysis and RNA interference identified cyclin-dependent kinase 6 (CDK6) as a downstream target of ELF4. ELF4 silencing reduced CDK6 mRNA and protein expression, while chromatin immunoprecipitation revealed direct binding of ELF4 to the CDK6 promoter. Conversely, ELF4 overexpression upregulated CDK6. Knockdown of CDK6 or treatment with the CDK4/6 inhibitor Palbociclib diminished tumorsphere formation and expression of stemness markers (OCT4, NANOG, c-MYC) in both conventional and patient-derived EC cells. We previously reported that the tribbles pseudokinase 3 (TRIB3)/ELF4 complex transactivates CTNNB1 expression; here, we show that TRIB3 knockdown also downregulates CDK6 at mRNA and protein levels, suggesting cooperative regulation of CDK6 by ELF4 and TRIB3. In EC specimens, ELF4, TRIB3, and CDK6 expression positively correlated, and Kaplan-Meier analysis indicated that high co-expression of these genes predicted the poorest overall survival. Collectively, our findings establish the ELF4/TRIB3/CDK6 axis as a critical regulator of EC progression and CSC maintenance, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target for EC.© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular Physiology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase K (INPP5K) is a phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate phosphatase that increases glucose uptake and regulates myogenesis in the skeletal muscle. To understand the mechanism of its species-specific inhibition, we determined the 1.9-Å resolution crystal structure of human INPP5K in complex with a selective inhibitor, CPD-1 (IC50 = 2.9 µM). The structure reveals that CPD-1 binds to a novel allosteric pocket, inducing a large conformational change in α-helix 3 that alters the active site and prevents substrate binding. This finding explains its unique, noncompetitive inhibitory mechanism. Crucially, while the inhibitor-binding residues are conserved, the key residue governing the allosteric transition is not conserved in mouse and rat INPP5K, which correlates with their insensitivity to CPD-1 (IC50 > 100 µM). Based on these structural insights, we identified the hamster as a pharmacologically relevant preclinical model (IC50 = 8.2 µM). These findings provide a structural basis for the rational design of next-generation INPP5K inhibitors and establish a suitable animal model for their evaluation.
Inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase K (INPP5K), also known as SKIP (skeletal muscle and kidney-enriched inositol phosphatase), is a cytoplasmic enzyme with 5-phosphatase activity toward phosphoinositides (PIs). Mutations in INPP5K are associated with autosomal recessive congenital muscular dystrophy with cataracts and intellectual disability (MDCCAID). Notably, muscular dystrophy is characterized by the hypoglycosylation of dystroglycan. Thus, far, the underlying mechanisms are only partially understood. In this study, we show that INPP5K expression increases during brain development. Knockdown of INPP5K in the neuroblastoma-derived cell line N2A impaired their neuronal-like differentiation and interfered with protein glycosylation.Copyright © 2024 Manzolillo, Gresing, Hübner and Franzka.
INPP5K (inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase K) is an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident enzyme that acts as a phosphoinositide (PI) 5-phosphatase, capable of dephosphorylating various PIs including PI 4,5-bisphosphate (PI(4,5)P2), a key phosphoinositide found in the plasma membrane. Given its ER localization and substrate specificity, INPP5K may play a role in ER-plasma membrane contact sites. Furthermore, PI(4,5)P2 serves as a substrate for phospholipase C, an enzyme activated downstream of extracellular agonists acting on Gq-coupled receptors or tyrosine-kinase receptors, leading to IP3 production and subsequent release of Ca2+ from the ER, the primary intracellular Ca2+ storage organelle. In this study, we investigated the impact of INPP5K on ER Ca2+ dynamics using a previously established INPP5K-knockdown U-251 MG glioblastoma cell model. We here describe that loss of INPP5K impairs agonist-induced, IP3 receptor (IP3R)-mediated Ca2+ mobilization in intact cells, while the ER Ca2+ content and store-operated Ca2+ influx remain unaffected. To further elucidate the underlying mechanisms, we examined Ca2+ release in permeabilized cells stimulated with exogenous IP3. Interestingly, the absence of INPP5K also disrupted IP3-induced Ca2+ release events. These results suggest that INPP5K may directly influence IP3R activity through mechanisms yet to be resolved. The findings from this study point towards role of INPP5K in modulating ER calcium dynamics, particularly in relation to IP3-mediated signaling pathways. However, further work is needed to establish the general nature of our findings and to unravel the exact molecular mechanisms underlying the interplay between INNP5K function and Ca2+ signaling.© 2023 Published by Elsevier B.V.
One hurdle in the development of zebrafish models of human disease is the presence of multiple zebrafish orthologs resulting from whole genome duplication in teleosts. Mutations in inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase K (INPP5K) lead to a syndrome characterized by variable presentation of intellectual disability, brain abnormalities, cataracts, muscle disease, and short stature. INPP5K is a phosphatase acting at position 5 of phosphoinositides to control their homeostasis and is involved in insulin signaling, cytoskeletal regulation, and protein trafficking. Previously, our group and others have replicated the human phenotypes in zebrafish knockdown models by targeting both INPP5K orthologs inpp5ka and inpp5kb. Here, we show that inpp5ka is the more closely related orthologue to human INPP5K. While both inpp5ka and inpp5kb mRNA expression levels follow a similar trend in the developing head, eyes, and tail, inpp5ka is much more abundantly expressed in these tissues than inpp5kb. In situ hybridization revealed a similar trend, also showing unique localization of inpp5kb in the pineal gland and retina indicating different transcriptional regulation. We also found that inpp5kb has lost its catalytic activity against its preferred substrate, PtdIns(4,5)P2. Since most human mutations are missense changes disrupting phosphatase activity, we propose that loss of inpp5ka alone can be targeted to recapitulate the human presentation. In addition, we show that the function of inpp5kb has diverged from inpp5ka and may play a novel role in the zebrafish.© 2023. The Author(s).
Failure of CNS neurons to mount a significant growth response after trauma contributes to chronic functional deficits after spinal cord injury. Activator and repressor screening of embryonic cortical neurons and retinal ganglion cells in vitro and transcriptional profiling of developing CNS neurons harvested in vivo have identified several candidates that stimulate robust axon growth in vitro and in vivo Building on these studies, we sought to identify novel axon growth activators induced in the complex adult CNS environment in vivo We transcriptionally profiled intact sprouting adult corticospinal neurons (CSNs) after contralateral pyramidotomy (PyX) in nogo receptor-1 knock-out mice and found that intact CSNs were enriched in genes in the 3-phosphoinositide degradation pathway, including six 5-phosphatases. We explored whether inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase K (Inpp5k) could enhance corticospinal tract (CST) axon growth in preclinical models of acute and chronic CNS trauma. Overexpression of Inpp5k in intact adult CSNs in male and female mice enhanced the sprouting of intact CST terminals after PyX and cortical stroke and sprouting of CST axons after acute and chronic severe thoracic spinal contusion. We show that Inpp5k stimulates axon growth in part by elevating the density of active cofilin in labile growth cones, thus stimulating actin polymerization and enhancing microtubule protrusion into distal filopodia. We identify Inpp5k as a novel CST growth activator capable of driving compensatory axon growth in multiple complex CNS injury environments and underscores the veracity of using in vivo transcriptional screening to identify the next generation of cell-autonomous factors capable of repairing the damaged CNS.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Neurologic recovery is limited after spinal cord injury as CNS neurons are incapable of self-repair post-trauma. In vitro screening strategies exploit the intrinsically high growth capacity of embryonic CNS neurons to identify novel axon growth activators. While promising candidates have been shown to stimulate axon growth in vivo, concomitant functional recovery remains incomplete. We identified Inpp5k as a novel axon growth activator using transcriptional profiling of intact adult corticospinal tract (CST) neurons that had initiated a growth response after pyramidotomy in plasticity sensitized nogo receptor-1-null mice. Here, we show that Inpp5k overexpression can stimulate CST axon growth after pyramidotomy, stroke, and acute and chronic contusion injuries. These data support in vivo screening approaches to identify novel axon growth activators.Copyright © 2022 the authors.
Skipped: PubMed ID 33060052 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 16551253 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 17328678 is a review article
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301654
