Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a major cause of severe acute lower respiratory tract infections (ALRI), with incomplete elucidation of its pathogenesis and intricate host-virus crosstalk constraining the development of effective therapies. The post-transcriptional interplay among microRNAs (miRNAs), RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), and alternative splicing (AS) is a critical, yet underexplored host response layer.We integrated and analyzed three public datasets (GSE231784, GSE231788, and GSE155151) of RSV-infected A549 cells, screened differentially expressed miRNAs, identified conserved differentially expressed RBPs, used SUVA to detect AS events, and constructed a miRNA-RBP-AS network to find core axis. This integrated bioinformatics approach enabled systematic dissection of multi-layered post-transcriptional regulation during RSV infection.Our analysis revealed that RSV infection substantially alters host post-transcriptional regulation, with 86 conserved differentially expressed RBPs and 94 conserved AS events identified. A potential miRNA-RBP-AS axis was uncovered via regulatory network construction. Crucially, this axis suggests that the downregulation of let-7 family miRNAs (e.g., let-7f-2-3p, let-7a-3p) is strongly associated with the upregulation of the RBP genes SAMD4A and ENOX1. The expression of these RBPs, in turn, correlates with the AS of host genes that are implicated in viral replication and immunity, such as TNIP1 and NR5A2.These findings propose that RSV may exploit this post-transcriptional crosstalk to modulate host immunity and facilitate viral replication. Through bioinformatics analysis, this study provides a novel, system-level map of RSV-host interactions and identifies the let-7-SAMD4A/ENOX1-TNIP1/NR5A2 axis as a promising new target for future antiviral strategies, though this requires further experimental validation.Copyright (c) 2026 Mingzhen Cheng, Hongtao Xu, Fang Yuan, Shuangshuang Li.
Chlorogenic acid (CGA) is a common plant polyphenol with potential antibacterial activity, the mechanisms of which remain poorly understood. The aim of this study was to compare the effects of CGA on Escherichia coli and Lactiplantibacillus plantarum using experimental and computational approaches. Antibacterial activity was assessed by inhibition zones, changes in optical density, the release of nucleic acids and proteins, and scanning electron microscopy. CGA was found to inhibit the growth of E. coli (IC50 = 1.89 mg/mL; IC80 = 2.58 mg/mL) and L. plantarum (IC50 = 3.80 mg/mL; IC80 = 5.21 mg/mL). However, only E. coli exhibited increased membrane permeability and morphological alterations, whereas no comparable membrane damage was observed in L. plantarum. Molecular dynamics simulations showed that CGA destabilizes the lipid bilayer by increasing the area per lipid, enhancing fluctuations, and promoting the formation of hydrophobic defects. The PMF profile indicates thermodynamically favorable localization of CGA within the hydrophobic region of the membrane. DFT calculations confirmed the amphiphilic nature of the molecule. These results indicate that the antibacterial activity of CGA is associated with disruption of membrane structure, whereas the resistance of L. plantarum may be attributable to specific features of the cellular response and biotransformation of the compound.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that primarily affects motor neurons leading to muscle weakness, paralysis, and ultimately, respiratory failure. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) facilitate intercellular communication by mimicking the functions of their parent cells. In this study, we found that repeated administration of neural stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (NSC-derived EVs) improved motor performance and provided protection to lumbar motor neurons, the neuromuscular junctions, and muscle morphology in the SOD1 G93A transgenic mouse model of ALS. Furthermore, by analyzing the RNA-sequencing of muscle specimens from ALS-SOD1 patients, we demonstrated that the rescue effects of NSC-derived EVs might be linked to the p53 pathway. Compared to the PBS control treatment group, both TP53 and the p53 upregulated modulator of apoptosis (PUMA) were downregulated in the spinal cord of mice treated with NSC-derived EVs. These data provide additional knowledge for the promising use of NSC-derived EVs as a potential therapy for ALS.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Association of Neuropathologists, Inc. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Nicotinamide (NAM), a precursor for nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+), is widely used as a supplement during different cells culturing. Although its antioxidative and anti-apoptotic properties, the specific effects on bovine embryo quality and implantation potential remain partly explored. The current study aimed to investigate the impact of NAM on developmental competence and quality of bovine embryos, focusing on cell apoptosis, survival, and trophoblast invasion. NAM was treated during in vitro maturation (IVM) and late-stage embryo culture (IVC3; the morula stage embryo), the cleavage and blastocyst formation rates were evaluated on Days 4 and 8 post-fertilization, respectively. Underlying mechanisms affecting embryo quality and invasion potential were examined in developed blastocysts using RT-qPCR, immunofluorescence, reactive oxygen species (ROS) measurement, TUNEL and trophoblast invasion assays. Results showed that the cleavage and blastocyst formation rates were significantly increased in the NAM-treated group relative to controls (83.62 ± 1.38% vs. 80.08 ± 0.52%, and 37.54 ± 1.15% vs. 28.74 ± 0.70%, respectively). Additionally, the in vitro-developed embryos supplemented with NAM during IVM and IVC3 exhibited lower levels of ROS and mRNA of caspase-3, and higher mRNA levels of the survival genes SOD1 and SOD2. Similarly, the DNA fragmentation rate was lower, and the total cell counts and inner cell mass to trophectoderm (ICM:TE) ratios were higher in embryos supplemented with NAM compared to untreated embryos. Furthermore, the MMP2 and MMP9 protein expression and trophoblast invasion rate of blastocysts treated with NAM were enhanced. These findings highlight the potential role of NAM in improving bovine embryo quality and enhancing trophoblast invasive capacity, thereby suggesting an improved implantation potential.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Frail older adults undergoing surgery are at increased risk for postoperative complications, functional decline, and prolonged hospitalization. Although comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) is increasingly recognized as valuable in surgical care, feasible approaches for ambulatory preoperative assessment remain limited.We conducted a prospective cohort study of patients aged 65 years and older referred to an ambulatory preoperative geriatrics program at a large academic medical center between January 2022 and May 2024. Patients underwent CGA guided by the 7Ms framework, which extends the American Geriatrics Society 5Ms framework by incorporating Maintaining Care and Meals. Outcomes included the prevalence and patterns of geriatric syndromes, the types and frequency of preoperative recommendations, and process measures assessing program feasibility.Sixty-three older surgical patients were enrolled (mean age 81.7 years). Geriatric syndromes were common, including use of assistive walking devices in 60.3%, mild to terminal illness on the Clinical Frailty Scale in 22.2%, polypharmacy in approximately 90%, and mild cognitive impairment or dementia in 54.1%. Nutritional assessment identified 42.6% of patients at risk for malnutrition and 9.8% as malnourished. CGA guided by the 7Ms framework generated a mean of 11.2 individualized recommendations per patient, most commonly related to coordination with primary care clinicians (73.0%), physical therapy (54.0%), medication deprescribing or dose adjustment (50.8%), and delirium prevention (49.2%). Among enrolled patients, 40 patients (63.5%) ultimately proceeded with surgery, with a median of 11.5 days from initial visit to surgery.A structured comprehensive geriatric assessment guided by the 7Ms framework is feasible and clinically useful in the ambulatory preoperative setting. By explicitly incorporating care coordination and nutritional assessment, the 7Ms framework offers a pragmatic approach to identifying geriatric vulnerabilities and supporting preoperative optimization in older surgical patients.© 2026 The American Geriatrics Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560011 is a review article
Skeletal muscle atrophy in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) drives loss of muscle strength, function and quality of life in ALS patients. The endocannabinoid system (ECS) regulates muscle homeostasis via regenerative and metabolic processes, and although ECS alterations have been reported in ALS neural tissues, ECS remodelling within ALS skeletal muscle has never been studied. This study investigated temporal and muscle type-specific ECS changes in ALS.Female hSOD1G93A transgenic mice and nontransgenic littermates were studied at presymptomatic and symptomatic ages (56-138 days of age; n = 7-8/group). Endocannabinoids, N-acyl-ethanolamine congeners and inflammatory lipid mediators were quantified using targeted LC-MS/MS in the tibialis anterior (TA) and soleus (SOL) muscles. ECS-related enzymes and receptors were assessed by immunoblotting and integrated with transcriptomic analyses of skeletal muscle biopsies from ALS patients (n = 5/group; ~63 years). To evaluate therapeutic relevance, ALS mice were treated with the fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) inhibitor URB937 or vehicle (n = 10-11/group), and survival, body weight, welfare and motor function were assessed longitudinally.ALS caused severe atrophy in the predominantly fast-twitch TA muscle (-76.5%; p < 0.01), while the slow-twitch soleus was largely preserved (-14.4%; p < 0.01). Accordingly, the lipid perturbation due to ALS was more pronounced in the TA, reflected by extensive alterations in unsaturated fatty acids, hydroxy- and epoxy-fatty acids (TA: 63% and SOL: 22% of lipid mediators different between ALS vs. NTG) and marked ECS remodelling, including elevated anandamide (+37.3%; p = 0.03) and multiple N-acyl-ethanolamine congeners (+76-102%; p < 0.05), reduced 2-arachidonoylglycerol (-28%; p = 0.06), increased CB1 receptor expression (+93%; p < 0.01) and dynamic, age-dependent regulation of FAAH (presymptomatic: -68%; p = 0.04, symptomatic: +21%; p = 0.02). In contrast, the SOL showed modest or opposite changes, consistent with its relative resistance to atrophy. Notably, ECS remodelling in the TA was already evident at presymptomatic age (e.g., CB1: +76%; p = 0.01) and the same ECS enzymes were affected in human ALS skeletal muscle transcriptomes (e.g., twofold decrease in FAAH; pFDR = 0.010). Despite evidence for a therapeutic potential, chronic peripheral FAAH inhibition with URB937 did not improve weight loss, motor functions and survival of ALS mice (all p > 0.05).Muscle type-specific endocannabinoid system remodelling in ALS precedes overt neurological decline and might relate to degenerative features such as metabolic disturbance and inflammation. Although peripheral FAAH inhibition alone was insufficient to modify disease outcomes, these findings identify the endocannabinoid system as an integral component of ALS muscle pathology and support skeletal muscle lipid signalling as a potentially relevant early target for adjunctive therapeutic strategies.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cachexia, Sarcopenia and Muscle published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells evade apoptosis through antioxidant mechanisms. Paris saponin VII (PS VII), a steroidal saponin, exhibits antitumor activity in solid malignancies, but its role in AML remains unclear.This study investigated the antileukemic effects of PS VII on AML and the underlying mechanism, and evaluated its synergy with idarubicin (Ida).Using human SKM-1 and murine C1498 AML cell lines, we assessed antileukemic effects of PS VII in vitro. Subcutaneous and systemic leukemia mouse models were employed for in vivo validation. Mechanistic studies integrated DIA-based proteomics, co-immunoprecipitation, surface plasmon resonance, and ubiquitination assays to elucidate the molecular basis.PS VII bound to superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) and promoted its proteasomal degradation. This process was mediated by TRIP12-dependent K48-linked polyubiquitination at lysine residues 10 and 37. SOD1 degradation elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and induced mitochondrial dysfunction. High SOD1 expression was associated with poor prognosis in AML patients. PS VII and Ida synergistically induced ROS-dependent apoptosis in vitro and in vivo.PS VII functions as a natural compound SOD1 degrader that triggers ROS-dependent AML cell death through TRIP12-mediated ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation. Its synergy with Ida provides a potential combination strategy that increases cellular sensitivity to oxidative stress and cell death.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
To explore the implications of transitioning from traditional memory clinics to Brain Health Services (BHS) for older adults, and to advocate for a geriatric-informed, equitable, and function-oriented approach to brain health care.This perspective article draws on discussions within the EuGMS Brain Health and Dementia Specialist Interest Group and relevant literature to examine the implications of emerging Brain Health Services for older adults.The emergence of Brain Health Services represents a significant shift in cognitive healthcare, moving beyond traditional memory clinic models focussed primarily on dementia diagnosis and management towards prevention, risk reduction, and maintenance of cognitive function. Potential benefits include earlier engagement with cognitive care, multidomain lifestyle interventions, reduction of stigma surrounding dementia, and facilitation of access to emerging disease-modifying therapies. However, substantial challenges remain. Biomarker-driven approaches may overemphasise Alzheimer's disease-centric frameworks despite the high prevalence of mixed pathologies and complex comorbidity in older adults. Ethical concerns surrounding risk disclosure, inequitable access, and resource allocation are also considerable, particularly if services disproportionately benefit younger, healthier, or socioeconomically advantaged populations.Brain Health Services should be reframed through a gerontologically informed lens that prioritises function, independence, quality of life, and equitable access alongside prevention. Integration with comprehensive geriatric assessment and existing older persons' care pathways is essential. Future research should focus on pragmatic real-world evaluation, inclusive outcome measures, and personalised approaches that account for heterogeneity in ageing. Ultimately, the success of BHS will depend on their ability to support healthy ageing while remaining responsive to the lived realities and priorities of older adults.© 2026. The Author(s).
Melanoma is an aggressive form of skin cancer characterized by high metastatic potential and increasing incidence and mortality worldwide. Although significant advances have been achieved with immune checkpoint inhibitors and targeted therapies, effective preventive and long-term therapeutic strategies remain limited. Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG), widely used in bladder cancer immunotherapy, exhibits potent immunostimulatory properties and has emerged as a promising platform for recombinant cancer vaccines. Among the candidate antigens, Antigen 85A (Ag85A), derived from Mycobacterium bovis, is notable for its strong immunogenicity and ability to induce robust Th1-mediated cellular immune responses. In this study, recombinant BCG strains overexpressing efficacy was evaluated in melanoma models in vitro and in vivo. Gene expression analysis by RT-qPCR revealed that rBCG-Ag85A induced systemic immune activation, characterized by increased Il1B and Trl4 expression in splenocytes. In tumor tissues, rBCG-Ag85A significantly upregulated genes associated with apoptosis (Bax, Bcl2), oxidative stress (Sod1, Cat), inflammatory and immune signaling pathways (Tlr4, Nfkb, Il12, Il1b, Casp1), and modulation of pathways involved in cellular metabolism (Mtor) indicating enhanced modulation of the tumor microenvironment. Functionally, these molecular and immunological effects were associated with reduced tumor progression, slower tumor growth, and improved survival in B16F10 melanoma-bearing mice. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that rBCG-Ag85A promotes multifaceted antitumor activity through the modulation of apoptosis, inflammation and oxidative stress-related gene expression, highlighting its potential as a promising prophylactic vaccine strategy to prevent cutaneous malignant melanoma and supporting future studies aimed at elucidating the immune cell populations involved and optimizing combinatorial therapeutic approaches.© 2026. The Author(s).
Is supplementary anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) testing of diagnostic value in symptomatic women who fail to meet the updated ultrasonographic (USG) polycystic ovary morphology (PCOM) criteria?Cross-sectional study analysing 213 women with irregular menstruation or hyperandrogenism who met the original Rotterdam PCOM criteria. Although 95 met the updated USG-PCOM criteria and were diagnosed with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), the remaining 118 failed to meet the updated USG criteria and served as the main analysis group.Among the 118 women, 75.4% (n = 89) met the optimal age-group-specific and AMH cut-off for Korean women, and their geometric mean AMH concentration was 9.8 ng/ml. These 89 individuals demonstrated significantly higher waist circumference, blood pressure, haemoglobin A1c concentrations and worse lipid profiles than 267 matched controls. Their metabolic and androgenic patterns were comparable to the 95 women diagnosed with PCOS via USG-PCOM, of whom 93.7% (n = 89) also fulfilled the AMH-based PCOM criteria.Although concurrent use of AMH and USG is discouraged to prevent overdiagnosis, supplementary AMH testing is valuable for symptomatic women who fail to meet the updated USG-PCOM criteria. When AMH defines PCOM, these women can be diagnosed with PCOS, exhibiting clinical and metabolic features similar to USG-confirmed PCOS and distinct from controls. Additional AMH testing is unnecessary when USG-PCOM is already evident, as AMH elevation is predominantly present; however, it should be considered in USG-negative symptomatic women. Identifying these patients enables earlier metabolic intervention, potentially outweighing overdiagnosis risks.Copyright © 2026 Reproductive Healthcare Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Chronic activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) promotes pathological remodeling of both myocardium and coronary arteries, yet the mechanisms that distinguish myocardial from vascular remodeling remain poorly defined. This study dissected the relative contributions of hemodynamic versus neurohumoral stress to cardiac remodeling, with emphasis on coronary vasculopathy and vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) plasticity.Three murine models were used: transverse aortic constriction (TAC), angiotensin II (AngII) plus phenylephrine (AngII/PE), and high-dose angiotensin II (HD-AngII). Hemodynamics were assessed by catheterization at early and late time points. Histological and immunostaining analyses quantified interstitial and perivascular remodeling including cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, interstitial and perivascular fibrosis, VSMC phenotype transitions, proliferation and quiescence markers, and neointimal and elastic lamina remodeling.After 28 days, all models exhibited diastolic dysfunction and myocardial fibrosis. Systolic pressure averaged ∼130 mmHg in both AngII models versus ∼200 mmHg in TAC. Despite lower pressure, myocardial fibrosis was greater in AngII/PE and HD AngII models. While TAC induced uniform cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, hypertrophy in AngII models localized near fibrotic and perivascular regions. Increasing AngII dosage shifted remodeling from predominantly myocardial to predominantly vascular phenotypes, accompanied by VSMC dedifferentiation, proliferation, centripetal migration across the internal elastic lamina, neointima formation, elastic lamina disruption, and increased circulating desmosine, consistent with elastin degradation. AKT signaling was selectively increased in coronary VSMCs during this vasculopathic remodeling. Lineage-tracing analyses showed that Ang II-driven coronary neointima formation occurs beneath an intact endothelial monolayer and is composed predominantly of VSMC-derived cells, highlighting a VSMC-centric vasculopathy distinct from classic endothelium-initiated vascular remodeling.Hemodynamic pressure overload and AngII-dominant neurohumoral stress drive distinct cardiac remodeling phenotypes: TAC primarily elicits uniform myocardial hypertrophy and interstitial fibrosis, whereas chronic AngII exposure preferentially promotes a VSMC-centric coronary vasculopathy with perivascular fibrosis and elastic lamina injury at lower pressure load. These complementary models help distinguish pressure-dependent versus AngII-mediated vascular mechanisms and provide a platform to develop targeted therapies for coronary vasculopathy and AngII-driven vascular disease.© 2026 Matsiukevich and Ornitz.
Pentraxin 3 (PTX3) responds rapidly to inflammatory signals. This study investigated the functional involvement of PTX3 in angiotensin II (Ang II)-mediated cardiac hypertrophy pathogenesis, with particular focus on its potential regulation through inflammatory pathways and oxidative stress mechanisms. In vivo, chronic Ang II infusion over 4 weeks was used to induce hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in mice. In parallel, an in vitro model of cardiomyocyte hypertrophy was established by treating neonatal rat cardiomyocytes (NRCMs) with Ang II for 24 h. Ang II treatment significantly increased PTX3 expression, an effect observed in both mouse heart tissue and NRCMs. The cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis in mice treated with Ang II were alleviated by PTX3 knockout. Genetic ablation of PTX3 attenuated Ang II-induced upregulation of cardiac hypertrophy markers in mice hearts, including atrial natriuretic peptide, brain natriuretic peptide, and beta-myosin heavy chain. Additionally, PTX3 knockout suppressed the elevation of pro-inflammatory cytokines, including tumour necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1beta, following Ang II stimulation. Genetic deficiency of PTX3 significantly ameliorated cardiac oxidative stress potentiated by Ang II infusion. These outcomes showed that targeting of PTX3 could ameliorate hypertrophic cardiomyopathy via attenuation of inflammatory response and oxidative stress. PTX3 may be a target for therapy of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in the future.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical and Experimental Pharmacology and Physiology published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Premature ovarian insufficiency (POI) is a complex endocrine and metabolic disorder frequently associated with oxidative stress. Royal jelly (RJ) is a well-recognized natural functional food with multiple health benefits; however, its potential effects on POI remain unexplored. This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic potential and underlying mechanisms of RJ in a D-galactose (D-gal)-induced POI mouse model. The results showed that RJ increased serum estradiol (E2) levels, enhanced ovarian reserve and oocyte maturation, reduced ovarian oxidative stress, and ultimately improved the fertility of D-gal-treated mice. Integrated metagenomic and metabolomic analyses revealed that RJ alleviated D-gal-induced gut microbiota dysbiosis, notably increasing the abundance of Muribaculaceae bacterium, and restored levels of taurocholic acid (TCA), which positively correlated with both Muribaculaceae bacterium abundance and serum E2 levels. Importantly, TCA supplementation alone recapitulated the protective effects of RJ by reversing D-gal-induced reductions in E2 and anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) levels, restoring follicle numbers, and alleviating oxidative stress. Mechanistically, TCA activated the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF2) antioxidant pathway in ovarian tissue, while simultaneously enhancing intestinal β-glucuronidase activity to modulate systemic E2 metabolism. In conclusion, RJ alleviates D-gal-induced POI in mice by modulating the gut microbiota-bile acid-ovarian axis, providing novel insights into its potential application for POI prevention and treatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Exogenous angiotensin (Ang) (1-7) supplementation and MAS1 receptor activation have been implicated in pain regulation; however, the effects of pharmacological activation of angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), which promotes endogenous Ang (1-7) production, on neuropathic pain remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the antihyperalgesic effects of diminazene aceturate (DIZE), an ACE2 activator, and its underlying mechanisms in chronic constriction injury (CCI) mice. DIZE (15 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered once daily after CCI surgery, and mechanical and thermal sensitivity were assessed using the von Frey and Hargreaves tests, respectively. DIZE significantly attenuated CCI-induced mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia. CCI itself did not alter the expression levels of Ang-generating system components in the dorsal root ganglion or spinal cord, whereas DIZE increased ACE2 expression in the spinal cord. Immunofluorescence analysis showed increased ACE2 expression in the spinal dorsal horn, particularly in laminae I-II. Intrathecal administration of the MAS1 receptor antagonist A779 suppressed the antihyperalgesic effects of DIZE. Pharmacological ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channel opening with diazoxide attenuated CCI-induced hyperalgesia, whereas blockade of these channels with glibenclamide induced mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia in naïve mice. DIZE attenuated glibenclamide-induced hyperalgesia, and this effect was reduced by A779. Furthermore, MAS1 receptor immunoreactivity overlapped with that of KATP channel subunits, including SUR1, SUR2A, and Kir6.1, in the spinal dorsal horn. These findings suggest that DIZE attenuates neuropathic pain-related hyperalgesia through activation of the spinal ACE2/MAS1 receptor axis and the involvement of KATP channels.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a leading global cause of death and long-term disability, primarily due to secondary injury mechanisms such as mitochondrial dysfunction and impaired mitophagy，the selective degradation of damaged mitochondria. While the ACE2/Angiotensin-(1-7)/Mas receptor (MasR) axis is recognized for its neuroprotective effects in various neurological disorders, its role in regulating mitochondrial quality control after TBI remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the regulatory function of MasR in post-traumatic mitophagy using controlled cortical impact (CCI) mice and scratch-injured neuronal cultures. We employed MasR knockdown (MasR-KD) and pharmacological activation with the selective MasR agonist AVE0991 to assess neurobehavioral outcomes, neuronal survival, and mitophagy flux. Activation of MasR significantly improved motor coordination, cognitive performance, and reduced anxiety-like behaviors following TBI, whereas MasR deficiency exacerbated neurological deficits. Histologically, MasR-KD mice exhibited increased neuronal loss, dendritic degeneration, and oxidative stress. In contrast, AVE0991 treatment preserved neuronal integrity and mitochondrial ultrastructure, effects that were abolished in MasR-KD animals. Mechanistically, MasR activation promoted PINK1/Parkin-mediated mitophagy, enhanced TOMM20-LC3 colocalization, stabilized mitochondrial membrane potential, reduced mitochondrial ROS production, and improved respiratory capacity. In vitro, Ang-(1-7) restored mitophagy flux through MasR-dependent clearance of damaged mitochondria, as confirmed by mt-Keima assays. Collectively, these findings identify MasR as an endogenous regulator of PINK1/Parkin-mediated mitophagy and mitochondrial homeostasis following TBI and demonstrate that MasR signaling is required for preserving mitochondrial function and neurological outcomes after injury.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Organic ultraviolet filters (OUVFs) are emerging pollutants with widespread exposure and potential reproductive and endocrine toxicity, but evidence regarding the associations of OUVF exposure with female ovarian reserve and IVF‑ET outcomes remains sparse.This prospective cohort study included 616 women undergoing IVF‑ET. Thirteen urinary OUVFs were quantified by UPLC‑MS/MS. Associations of OUVF exposures with ovarian reserve and IVF‑ET outcomes were assessed using generalized linear models, quantile g‑computation (qgcomp), and mediation models.Eight OUVFs exhibited detection frequencies exceeding 90%. EHMC was linked to reductions in metaphase II oocyte count (MIIC), fertilization count (FC), two-pronuclear zygote count (2PNC), and usable blastocyst count (UBC). Similar reductions were noted for BP-2 (MIIC, FC, 2PNC, and UBC). The qgcomp analysis identified EHMC, 4-MBC, and BP-2 as the primary contributors to the mixture effects. Additionally, AMH was identified as a significant mediator in the EHMC exposure pathway, accounting for 24.31-36.48% of the total effects. In contrast, progesterone (P) mediated 7.04-12.74% of the associations of BP-2 with these outcomes.Exposure to OUVFs, particularly EHMC and BP‑2, is associated with diminished ovarian reserve and poorer IVF‑ET outcomes. The EHMC‑associated effects were mediated by AMH, and the BP‑2‑associated effects by progesterone.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To obtain rewards, animals must select actions while facing threats, often under competing appetitive and defensive drives and with uncertainty about harm. While neural circuits controlling isolated threats or rewards are well characterized, it remains unclear which specific cortical and subcortical nodes are causally necessary to organize behavior during motivational conflict. Here, we used the step-down avoidance-mediated conflict (SDAmC) task in adult male rats, which quantifies avoidance, risk assessment, and reward approach within the same session. We performed pharmacological inactivation across eight candidate structures implicated in valence and action selection: prelimbic (PL) and infralimbic (IL) cortices, lateral orbitofrontal cortex (lOFC), anterior (aIC) and posterior (pIC) insular cortices, lateral habenula (LHb), basolateral amygdala (BLA), and nucleus accumbens (NAc). Inactivation revealed a precise anatomical dissociation within this network. Silencing PL or pIC facilitated approach behavior during conflict, but with dissociable effects on risk assessment. In contrast, BLA inactivation induced a broader behavioral disinhibition evident even in non-conflict conditions, whereas NAc inactivation disrupted the temporal organization of approach, yielding a fragmented behavioral phenotype. Notably, inactivation of IL, lOFC, aIC, and LHb did not alter conflict resolution in this paradigm. Together, these findings identify a selective cortico-limbic network in which PL and pIC are necessary for limiting approach under conflict, BLA contributes to avoidance expression across motivational states, and NAc contributes to approach-related behavioral organization under conflict, constraining the set of brain regions that are necessary to organize behavior when reward seeking competes with threat.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Neuroscience Research published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Current studies on adverse pregnancy outcomes in polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) have primarily focused on metabolic and endocrine abnormalities, whereas systematic investigations addressing live birth outcomes and coagulation dysfunction remain limited. In addition, there is a lack of comprehensive tools for early pregnancy risk stratification. This study aimed to explore the associations between early pregnancy indicators and early pregnancy loss (EPL) in women with PCOS, identify key risk factors, and subsequently develop a clinically interpretable predictive model to facilitate early risk identification and individualized management.In this single-center retrospective cohort study, 2,290 women with PCOS who achieved natural singleton pregnancies were included. Participants were randomly divided into a training set (n=1,832) and a validation set (n=458). Demographic, endocrine-metabolic, and coagulation parameters were collected. Independent predictors were identified by multivariable logistic regression. Predictive models were constructed using logistic regression, random forest, and XGBoost algorithms, with model interpretability evaluated using Shapley Additive Explanations (SHAP). Furthermore, a temporally independent external cohort was introduced for external validation to assess the generalizability of the model.Key predictors included D-dimer, fibrin degradation products (FDP), body mass index (BMI), anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH), and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT). Elevated D-dimer and FDP levels were associated with increased EPL risk, suggesting enhanced coagulation activation and impaired microcirculation at the maternal-fetal interface. The XGBoost model showed the best performance, achieving an AUC of 0.926 (95% CI: 0.902-0.950). The model also maintained stable discriminative ability in temporal external validation (AUC = 0.705), although a certain degree of calibration drift was observed.Coagulation abnormalities during early pregnancy are closely associated with the occurrence of EPL in women with PCOS and may serve as independent risk factors. Machine learning models integrating multidimensional clinical indicators can effectively enable early identification of high-risk populations. Temporal external validation further suggested a certain degree of model generalizability, although additional optimization and validation are still required. These findings may provide valuable support for risk stratification and intervention decision-making during early pregnancy.Copyright © 2026 Yu, Wang, Yin and Zhang.
In controlled ovarian stimulation (COS) cycles, premature progesterone elevation (PPE) on the HCG trigger day is associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes after in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer (IVF-ET). The aim of this study was to analyze the influencing factors of PPE with the early-follicular phase long-acting GnRH-a long protocol (EFLL) and to explore a dynamic risk-assessment nomogram for PPE to inform risk stratification and early clinical adjustment.This was a single-center, retrospective cohort study. Patients who underwent their first IVF cycle at our center from January 2019 to December 2019 were included. All patients were treated with the EFLL protocol. Patients were randomly assigned to the training or validation cohort for nomogram development and testing at a ratio of 8:2. After excluding collinear variables, the remaining candidate predictors were screened by the LASSO regression model, and the nomogram was constructed by multivariate logistic regression analysis. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and calibration curves with bootstrap were used to evaluate the performance of the nomogram. DCA was used to analyze the clinical efficacy of the model.A total of 5193 cycles were included-4154 cycles in the training cohort and 1039 cycles in the validation cohort. The incidence of PPE in the training cohort was 20.51%. Multivariate logistic regression showed that BMI, basal FSH, basal progesterone (bP), AMH, AFC, total duration of Gn, total dosage of exogenous HMG, FSH and P on the 6th day of Gn were found to be independent influencing factors of PPE, and a nomogram model was constructed accordingly. The areas under the ROC curves of the training cohort and the validation cohort were 0.683 (95% CI = 0.663-0.702) and 0.622 (95% CI = 0.583-0.662), respectively. The calibration curve showed that the predicted risk of the model was in good agreement with the actual results in both cohorts. Decision curve analysis (DCA) demonstrated the clinical value of this nomogram.Our nomogram for estimating PPE demonstrates modest discriminative ability and may serve as a preliminary risk stratification tool in COS cycles. It may assist clinicians in identifying patients at higher risk of PPE, thereby informing clinical judgment.Copyright © 2026 Ye, Fan, Du, Li and Kong.
Pulmonary hypertension is a malignant cardiovascular disease characterized by pulmonary vascular remodeling, with core pathological features including pulmonary arterial wall thickening and elevated pulmonary vascular remodeling due to aberrant proliferation of pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells (PASMCs). The molecular regulatory mechanisms underlying pulmonary vascular remodeling remain incompletely understood.Transcriptome sequencing was employed to screen for differentially expressed genes in lung artery tissues of control and Sugen5416 combined hypoxia-induced rat models. A series of in vitro and in vivo experiments, including scratch assays, EdU staining, Cell Counting Kit-8cell proliferation assays, immunofluorescence, immunoblotting, and overexpression/knockdown techniques, were performed to investigate the molecular mechanism by which KRT17 (keratin 17) induces PASMCs proliferation and promotes pulmonary hypertension vascular remodeling.KRT17 was found to be highly expressed in lung tissues of patients with pulmonary hypertension, as well as in pulmonary arterial tissue and hypoxic PASMCs models. Both in vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that KRT17 was a critical regulator of PASMCs proliferation. METTL14 (methyltransferasean14, an m6A methyltransferase complex subunit) was identified as a potential modulator of KRT17 RNA methylation, enhancing its RNA stability and protein expression. Furthermore, KRT17 promoted PASMCs proliferation through upregulation of LCN2 (lipocalin-2).Our study reveals a novel molecular mechanism by which KRT17 expression is regulated via METTL14-mediated m6A methylation, and further elucidates the role of KRT17 in inducing PASMCs proliferation through the LCN2 signaling pathway. These findings provide significant theoretical insights for the development of innovative therapeutic targets for pulmonary hypertension.
Out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) is a global health issue with low survival rates, for which bystander cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is crucial. In China, bystander CPR rates and public proficiency remain low. Children-an important future first-responder group-also lack adequate training. Gamification and virtual reality (VR) technologies show potential in enhancing training effectiveness, but research on the needs, acceptability, and functional requirements of gamified CPR training kits from children's and parents' dual perspectives is insufficient, providing a realistic basis for this study.This study aimed to investigate children's and parents' needs, acceptability, and functional requirements for the development of gamified CPR training kits.A cross-sectional qualitative design was adopted. Inclusion criteria were children aged 6 to 12 years, their parents, adequate communication skills, and voluntary informed consent, with purposive sampling to recruit 13 parent-child dyads from a primary school in Changsha, Hunan Province. The participants included children aged 6 to 12 years (average age 9.50, SD 1.50 y, 6 boys and 7 girls) and their parents (average age 38.50, SD 2.50 y, 6 female and 7 male individuals). Semistructured interviews were conducted separately for children and parents, with audio recording and verbatim transcription. The NVivo 12.0 (QSR International Pty Ltd) software was used for thematic coding and analysis, and dual independent coding (by 2 researchers) was performed to ensure rigor, with discrepancies resolved through team discussion. Thematic saturation, defined as codebook stabilization and no new themes across 3 consecutive interviews, was achieved after 13 dyads. The study followed the COREQ (Consolidated Criteria for Reporting Qualitative Research) guidelines, and all procedures were approved by the ethics committee.Four main themes and 9 subthemes emerged from the data: (1) children's approaches to acquiring CPR-related knowledge and skills (through school-organized first aid activities, family members, or social media platforms), (2) attitudes toward gamified training kits (children's receptiveness and parental preferences regarding such tools), (3) expectations for gamified CPR training kits (child-friendly design, effective skill training, personalized feedback, and scientifically grounded content), and (4) challenges in gamified science education (ensuring product safety and professionalism and contextualizing game scenarios to everyday life).As children are an important reserve force for future first responders, cultivating their first aid awareness is crucial for improving public emergency response capabilities. Effective gamified CPR training kit development requires integrating children's and parents' perceptions to balance entertainment, education, and practicality. This study innovatively explores dual user needs, differing from prior research focused on training outcomes rather than predevelopment requirements. It addresses gaps in pediatric first aid tool design and provides evidence-based references for the development of child-friendly, professional, gamified training resources-laying a foundation for gradually enhancing CPR literacy and emergency response awareness among children in China.© Pan Wang, Zeya Shi, Furong Xu, Ying Huang, Yu Tian. Originally published in JMIR Serious Games (https://games.jmir.org).
Allergen immunotherapy (AIT) remains the only disease-modifying treatment for respiratory allergic diseases and the only intervention capable of preventing systemic sting reactions in patients with venom allergy (VA)﻿. This review summarizes recent real-world evidence on the safety of AIT.Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have consistently established the safety of licensed AIT products; however, real-world data are needed to comprehensively evaluate the frequency and severity of adverse events (AEs)﻿ and identify risk factors in routine practice. Safety data collection through registries and prospective or retrospective cohorts has confirmed that AIT is generally well tolerated across larger and heterogeneous populations, healthcare settings, and AIT practices. However, rare systemic reactions (SRs)﻿ and exceptionally fatal reactions (FRs)﻿ continue to occur. Careful pretreatment evaluation and close monitoring remain crucial, particularly during subcutaneous immunotherapy due to the higher risk of systemic reactions. Data on sublingual immunotherapy support a more favourable safety profile, with infrequent systemic reactions and no fatal reactions reported to date. In venom allergy, new evidence on clonal mast cell disorders, hereditary α-tryptasemia and detection of KIT p. D816V in peripheral blood is refining risk stratification.Systemic and severe adverse events associated with AIT are infrequent. Careful risk stratification and evaluation before initiating immunotherapy can help identify high-risk patients and optimize the benefit-risk balance.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Tumor immune barriers (TIBs) are spatially organized stromal-immune niches that restrict lymphocyte entry. To explain persistent immune-checkpoint blockade (ICB) resistance in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), we mapped TIBs and defined a peritumoral variant built from POSTN+ cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) interlaced with APOE+ tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs). This niche excluded CD8+ T cells from tumor cores, and was enriched in poor-prognosis, ICB-refractory patients. Spatial transcriptomics and single-cell profiling showed TIB regions enriched for extracellular-matrix remodeling, immunosuppressive ligand-receptor circuits, and metabolic reprogramming. Mechanistically, tumor-derived TGF-β1 activated CAFs via SMAD signaling, inducing POSTN and recruiting APOE+TAMs through integrin and chemokine axes. TAMs secreted TGF-β1 and VEGFA, amplifying stromal programs and sustaining exclusion. Blocking POSTN reprogrammed macrophages, reduced matrix-mediated suppression, and restored CD8+ infiltration. In vivo, POSTN inhibition combined with ICB boosted antitumor immunity, reduced tumor burden, and reversed immunosuppressive infiltration, nominating POSTN-directed strategies to potentiate ICB.
Angiogenesis plays a significant role in the progression of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). The RNA-binding protein IGF2BP3 is associated with fibrosis and angiogenesis, but its role in IPF angiogenesis remain unclear. Additionally, Tianlongjie (TL) has been confirmed to inhibit IPF progression, but the role of IGF2BP3 in this process also needs to be elucidated. A bleomycin (BLM)-induced pulmonary fibrosis rat model was established via intratracheal instillation of BLM, and an angiogenesis cell model was constructed by treating HPMVECs with VEGF165. HE staining was used to detect lung tissue injury. Masson staining, HYP content measurement, Western blot, and Immunohistochemistry assessed to evaluate fibrosis and angiogenesis progression. EdU staining was employed to detect cell proliferation. RIP-qPCR and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to examine the interaction between IGF2BP3 and HIF-1α. IGF2BP3 was abnormally highly expressed in pulmonary fibrosis. IGF2BP3 knockdown reduced the expression of HYP, COL-I, COL-III, α-SMA, CD31, CD34, and VEGFA in pulmonary fibrosis rat lung tissues, increased E-cadherin expression, and inhibited pulmonary fibrosis progression and microvascular formation in rats. In vitro, IGF2BP3 knockdown suppressed cell proliferation, migration and vascular endothelial cell angiogenesis. Mechanistically, IGF2BP3 may promote HIF-1α stability through m6A modification, and HIF-1α overexpression attenuated the inhibitory effect of IGF2BP3 knockdown on angiogenesis. Furthermore, TL treatment was associated with reduced fibrosis and lower IGF2BP3/HIF-1α expression. In conclusion, IGF2BP3 can promote pulmonary fibrosis-related angiogenesis by stabilizing HIF-1α expression, and TL inhibits IGF2BP3 and HIF-1α expression, angiogenesis and fibrosis progression in pulmonary fibrosis rats.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Osteosarcoma (OS) is a malignant bone tumor that predominantly affects adolescents. Due to its early metastatic tendency and chemoresistance, long-term survival rates in patients have not shown significant improvement over time, highlighting the urgent need for novel molecular targets and therapeutic strategies. Ferroptosis, a form of programmed cell death driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, offers a promising avenue for overcoming drug-resistant tumors. ATP-binding cassette subfamily B member 6 (ABCB6) belongs to the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily and is mainly localised to the outer mitochondrial membrane, where it participates in haem synthesis and intracellular iron transport. Recent studies have indicated that ABCB6 is aberrantly expressed in various malignancies and regulates tumor progression, yet its role and mechanism in OS remain unexplored. The present study aims to systematically characterise the expression pattern, clinical prognostic significance, and biological functions of ABCB6 in OS, and to dissect the molecular mechanism by which ABCB6 governs ferroptosis in OS cells, thereby providing a theoretical foundation for ABCB6-targeted therapy.Human OS cell lines (HOS and 143B) and human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) were used as research subjects. Stable ABCB6-knockdown OS cell lines were established via lentivirus-mediated RNA interference, and rescue experiments were performed using lentiviral overexpression of hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF1A). Cell proliferation was assessed by cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and colony formation assays; migration was evaluated by Transwell and scratch wound-healing assays; apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry. Ferroptosis-related phenotypic assays were employed to determine the impact of ABCB6 expression on ferroptosis. Transcriptome sequencing was conducted to analyse differentially expressed genes and enriched pathways; chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and dual-luciferase reporter assays were applied to verify the direct binding of HIF1A to the promoter of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and its transcriptional regulation. Iron chelator and proteasome inhibitor interventions were used to validate the regulation of HIF1A protein stability by Fe2+. In vivo, ABCB6-knockdown and control 143B cells were injected subcutaneously into nude mice to establish a xenograft tumor model, and tumor growth was monitored.Both messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein levels of ABCB6 were significantly higher in OS cell lines than in BMSCs (both P<0.05), and analysis of the Therapeutically Applicable Research to Generate Effective Treatments (TARGET)-OS cohort revealed that patients with high ABCB6 expression had markedly worse overall survival than those with low expression [hazard ratio (HR)=2.94, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.36 to 6.36, P<0.05]. ABCB6 knockdown significantly suppressed OS cell proliferation and colony formation, reduced migratory capacity, and increased the apoptosis rate, accompanied by downregulation of N-cadherin and upregulation of E-cadherin and cleaved caspase-3 (all P<0.05). ABCB6 silencing markedly elevated the proportion of Liperfluo-positive cells and dihydroethidium (DHE) oxidation levels, increased intracellular Fe2+ concentration, decreased the glutathione (GSH)/oxidized glutathione (GSSG) ratio, reduced mitochondrial membrane potential, and induced typical ferroptotic mitochondrial morphological changes (shrinkage and cristae reduction) as observed by transmission electron microscope (all P<0.05); these oxidative alterations were reversed by the ferroptosis inhibitors. ABCB6 knockdown downregulated GPX4 at both protein and mRNA levels, whereas solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) expression remained unchanged (P>0.05). Transcriptome sequencing and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis showed significant enrichment of the HIF-1 signalling pathway in the control group (P<0.001); ABCB6 knockdown decreased HIF1A protein expression, and treatment with an iron chelator or a proteasome inhibitor reversed this degradation through Fe2+ chelation or inhibition of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, respectively (all P<0.05). Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (ChIP-qPCR) and dual-luciferase reporter assays confirmed that HIF1A directly binds to the GPX4 promoter and activates its transcription. Overexpression of HIF1A in ABCB6-knockdown cells restored GPX4 expression and significantly rescued the proliferation inhibition, migration impairment, and apoptosis increase caused by ABCB6 silencing, while also restoring mitochondrial membrane potential (all P<0.05). In the xenograft model, tumors from the ABCB6-knockdown group exhibited significantly reduced volume and weight compared with the control group (all P<0.05); immunohistochemistry confirmed downregulation of HIF1A and GPX4, reduced Ki-67 and N-cadherin positivity, and increased cleaved caspase-3 and E-cadherin positivity in the knockdown group (all P<0.05).This study systematically uncovers, for the first time, the oncogenic role and prognostic value of ABCB6 in OS, and delineates the complete "ABCB6/Fe2+/HIF1A/GPX4" axis that governs ferroptosis in OS cells. These findings not only provide a novel biomarker for molecular subtyping and prognostic evaluation of OS, but also establish a theoretical basis for therapeutic strategies that target the ABCB6/HIF1A/GPX4 axis to induce ferroptosis. Future investigations may explore the upstream regulators of ABCB6 and its potential utility in reversing chemoresistance in OS.
Research has found that paraoxonase 1 (PON1) is closely related to cardiovascular disease, but the relationship between circulating PON1 levels and coronary artery stenosis (CAS) in patients with diabetes remains unclear.This study is a single-center, retrospective cross-sectional study that includes 34 patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) and 118 patients with DM and CAS (DM+CAS). All study participants were from Beijing Luhe Hospital, affiliated with Capital Medical University. In this study, data regarding demographic characteristics, medication history, and key laboratory parameters were collected. The concentration of plasma PON1 was quantified using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kit. Multiple logistic regression models were employed to evaluate the connection between PON1 levels and the presence of CAS among patients with diabetes. Additionally, the diagnostic performance of PON1 levels for diabetes combined with CAS was evaluated utilizing the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and the area under the curve (AUC).Compared with patients in the diabetes group, plasma PON1 levels were significantly lower in diabetic patients with CAS. To evaluate the correlation between PON1 levels and CAS among individuals with diabetes, three logistic regression models were developed. As a continuous variable, higher PON1 levels were found to be inversely related to CAS risk in all models. In tertile-stratified analyses, compared with T1, all other tertiles exhibited significantly reduced risk of CAS. The ROC curve demonstrated that the unadjusted AUC of PON1 levels was 0.662 (95% CI 0.561-0.762, p = 0.004), while the fully adjusted model yielded an AUC of 0.833 (95% CI: 0.758-0.908, p < 0.001).Plasma PON1 levels were significantly decreased and independently associated with CAS in diabetic patients. Circulating PON1 alone showed moderate diagnostic efficiency, whereas its predictive accuracy was greatly improved when combined with clinical covariates. The findings are limited by single-center enrollment, a small sample size, and a lack of subgroup analysis for stenosis severity. Moreover, only PON1 protein levels were examined, with no detection of PON1 enzymatic activity. Further large-scale multicenter prospective studies are needed to validate these results and clarify the clinical utility of PON1.Circulating PON1 levels are negatively correlated with CAS in diabetic patients. While PON1 alone has limited diagnostic value, its combination with clinical covariates significantly improves risk discrimination.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is a prevalent condition characterized by weakened pelvic floor tissues, significantly impacting women's quality of life. Current treatments, including synthetic meshes and native tissue repair, face challenges of high recurrence rates and complications. This study developed a novel tissue-engineered strategy utilizing a decellularized human amniotic membrane (HAAM) scaffold seeded with autologous adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (ADSCs) and vaginal wall fibroblasts (HVFs) to construct a bioactive pelvic ligament equivalent. We first validated the successful preparation of HAAM with preserved extracellular matrix integrity and characterized the phenotypic markers of ADSCs and HVFs. In a rat abdominal wall defect model, the HAAM+ADSCs+HVFs composite demonstrated superior tissue regeneration and integration, reduced fibrosis, and effective modulation of the host immune microenvironment -evidenced by enhanced repair and decreased infiltration of pro-inflammatory cells -compared to all control groups (including HAAM alone and single-cell groups). Transcriptomic analysis revealed that the composite treatment promoted extracellular matrix organization and collagen synthesis while suppressing matrix degradation (MMP2/MMP9) and inflammatory pathways. Most importantly, mechanistic studies identified TGFB2 as the key paracrine mediator through which ADSCs exert their effects: TGFB2 inhibition abolished ADSCs-induced improvements in HVFs proliferation, migration, and anti-apoptosis, while its overexpression replicated these benefits. Western blot confirmed that TGFB2 coordinately upregulates COL1A1/COL3A1 and downregulates MMP2/MMP9 to restore ECM homeostasis. These comprehensive findings demonstrate that the HAAM-based ADSCs-HVFs composite promotes functional tissue regeneration via TGFB2-mediated mechanisms, offering a safe, effective, and regenerative therapeutic strategy with strong translational potential for POP.Copyright © 2026 Dong, Zhang, Duan and Xia.
To assess the association between different tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE).PubMed, the Cochrane Library, Embase, WanFang Data, and CNKI were searched for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) from inception to June 2026.A total of 25 RCTs met the inclusion criteria, encompassing 9,068 patients. The risk of MACE was significantly higher in the TKI-treated group than in the control group (odds ratio [OR] = 2.13; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.11-4.07; P = 0.02). The ORs for QT prolongation, hypertension, and arrhythmias were 6.05 (95% CI, 3.70-9.89; P < 0.00001), 4.18 (95% CI, 2.19-7.95; P < 0.0001), and 5.40 (95% CI, 3.43-8.50; P < 0.00001), respectively. Subgroup analysis indicated that epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) were associated with the highest risk of cardiovascular adverse events, followed by vascular endothelial growth factor receptor inhibitors (VEGFR-TKIs), platelet-derived growth factor receptor inhibitors (PDGFR-TKIs), and stem cell factor receptor inhibitors (c-Kit TKIs).TKI therapy significantly prolongs progression-free survival. However, the incidence of cardiovascular adverse events, including QT prolongation, hypertension, and arrhythmias, is notably higher with TKI use. EGFR-TKIs show the highest cardiovascular risk, followed by VEGFR-TKIs, PDGFR-TKIs, and c-Kit TKIs. Clinicians should be aware of these risks and ensure regular cardiovascular monitoring during treatment.https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/view/CRD420251084805, identifier CRD420251084805.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Cheng, Zheng, Liu, Zhang, Gao and Li.
Clinical laboratories face increasing demand for testing while operating within constrained budgets, necessitating efficient resource utilisation. Test kit efficiency, a key parameter in automated laboratories, refers to the appropriate use of reagent kits in a manner that minimises non-billable tests per kit.Manufacturer-supplied monthly test kit efficiency data for 96 chemistry analytes, collected between 01 April and 30 September 2023, were assessed retrospectively and compared with their respective benchmark efficiencies. The findings were further compared to those from a previous audit to assess for an improvement or decline in efficiency. Under-performing analytes identified included total protein in cerebrospinal fluid, alkaline phosphatase, glucose, ferritin, direct bilirubin and vancomycin. Root cause analysis and targeted interventions led to improvements in test kit efficiency of 12.6% - 37.7% for each analyte.Auditing test kit efficiency data revealed inefficiencies, allowing targeted interventions to optimise kit use and reduce costs without compromising quality. Efficiency was influenced by analytical performance, test kit size and batching practices, underscoring the importance of data-driven decision-making for workflow optimisation and resource management. The audit revealed challenges with inherently inefficient tests, highlighting the need for tailored solutions based on the population served, reagent stability and sample stability.We recommend regular test kit efficiency audits to reduce wastage, optimise workflow and drive quality improvement. Efficiency data can support identification of problematic assays and guide kit size adjustment and batching strategies, while ensuring initiatives remain patient-centred. However, the lack of standardised regulatory guidelines on test kit utilisation remains a key limitation that requires attention.There is limited published evidence on the use of test kit efficiency data to drive quality improvement in clinical chemistry laboratories. This study demonstrates how systematic auditing can identify modifiable inefficiencies and support evidence-based resource optimisation.© 2026. The Authors.
Expression of RUNX1::RUNX1T1 (also known as RUNX1::ETO) is frequently observed in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and has been shown to block myeloid development. Although several studies have shown RUNX1::RUNX1T1 transcriptional deregulation, the proteome in human hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) is poorly characterized. Using mass spectrometry, we show that expression of RUNX1::RUNX1T1 in human HSPCs was linked to differential expression of 257 proteins, including CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein beta (C/EBPβ) downregulation. Consistent with this observation, although CEBPB mRNA is generally overexpressed in AML, patients with t(8;21) have comparatively low CEBPB expression. We show in human HSPCs that ectopic expression of C/EBPβ can promote proliferation of myeloid cells. Conversely, short hairpin RNA-mediated knockdown of C/EBPβ inhibited the growth of normal human myeloid cells; however, it promoted the growth of cells expressing RUNX1::RUNX1T1. C/EBPβ also influenced differentiation, with ectopic expression promoting monocyte development, whereas reduced expression favored granulocyte differentiation, which in turn suggests that C/EBPβ expression may act as a lineage discriminator for these myeloid cell types. In summary, our data reveal how RUNX1::RUNX1T1 drives deregulation of the HSPC proteome and suggest a mechanism by which RUNX1::RUNX1T1 expression contributes to leukemia development, including C/EBPβ, which itself affects normal myeloid development.© 2026 American Society of Hematology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Deciphering which transcription factor (TF) motif instances are functionally required for enhancer activity typically demands ChIP-based assays or labor-intensive perturbation experiments. We introduce a virtual motif-perturbation framework that uses AlphaGenome, a large sequence-to-function foundation model, to infer motif-level regulatory contribution directly from DNA sequence. Candidate C/EBP$\mathrm{\beta} $ motifs are identified within chromatin-active regions and systematically ablated in silico; the resulting changes in predicted regulatory activity are quantified and assessed against a sham-derived null distribution to establish statistical confidence. To evaluate whether sequence-level perturbations recapitulate biologically meaningful regulatory dependence, we compared in silico predictions with CUT&RUN measurements of H3K27ac following CEBPB knockout in multiple myeloma cells. Key activating motifs exhibited concordant loss of H3K27ac across both settings, whereas loci with apparent discrepancies reflected biologically interpretable mechanisms. Together, these findings suggest that large sequence-based models can approximate the directional consequences of TF perturbation, supporting motif-level functional analysis directly from DNA sequence. This supports sequence-only virtual ablation as a scalable framework for hypothesis generation and regulatory annotation that can be extended to additional TFs, cell types, and chromatin modalities.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Dysregulation of innate immunity during respiratory RNA virus infections drives systemic hyperinflammation and lung injury. Here, we show that importin β4 (IPO4) has a role in inhibiting antiviral innate immunity. Transcriptomics analysis illustrated a downregulation of IPO4 in alveolar macrophages, lung ciliated epithelium, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells from severely ill patients with COVID-19 or influenza. We further identified CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein beta (CEBPB) as the transcription factor for IPO4 reduction during RNA viral infections. Loss-of-function validation demonstrated that IPO4 dampens the innate antiviral and inflammatory responses in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, IPO4 sequesters fatty acid synthase (FASN) to block palmitic acid production, thereby inhibiting mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS) activation and the downstream innate immune signaling. Moreover, Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated pulmonary restoration of IPO4 significantly alleviated viral pneumonia in mice. These results indicate that the CEBPB-IPO4-FASN-MAVS axis preserves innate immune homeostasis to avoid inflammatory pathology, highlighting IPO4 as a potential therapeutic target for severe viral pneumonia.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a heterogeneous hematological malignancy characterized by the clonal proliferation of plasma cells in the bone marrow, with distinct subtypes including smoldering MM (SMM), newly diagnosed MM (NDMM), and relapsed/refractory MM (RRMM). Despite therapeutic advances, outcomes remain unsatisfactory, especially for RRMM, due to unclear heterogeneity, progression mechanisms, and crosstalk between tumor cells and the bone marrow microenvironment (BMME) via direct interactions or extracellular vesicles (EVs).Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was performed on bone marrow samples from 12 MM patients, and major cell types were identified. Plasma cells were subjected to re-clustering to explore subpopulation heterogeneity. Functional enrichment analysis of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) was conducted. Cellular stemness was evaluated by CytoTRACE, and developmental trajectories were inferred via Monocle and Slingshot. Cell-cell communication was analyzed by CellChat, while transcription factor (TF) regulatory networks were identified through SCENIC analysis. Metabolic pathway activity was also assessed. Finally, loss-of-function experiments (siRNA-mediated ASS1 knockdown) were conducted to validate its functional role.The analysis identified 7 major cell types. Plasma cells were further stratified into 6 subpopulations (C0-PCSK1N+, C1-IGHGP+, C2-IGHA1+, C3-ASS1+, C4-CD27+, C5-STMN1+). C3 and C5 were enriched in RRMM, while C1 and C4 were dominant in SMM. C3 exhibited hyperactive EV signature and higher stemness-like scores. Pseudotime trajectory analysis identified C3 as poorly differentiated malignant progenitors driving disease progression. C3 showed strong crosstalk with monocytes/macrophages/conventional dendritic cells (cDCs) via MIF and ICAM signaling. Key TFs regulating C3 included ATF5, TP73, MYB, CEBPB, and NFIA. Metabolic pathway analysis indicated enhanced vitamin B6 metabolism, phenylalanine metabolism, and oxidative phosphorylation in C3 and RRMM. ASS1 silencing inhibited proliferation, clonogenic capacity and migration, while promoting apoptosis in MM cells.Our study delineates MM heterogeneity, developmental dynamics, and regulatory networks at the single-cell level. ASS1+ plasma cells represent a highly malignant subpopulation associated with RRMM, driving disease progression through unique TF regulatory networks, metabolic reprogramming, and crosstalk with the BMME. These findings provide novel insights into MM pathogenesis and identify ASS1 as a potential therapeutic target for MM patients, particularly those with RRMM.Copyright © 2026 Fan, Zhao, Cong, Zhang, Rouzi, Xie, Dai and Bao.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive subtype lacking effective treatment options, and paclitaxel resistance remains a major clinical challenge. This study investigated the role of VASN in mediating paclitaxel resistance in TNBC by integrating transcriptomic and single-cell RNA sequencing data from public databases and clinical samples. Using paclitaxel-resistant TNBC cell lines (MDA-MB-231R and CAL-51R) and xenograft models, we revealed that VASN was significantly upregulated in resistant TNBC cells and tissues, correlating with poor prognosis. Mechanistically, CEBPB directly bound to the VASN promoter to activate its transcription, and VASN interacted with IGF2BP3 via its LRR domain, recruiting USP10 to deubiquitinate and stabilize IGF2BP3 by suppressing K48-linked polyubiquitination. Stabilized IGF2BP3 enhanced ABCB1 expression through m6A-dependent mRNA stabilization, activating the PI3K/AKT pathway and driving paclitaxel resistance. Genetic or pharmacological inhibition of VASN resensitized resistant cells to paclitaxel, and computational drug screening identified Trametinib as a candidate to downregulate VASN. Trametinib synergized with paclitaxel to effectively suppress tumor growth without obvious toxicity in resistant models. In summary, we uncovered a new CEBPB-VASN/IGF2BP3/USP10-ABCB1 axis responsible for paclitaxel resistance in TNBC. Targeting VASN with Trametinib in combination with paclitaxel represents a promising therapeutic strategy to overcome chemoresistance, offering a rationale for precision medicine in resistant TNBC.© The author(s).
Solute carrier (SLC) family genes govern transmembrane transport and cellular metabolism, yet their systematic roles from Helicobacter pylori infection to gastric cancer (GC) remain undefined. By integrating multiple GEO datasets with weighted gene co-expression network analysis, differential expression, and machine learning algorithms, we identified seven core SLC genes (SLC9A9, SLC43A2, SLC16A6, SLC7A14, SLC28A3, SLC4A11, SLC5A2) for H. pylori infection and nine (SLC1A3, SLC2A3, SLC15A3, SLC19A3, SLC2A12, SLC16A4, SLC25A4, SLC9A7, SLC28A3) for GC. Logistic regression models achieved high diagnostic accuracy (AUC = 0.976 and 0.874, respectively). Immune infiltration analysis revealed distinct correlation patterns: SLC4A11 and SLC5A2 associated with activated mast cells, neutrophils, and M2 macrophages in infection, while SLC1A3 and SLC2A3 correlated broadly with M1/M2 macrophages and activated CD4+ T cells in GC. Enrichment analyses confirmed involvement in transmembrane transport, immune-related pathways, and cancer signaling. Transcription factor prediction identified CEBPB, RELB, and STAT5A as key upstream regulators. Molecular docking demonstrated strong binding affinities between SLC proteins and repurposable compounds (3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine, CHEMBL1182312, quinine). This study provides the first systematic characterization of SLC family expression across the H. pylori-GC continuum, identifying potential diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets that warrant further experimental validation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
MicroRNAs regulate gene expression post-transcriptionally, yet target prediction faces a credibility gap: published methods drop sharply against CLIP-seq-validated negatives. We present DeepExoMir, a deep learning framework integrating frozen RiNALMo RNA language model embeddings with biologically informed features. Under a dual-probe ablation protocol on three miRBench test sets, DeepExoMir reaches mean AU-PRC 0.855, surpassing eight retrained baselines (paired bootstrap p<0.001). Evolutionary conservation and duplex structure prove largely redundant with language-model priors, motivating a structure-free Lite variant (0.863). On nine exosomal miRNAs from a companion melanogenesis study, DeepExoMir recovers literature-validated targets and ranks canonical pigmentation regulators (KITLG, MITF, TYRP1) in the top 5%.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42506338 is a review article
Sepsis remains a leading cause of mortality in critical care, with dysregulated inflammatory responses driving disease progression. However, the role of necroptosis in sepsis pathogenesis remains incompletely understood.Here, through integration of multi-center cohort data (n = 1,265) and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), we constructed a six-gene necroptosis signature (CEBPD, CEBPB, MARCKS, SOCS3, PIM3, and JUNB) that correlated with sepsis severity and outcomes. Subsequently, we detected the expression of these genes in whole blood using qPCR. Furthermore, machine learning models incorporating this signature were evaluated across independent cohorts. Single-cell data analysis and flow cytometric analysis were further performed to characterize CD177+ neutrophils in sepsis.All six Model-score genes were upregulated in sepsis patients, with four of them showing significant differences. Machine learning models incorporating this signature achieved robust diagnostic performance across independent cohorts. At the transcriptomic level, necroptosis activation showed a strong correlation with both the IL-6/STAT3 and TNF-α/NF-κB inflammatory pathways and distinct myeloid subsets. Single-cell data analysis further revealed that CD177+ neutrophils were significantly enriched in non-surviving sepsis patients and exhibited the highest necroptosis transcriptional score. Flow cytometric analysis revealed a significant increase in neutrophils, particularly the CD177+ subset, in the whole blood of septic patients. Furthermore, CD177+ neutrophils displayed blunted interferon responses alongside heightened production of inflammatory mediators, with nitric oxide (NO) potentially serving as an associated factor.Collectively, our findings suggest that CD177+ neutrophils may be involved in necroptosis-related inflammation in sepsis and provide a clinically relevant gene signature for patient stratification, offering new perspectives for potential therapeutic exploration in sepsis management.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Cheng, Li, Wei, Yuan, Wang, Wang, Liu and Zheng.
Can ANPEP-based magnetic activated cell sorting (MACS) be used to isolate and functionally enrich human steroidogenic theca interna cells from small antral follicle membranes?This experimental study used ovarian tissue from eight women (mean age 33.7 years) undergoing fertility preservation. Membranes from small antral follicles (2-9 mm) were enzymatically digested and cultured for 48 h. A mixed cell sample was obtained before MACS separation into ANPEP-positive and ANPEP-negative cell fractions, followed by an additional 48-h culture. Cell purity and viability were assessed by flow cytometry (FACS) using ANPEP and FSHR antibodies. Gene expression (ANPEP, CYP17A1, LHCGR, FSHR, CYP19A1) was analyzed by RT-qPCR. Steroid secretion (pregnenolone, progesterone, 17-OH-pregnenolone, 17-OH-progesterone, DHEA, androstenedione) was quantified using LC-MS/MS.Before cell sorting, 29.6-82.9% of viable cells expressed ANPEP. After MACS, ~ 68% of cells in the ANPEP-positive fraction expressed ANPEP, compared with ~ 3% in the negative fraction (P < 0.05). CYP17A1 expression was higher in pre-MACS and ANPEP-positive populations than in the negative fraction. ANPEP-positive cells secreted androgen precursors (17-OH-pregnenolone, 17-OH-progesterone, DHEA, androstenedione), whereas the negative fraction produced relatively more progesterone, consistent with theca cell enrichment.ANPEP-based MACS enables enrichment of viable, steroidogenic human theca interna cells. The ANPEP-positive fraction exhibits molecular and functional characteristics consistent with theca lineage and provides a useful model for studying ovarian steroidogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hypertensive retinopathy is a microvascular complication caused by systemic hypertension and can lead to severe visual impairment. At present, the molecular mechanisms of this disease remain incompletely understood, particularly the global expression profiles and regulatory networks of non-coding RNA (ncRNA). This study aims to comprehensively analyze the genome-wide differential expression profiles of messenger RNA (mRNA), microRNA (miRNA), long non-coding RNA (lncRNA), and circular RNA (circRNA) in retinal tissues from a spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) model of hypertensive retinopathy, and to observe transcriptomic changes after treatment with the calcium channel blocker lacidipine, thereby revealing their potential roles in disease pathogenesis and identifying possible therapeutic targets.SHRs were used as a model of hypertensive retinopathy, and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were used as controls. Rats were divided into 3 groups: A control group (WKY), a model group (SHR), and a treatment group (SHR+lacidipine). Rats in the treatment group received lacidipine by gavage at 0.5 mg/(kg·d) for 8 consecutive weeks. At the end of the experiment, retinal tissues were collected for histopathological examination by hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and for high-throughput sequencing. The lncRNA library was used to analyze mRNA, lncRNA, and circRNA expression profiles, and the small RNA (sRNA) library was used to analyze miRNA expression profiles. Differential expression analysis was performed using DESeq2. The screening criteria were |log2 fold change (FC)|≥1 and false discovery rate (FDR) significance criteria for mRNAs and lncRNAs, and |log2FC|≥1 and P<0.05 for miRNAs and circRNAs as exploratory candidates. Differentially expressed RNAs were subjected to Gene Ontology (GO) functional annotation and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis. Competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) regulatory networks involving lncRNA/circRNA-miRNA-mRNA were constructed through target prediction and co‑expression analysis. Ten mRNAs whose expression changes were reversed after treatment were selected for validation by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (real-time RT-PCR; n=6 per group). Comparisons among multiple groups were performed using one-way analysis of variance and post hoc multiple-comparison tests.1) Verification of the animal model: Blood pressure was significantly higher in the model group than in the control group. The model group exhibited edema of the retinal nerve fiber layer, dilation of vascular lumens, and increased retinal thickness. Lacidipine treatment reduced blood pressure and alleviated these pathological changes. 2) Differential expression of mRNAs: Compared with the control group, 870 mRNAs were significantly downregulated and 1 018 mRNAs were significantly upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 2 644 mRNAs were significantly downregulated and 186 mRNAs were significantly upregulated in the treatment group. GO analysis showed that upregulated mRNAs in the model group were enriched in immune-inflammatory processes, such as leukocyte activation, chemotaxis, defense response, and regulation of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) production, whereas downregulated mRNAs were enriched in G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling, glycoprotein synthesis, ion channel activity, and related processes. KEGG analysis revealed that upregulated mRNAs in the model group were enriched in interleukin-17 (IL-17), TNF, oxidative stress, and lipid inflammatory mediator metabolic pathways, whereas downregulated mRNAs were enriched in phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-protein kinase B (AKT) signaling, vascular smooth muscle contraction, extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction, and related pathways. In the treatment group, the downregulated mRNAs were mainly enriched in pathways related to immune-inflammatory activation, such as mast cell degranulation and leukocyte degranulation. 3) Treatment-reversed mRNAs: A total of 67 genes that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment were identified; these genes were mainly enriched in endoplasmic reticulum stress-associated apoptotic signaling, mitophagy, ubiquitin ligase activity, and related processes. In addition, 54 genes that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment were identified; these genes were mainly enriched in amino acid transport, integrin complex, focal adhesion, glutamate transport activity, and related processes. Real-time RT-PCR validated the expression changes of Med22, Rmt1, Sytl3, Itgb7, and Slc1a3 which were decreased in the model group and increased after treatment, as well as Rnf183, Lrrc29, Lat2, Hist1h4m, and Dpm3, which were increased in the model group and decreased after treatment. These findings were consistent with the sequencing results. 4) Differential expression of miRNAs: Compared with the control group, 30 miRNAs were downregulated and 26 miRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 14 miRNAs were downregulated and 53 miRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. Treatment-reversed miRNAs were identified: Rno-miR-1-3p, novel_miR_1203, and novel_miR_1417 were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, whereas novel_miR_107 and novel_miR_905 were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment. Their target genes were enriched in regulation of retinal cone/rod cell differentiation, ECM remodeling, the Notch pathway, fatty acid synthesis, and related processes. 5) Differential expression of lncRNAs: Compared with the control group, 786 lncRNAs were downregulated and 764 lncRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 217 lncRNAs were downregulated and 230 lncRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. A total of 55 lncRNAs that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, and 76 lncRNAs that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment, were identified. Their target genes were enriched in immune regulation, wound healing, vascular remodeling, retinol metabolism related to rod-mediated scotopic vision, glutamatergic neuron differentiation, the forkhead box O (FoxO) pathway, retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I)-like receptor signaling, and related processes. 6) Differential expression of circRNAs: Compared with the control group, 45 circRNAs were downregulated and 47 circRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 25 circRNAs were downregulated and 22 circRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. Eleven circRNAs that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment, and 10 circRNAs that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, were identified. Their host genes were enriched in regulation of synaptic neural signaling, second messenger transmission, calcium signaling, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signaling pathways. 7) Construction of ceRNA networks: Based on expression patterns and target prediction, multiple lncRNA/circRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory networks were constructed. For example, the networks composed of rno_circ_Rims2_10, rno-miR-1-3p, and related mRNAs, such as Mmp14 and Fasn, as well as the novel_miR_1417 related network, may be involved in retinal stress responses, inflammatory regulation, and neurovascular remodeling.This study is the first to integrate and analyze retinal transcriptomic profiles of mRNAs, miRNAs, lncRNAs, and circRNAs in an SHR model of hypertensive retinopathy, and it reveals RNA expression changes associated with lacidipine treatment. The results suggest that immune-inflammatory activation, neurovascular dysfunction, and ncRNA-mediated ceRNA regulatory networks may participate in the pathogenesis of hypertensive retinopathy. The identified differentially expressed molecules and predicted regulatory axes provide a candidate molecular basis for further mechanistic validation and screening of potential therapeutic targets.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a multifarious and chronic hormonal disease of women that is marked by hyperandrogenism, insulin resistance, and continued anovulation. This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic effect of escin in PCOS. For this purpose, a network pharmacology and molecular docking study was performed to find potential targets and to explore the interaction of escin with major proteins associated with PCOS pathogenesis, including CYP19A1, the estrogen receptor, TNF-α, and SHBG. In this study, letrozole (1 mg/kg) was administered orally for 28 days to induce PCOS in all Wistar rats except for normal control. After PCOS induction, normal and PCOS + Veh group received 1 ml of 0.5% CMC, PCOS + Met treated with metformin (300 mg/kg), whereas treatment groups received PCOS + Escin 5, 10, and 15 mg/kg daily via oral route for 28 days. At the end of the experiment, body weight, oral glucose, hormonal level (sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), estrogen, progesterone, luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), testosterone), lipid profile, and liver tests were performed. Activity of CAT and SOD, and level of MDA and reduced GSH were measured in the ovary homogeneity. mRNA expression of TNF-α, IL-6, Nrf2/Keap-1, PGR, FSHR, and CYP19A1 were quantified in ovarian tissue by real-time PCR. The docking analysis demonstrated favorable binding affinities and stable ligand-protein interactions to CYP19A1, estrogen receptor, TNF-α, and SHBG, suggesting that escin might be regulated for steroidogenesis, inflammatory signaling, and hormonal imbalance through multi-target mechanisms in PCOS. Escin treatment groups significantly (p < 0.05) reduced body weight and normalized glucose, hormonal levels, lipid profile, and liver function in treated rats in contrast to PCOS + Veh group. PCOS + Escin treatment groups (5-15 mg/kg) notably reduced the oxidative stress as compared to the PCOS + Veh group. PCOS + Escin 15 significantly downregulated expression of TNF-α, IL-6, Keap-1, NF-KB, and PGR whereas upregulated FSHR, Nrf2, and CYP19A1 in treated rats as compared to the PCOS + Veh group. PCOS + Escin dose dependently reduced the level of TNF-α and IL-6 in the serum of treated rats in contrast to PCOS + Veh. It can be inferred from findings that escin dose dependently restored inflammatory, oxidative stress, and steroidogenic pathways in letrozole-induced PCOS in treated rats as in silico study confirmed the binding affinity of escin with CYP19A1, estrogen receptor, and TNF-α, and SHBG.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Alcohol consumption has been a risk factor for more than 200 diseases, including esophageal cancer. Cell communication network 1 (CCN1), a matricellular protein, is highly expressed in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) but is barely detectable in esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC). Alcohol consumption has been identified as a major contributor to ESCC development, but its role in EAC is uncertain. This study examines the impact of acute (30 min) or prolonged (12 h) alcohol exposure (5, 100, and 500 mM) on CCN1 expression and function in esophageal epithelial cells, including normal (HEEC), ESCC (KYSE150 and KYSE410), and EAC (OE19 and OE33), in association with the activity of MMP2, MMP9, and MMP14. It was found that alcohol exposure promoted CCN1 expression in both normal and tumor cells but induced CCN1 cleavage exclusively in EAC cells, generating an 18-kDa fragment that promotes tumor growth. MMP9, which was active only in EAC cells, was found to mediate this cleavage. Forced activation of MMP9 in either normal or ESCC cells improved cell viability, whereas inhibition of MMP9 in EAC cells attenuated cell survival. Taken together, alcohol exposure promotes MMP9-mediated CCN1 cleavage in EAC, converting CCN1 from a pro-death to a pro-survival factor for EAC. This makes alcohol consumption a risk factor not only for ESCC development but also for EAC progression. A preprint can be found at d197for5662m48.cloudfront.net.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cell Communication and Signaling published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Type 1 diabetes mellitus characterized by insulin deficiency and hyperglycemia is associated with female subfertility. However, how hyperglycemia affects the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian-uterine axis remains poorly understood. In this study, we performed single-cell transcriptomic profiling of the hypothalamus, pituitary, ovary and uterus during the proliferative phase of the menstrual cycle in type 1 diabetic macaques to systematically characterize changes in tissue-specific cellular heterogeneity, gene expression, and intercellular communication networks under diabetic conditions. Our analysis revealed significant upregulation of the TNF signaling pathway across multiple tissues, concomitant with marked activation of inflammation-related pathways. Notably, the macrophage migration inhibitory factor signaling pathway exhibited a tissue-specific regulatory pattern, being significantly upregulated in the hypothalamus and pituitary but downregulated in the ovary and uterus, suggesting divergent inflammatory modulation along the reproductive endocrine axis in response to diabetes. Moreover, we observed that diabetes leads to reduced FSHR expression during granulosa cell differentiation, and this process is further exacerbated by the upregulated expression of SFRP4, a known antagonist of follicle-stimulating hormone signaling, resulting in diminished granulosa cell responsiveness to follicle-stimulating hormone. Consequently, this dysregulation is correlated with increased FSHB expression in pituitary gonadotropes, likely due to disrupted ovarian feedback signaling. Collectively, our findings provide a comprehensive landscape of cellular and molecular alterations in immune and endocrine compartments in the female reproductive system in diabetic states, advancing our understanding of immune‒endocrine cell crosstalk in the context of metabolic disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis(IPF) is a fatal interstitial lung disease with limited clinical therapeutic options. Traditional Chinese medicine formulas, characterized by multi-component, multi-target, and holistic regulatory properties, have shown unique potential in the prevention and treatment of IPF. Yangyin Yifei Tongluo Pills(YF) is a TCM formula with demonstrated clinical efficacy. However, its modern pharmacological mechanism against IPF remains to be systematically elucidated. In this study, ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole-Orbitrap high-resolution mass spectrometry(UHPLC-Q Exactive Orbitrap-HRMS) was employed to identify the chemical constituents of YF. A total of 76 potential bioactive compounds were characterized, including flavonoids, phenylpropanoids and other chemicals. By integrating network pharmacology and bioinformatics analyses, drug-related targets, IPF-associated targets, differentially expressed genes, and WGCNA-derived key module genes were intersected, yielding 15 potential targets. Based on a systematic evaluation using nine machine learning algorithms, arginase 1(ARG1) and matrix metalloproteinase 14(MMP14) were identified as key core targets. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses indicated that these targets were mainly involved in inflammatory regulation, signal transduction, and extracellular matrix(ECM) remodeling, with significant enrichment in key signaling pathways such as the TNF signaling pathway. Immune microenvironment analysis revealed that the expression levels of ARG1 and MMP14 were closely associated with immune and stromal cell infiltration characteristics. Molecular docking demonstrated favorable binding affinities between ARG1/MMP14 and several core components, including miltirone, peimine, cryptotanshinone, and sec-O-glucosylhamaudol, while molecular dynamics simulations further confirmed the conformational stability of miltirone and sec-O-glucosylhamaudol, as core potential bioactive components, with the targets under dynamic conditions. Collectively, these findings suggest that YF may exert anti-IPF effects by targeting ARG1 and MMP14 through its core potential bioactive components, synergistically modulating key processes including the immune microenvironment, fibroblast activation, and extracellular matrix remodeling. By integrating LC-MS, bioinformatics, machine learning, immune infiltration analysis, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulation, this study systematically elucidates the multi-component and multi-target mechanisms of YF, providing new insights and a foundation for the intervention and treatment of IPF and the mechanistic study of TCM formulas.
Fibroblast growth factor 21 (Fgf21) is a member of the endocrine subfamily of fibroblast growth factors. In mammals, FGF21 regulates glucose and lipid metabolism, and energy balance. Fgf21 was recently demonstrated to stimulate feed intake and regulate energy balance in zebrafish. The physiological mechanisms that regulate energy balance are tightly interlinked with reproduction. As a first step to extend our original findings on Fgf21 and energy balance, this research aimed to determine whether Fgf21 regulates the reproductive axis in zebrafish. Using quantitative PCR, we demonstrate the expression of fgf21, its receptor fgfr1c, and co-receptor β-klotho; and FGF21-like immunoreactivity (immunohistochemistry) in the zebrafish ovary and liver cells. These results suggest local production of FGF21 and possible actions within the ovary. Single intraperitoneal (IP) injection of 1, 10, or 100 ng/g bodyweight FGF21 significantly (ANOVA, P < 0.05) upregulated reproductive hormone genes in the brain; gonadotropin-releasing hormone isoforms (sgnrh/cgnrh-III) and kisspeptin (kiss1), and gonads; aromatase (cyp19a1a) and gonadotropin receptors (fshr, lhr) that are critical for reproductive success. FGF21 significantly (ANOVA, P < 0.05) upregulated vitellogenin transcript levels and total vitellogenin concentration (ELISA) in zebrafish liver cells at 1 h and 24 h post-incubation, respectively. Lastly, at 100 ng/mL, FGF21 induced (ANOVA P < 0.05) oocyte maturation in vitro (determined by germinal vesicle breakdown quantification). These results support a very strong positive role for Fgf21 in the reproductive endocrine axis of zebrafish.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
FOXL2 is a forkhead transcription factor (TF) essential for granulosa-cell identity and function, yet how post-translational modifications tune its activity remains incompletely understood. Here, we show that protein kinase C (PKC) phosphorylates FOXL2 in vitro. Two of the four phosphorylation sites, notably Ser101 and Ser107, map to the forkhead DNA-recognition helix. Phosphomimetic substitutions (S → D) at these positions (S101D/S107D) abolish binding to a consensus DNA sequence recognized by FOXL2 and luciferase reporter activation, whereas alanine substitutions are rather neutral. In HeLa cells, the S101D mutant and, to a lesser extent, S107A/S107D, relocalize at least partially to nucleoli and exhibit increased mobility consistent with reduced DNA engagement. This pattern was recapitulated in stably transduced KGN granulosa cells. RNA-seq of such KGN cells revealed that S101D and a C-terminal truncation (ΔC) induce a massive loss-of-function (LOF) relative to wild-type (WT) FOXL2. The LOF affects sets of genes involved in pathways central to granulosa physiology including ECM organization, cell migration/adhesion, and MAPK cascades, whereas S101A is largely WT-like. An analysis of the FOXL2 interactome in the transduced cells by mass spectrometry (MS) showed that S101D loses numerous interactions with TFs and chromatin remodelers, and Pol I/III regulators such as UBTF and TFIIIC components, while it gains other partners. By contrast, ΔC retains many of the protein-protein contacts of WT and preferentially loses ribosomal/TFIII interactions. Together, these data allow us to hypothesize that PKC-dependent phosphorylation within the FOXL2 DNA-recognition helix would underlie a rapid, reversible switch, weakening DNA binding, redirecting subnuclear partitioning, and rewiring protein-protein interactions, thereby reshaping FOXL2-dependent gene regulation in granulosa cells.© 2026 The Author(s). The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
The aim was to determine the transcriptomic features of tumor and stromal cells in direct contact within tumor nodules in luminal and triple-negative breast cancer.Spatial transcriptomic profiling was performed using the Visium 10x platform on FFPE tumor tissue sections from 10 patients with luminal breast cancer and 9 patients with triple-negative breast cancer. Manual morphological annotation of spots and evaluation of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in identified spot clusters were performed using Loupe Browser v8.0.0 (10X Genomics, USA). Activated biological processes were assessed using the Enrichr online resource and the GO Biological Process 2025 database. Ligand-receptor pairs were identified using the CellChat package (v2.0) in R (v4.4.2).In luminal breast cancer, mixed cluster (tumor cells colocalized with stromal cells) was characterized by overexpression of genes encoding S100A family Ca2+-binding proteins (S100A4, S100A8, S100A9), matrix metalloproteinases (MMP2, MMP7, MMP14), cytokeratins (KRT5, KRT7, KRT15, KRT23, KRT81), the mesenchymal marker VIM, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-associated genes (ICAM1, PRRX1) compared to tumor-only cluster. In triple-negative breast cancer, mixed cluster showed overexpression of S100A2, S100A8, S100A9, the epithelial gene KRT6B, the cancer stem cell marker CD44, and NOTCH2, which is associated with negative regulation of EMT. In both breast cancer subtypes, mixed cluster showed transcriptomic enrichment of gene sets associated with regulation of the ERK/MAPK cascade, apoptosis, and cell adhesion and migration. Ligand-receptor pairs associated with cell-cell contact, EMT, and immune response were also detected in colocalized cells, with a broader spectrum of these pairs observed in luminal breast cancer.This study assessed the transcriptomic characteristics of directly contacting tumor and stromal cells and identified the spectrum of ligand-receptor pairs mediating their interactions. Characterizing the properties of cells at the tumor-stroma interface helps unravel mechanisms of breast cancer progression and identify novel diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets.© The Author(s) 2026.
Few germline susceptibility genes have been well established for lung cancer. We aimed to evaluate associations between germline variants in known hereditary cancer genes and lung cancer risk.We analyzed subjects of European ancestry from two datasets: 2,272 LC cases and 185,510 controls from the UK Biobank, and 824 LC cases from Rush University Medical Center (RUSH) with 56,878 population controls from the Genome Aggregation Database (gnomAD). Rare pathogenic germline variants in 123 ClinGen-curated hereditary cancer genes were first tested for lung cancer risk in the UK Biobank using gene-based burden testing (robust SKAT-O). Genes with suggestive associations were further evaluated in the RUSH/gnomAD dataset. Meta-analysis of the two datasets was performed to estimate overall evidence and pooled odds ratios.Rare germline variants in ten genes showed nominally significant associations with lung cancer in the UK Biobank (p<0.05), and TP53 showed a borderline signal (p=0.11). These genes were tested in the RUSH/gnomAD dataset, and meta-analysis identified suggestive evidence supporting eight genes associated with increased lung cancer risk (p<0.05), including three previously reported lung cancer genes (ATM, BRCA2, TP53) and five novel genes (RB1, MET, CYLD, PDGFRA, CTNNA1). In the UK Biobank incident lung cancer cohort, aggregated rare pathogenic variants in these eight genes were significantly associated with lung cancer risk and earlier age at lung cancer diagnosis, independent and complementary to smoking history at recruitment.Suggestive evidence supporting associations between rare germline variants in eight hereditary cancer genes and lung cancer were obtained from two large independent datasets.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42531755 is a review article
Pancreatic cancer (PC) is known to be a highly fatal malignancy, and elucidating new molecular mechanisms is of great importance. In this study, we investigated NECTIN4 (PVRL4), which is associated with poor prognosis, via bioinformatics approach. We used following tools and datasets: For differential gene expression analysis, TCGA TARGET GTEx study on UCSC Xena, GSE183795, GSE71729 and GSE196009 GEO datasets; for associations with clinicopathological and promoter methylation features, UALCAN; for correlations with overall survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS) gene chip database, and for correlations with OS and relapse-free survival (RFS) RNAseq database in the Kaplan-Meier (KM) plotter; for correlations with OS and Progression-Free Interval (PFI), DoSurvive; for immune infiltration correlations, TIMER3; for expression changes in hotspot mutations, GEPIA 3; for potentially related pathways, diseases, and processes, the Gscore online tool; for gene alterations detections, cBioPortal; and identifying potential targeting miRNAs, miRDB, TargetScanHuman 8.0, ENCORI, and DoSurvive. NECTIN4 (PVRL4) is upregulated in primary pancreatic adenocarcinoma in TCGA TARGET GTEx study (log2FC=2.015633, adj.P.Val=4.62E-21) and in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas in GSE183795 (log2FC=0.726, adj.P.Val=10-16.895) GSE196009 (log2FC=2.807, adj.P.Val=10-3.855) GSE71729 (log2FC= 1.227, adj.P.Val=10-10.318) datasets, and may be associated with unfavorable OS (p = 3.63E-02) and PFI (p = 8.09E-03) independent of age at diagnosis, sex, and stage in DoSurvive. In KM plotter RNA seq database, increased NECTIN4 (PVRL4) expression was statistically significantly associated only with shortened OS (p = 0.008). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) expressions are higher in the following traits than in others: In Asians compared to normals (p = 4.949700E-02) and Caucasian (p = 4.480000E-03); in chronic pancreatitis patients from normals (p=3.456300E-02); in grade 2 (p = 2.420600E-04) and grade 3 (p = 1.875500E-03) from grade 1; in TP53 mutants from nonmutants (p = 7.6379999999987E-05). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) correlates positively or negatively with many immune cell types, some of which are also associated with OS. NECTIN4 is upregulated in KRAS (log2FC=1.78, p = 1.05E-17), TP53 (log2FC=0.959, p = 1.22E-05), SMAD4 (log2FC=1.02, p = 0.000111), CDKN2A (log2FC=0.668, p = 0.0144), and RNF43 (log2FC=0.917, p = 0.0393) mutant samples. NECTIN4 (PVRL4) is associated with many pathways, processes, and diseases these may be related to PC. Six patients have amplification, and one patient has a splice mutation. hsa-miR-329-3p and hsa-miR-5586-5p may be potential negative regulatory miRNAs of NECTIN4 (PVRL4). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) may be associated with many pathways awaiting experimental illumination in PC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Motivated by the rising incidence of cancers at younger ages, this study compares tumor genomic alterations between adolescents and young adults (AYAs; 18-39 years) and non-AYAs (40 years and older) and explores the relationship with continuous age in patients with relapsed/refractory ovarian, breast, and colorectal cancers accrued to the NCI-MATCH trial.Tumor genomic profiles generated by a next-generation sequencing 143-gene panel (NCI-MATCH assay, v2) were analyzed for association with age (AYA/total: 21/455 ovarian, 27/576 breast, 43/759 colorectal cancers). For each gene, AYA and non-AYA DNA alteration proportions were compared (Fisher exact test) and alteration association with continuous age (logistic regression) was evaluated (false discovery rate‑adjusted P value <.1 statistically significant). For colorectal cancer, sex-stratified analysis was also performed.No significant AYA versus non-AYA differences were observed in the prevalence of gene mutations (single nucleotide variant [SNV]/indel). A significant association of gene amplification with AYAs (odds ratio [OR], 95% CI) was CCND1 (0.2, 0.1-0.4), favoring AYAs in breast cancer. Examining age as a continuous variable, significant associations of gene mutations (SNV/indel) with older age, expressed as 5-year OR (OR [95% CI]), were observed: TP53 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.4]), ovarian cancer; CDH1 (1.4 [1.2 to 1.6]) and PIK3CA (1.1 [1.1 to 1.2]), breast cancer; and BRAF (1.4 [1.2 to 1.7]), female colorectal cancer. Associations with younger age included SMAD4 (0.8 [0.7 to 0.9]), male colorectal cancer. Significant associations of gene amplification with age (continuous) were as follows: CCNE1 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.6]), older ovarian cancer, and CCND1 (0.8 [0.8 to 0.9]), younger breast cancer.Comparing AYAs with non-AYAs among patients having relapsed/refractory disease, no significant differences in SNV/indel prevalence were observed, but CCND1 amplifications were more prevalent in AYA breast cancer. For several genes, DNA alterations were associated with continuous age and may depend on sex in colorectal cancer.
The molecular characterization of Pituitary neuroendocrine tumors (PitNETs) has progressed pronouncedly in recent years, unraveling the molecular pathways driving initiation and progression of the different PitNET types, and allowing better understanding of their biology. The most frequent recurring somatic driver alterations were recognized in corticotroph PitNETs (USP8, USP48, BRAF) and somatotroph PitNETs (GNAS), and, much less frequently, in lactotroph PitNETs (SF3B1). Additional well-characterized somatic driver alterations, including TP53, ATRX, and DAXX, are enriched in aggressive corticotroph tumors. Identification of new molecular markers and delineation of their clinical phenotypes are enabling further subclassification of PitNETs based on tumor molecular profiles, with earlier recognition of more aggressive variants. These molecular markers also provide an opportunity for new targeted therapies. Beyond single-gene alterations, epigenetic modifications, such as DNA methylation, histone modifications, and non-coding RNA dysregulation, are emerging as important contributors to PitNET pathogenesis and potential therapeutic targets. Multi-omics approaches encompassing genomics, transcriptomics, epigenomics, and proteomics are transforming PitNET classification. In this review, we provide a comprehensive, data-driven update on somatic driver alterations, epigenetic alterations, converging signaling pathways, and the related emerging therapeutic targets in PitNETs, integrating pooled analyses from published cohorts.© the author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42558047
To optimize the extraction-purification process of Dendrobium officinale polysaccharides (DOPs) and characterize the fine structures of two homogeneous fractions (DOP-1, DOP-2), as well as to evaluate their anti-photoaging activity on HFF cells.An integrated process including petroleum ether defatting, cellulase hydrolysis, water extraction-ethanol precipitation, trypsin-Sevag deproteinization, activated carbon decolorization, and dialysis was used. DOP-1 and DOP-2 were separated by DEAE-52 and Sephadex G-100 chromatography. Their structures were analyzed by FT-IR, methylation-GC/MS, NMR, and SEM. Anti-photoaging effects were assessed via CCK-8, SA-β-Gal staining, and qPCR of TGF-β/Smad pathway genes.The optimized process increased crude polysaccharide yield from 30.34% to 35.03% and polysaccharide content from 31.23% to 49.34%. DOP-1 (Mn 989 Da, PDI 1.15) was a linear oligosaccharide composed of →4)-β-D-Manp (72.32%) and →4)-β-D-Glcp (23.78%) in an alternating pattern. DOP-2 (Mn 2970 Da, PDI 1.67) was a branched polysaccharide with a backbone of →6)-α-D-Glcp (58.06%) and branches at →2,6)-Manp and →4,6)-Glcp. Both DOP-1 and DOP-2 (62.5 μg/mL) protected HFF cells from UVA-induced photoaging, upregulated TGF-β1, Smad3, Smad4, and Collagen I, and downregulated Smad7 and MMP-1, with DOP-2 showing dose-dependent effects.The optimized process enables efficient preparation of DOPs. DOP-1 and DOP-2 possess distinct structural features and exert anti-photoaging effects via regulation of the TGF-β/Smad signaling pathway.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Over the decades, shifts in human lifestyle have led to alterations in dietary habits. The consumption of diets low in fiber and high in fat and sugar results in the production of carcinogenic metabolites during digestion. The food we consume undergoes a complex series of processes involving digestion and excretion, engaging various internal organs within the human body. The DNA and MiRNA present in food are crucial for sustaining human health. Damage to human organs can lead to the development of cancer cells. Among various cancers, Colorectal Cancer (CRC) is the 3rd most common cancer that contributes to the increase in the mortality rate worldwide.One of the better ways for early CRC diagnosis is through Genomic Profiling. Frequent mutations in the genes APC, TP53, KRAS, PIK3CA, and SMAD4 are observed in the collected samples, contributing to CRC. An effort has been made in the proposed work to improve classification and prediction by using a deep ensemble learning approach based on a self-attention-based stacked bidirectional LSTM, optimized with the Parallel-Whale Optimization Algorithm (WOA) for global convergence, following a feature selection process. Furthermore, the survival analysis of CRC patients is performed using the DeepSurv technique to assess treatment effectiveness and patient care.The performance of the proposed model is evaluated using various metrics for stage-based colorectal cancer prediction, and a comparative analysis is conducted to validate against benchmarking techniques, resulting in improved classification and prediction accuracy.This study may help physicians detect CRC earlier and improve patient management.Copyright © 2026 Supriya and Anitha.
Aortic dissection (AD) is a life-threatening cardiovascular disease with exceedingly high mortality, particularly during the acute phase. Ubiquitination modification is implicated in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases through diverse biological processes. However, the role of TRIM9, an E3 ubiquitin ligase, in AD remains unexplored. In this study, the expression profiles of TRIM9 and SMAD4 were analyzed using clinical samples, as well as Angiotensin II (Ang II)-induced mouse and human aortic endothelial cell (HAEC) models. Endothelial barrier function in AD was assessed through CCK-8 assays, vascular permeability measurements, immunofluorescence staining, hematoxylin-eosin and Verhoeff's van Gieson staining, and Western blot analysis. The underlying molecular mechanisms were elucidated using quantitative real-time PCR, immunoprecipitation (IP), co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). TRIM9 was markedly overexpressed, whereas SMAD4 was significantly downregulated in AD. Knockdown of TRIM9 attenuated endothelial permeability, preserved the endothelial barrier integrity, and inhibited pyroptosis both in vivo and in vitro. Mechanistically, TRIM9 promoted the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of SMAD4, thereby exacerbating AD progression. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that elevated TRIM9 expression aggravates AD progression through SMAD4 destabilization, offering novel therapeutic insights for AD management.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN) is a typical precursor lesion of pancreatic cancer, but differential diagnosis and grading of IPMN is often difficult. Currently, grading of diagnosis is based mainly on imaging examinations, but these methods are invasive, and the accuracy is unsatisfactory. Therefore, the current study aimed to determine the usefulness of urine cell-free DNA (cfDNA) as a liquid biopsy, which the authors suggest has potential as a less invasive diagnostic tool for IPMN.Preoperative plasma and urine samples were collected from 33 patients with a preoperative diagnosis of IPMN. From their plasma and urine, cfDNA was extracted. Analysis of GNAS and KRAS mutations in the cfDNA was performed using droplet digital polymerase chain reaction.The final diagnosis was IPMN in 31 of the 33 cases according to the resected specimens. The positivity rate of GNAS mutations in these 31 patients was 10 % (3/31) in plasma cfDNA, and 32 % (10/31) in urine cfDNA. The positivity rate of KRAS mutations was 19 % (6/31) in plasma cfDNA and 58 % (18/31) in urine cfDNA. In the multivariate analysis of the malignancy diagnosis, the main pancreatic duct diameter was ≥10 mm, and the positivity of both GNAS and KRAS mutations in urine cfDNA were significantly associated with IPMN malignancy (odds ratio [OR], 12.70; P = 0.0200; OR, 8.10; P = 0.0269).Urine cfDNA involves a less invasive liquid biopsy and seems to be useful in the diagnosis of IPMN.© 2026. Society of Surgical Oncology.
Pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion differentially regulates follicle-stimulating hormone β-subunit (Fshb) expression according to pulse frequency; however, the mechanisms by which pituitary gonadotropes decode GnRH pulsatility remain incompletely understood. GnRH activates both Gαs- and Gαq/11-mediated signaling pathways, and the transcriptional regulators cAMP response element-binding protein (Creb) and inducible cAMP early repressor (Icer) have been implicated in Fshb regulation. This study examined whether distinct G protein-dependent pathways regulate Creb and Icer in a GnRH pulse frequency-dependent manner.Murine gonadotrope-derived LβT2 cells were transduced with lentiviral shRNA targeting Gnas (Gαs), Gnaq/Gna11 (Gαq/11), or scrambled controls. Cells were perifused and stimulated with pulsatile GnRH (10 nM) at low (every 120 min) or high (every 30 min) pulse frequencies for 20 h. Creb and Erk1/2 phosphorylation were assessed by immunoblotting and Icer and Egr1 mRNA levels were measured by real-time PCR.GnRH induced pulse frequency-dependent signaling, with enhanced Creb phosphorylation at low pulse frequency and preferential Icer induction at high frequency. Gnas knockdown selectively attenuated Creb phosphorylation at low pulse frequency without affecting Icer expression. In contrast, Gnaq/Gna11 knockdown reduced Icer induction at high pulse frequency and markedly attenuated Erk1/2 phosphorylation and Egr1 expression at both frequencies.GnRH pulse frequency is decoded in gonadotropes through differential engagement of G protein-dependent signaling pathways. Gαs-mediated signaling pathways preferentially activate Creb at low pulse frequencies, whereas Gαq/11-mediated pathways promote Erk-dependent Icer and Egr1 induction at higher pulse frequencies, providing a mechanism for differential regulation of FSH and LH synthesis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Hellenic Endocrine Society.
This study retrospectively evaluated the clinical, laboratory, and treatment characteristics of pediatric patients with hypoparathyroidism (HP) or inactivating PTH/PTHrP signaling disorders (iPPSD), focusing on metabolic parameters and long-term outcomes.Twenty-three children with HP or iPPSD were included. Clinical, biochemical, and therapeutic data were assessed at diagnosis, after one year, and at the last follow-up. HP cases were classified as postsurgical or non-surgical.Of the cohort, 56.5% (n = 13) had HP and 43.5% (n = 10) had iPPSD. The median age at diagnosis was 13.2 years (6.8-15.1), with a median follow-up of 6.6 years (2.6-12.7). Within the HP group, four had postsurgical HP, two had DiGeorge syndrome, one had autoimmune HP, and six had idiopathic HP. All iPPSD patients fulfilled diagnostic criteria and demonstrated parathormone (PTH) resistance; two presented with characteristic features, including one with genetically confirmed iPPSD2. Hypocalcemia and hyperphosphatemia were milder in postsurgical HP compared with other groups, whereas calcium and phosphate levels did not differ between iPPSD and non-surgical HP. Intravenous calcium was required in 34.8% of symptomatic patients at diagnosis. Maintenance therapy with oral calcium and calcitriol was similar across groups. Postsurgical HP patients achieved normocalcemia significantly faster (p = 0.03). After one year, serum calcium levels increased significantly in the iPPSD and non-surgical HP groups (p = 0.005 and p = 0.008, respectively), whereas no significant change was observed in the postsurgical HP group (p = 0.07). Serum phosphorus levels declined only in the iPPSD group (p = 0.005), accompanied by a reduction in PTH levels (p = 0.005). At final follow-up, biochemical parameters remained stable, oral calcium requirements decreased in iPPSD and non-surgical HP (p = 0.02), and no renal complications were observed.Pediatric HP and iPPSD show distinct profiles. Serum calcium levels increased during follow-up in the iPPSD and non-surgical HP groups, while postsurgical HP patients achieved normocalcemia more rapidly. In the iPPSD group, reductions in serum phosphorus and PTH levels suggested effective long-term biochemical control. Oral calcium supplementation decreased over time in iPPSD and non-surgical HP, whereas calcitriol doses remained stable, and no renal complications were observed, supporting the safety of current treatment strategies.
The deficiency of trace element selenium is a global nutritional issue. Selenium exerts its biological functions in the human body through selenoproteins, which play crucial roles in bone and cartilage development. Selenoprotein S (SelS), a key selenoprotein involved in the regulation of oxidative stress and inflammation, has not been fully elucidated in cartilage development. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of SelS deficiency on cartilage matrix degradation. Chondrocytes with SelS gene knockdown (sh-Sels) and mice with SelS gene knockout were constructed. The mRNA and protein levels of type II collagen (COL II), matrix metalloproteinases (MMP3, MMP10 and MMP13) were measured by RT-qPCR and western blotting, respectively. Changes in cartilage morphology and matrix composition were evaluated using histological staining techniques, including toluidine blue (TB), safranin O-fast green, and sirius red staining. The expression levels of MMP3, MMP13, MMP19 and COL II in the knee joints of mice were detected by immunohistochemical (IHC) staining. A TGF-β pathway inhibitor (GW788388) was administered to SelS knockdown chondrocytes to verify whether the TGF-β signaling pathway was involved in the matrix degradation induced by SelS deficiency. Compared with the negative vector control (sh-NC) group, the mRNA and protein levels of COL II were decreased in the sh-Sels group. The expression levels of Mmp3, Mmp10 and Mmp13 were also increased significantly, while the metallopeptidase inhibitor Timp2 was downregulated in the sh-Sels group. SelS gene knockout in mice did not affect body length or weight but resulted in reduced proteoglycan and collagen content in articular cartilage. Compared with wild-type mice, the expression of COL II was decreased, while the expressions of MMP3, MMP13, and MMP19 were increased in the articular cartilage of SelS knockout mice. Furthermore, treatment with the TGF-β pathway inhibitor (GW788388) partially rescued the reduction in Col2a1 expression induced by SelS deficiency. SelS plays a crucial role in maintaining cartilage homeostasis, and its deficiency results in cartilage matrix degradation. The TGF-β signaling pathway is involved in the degradation of cartilage matrix caused by SelS silencing. This study provides novel insights into the treatment of fibrotic and degenerative cartilage diseases by focusing on selenoproteins.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Abiraterone resistance represents a major clinical challenge in the management of castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC), yet the epigenetic mechanisms that sustain this resistance remain poorly understood. In particular, how super enhancers (SEs) reprogram transcriptional networks to promote this therapy resistance has not been fully elucidated. Here, by integrating chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing and transcriptome profiling, we identified aberrantly activated oncogenic SEs that drive the transcriptional upregulation of the transcription factors ELF3 and JUNB in abiraterone-resistance CRPC cells. Importantly, SE-driven activation of the ELF3/JUNB axis promotes abiraterone resistance by inducing WNT11-mediated neuroendocrine transition. In parallel, this transdifferentiated state is closely associated with ferroptosis resistance, as evidenced by the upregulation of key ferroptosis-protective genes, including FTH1 and GPX4. In contrast, disruption of the ELF3/JUNB-WNT11 axis markedly restored abiraterone sensitivity and triggered ferroptotic cell death in CRPC cells both in vitro and in vivo. Collectively, our findings highlight targeting SE-driven transcriptional programs as a promising strategy for overcoming abiraterone resistance in CRPC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Octyl (N-(5-(1H-indol-2-yl)-2-methoxyphenyl)sulfamoyl)carbamate has previously been characterized as substrate-specific inhibitor of the linoleic acid oxygenase activity of mammalian ALOX15 orthologs. Here we aimed at optimizing the inhibitory properties of this compound by three different chemical modifications: (i) replacement of the indole core by a phenylpyrrole; (ii) introduction of hydrophilic residues into the aliphatic hydrocarbon chain of the lead compound or by replacing this building block by a triethylene glycol moiety; (iii) replacement of the sulfamoylcarbamate group by a sulfonamide. The inhibitory potencies of the modified compounds for pure rabbit ALOX15 were quantified by in vitro inhibitory assays, and our data indicate that the replacement of the rigid indole core induced a partial loss in the inhibitor's potency. The introduction of a hydrophilic group into the aliphatic hydrocarbon chain or its replacement by a triethylene glycol moiety improved the solubility of the compound in aqueous solution, but reduced the inhibitor potency by more than one order of magnitude. Finally, the replacement of the sulfamoylcarbamate moiety by sulfonamide improved the substrate selectivity of the inhibitor for rabbit and human ALOX15. The new compounds were highly potent for human and rabbit ALOX15, but did not inhibit human ALOX15B and were less effective for mouse Alox15 (ortholog specificity).
Aim: Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have shown therapeutic potential in acute lung injury (ALI); however, the key functional components and their roles in regulating pulmonary vascular endothelial permeability remain unclear. This study aimed to identify functional proteins within MSC-derived exosomes (MSC-Exo) and elucidate their roles in regulating pulmonary vascular endothelial permeability to enhance MSC-Exo-based therapy. Methods: Proteomic analysis identified neuropilin-1 (NRP1) as a candidate functional protein in MSC-Exo. Functional assays, including annexin V flow cytometry for apoptosis, colony formation assays for proliferation, and Transwell migration and wound healing assays, were performed to assess these processes in injured pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (PMVECs). Immunofluorescence and Western blotting were used to evaluate NRP1 localization, p130Cas phosphorylation and matrix metalloproteinases 1 (MMP1)/9 expression. In ALI rat models, histopathology, Evans blue extravasation, and immunohistochemistry were used to assess lung injury and vascular permeability. Results: NRP1-enriched MSC-Exo reduced apoptosis, enhanced colony formation, and promoted migration in PMVECs. Mechanistically, NRP1 modulated the Bcl-2/Bax ratio, inhibited caspase 3/9 activation, and promoted p130Cas phosphorylation with increased MMP1/9 expression. NRP1 also colocalized with PDGFR-α, suggesting a potential role in PDGF-BB signaling. In vivo, NRP1-overexpressing exosome showed superior efficacy in reducing pulmonary edema, vascular leakage, and restoring tight junction proteins, whereas NRP1 depletion impaired these effects. Conclusion: NRP1 in MSC-Exo enhances endothelial repair by promoting proliferation and migration while inhibiting apoptosis. In vivo, NRP1-enriched MSC-Exo improve vascular barrier function and attenuate lung injury, supporting their therapeutic potential in ALI.© The Author(s) 2026.
Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) is the most common type of primary endocrine malignancy. The tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) and genetic alterations play crucial roles in the progression of PTC. With the advance in research, there has been a heightened focus on re-evaluating molecular targeted therapies and identifying novel targets through molecular biology-based approaches. This study aimed to identify robust prognostic biomarkers and to construct a reliable risk model for patients with PTC by integrating multiomics data.RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) data from six Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets and genome-wide association study (GWAS) data were integrated to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and facilitate Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis for causal inference. The CIBERSORT algorithm was employed to evaluate immune cell infiltration. A prognostic risk model was constructed via least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) Cox regression and validated in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and GEO cohorts. Functional experiments, including Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), transwell, and wound-healing assays, were conducted to investigate the role of the key gene ALOX15B in PTC cells.We identified seven PTC-associated genes (ALOX15B, TIAM1, TMC6, GPX3, RAP1GAP, JUN, and PAPSS2) through expression quantitative trait loci and MR analysis. A robust three-gene risk model (ALOX15B, RAP1GAP, and JUN) was established. Patients in the high-risk group exhibited significantly poorer progression-free survival (PFS), which was confirmed to be an independent prognostic factor by multivariate analysis [hazard ratio =1.355, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.052-1.746; P=0.02]. The high-risk group was characterized by an immunosuppressive TIME-including decreased CD8+ T-cell and increased regulatory T-cell abundance-higher tumor mutational burden, and a higher frequency of BRAF mutations. Conversely, the low-risk group showed a higher prevalence of NRAS mutations. In addition, functional assays in vitro revealed that ALOX15B markedly enhanced the proliferative, migratory, and invasive capacities of PTC cells.A novel three-gene signature was developed and was demonstrated to be an independent prognostic indicator for patients with PTC. This model effectively reflects the intrinsic characteristics of the TIME and genomic instability and can inform risk stratification and therapeutic targeting. Due to its oncogenic activity, ALOX15B may represent a viable therapeutic target in PTC.© AME Publishing Company.
Mutations in several translation initiation factors are closely associated with premature ovarian insufficiency (POI). In this study, we demonstrated that the conditional knockout of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2B (eIF2B) subunits Eif2b2, Eif2b3, Eif2b4 or Eif2b5, but not Eif2b1, in mouse oocytes of primordial follicles caused oocyte apoptosis within the early growing follicles. Integrative Ribo-seq and RNA-seq analysis revealed the upregulation of integrated stress response- and DNA damage-related genes, and the downregulation of oocyte development-related genes in Eif2b4-cKO oocytes. Then, further research indicated that the depletion of Eif2b4 in oocytes resulted in mitochondrial dysfunctions characterized by decreased mitochondrial membrane potential, mtDNA copy numbers, and ATP content, along with excessive accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). At the same time, the depletion of Eif2b4 in oocytes resulted in the increased levels of DNA damage response (DDR) proteins (NBS1, p-ATM, p-CHK2, and p53) and proapoptotic protein BAX, as well as the decreased levels of DNA damage repair protein Polβ and anti-apoptotic protein BCL-xL. Collectively, these findings indicate that the depletion of eIF2B subunits in mouse oocytes leads to oocyte apoptosis within the early growing follicles by DNA damage and mitochondrial dysfunction. This study provides new insights into the pathogenesis and genetic diagnosis of POI.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42394776 is a review article
Human stem cell-derived miniature organs, including kidney organoids, reproduce aspects of tissue development but lack reliable spatial patterning. In embryos, spatial organization is often established by developmental organizers that generate morphogenetic fields. However, how such organizing geometry operates in kidney nephrogenesis-and whether it can be reconstructed in vitro-has remained unclear. Using spatial transcriptomics of human kidney development, we found that nascent nephrons establish a collecting duct adjacent-to-distant polarity bordering a WNT11-WNT9B signaling boundary. Engineered WNT-secreting cellular organizers introduced into kidney organoids restored this organizing geometry, biasing distal nephron differentiation and orienting nephron morphogenesis toward the signal source, which demonstrates that developmental signaling geometry can be reconstructed synthetically to control tissue patterning.
Pancreatic cancer remains a devastating disease with limited therapeutic options. Accumulating evidence has shown that cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) and tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), the predominant cells in the pancreatic cancer (PDAC) tumor microenvironment (TME), hinder anti-tumor immunity. However, the role of extracellular vesicles (EVs) in such process is poorly understood. In this study, using human bone-marrow-derived monocytes and PDAC tumor cells, we show that tumor cell-derived EVs (TC-EVs) induced monocyte differentiation towards M2-like immunosuppressive CD200R+/PD-L1+/HLA-DR- macrophages that express ALOX15b, that we identify as an independent PDAC poor-prognosis biomarker using a human pancreatic cancer metacohort. We also demonstrate that TC-EVs reprogram human primary PDAC CAFs, causing a fibronectin network reorganization associated with changes in extracellular matrix (ECM) composition, including alterations of the Wnt pathway elements such as SFRP1 enrichment. We further reveal that monocytes cultured on rSFRP1-enriched ECM differentiate also into M2-like immunosuppressive macrophages. Lastly, we demonstrate that both directly and indirectly TC-EVs, or rSFRP1-enriched ECM, driven differentiated macrophages hindered T-cell activation and subsequent anti-tumor activity. Our findings highlight novel, dual mechanisms of TC-EVs-mediated crosstalk, involving Alox15b+-Macrophages and SFRP1+-CAFs, that simultaneously contribute to foster the immunosuppressive ecosystem of pancreatic cancer.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is defined by aberrant hepatic lipid accumulation, yet the regulatory mechanisms underlying this process remain incompletely understood. Although epitranscriptomic modifications have emerged as key regulators of hepatic lipid homeostasis, the role of N7-methylguanosine (m7G) modification in hepatic steatosis remains unclear.Histological and immunohistochemistry studies were used to assess lipid deposition in free fatty acids (FFAs)-incubated AML12 and HepG2 cells, high-fat diet (HFD)-fed mice, and human liver samples from MASLD patients. Stable overexpression and knockdown of methyltransferase like 1 (METTL1) were established to investigate the effects of METTL1 on m7G methylation and hepatocellular lipid metabolism. RNA-sequencing and RNA immunoprecipitation-quantitative-PCR (RIP-qPCR) analysis were performed to identify downstream molecular targets of METTL1.METTL1 expression was significantly increased in fatty liver tissues from both human and mouse compared with corresponding controls. METTL1 knockdown markedly attenuated FFAs-induced lipid accumulation in hepatocytes, whereas METTL1 overexpression exacerbated this phenotype. Notably, enforced ALOX15B expression reversed the attenuation of hepatic lipid accumulation induced by METTL1 knockdown. Mechanistically, METTL1 enhances the stability of ALOX15B mRNA through depositing m7G modifications, thereby elevating ALOX15B protein levels, activating ERK1/2 pathway and promoting hepatic steatosis.Our findings identify a METTL1-ALOX15B epitranscriptomic regulatory axis in which METTL1-dependent m7G modification of ALOX15B mRNA and promote hepatic steatosis, highlighting a potential therapeutic target for MASLD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Docetaxel (DTX) resistance remains a major barrier in metastatic prostate cancer, often driven by ABCB1 efflux and activation of survival pathways. We investigated the therapeutic impact of itraconazole (ITZ), a multifunctional antifungal agent with activity against Hedgehog/GLI signalling and ABCB1 efflux, in DTX-resistant prostate cancer xenograft models (PC3R and DU145R). Tumour growth was analysed longitudinally, metastatic burden assessed by hCD44-positive micrometastasis enumeration, and pharmacodynamic responses evaluated through Ki-67 indexes, necrotic fractions, and Gli1 expression. Neither DTX alone, ITZ alone, nor their combination reduced primary tumour growth or cumulative tumour burden. However, the combination suppressed development of lung micrometastases in both models. ITZ and DTX+ITZ reduced Ki-67 and Gli1 levels, demonstrating inhibition of proliferation and Hedgehog signalling despite the absence of tumour shrinkage. ITZ monotherapy was well tolerated, whereas DTX-containing regimens produced expected systemic toxicity. These results indicate antimetastatic and pathway-modulating activity of ITZ in resistant prostate cancer and support its further evaluation as a rational adjunct to taxanes in treatment contexts where metastatic control is a key therapeutic objective.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562963 is a review article
Next-generation HER2-targeted therapies including tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) improve survival of HER2-positive cancer patients. However, mechanisms of primary and acquired resistance remain unclear. Here, we reported that primary HER2-specific targeted therapy (tucatinib) resistant or sensitive breast cancers derived from clinical trial patients exhibited differential protein profiles. Prolonged tucatinib exposure induced autophagy pathway enrichment in HER2-positive breast cancer cells. Integrated high-throughput analyses identified A-kinase anchoring protein (AKAP)13 as a critical molecule involved in both primary and acquired resistance and an independent predictor of poor prognosis. Silencing of AKAP13 significantly diminished novel HER2-targeted therapies resistance. Mechanistically, AKAP13 inhibits autophagosome formation by suppressing the expression of ULK1, a kinase essential for autophagy initiation. ULK1 transcription is driven by GLI1, which binds to the ULK1 promoter via its arginine-592 residue. We further elucidated that the RhoGEF domain of AKAP13 activates RhoA, which subsequently triggers the activation of PKA anchored to AKAP13. The activated PKA then inhibits the nuclear translocation of GLI1, thereby repressing its transcriptional activity on ULK1. In vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated the synergistic efficacy of tucatinib and AKAP13 inhibitor A13. In the validation phase, organoids were constructed using tissue obtained via puncture from patients resistant to trastuzumab deruxtecan, confirming upregulation of AKAP13 and A13-mediated reversal of resistance to novel HER2-targeted therapies. Collectively, these findings highlight the role of AKAP13 in drug resistance and propose A13 as a promising therapeutic strategy for HER2-positive breast cancer. Model diagram of this study and proposed molecular mechanisms.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Hedgehog (HH) signaling plays a complex role in epithelial-stromal interactions, but its effects on gastrointestinal stem cells mediated by heterogeneous stromal cell populations remain incompletely defined. Here, we investigate how stromal HH signaling regulates gastric stem cells and tumorigenesis in a segment-specific manner.We genetically activated HH signaling in distinct stromal cell lineages using Col1a2-, Pdgfra-, Gli1-, Acta2-, and Prrx1-CreERT mouse lines, combined with lineage tracing, RNA-seq, ChIP-qPCR, and pharmacological interventions. Human gastric cancer data from TCGA were also analyzed.We show that genetic activation of HH signaling in stromal cells marked by Col1a2, Pdgfra, or Gli1, but not by Acta2, induces tumorigenesis in the stomach and gastroesophageal junction, but not in small or large intestine. HH signaling increases the expression of multiple BMP antagonists in gastric but not colonic stromal cells, via Gli1-mediated transcription. These BMP antagonists in turn activate Wnt/β-catenin signaling in gastric stem cells, driving their proliferation and initiating gastric cancer expressing CD44 and Sox9, but not Lgr5. Activating BMP or inhibiting Wnt signaling blocks tumor initiation. TCGA patient data analysis reveals elevated HH signaling in gastric cancers, which correlates with suppressed BMP signaling.These findings uncover a gastrointestinal segment-specific oncogenic role for HH signaling in Col1a2+Acta2- stromal cells, mediated through the BMP-Wnt/β-catenin axis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552286 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42550920 is a review article
The clinical outcome of urothelial carcinoma presents significant variability, reflecting its molecular composition, epidemiologic attributes, and primary site of origin. Despite histological similarities, upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) and bladder urothelial carcinoma (BLCA) represent two distinct disease entities with disparate treatment responses and mutational patterns.To assess the impact of molecular heterogeneity on treatment outcomes, we conducted a comprehensive genomic analysis of 231 metastatic urothelial carcinoma patients, including 175 patients with BLCA and 56 patients with UTUC, in the K-MASTER program.Our investigation unveiled dynamic molecular properties and mutational patterns in key molecules, including TP53, FGFR3, CREBBP, and SPEN. BLCA patients demonstrated enrichment of APOBEC mutational signature activities, whereas UTUC patients were characterized by activation of the cell cycle pathway. Transcriptome analysis uncovered unique biological signatures, highlighting increased cell migration and WNT signaling in BLCA, while FGFR3 and stem-cell-like pathways predominated in UTUC. Moreover, our study highlighted increased resistance to platinum-based chemotherapy and immunotherapy among UTUC patients. Importantly, tumor mutational burden (TMB) emerged as a robust independent predictor of immunotherapy response in BLCA. Additionally, a machine learning-based multivariable model identified FGFR3 mutation as a molecular determinant associated with favorable clinical outcomes, in contrast to FGFR2 mutations, which were linked to increased resistance to chemotherapy. The study also has limitations, including a limited sample size of UTUC patients and a lack of functional validation of the identified molecular mechanism.Our findings provide unprecedented insights into the significance of molecular and clinical disparities in urothelial carcinoma, facilitating disease-specific treatment interventions.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a highly aggressive, molecularly heterogeneous biliary tract malignancy and the second most common primary liver cancer, and it has an increasing global incidence and persistently poor prognosis. Recent updates of international guidelines, including those from the NCCN, ESMO, EASL, CSCO, BSG, and Japanese societies, along with rapid advances in precision oncology, have substantially changed the clinical management of CCA. This review systematically compares current global guidelines, highlighting both areas of consensus and regional differences in epidemiology, risk factors, screening strategies, diagnostic approaches, pathological and molecular classification, staging systems, surgical indications, systemic therapy, and multidisciplinary management. This review also summarizes recent advances in molecular diagnostics, including next-generation sequencing, liquid biopsy, circulating tumor DNA, extracellular vesicles, artificial intelligence-assisted imaging, radiomics, and emerging prognostic biomarkers. The evolving roles of immune checkpoint inhibitors, molecularly targeted therapies against FGFR2, IDH1, HER2, BRAF, NTRK, and MSI-H/dMMR, liver transplantation, locoregional treatment, and conversion (translational) therapy are also discussed. Finally, this review addresses current challenges, including drug resistance, limited access to molecular testing, regional disparities in healthcare resources, and the lack of universally accepted screening strategies. By integrating updated guideline recommendations with the latest clinical evidence, this review provides a comprehensive reference for evidence-based clinical decision-making and future translational research in CCA.
A transplanted lung offers a permissive milieu for local adaptive immune cell responses. Here, we characterize a transcriptionally and anatomically distinct adult lung-resident mesenchymal stromal population (MSC) that supports a pro-survival niche for antibody-secreting cells in rejecting lung allografts through a novel IL-6 trans-signaling/CXCL12 axis. By using a mouse orthotopic lung transplant model and Blimp1 EYFP recipients, we identify spatial localization of antibody-secreting cells (ASCs) and terminally differentiated plasma cells (PCs) along the bronchovascular bundles (BVBs). A previously described Foxf1 + Gli1 + Itga8 - subset of collagen- expressing MSCs, which forms a 3-dimensional network along the bronchovascular bundles (BVB-MSCs), was found to be the major source of the PC survival factors CXCL12 and IL-6. Cxcl12 iCre/ERT2 Rosa26 tdTomato mice utilized as donors, validated the expansion of this population in a rejecting graft and their intimate association with ASCs. CXCL12 expression was increased in murine allografts and in Foxf1 + mesenchymal cells (MCs) isolated from human CLAD patients. IL-6 trans-signaling/STAT3 signaling axis was shown to upregulate CXCL12 secretion in human MCs, and Olamkicept-mediated neutralization of IL-6 trans-signaling in murine RAS attenuates CXCL12 expression, intra-graft ASC population, and fibrogenesis. Our findings represent the first delineation of specialized CXCL12-expressing mesenchymal stromal cells in adult lungs and the contribution of IL-6 trans-signaling driven CXCL12 expression to sustaining intra-graft ASC niches and allograft fibrogenesis.We characterize CXCL12-expressing mesenchymal cells and their role in a pro-survival niche for antibody-secreting cells in rejecting lung allografts.
GLI1-altered mesenchymal neoplasms are a recently described tumour group characterized by gene fusions or amplifications involving GLI1. They show a wide anatomical distribution and harbour potential to metastasize. This study aims to add to the data on GLI1-altered mesenchymal tumours involving the dermis and subcutis.Departmental files were searched for GLI1-altered mesenchymal neoplasms involving the dermis and/or subcutis. Clinicopathological features were reviewed, and cases were assessed by immunohistochemistry, GLI1 in situ hybridization, and targeted next-generation sequencing.Eight tumours were identified and located on the scalp (n = 3), gluteal region (n = 2), inguinal region (n = 1), supraclavicular area (n = 1), and the left index finger (n = 1). Seven men and one woman were affected (aged 24-78 years, median 53). Histopathologically, the tumours showed a multinodular growth pattern within the dermis and/or subcutaneous adipose tissue, were composed of ovoid cells with mild to moderate atypia, arranged in nests, sheets or strands. Most of them were associated with a rich capillary network. Mitotic activity was variable (0-22 per 10 high power fields). Necrosis was present in two cases. Gene fusion testing demonstrated a novel TUBA1A::GLI1 fusion in one of three cases tested. This tumour showed strong SOX10 and S100 positivity by immunohistochemistry while the remaining tumours were negative or only focally positive for both markers. All patients were alive at last follow-up: seven disease-free without recurrences and one patient with advanced localized disease and metastasis to bone.Superficial GLI1-altered mesenchymal tumours show a spectrum of histopathological presentations, inconsistent immunophenotypes and variable biological behaviour.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
DNA methylation might influence the expression of genes that regulate coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) progression. This work explored the significance of DNA methylation of 7 genes (TAC1, CDO1, HOXA9, ZFP42, SOX17, RASSF1A, and SHOX2) in blood circulating free DNA (cfDNA) in differentiating COVID-19 infections and recoveries. The correlation with changes in the proportion of immune cell populations in the recovery period was analyzed.18 COVID-19-infected, 65 COVID-19-recovered, and 11 uninfected individuals were included. DNA methylation expression was determined by quantitative multiplex methylation-specific PCR (qMSP). The immune function of the recovered group versus uninfected group was evaluated by full-spectrum flow cytometry.The infected population showed a higher methylation positivity rate for 7 genes compared to the uninfected/recovered population. A model was constructed to distinguish the infected patients from uninfected/recovered individuals using the methylation status of 7 genes, with a sensitivity, specificity and area under curve (AUC) of 0.889, 0.842 and 0.931, respectively. The results of flow cytometry revealed that CD8+ T cells and CD38+ CD8+ T cells were significantly upregulated in recovered individuals compared to those in uninfected individuals. DNA methylation was correlated with immune cell changes, with a significant increase in the percentage of T cells, PD-1+ function CD4+ T cells, TCRγδ+ cells, and CD38+ NKT cells upon an increase in 7 gene methylation positivity.This work revealed the significance of 7 gene methylation in the diagnosis of COVID-19 recovery, and demonstrated that these genes were significant in evaluating the immune function during the recovery period.Copyright (c) 2026 Xiao Xiao, Ren Xu, Chaoxiang Du, Jun Yin, Beibei Xin, Zhonghe Ke, Xiyan Li, Hao Zhang, Xinyu Chen.
This study explores the mechanism of TRIM16 on osteogenic differentiation of human periodontal ligament stem cells (hPDLSCs) in an inflammatory microenvironment. hPDLSCs were cultured and identified by flow cytometry and osteogenesis/adipogenesis induction. hPDLSCs were maintained with P. gingivalis LPS and induced by osteogenic differentiation. TRIM16, HOXA10, and KLF5 expression was tested via RT-qPCR and Western blot. After overexpression of TRIM16, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-1β levels were examined via ELISA. Osteogenic differentiation of hPDLSCs was validated by Alizarin red staining, ALP staining, and Western blot. The binding of TRIM16 to HOXA10 was detected by Co-IP, and the ubiquitinated HOXA10-containing complexes were measured. Dual luciferase assay and ChIP analyzed the enrichment of HOXA10 on the KLF5 promoter. LPS treatment reduces TRIM16 and KLF5 expression, while elevating HOXA10 protein level. Overexpression of TRIM16 alleviates inflammation in LPS-induced hPDLSCs and enhances osteogenic differentiation. Mechanistically, TRIM16 inhibits HOXA10 protein level via ubiquitination, thereby abating the enrichment of HOXA10 on the KLF5 promoter and promoting the expression of KLF5. In conclusion, TRIM16 facilitates osteogenic differentiation of hPDLSCs in an inflammatory microenvironment via HOXA10/KLF5 axis.© 2026 International Federation for Cell Biology.
Rabbit meat is widely recognized for its favorable nutritional properties, while the molecular mechanisms underlying differences in meat quality between New Zealand White rabbits and Rex rabbits are essential for rabbit production. In this study, a total of 120 healthy 13-week-old rabbits (60 per group) were used to evaluate meat quality traits. The longissimus dorsi muscle (LDM) was then collected for transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses. The results showed that New Zealand White rabbits exhibited significantly higher live weight before slaughter, eviscerated weight, semi-eviscerated weight, and pH24 (p < 0.01), whereas Rex rabbits displayed higher cooking loss (p < 0.01) and intramuscular fat content (p < 0.05). Metabolomic profiling identified 218 differential metabolites (DMs), which were mainly enriched in amino acid biosynthesis and the pentose phosphate pathway, including key metabolites such as DL-arginine, gallic acid, and lipid-related compounds. Transcriptomic analysis identified 227 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) enriched in pathways associated with muscle development and meat quality, including oxidative phosphorylation, FoxO, and MAPK signaling pathways. Key DEGs, such as MYH13, HOXA13, and PDK4, were associated with muscle fiber formation and fat deposition. Integrated analysis revealed that 34 DEGs and 24 DMs were co-enriched in 26 pathways, with strong correlations observed between oxidative phosphorylation-related genes and energy metabolites, as well as between collagen-associated genes and amino acids. These findings establish a gene-metabolite regulatory network underlying breed-specific differences in meat quality and identify potential molecular markers to improve rabbit meat quality and to better understand muscle metabolism across different rabbit breeds.© 2026 Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42519171 is a review article
Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) regulate gene expression, chromatin organization, and cellular signaling. Although traditionally considered non-coding, 21% of the ~190,000 annotated lncRNA transcripts contain poorly characterized open reading frames with unknown function.We systematically identified lncRNAs encoding micropeptides (MPs) using integrated computational and experimental evidence. Expression profiles across 17 cancer types from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) were analyzed to identify cancer-associated and transitional lncRNAs (Tr-lncRNAs). Structural modeling using AlphaFold was further applied to predict folding.We identified 478 lncRNA genes encoding 1782 MPs (10-100 amino acids). These MPs exhibit distinct amino acid and dipeptide compositions and are enriched for specific 4-mer motifs compared with canonical proteins. A subset of lncRNAs, including TNN-AS1, PVT1, XIST, and SNHG family members, encode multiple MPs. Analysis across cancer stages identified 2399 Tr-lncRNAs, most of them were cancer type and stage specific. Among these, 314 highly confident MPs from 72 Tr-lncRNAs were further analyzed. Pan-cancer analysis suggested MP-like functions for Tr-lncRNAs such as LINC01234, HAND2-AS1, XIST, UCA1, and HOXA11-AS. While most MPs are predicted to be intrinsically disordered, 3D structural modeling revealed several MPs with stable folds, including ubiquitin-like and RNase H-like structures.Tr-lncRNA-derived MPs represent a previously underexplored class of potentially functional molecules associated with cancer clinical annotation and may serve as biomarkers for disease progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
(1) Background: KMT2A (alias MLL) is located at chromosome 11q23 and encodes histone methyltransferase 2A which activates target genes via chromatin methylation of histone H3 lysine K4. Mutations of KMT2A, including partial tandem duplication (PTD) and fusion with partner genes, are present in both lymphoid and myeloid acute leukemia. More than 100 various KMT2A fusion genes have been described, with only a minority represented by cell line models. (2) Methods: Cytogenetic and genomic copy number analyses, PCR, Western blot and RNA-sequencing were performed to characterize aberrations in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell line KOPM-88. Bioinformatic analysis of public AML patient data revealed differentially expressed genes. Functional analyses were performed by siRNA-mediated knockdown and live-cell imaging. (3) Results: The AML cell line KOPM-88 is derived from a boy at relapse and has been reported to carry t(X;11)(q24;q23), albeit with uncharacterized breakpoints. In KOPM-88 we identified fusion gene KMT2A::SEPTIN6 generated by this translocation, but excluded KMT2A-PTD. KMT2A::SEPTIN6 activated bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-signalling and inhibited expression of HOXA7 and HOXA9. BMP signalling in turn activated cell proliferation and inhibited CDKN2B expression. (4) Conclusions: KOPM-88 contains fusion gene KMT2A::SEPTIN6, representing the only cell line model for this rare type of KMT2A rearrangement. KOPM-88 may serve to advance novel therapeutic treatments for KMT2A::SEPTIN6-positive AML.
In goats, embryo implantation is superficial, making endometrial receptivity a key determinant of pregnancy success. Although the NPM1/p53 nucleolar stress pathway is involved in endometrial receptivity in mice and humans, its role in ruminants remains unknown. Using early-pregnancy goat models, in vitro-induced goat endometrial epithelial cells (gEECs), and low-dose Actinomycin D (ActD) to trigger nucleolar stress, we investigated this signaling axis in goat endometrial receptivity. Compared with pre-receptive Day 10 endometrium, receptive Day 16 endometrium showed increased NPM1 expression in epithelial cells, accompanied by its translocation from the nucleolus to the nucleoplasm. Markers of nucleolar stress (p53, p21, MDM2) were upregulated, while pre-rRNA levels were reduced. In gEECs, low-dose ActD effectively activated the NPM1/p53 pathway, which was also activated during in vitro receptivity induction using estrogen, progesterone, and interferon-tau. Activation of this pathway by ActD increased receptivity markers (HOXA10, HOXA11, MSX1), recapitulating changes seen during receptivity induction, whereas Npm1 knockdown attenuated this effect. ActD treatment also activated Wnt/β-catenin signaling. Pretreatment with the Wnt/β-catenin inhibitor Adavivint markedly reduced ActD-induced upregulation of HOXA10 and HOXA11 proteins but did not affect p53 expression. Together, these results indicate that the NPM1/p53 nucleolar stress pathway promotes endometrial receptivity in goats, at least in part, through the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. This work expands understanding of endometrial receptivity in ruminants and provides a basis for further investigation of nucleolar stress in reproductive regulation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are among the most common bacterial infections, yet the genetic factors influencing susceptibility remain poorly understood. We performed a genome-wide association study of recurrent UTI involving 1,860,836 individuals (213,869 cases and 1,646,967 controls). We identified 36 independent non-HLA genome-wide significant loci encoding kidney epithelial and immune response genes and demonstrated that some loci have sex-specific effects. Integrative functional annotation, expression and protein quantitative trait locus colocalization, and single-cell multi-omic analyses revealed that UTI risk alleles preferentially modulated gene expression in kidney, ureter, and bladder epithelia. Multi-omic prioritization converged on a number of pathogenic pathways: epithelial barrier and mucosal glycocalyx defense (PSCA, UMOD, CLPTM1L, FUT2), innate immune regulation (FES, PTPRC, NEK7, HOTAIR, NFATC1, BTN3A2), infection resolution and regulated cell death (STK3, CASP7, TAX1BP1, ZFP36L2), epithelial identity maintenance (GLIS2, CLDN10, ZFHX3, SPDEF, MPP7), urinary tract development (FGFR2, BMP7, HGF, MET, HOXA9, TSHZ2, WNT7B/LINC00899), and nutritional immunity through iron sequestration (SLC11A2, FAM210B, RPS10). Approximately one-third of loci colocalized with gene expression in kidney tubules, suggesting direct modulation of epithelial host-defense programs. Among all loci, PSCA, which encodes a GPI-anchored epithelial surface protein expressed in the kidney papilla and urinary tract epithelia, emerged as the strongest candidate causal gene. We demonstrated that PSCA was secreted into urine, bound uropathogenic E. coli, and inhibited bacterial growth in vitro, implicating it as a constitutive epithelial defense factor. We also demonstrated that while PSCA was protective against urinary infections and duodenal ulcers, it was associated with increased risk of bladder, prostate, and gastric cancers, suggesting antagonistic pleiotropy between mucosal defenses and oncogenesis. Together, our findings define the polygenic architecture of UTI susceptibility, highlighting epithelial surface defense, innate immune regulation, developmental patterning, and nutritional immunity as central components of host defense, providing a new framework for host-directed, non-antibiotic interventions.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is characterized by insulin resistance and hormonal imbalances. Cangfudaotan Decoction (CFD), a traditional Chinese medicine formula, has been used empirically in the management of PCOS, but experimental evidence for its efficacy and mechanistic basis remains limited. This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic effects and mechanisms of CFD in PCOS.UHPLC-MS analysis identified bioactive compounds in CFD, followed by network pharmacology analysis. For in vivo validation, female Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly allocated into four groups (n = 10 per group): Control, PCOS, PCOS-Metformin, and PCOS-CFD. The letrozole-induced PCOS rat model was further treated with metformin (50 mg/kg/d) or CFD (8.53 g/kg/d) for 4 weeks. Evaluated were hormonal profiles, inflammatory cytokines, endometrial receptivity markers, and mTOR pathway proteins.Chemical profiling of Cangfudaotan Decoction (CFD) initially identified 60 bioactive compounds. Network pharmacology analysis revealed 280 overlapping targets between CFD and PCOS, with the mTOR signaling pathway highly enriched. Molecular docking indicated potential binding interactions between key compounds (Isocorynoline, Licochalcone B, Papaverine, Medicarpin, Peiminine) and mTOR. In vivo experiments showed that CFD was highly efficient at improving IR, LH, and testosterone suppression, and at restoring estrous cyclicity. Inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, CRP) significantly decreased. CFD upregulated endometrial HOXA10, LIF, and integrin αvβ3 expression in PCOS rats, accompanied by attenuation of overactivated mTOR signaling.CFD treatment improved insulin resistance, restored hormonal balance, and upregulated endometrial receptivity markers in PCOS rats. mTOR was identified as a potential core target. However, further studies are needed to validate the precise role of mTOR and confirm the clinical applicability of CFD in PCOS management.Through chemical profiling and network pharmacology, this study shows that CFD alleviates metabolic and hormonal dysfunction in PCOS while improving endometrial receptivity, possibly by modulating the mTOR signaling pathway in endometrial tissue.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Decidualization of endometrial mesenchymal stem cells (ESCs) is crucial for the implantation of the embryo. Thin endometrium (TE) can impair endometrial receptivity by affecting the decidualization of ESCs. However, how TE affects the decidualization of ESCs remains unclear.Through multiple transcriptome analyses, we found that LGR5 plays a crucial role in the decidualization of ESCs. In vitro, siRNA was used to knock down LGR5 in ESCs, and decidualization was assessed via morphology, qRT-PCR, Western blot, and ELISA for decidualization marker (PRL, IGFBP-1). Colony forming assay, EdU, CFSE, and tube formation were used to evaluate proliferation and secretion. Signaling pathway components (β-catenin, AXIN2, PGR) were analyzed. In vivo, an adeno-associated virus (AAV) delivered shRNA to knock down Lgr5 in mouse uterine to assess endometrial receptivity and pregnancy rates. A TE mouse model was established and treated with decidualized endometrial mesenchymal stem cells (DSCs) or LGR5-knockdown DSCs to evaluate therapeutic efficacy.LGR5 was significantly upregulated during decidualization and downregulated in TE tissues. In vitro, LGR5 knockdown impaired DSCs' morphological transformation, reduced decidualization, restored proliferation, but diminished secretory function and angiogenic potential. Mechanistically, LGR5 knockdown suppressed the β-catenin pathway and downregulated progesterone receptor (PGR). In vivo, Lgr5 knockdown reduced endometrial thickness, receptivity markers (Lif, Hoxa10, Pgr), and embryo implantation numbers. Crucially, transplanting LGR5-knockdown DSCs into TE mice resulted in inferior restoration of endometrial structure, reduced angiogenesis, and lower pregnancy rates compared to DSCs.LGR5 plays an important role in ESCs decidualization and may contribute to the therapeutic efficacy of DSCs for TE repair, potentially through regulation of PGR via the β-catenin pathway. These results indicate that LGR5 represents a candidate target worthy of further investigation for developing function-restoring therapies in TE.© 2026. The Author(s).
Gastric adenocarcinoma (GAC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, particularly in patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis, for whom effective therapies are limited. We investigated the therapeutic efficacy and molecular mechanism of CYD-4-61, a BAX activator, using human GAC cell lines, patient-derived xenograft models, genetically engineered mouse models, and a syngeneic mouse model. CYD-4-61 potently inhibited tumor cell proliferation, induced apoptosis, and suppressed cancer stem cell-like properties, with enhanced activity in radiation-resistant GAC cells. Mechanistically, CYD-4-61 activated the BAX-caspase pathway, leading to SOX9 protein reduction. Integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses identified SOX9-dependent transcriptional programs as major targets of CYD-4-61. Functional rescue experiments together with chromatin immunoprecipitation and CUT&RUN analyses supported CDK4 as a SOX9-regulated gene and demonstrated suppression of the SOX9-CDK4 regulatory axis following CYD-4-61 treatment. In multiple preclinical models, CYD-4-61 significantly inhibited tumor growth and improved the therapeutic response to anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) therapy while modulating the tumor immune microenvironment. Clinically, co-expression of SOX9 and CDK4 was associated with diffuse-type GAC and poor patient outcomes. These findings identify the BAX-SOX9-CDK4 axis as an important mechanism contributing to the antitumor activity of CYD-4-61 and provide a strong preclinical rationale for its further development as a therapeutic strategy for aggressive GAC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
To evaluate the effects of melatonin on chondrogenic and osteogenic differentiation, chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, and inflammatory responses in equine mesenchymal stem cells (eMSCs) in vitro.This in vitro experimental study was conducted from October 2023 through June 2024. The eMSCs were cultured under chondrogenic, osteogenic, and chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation conditions with or without melatonin and exposed to proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1β and tumor necrosis factor-α [TNF-α]). Expression of chondrogenic and osteogenic markers was measured by quantitative reverse-transcription PCR. Concentrations of IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 in culture supernatants were quantified by multiplex immunoassay.In chondrogenic cultures, melatonin was associated with increased collagen type II (COLII) and sex-determining region Y-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9) expression and was associated with higher COLII-to-collagen type I (COLI) and SOX9-to-runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) ratios, consistent with preservation of chondrogenic phenotype. During chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, melatonin increased RUNX2 and ALP expression and decreased COLII:COLI and SOX9:RUNX2 ratios, suggesting promotion of an early osteogenic or hypertrophic shift. In contrast, in osteogenic cultures, melatonin decreased RUNX2, ALP, and COLI expression, indicating context-dependent effects on osteogenic differentiation. Across culture conditions, melatonin significantly reduced IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 concentrations in culture supernatants.Melatonin differentially modulated lineage behavior in eMSCs, preserving chondrogenic characteristics in some settings, promoting early osteogenic transition during transdifferentiation, and suppressing proinflammatory mediator production.These findings support further investigation of melatonin as a potential adjunct for modulating proinflammatory responses during equine cartilage repair and other inflammatory musculoskeletal disorders.
This study aimed to identify a candidate immune-related biomarker for lumbar disc herniation (LDH) and examine the functional relevance of ARG1 in intervertebral disc degeneration. Bioinformatics analysis was performed using the GSE146904 transcriptomic dataset to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and determine the core target. A puncture-induced rat disc degeneration model was then established, followed by in vivo ARG1 gain- and loss-of-function interventions. In vitro assays were used to evaluate the effects of ARG1 on chondrocyte biological behavior, extracellular matrix metabolism, inflammatory responses, and arginine metabolism. In addition, 57 patients with LDH and 68 healthy controls were retrospectively enrolled to assess the diagnostic value of serum ARG1. After multidimensional screening of the high-effect candidate DEGs, ARG1 was the only gene that met the prespecified immune-process, immune-pathway, and skeletal-system annotation criteria and was therefore prioritized for experimental validation. ARG1 was expressed at a low level in degenerated intervertebral disc tissues. ARG1 up-regulation attenuated puncture-induced disc injury and pain sensitization, promoted chondrocyte proliferation, inhibited apoptosis, increased SOX9 and COL2A1 expression, and reduced MMP13 and ADAMTS5 expression. Clinical testing showed that serum ARG1 levels were reduced in patients with LDH and were negatively correlated with Pfirrmann grade and VAS pain score. The area under the curve of serum ARG1 for distinguishing patients with LDH from healthy controls was 0.818. ARG1 was associated with attenuation of puncture-induced disc injury and early degenerative changes and may serve as a candidate auxiliary serum biomarker for LDH assessment and a potential target for future studies of immune-metabolic regulation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564203 is a review article
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is heterogeneous, and hepatocyte plasticity is linked to poorer patient outcomes. A subset of human HCC harboring Tuberous Sclerosis Complex 1 (TSC1) mutations exhibits more aggressive behavior. TFEB is a master regulator of lysosomal biogenesis and cell fate. We analyzed human normal and HCC tissue arrays for TFEB and CK19 expression, as well as bulk and single-cell RNA-seq datasets from mouse and human HCC, to define TFEB-associated transcriptional programs. We performed biochemical, histological, metabolomic, and transcriptomic analyses in liver-specific Tsc1 knockout (L-Tsc1 KO) and L-Tsc1,Tfeb double KO (DKO) mice. Loss of hepatic Tsc1 led to increased phosphorylation of S6 and 4EBP1, with paradoxical increases in TFEB nuclear translocation and activation. L-Tsc1 KO mice showed increased hepatocyte plasticity, decreased HFN4α, increased YAP1 activation, and spontaneous HCC with increased SOX9 and CK19-positive biliary epithelial cell (BEC)-like cells at 8-12 months. Deletion of Tfeb dampened hepatic metabolic reprogramming and hepatocyte fate changes and inhibited tumor progression in L-Tsc1 KO mice. Increased TFEB activity was associated with increased YAP and SOX9 gene expression and high-grade malignant HCC in humans. These findings indicate that loss of hepatic TSC1 leads to non-canonical TFEB activation, promoting hepatocyte plasticity and tumor heterogeneity associated with high-grade malignancy in both mouse and human HCC. .
Kashin-Beck disease (KBD) is an endemic osteochondropathy caused by T-2 toxin, however, the molecular mechanism underlying T-2 toxin-induced chondrocyte damage remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the pathogenic role of T-2 toxin in KBD and develop an EMF-augmented nanotherapy for KBD-related cartilage damage.This study investigated T-2 toxin-induced chondrocyte damage by evaluating protein acetylation, primary cilia integrity and the levels of chondrogenic markers (Sox9, Col2a1). In vitro experiments were performed via pharmacological and genetic SIRT3 inhibition. To protect chondrocytes, si-SIRT3@SPIONs were fabricated, and EMF was applied to improve cell transfection and silencing efficiency. A KBD model in SD rats was used to validate the in vivo therapeutic effect; immunohistochemical staining and micro-CT scanning and reconstruction were performed to comprehensively evaluate in vivo treatment efficacy.Pathological SIRT3 overexpression induced by T-2 toxin disrupted chondrocyte protein acetylation, impaired primary cilia integrity, and suppressed the gene expression of chondrogenic markers. SIRT3 inhibition efficiently protected T-2 toxin-induced chondrocyte cytotoxicity in vitro. Furthermore, EMF-augmented si-SIRT3@SPIONs treatment ameliorated cartilage damage, preserved matrix composition and restored normal chondrocyte phenotype in KBD model rats.T-2 toxin induces chondrocyte injury and promotes KBD progression mainly by disrupting primary cilia integrity and protein acetylation, with SIRT3 overexpression acting as a mediating factor. The EMF-augmented si-SIRT3@SPIONs therapy can effectively protect T-2 toxin-induced primary cilia damage and cartilage degeneration, thus providing a promising therapeutic modality for KBD.© The author(s).
Several gonadal neoplasms harbor recurrent CTNNB1 mutations, including sex cord-stromal tumors, such as Sertoli cell tumor, NOS and gonadal signet ring stromal tumor, ovarian and testicular microcystic stromal tumor (MCST), in addition to gonadal solid pseudopapillary neoplasms (SPN). Despite being classified as separate entities, they have notable morphologic and immunophenotypic similarities. Of note, gonadal SPNs have been regarded as the counterparts of pancreatic SPN, but their relationship remains poorly understood. We analyzed 28 gonadal sex cord-stromal tumors, including testicular Sertoli cell tumors NOS (n=8), MCSTs (n=2), and signet ring stromal tumor (n=6), ovarian MCSTs (n=11), signet ring stromal tumor (n=1), together with ovarian SPNs (n=4) and pancreatic SPNs (n=9). Histologic features were reviewed, and immunohistochemistry for SF-1, SOX9, WT1, β-catenin, inhibin, and calretinin was performed. CTNNB1 mutation status was assessed by NGS in selected cases. DNA methylation profiling was performed successfully in 25 tumors (61%). All gonadal tumors showed overlapping morphologic features, comprising variable combinations of tubular, solid, signet ring and microcystic patterns, although the abundance of individual patterns varied between entities. Pancreatic SPNs showed similar cytologic features to gonadal tumors and commonly exhibited solid and pseudopapillary architecture with frequent cystic structures but lacked true tubular differentiation. Immunohistochemically, SF-1 expression was present in 27/31 (87%) tested gonadal tumors whereas all pancreatic SPNs were negative (4/4). Diffuse nuclear β-catenin expression was identified in all evaluable gonadal and pancreatic tumors (35/35, 100%). SOX9 and WT1 were expressed in 19/21 (90%) and 24/25 (96%) of gonadal tumors, respectively. In contrast, pancreatic SPNs were negative for SF-1 and WT1 in all evaluable cases (4/4 each), with only a single case showing focal SOX9 positivity. Inhibin and calretinin expression was largely absent in gonadal tumors, with only rare focal or weak positivity (3 cases) and a single ovarian MCST showing diffuse calretinin expression. Methylation analysis demonstrated closely related epigenetic profiles among gonadal CTNNB1-driven tumors, regardless of their histologic classification, whereas pancreatic SPNs formed a separate cluster. These findings indicate that several CTNNB1-driven tumors of the gonads currently classified as different entities share morphologic, immunophenotypic, and epigenetic features, supporting the concept that they represent variations within the same spectrum. Despite some morphologic overlap, these gonadal tumors are different from pancreatic SPN based on DNA methylation signatures.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
▒: Serum-free expanded hair follicle mesenchymal stem cells (hfMSCs) maintained mesenchymal phenotype and multipotency during static and stirred suspension bioreactor (SSB) expansion and promoted histological cartilage repair in a murine full-thickness cartilage defect model, with minimal direct engraftment yet expressing of a number of secreted protein (in vitro and in vivo), supporting a primarily paracrine mechanism of action.● Osteoarthritis is characterized by irreversible cartilage degeneration and limited intrinsic repair, and current treatments largely address symptoms rather than restoring cartilage structure. ● Mesenchymal stem cell therapies show promise for cartilage repair but are constrained by invasive tissue harvest, donor variability, and the need for scalable, serum-free biomanufacturing approaches.● hfMSCs obtained by minimally invasive hair plucking represent an accessible MSC source, but their performance after serum-free static and SSB expansion for cartilage repair has not been fully defined.● hfMSCs from four adult donors were adapted from fetal bovine serum-containing media into a fully defined serum-free medium (PPRF-MSC-6) and expanded in either 2D static flasks or SSBs using Cultispher G microcarriers under serum-free conditions. ● Phenotype and potency were assessed by flow cytometry for canonical MSC markers and lack of hematopoietic markers, along with tri-lineage (osteogenic, adipogenic, chondrogenic) differentiation assays and quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics with pathway analysis. ● A NOD SCID murine full-thickness femoral groove cartilage defect model was used; one week post-injury, mice received intra-articular injections of 1 × 10⁵ hfMSCs (static- or SSB-expanded, male or female donor) or phosphate-buffered saline, followed by Safranin O-based histological scoring and immunofluorescent detection of human nuclear antigen and human SOX9 at four weeks post-injury.● Serum-free hfMSC expansion achieved robust proliferation in static culture (∼8-12-fold over 5 days) and comparable or greater proliferation in SSBs (∼15-fold in a representative donor), while preserving MSC surface marker expression and tri-lineage differentiation capacity across donors and culture formats.● Both static- and SSB-expanded hfMSCs significantly improved histological cartilage repair scores relative to phosphate-buffered saline controls, with regenerated tissue showing Safranin O-positive matrix, restoration of cartilage architecture, and integration with native cartilage. ● Human cell engraftment within the repair tissue was low with minimal SOX9 co-localization, and proteomic profiling revealed only modest differences between static and SSB conditions, with ZNF703 as the sole protein significantly upregulated. hfMSCs expressed a number of secreted proteins in vitro and in vivo including follistatin and α2-Macroglobulin.● hfMSCs derived from plucked hair follicles can be expanded under fully defined serum-free conditions in either static flasks or SSBs while retaining mesenchymal phenotype, multipotency, and cartilage reparative function in vivo.● The comparable repair outcomes between static- and SSB-expanded cells, together with minimal proteomic alterations, indicate that scalable serum-free bioreactor processing can generate therapeutically competent hfMSCs suitable for translational cartilage repair applications.● Potential donor- and sex-associated variability in proliferation, engraftment patterns, and repair scores highlight the need for donor screening and standardized potency assays, and future studies in more chronic and immunocompetent models are warranted to define long-term efficacy and mechanistic contributions of hfMSC paracrine signaling.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The clinical translation of mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-based therapies for cartilage repair is limited by inefficient lineage specification and the frequent formation of mechanically inferior fibrocartilage. Here, we present a gene-activated scaffold strategy that couples transient mRNA delivery with a structurally defined biomaterial to program ectopic chondrogenesis. Lipid nanoparticle-mediated delivery of SOX9 mRNA within a microfluidically engineered porous scaffold induces a transcriptional response in MSCs, initiating a chondrogenic program without the need for sustained growth factor stimulation. In three-dimensional spheroid and scaffold models, SOX9 mRNA drives robust upregulation of cartilage-specific genes, including ACAN and COL2A1, while limiting fibrocartilage- and hypertrophy-associated markers. Transcriptomic analysis reveals that this response is characterized by coordinated activation of extracellular matrix organization and regulatory signaling pathways, consistent with the establishment of a self-reinforcing differentiation trajectory. Importantly, this transcriptional program is preserved within the scaffold microenvironment, enabling efficient ectopic lineage specification. Following subcutaneous implantation, MSC-laden scaffolds exhibit progressive extracellular matrix deposition, sustained expression of chondrogenic markers, and the formation of lacunae-like structures over time, indicative of tissue maturation. While this ectopic model does not recapitulate the native joint environment, the persistence of cartilage-like features supports the durability of the initial transcriptional programming. Together, these findings demonstrate that a transient mRNA-encoded transcriptional cue, when combined with a permissive three-dimensional scaffold, is sufficient to initiate and sustain chondrogenesis across biological scales. This work establishes a framework for mRNA-enabled biomaterials to direct cell fate and provides a foundation for the development of single-stage strategies for cartilage regeneration.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42557579
Hair cell regeneration from supporting cells declines rapidly during early postnatal development, limiting therapeutic applications. We demonstrate that strategic microenvironmental remodeling can dramatically enhance inner ear progenitor cell (IEPC) function beyond what conventional marker-based approaches predict. Using functional screening focused on differentiation capacity rather than single progenitor markers (Lgr5), we discovered that concurrent Sonic hedgehog activation and BMP inhibition create a synergistic niche environment. This dual signaling approach generated high-purity Sox2+/Ki67+ IEPCs from postnatal day 7 (P7) supporting cells with 50.83%±1.76% hair cell differentiation efficiency. Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that this strategy drives progenitor reprogramming by activating inner ear developmental gene programs while suppressing supporting cell identity. Regenerated hair cells exhibited functional mechanotransduction, voltage-gated currents, and drug sensitivity profiles. Importantly, this microenvironmental control strategy remained effective up to the P9 stage, demonstrating that niche reconstruction can overcome developmental stage-specific limitations in progenitor function. These findings establish niche remodeling as a powerful framework for enhancing stem cell therapeutic potential.© 2026. Science China Press.
The Fucci mouse lines are valuable tools for tracing cell cycle stages during development and in postnatal tissues; however, the insertion loci for the transgenes remain unidentified. Here, we report the genomic insertion sites of both the Fucci-G1 and -S/G2/M transgenes, identified through whole-genome sequencing. Interestingly, the Fucci-G1 transgene is located proximal to the Shh lung gut enhancer (SLGE) on chromosome 5. Homozygous Fucci-G1 embryos are perinatal lethal but survive until embryonic day (E)18.5, exhibiting craniofacial and foregut-related defects. Expression of Shh and canonical targets are downregulated in the pharyngeal arches of E11.5 homozygous Fucci-G1 embryos. Furthermore, in situ hybridization analysis showed diminished Shh expression in the pharyngeal and foregut endoderm, consistent with disruptions to SLGE activity. Our results indicate that heterozygous Fucci-G1 mice are suitable for cell cycle studies; however, we caution potential genetic interference when investigating SHH-related pathways.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Recurrent hemorrhagic pleural effusion presents as a challenge for both the clinician and the patient, with common causes being tuberculosis, malignancy, and collagen vascular diseases. Among uncommon causes of recurrent hemorrhagic effusion is catamenial hemothorax, which is a part of thoracic endometriosis syndrome (TES). Endometriosis is the extrauterine growth of endometrial glands and stroma. It is relatively common among women of reproductive age-group, with reported incidence of around 11%. Although rare, the thorax is the most common extraabdominal site for endometriosis. Here we present a rare case of recurrent hemorrhagic pleural effusion due to thoracic endometriosis in a young female with infertility. A 33-year-old female housewife presented with dyspnea on exertion modified Medical Research Council (mMRC) grade 2 and dry cough occasionally for 6 months. She had a history of tubercular cervical lymphadenopathy for which she was on treatment. Therapeutic thoracocentesis was performed thrice in 4 months. Routine microscopy showed predominantly lymphocytes, mesothelial cells, and numerous foamy histiocytes, some pigment laden. There were no malignant cells or acid-fast bacilli (AFB) detected in the fluid. Pleural fluid amylase and lipase were normal. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) thorax showed moderate right-sided pleural effusion without any evident parenchymal lesions, pleural lesions, or mediastinal lymphadenopathy. Ultrasonography (USG) abdomen and pelvis showed mild ascites which was nontappable. As we had not reached a definitive diagnosis, medical thoracoscopy was performed. It showed moderate hemorrhagic pleural fluid in the pleural cavity and a small raised erythematous glandular tissue on the parietal pleural surface from which biopsy was taken. Histopathology showed an island of endometrial stroma with a single gland. Immunohistochemistry was performed on this section, which was PAX8 and CD10 positive, confirming the diagnosis of thoracic endometriosis. Pleurodesis with talc slurry was done to prevent further refilling of the effusion. Gynecology opinion was sought, and patient was started on monthly subcutaneous injections of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analogue for 3 months. Chest X-ray after 3 months showed no refilling of pleural effusion. Catamenial hemothorax is the second commonest manifestation of TES, occurring in approximately 14% of cases. It affects the right side in about 80% of the cases. Diagnosis is based on high degree of suspicion and is often delayed. Video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) remains the gold standard for diagnosis and management of TES. Medical thoracoscopy is a viable alternative in resource-poor settings or when diagnosis is not confirmed. On histology, diagnosis is confirmed by the presence of endometriotic glands or stroma, which may also show stromal arterioles, erythrocytes, and pigmented histiocytes. In difficult-to-diagnose cases, CD10 immunohistochemical staining can help in diagnosis of endometrial tissue. There are various treatment modalities considered in the management of catamenial hemothorax, like surgical resection, medical management along with pleurodesis, combination therapy, or in some cases, simple observation. Currently, VATS with GnRH analogue therapy is considered the gold standard of management.© Journal of the Association of Physicians of India 2026.
Renal tubular injury drives the progression of diabetic kidney disease (DKD) and represents a promising therapeutic target. PDZK1, a scaffolding protein highly expressed in proximal tubules, regulates tubular reabsorption; however, its role in the metabolic dysregulation underlying DKD remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the contribution of PDZK1 to metabolic dysfunction during DKD progression.We induced DKD in C57BL/6 J mice using a high-fat diet (HFD) combined with streptozotocin (STZ). Quantitative proteomic analysis of the renal cortex revealed marked downregulation of PDZK1, which was subsequently confirmed in both murine DKD models and human DKD patients. To assess PDZK1 function, we generated global PDZK1 knockout mice and conditional knockout mice (Pdzk1Pax8-cre+).Following HFD/STZ challenge, mice exhibited exacerbated tubular lipid accumulation, tubular injury, and interstitial fibrosis compared with controls. PDZK1 silencing enhanced fatty acid uptake and lipid accumulation under high-glucose/palmitate stress, whereas PDZK1 overexpression mitigated these effects. Mechanistically, PDZK1 directly interacted with fatty acid transport protein 2 (FATP2) and restricted its localization to the plasma membrane. Loss of PDZK1 enabled FATP2 translocation to the membrane, thereby increasing fatty acid influx and promoting lipotoxic tubular damage. Restoration of endogenous PDZK1 or pharmacological inhibition of FATP2 attenuated DKD progression.Collectively, diabetes-associated PDZK1 deficiency disrupts the PDZK1-FATP2 axis, leading to enhanced FATP2 membrane anchoring, ectopic lipid deposition, and tubular injury.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Transcription factor binding to IGHM enhancer 3 (TFE3) break-apart fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) is the gold standard for the diagnosis of Xp11.2 translocation renal cell carcinoma (tRCC). However, FISH is costly and not accessible in all laboratories. We aimed to develop a surrogate immunohistochemical panel to recognize Xp11.2 tRCC. We retrospectively enrolled 84 patients who underwent surgery for renal lesions from September 2017 to August 2022. Both immunohistochemistry and FISH analysis were performed on their specimens. The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of each immunohistochemical marker and combinatorial immunohistochemical panels were calculated. A total of 17 patients were diagnosed with Xp11.2 tRCC using FISH. In patients with Xp11.2 tRCC, 77% (13/17), 100% (17/17), 88% (15/17), 88% (15/17), 100% (17/17), and 71% (12/17) were tested positive for AE1/AE3, CD10, P504S, PAX8, TFE3, and vimentin, respectively, while 94% (16/17) were tested negative for cytokeratin 7 (CK7). The immunohistochemical panel combining negative CK7, positive CD10, positive P504S, and positive TFE3 exhibited a sensitivity of 0.824, a specificity of 0.672, and a highest accuracy of 0.702. The immunohistochemical panel combining negative CK7, positive CD10, positive P504S, and positive TFE3 was a potentially useful tool for the diagnosis of Xp11.2 tRCC.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Superficial spreading squamous cell carcinoma (SSSCC) of the cervix with endometrial extension is rarely observed in postmenopausal women. Cervical atrophy may reduce the diagnostic accuracy of colposcopy and conization for this condition. We report a case of a subtle microinvasive cervical squamous cell carcinoma with extensive endometrial spread initially misdiagnosed as a high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (HSIL) during conization.We report the case of a 56-year-old postmenopausal woman who was referred after high-risk human papillomavirus positivity and cytology showing atypical squamous cells that could not rule out a high-grade lesion. Colposcopy-directed biopsy and subsequent deep cervical conization showed a high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion/cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) grade 3 with glandular involvement, without definite invasive carcinoma. Since residual disease was suspected, she had an extrafascial total hysterectomy (ETH) with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. The frozen section revealed squamous neoplasia involving the endometrium. Final pathology showed a cervical high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion with a microinvasive squamous cell carcinoma focus of less than 0.5 mm, no lymphovascular space invasion (LVSI), superficial spread into the endometrium, and focal superficial invasion. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) showed diffuse block-type p16 positivity, p40 positivity, and negativity for PAX8, estrogen receptor (ER), and progesterone receptor (PR), supporting a cervical origin rather than a primary endometrial squamous cell carcinoma. At 6 months, the patient was disease-free, tested negative for human papillomavirus, and had no intraepithelial lesion or malignancy on cytology.This case highlights that conization may underestimate occult invasive disease in postmenopausal women with cervical atrophy and glandular involvement. When endometrial squamous lesions are found, superficial spreading cervical squamous neoplasia should be considered, and immunohistochemistry should be performed to distinguish secondary endometrial involvement from primary endometrial disease. For carefully selected stage IA1 lesions without lymphovascular space invasion, extrafascial total hysterectomy can be a definitive treatment option.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Zhao, Wang, Liu, Sun and Jia.
Deer antler is the only mammalian organ capable of periodic complete regeneration. Its astonishing growth rate-reaching several centimeters per day-provides a unique model for research in tissue regeneration and developmental biology. This rapid growth relies on the protective and signaling functions of the skin, as well as the vigorous proliferation and differentiation capacity of mesenchymal cells. Although previous studies have identified some key factors involved in antler growth, systematically comparing the transcriptomic profiles of these two core tissues (skin and mesenchyme) to identify candidate genes regulating their synergistic growth is crucial for deciphering the molecular mechanisms underlying this "ultra-fast" growth.The Illumina NovaSeq 6000 sequencing platform was used to perform transcriptome sequencing on the antler tissues of the Cervus elaphus xanthopygus (Dongbei red deer) with a growth period of approximately 60 days. Bioinformatics methods were used to identify the transcriptional expression of genes in the antler tissues, and the expression levels of some genes were tested by fluorescence quantitative PCR.A total of 109.82 Gb of transcriptome data was generated from the skin and mesenchymal tissues of antlers, and 40,023 transcripts were obtained. There were 3,530 genes with differential expression between the skin and the mesenchymal tissues of antlers. Genes with upregulated expression levels in the mesenchymal layer were enriched in phosphate-containing compound metabolic processes and multiple biological processes related to bone development such as skeletal system development, cartilage development, regulation of ossification, and enamel mineralization. Among the genes enriched in the cancer pathway and the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, those that may play an important role in the rapid growth process of deer antlers were screened, including MDM2, RPS6KB1, CASP3, BMP4, PTCH1, SOX-6, YWHAZ, and HSP90B1.The discovery of these genes provides a reference for a further in-depth understanding of the mechanism of the rapid growth of antlers.©2026 Bi et al.
PAX2 encodes a transcription factor critical for kidney development. Pathogenic PAX2 variants are associated with heterogeneous kidney and extrarenal manifestations. However, the clinical heterogeneity of PAX2-associated kidney disease and the functional consequences of newly identified variants remain incompletely characterized in pediatric cohorts.We retrospectively analyzed probands from a single-center pediatric genetic kidney disease program (2018-2024). Clinical data, imaging, kidney pathology, follow-up kidney function and genetic results were reviewed. Selected variants were functionally assessed in HEK293 cells using protein expression, cycloheximide-chase, and dual-luciferase reporter assays.We identified 14 distinct PAX2 variants in 15 probands, including seven previously unreported variants: p.D2Y, p.T210A, p.S242N, p.V206D, p.A160T, p.F256Ffs*40, and p.L44_A45insV. The cohort showed substantial phenotypic heterogeneity, including variability in age at diagnosis, kidney manifestations, disease severity, extrarenal involvement, and intrafamilial expressivity. Kidney biopsy findings, available in seven patients, were heterogeneous and nonspecific. Functional analyses showed that several variants reduced PAX2 protein expression, impaired protein stability, and/or decreased transcriptional activity.This study expands the clinical and molecular spectrum of PAX2-related kidney disease in Chinese children and highlights its substantial phenotypic and pathological heterogeneity. Early genetic testing, retrospective reanalysis, and longitudinal follow-up are valuable for children with unexplained kidney disease.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International Pediatric Nephrology Association.
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) is characterized by excessive inflammation and extracellular matrix (ECM) degradation in the nucleus pulposus (NP), with limited current therapeutic options. Specialized pro-resolving mediators (SPMs) such as Maresin 1 (MaR1) have emerged as key regulators of inflammation resolution and tissue repair. Here, we report that MaR1 and its receptor LGR6 are significantly downregulated in degenerated human NP tissues, suggesting a loss of endogenous resolution capacity. Exogenous MaR1 administration effectively attenuated IL-1β-induced inflammation and ECM degradation in human NP cells and alleviated IVDD progression in rat models. Mechanistically, MaR1 simultaneously suppressed the catabolic AP-1/MMP pathway and activated the pro-anabolic OSR1/GDF7 axis, rebalancing ECM homeostasis. Notably, the therapeutic efficacy of MaR1 was completely abrogated in Lgr6-knockout mice, demonstrating that LGR6 is the indispensable mediator of MaR1's protective effects in vivo. Our findings identify the MaR1-LGR6 axis as a critical regulator of disc homeostasis and highlight MaR1 supplementation as a novel and promising strategy for IVDD treatment.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Multiple germline variants are associated with prostate cancer (PCa) susceptibility and aggressive features; however, their value for predicting prostate cancer-specific mortality (PCSM) at the time of diagnosis remains uncertain, particularly among men with clinically localized disease.We evaluated associations between germline risk factors and PCSM among 14,644 men with incident PCa in the UK Biobank. Associations between PCSM and reported germline risk factors, including 11 genes recommended by the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN), nine other candidate genes, two common variants [KLK3 (I179T) and HSD3B1 (1245 A > C)], and three polygenic risk scores (PRSs), were tested using Fine-Gray competing-risk models accounting for non-PCa mortality.During a median follow-up of 6.73 years after diagnosis, 1581 men (10.8%) died from PCa. PVs in three NCCN-recommended DNA damage-repair genes (BRCA2, MSH6, PALB2) were individually associated with increased PCSM and were defined as Tier-1. Aggregated PVs in seven additional NCCN-recommended DDR genes (Tier-2) and the KLK3 I179T variant were also independently associated with PCSM. In contrast, HOXB13, nine other candidate genes, HSD3B1, and all three PRSs were not associated with cumulative PCSM risk. Overall, 14.45% of men carried Tier-1 or Tier-2 PVs and/or KLK3 I179T and experienced significantly earlier PCa-specific mortality. Importantly, associations remained significant among men without metastatic disease at diagnosis.Reported inherited susceptibility to PCa does not uniformly confer risk of lethal progression. Germline PVs in NCCN-recommended DDR genes and the KLK3 I179T variant identify a subset of men at elevated risk of PCSM, including those with apparently localized disease. These findings support consideration of selected germline markers for prognostic risk stratification at diagnosis to inform individualized management decisions.© 2026. The Author(s).
Muir-Torre syndrome (MTs) is a rare autosomal dominant disorder characterized by sebaceous neoplasms and internal malignancies, most commonly colorectal and urothelial cancers. Prostate cancer is exceptionally rare in MTs, with only thirteen cases reported to date.We present the case of a 65-year-old male initially diagnosed with MTs following the development of multiple sebaceous tumors and identification of a heterozygous MSH6 mutation. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated isolated loss of MSH6 protein expression, with preserved microsatellite stability - an unusual finding in MTs. Despite two negative prostate biopsies and a transurethral resection, choline positron emission tomography imaging revealed hypermetabolic pelvic and cervical lymph nodes. Excisional biopsy confirmed metastatic prostate adenocarcinoma (NKX3.1-positive). The patient received first-line androgen deprivation therapy with an LH-RH analog and apalutamide, achieving a sustained biochemical response. He remained alive and on treatment with undetectable PSA 3 years later, at the age of 74.This case highlights the diagnostic challenges of prostate cancer in MTs and the need to consider metastatic disease in atypical presentations, especially when MMR deficiency is suspected.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Homeobox protein Hox-B13 (HOXB13) is an oncogenic transcription factor that is associated with prostate cancer risk. Unlike most transcription factors (TFs), HOXB13 is a methyl-plus TF and has been shown to be preferentially recruited to DNA prostate cancer risk loci. Here, we miniaturized HOXB13 to create metal-stapled mimetics that can target its cognate primary DNA-binding site in a sequence-specific, methyl-sensitive manner. Targeted profiling of 5-methylcytosine (5mC) recognition using V269X mimetic mutants revealed that leucine can further enhance both methyl sensitivity and methyl specificity through methyl-methyl contact with 5mC and decreased methyl-pi interactions with cytosine. Collectively, our study revealed novel insights into the molecular interactions of HOXB13 with methylated DNA and new tools that will provide a structural basis for future development of a new class of sequence-specific methylated DNA binders.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Current clinical approaches to inherited prostate cancer (PCa) risk rely on binary classification of pathogenic variant (PV) carrier status without accounting for gene-specific heterogeneity or polygenic risk. We developed an integrated genetic risk model reflecting a continuum of inherited susceptibility.In the UK Biobank (UKB; n=218 484), we evaluated associations of PVs in 11 clinically recommended genes and a polygenic risk score (PRS) with incident PCa using Cox models. A continuum model (GenProb-PCa) incorporating gene-specific PVs and PRS was developed and compared with binary PV-based models. Model performance was assessed using discrimination, calibration and continuous net reclassification index (cNRI). External validation was performed in a health system cohort, the Genomic Health Initiative (GHI; n=6590).Five genes (ATM, BRCA2, CHEK2, HOXB13, MSH2) and the PRS were independently associated with PCa risk (all p<0.001) in UKB. Compared with binary models, GenProb-PCa demonstrated superior discrimination (C-index 0.69 vs 0.52; p<0.001), with significant improvement in reclassification (cNRI 0.58; p<0.001). Findings were validated in GHI using the UKB-derived coefficients (C-index 0.64 vs 0.54, p<0.001; cNRI 0.31, p<0.001). Compared with binary PV-based models, 20% of non-PV carriers were reclassified to higher risk groups and 60% of carriers to lower risk groups. The model identified individuals at markedly elevated lifetime risk, with cumulative incidence exceeding 20% by age 75 among the top 8% of the distribution.An integrated continuum genetic risk model, GenProb-PCa, improves PCa risk stratification beyond binary approaches by capturing heterogeneity in inherited risk. This framework may enable more precise risk-based screening strategies.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Introduction Basal cell markers and prostate lineage markers are routinely used as diagnostic adjuncts in prostatic epithelial lesions. High-molecular-weight cytokeratin (HMWCK/34βE12) highlights basal cells, whereas NKX3.1 is a prostate-restricted nuclear transcription factor with established diagnostic value in prostatic adenocarcinoma. The present study evaluated the diagnostic expression pattern of HMWCK and NKX3.1 and assessed whether NKX3.1 expression was associated with adverse clinicopathological parameters. Materials and methods This prospective observational study included 58 evaluable prostatic epithelial neoplasms received over 24 months at a tertiary care institute. HMWCK and NKX3.1 immunohistochemistry were performed on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue. NKX3.1 was scored as 0 (0% positive tumor cells), 1 (1-50%), and 2 (51-100%). Statistical analysis included chi-square/Fisher's exact tests, Mann-Whitney U test, Spearman correlation, and logistic regression. Serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) values were available for analysis in 42 adenocarcinoma cases. Results The final cohort included 57 prostatic adenocarcinomas and one high-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia. Among carcinoma cases, the mean age was 68.09 ± 8.04 years. HMWCK was absent in all adenocarcinoma cases, while NKX3.1 was positive in 55/57 cases (96.5%). NKX3.1 scores were 0 in two cases (3.5%), 1 in 30 cases (52.6%), and 2 in 25 cases (43.9%). Worst Gleason Grade Group showed a weak but significant inverse correlation with NKX3.1 score (Spearman rho = -0.286, p = 0.031). Perineural invasion (PNI) showed the strongest association with NKX3.1 expression; reduced NKX3.1 expression was present in 20/22 PNI-positive tumors compared with 12/35 PNI-negative tumors (p < 0.001; OR 19.17). Serum PSA also correlated inversely with NKX3.1 score among cases with available values (rho = -0.367, p = 0.017), and core involvement percentage correlated inversely with NKX3.1 score (rho = -0.365, p = 0.006). Conclusions HMWCK and NKX3.1 showed complementary diagnostic utility in prostatic adenocarcinoma. HMWCK supported invasive adenocarcinoma by demonstrating basal cell loss, while NKX3.1 was retained in most carcinomas as a sensitive prostatic lineage marker. Reduced NKX3.1 expression was associated with higher worst Grade Group, PNI, serum PSA, tumor core involvement, and adverse clinical status. The strongest association was observed between PNI and reduced NKX3.1 expression.Copyright © 2026, Singh et al.
Human kidney potassium (K+) handling evolved to clear massive Paleolithic loads, functioning as a high-capacity survival mechanism to prevent lethal hyperkalemia. This review elucidates the molecular machinery underlying this adaptation, identifying the WNK-SPAK-OSR1 kinase network as the central regulator. We detail how the distal convoluted tubule functions as a sensory organ, utilizing an "NCC switch" driven by intracellular chloride to resolve the "aldosterone paradox". This adaptation ensures K+ secretion is prioritized over Na+ reabsorption during high intake. Furthermore, we examine the roles of the gut-kidney axis and the molecular circadian clock as anticipatory feed-forward mechanisms that prime the kidney for excretion prior to absorption. This framework integrates the flow-dependent gating of BK channels, the acid-base sensitivity of ROMK, and the electroneutral pendrin/KCC3a pathway as redundant "fail-safe" valves necessary to clear massive Paleolithic K+ loads. Finally, we conclude that while the modern diet rarely challenges this massive excretory potential, the machinery remains biologically wired to prioritize the purging of K+, ensuring survival by preserving resting membrane potential above all else.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Androgens and the androgen receptor (AR) play critical roles in prostate cancer (PCa) development and progression. Consequently, primary treatment strategies target either androgen synthesis or androgen-AR interactions. Although initially effective, tumors frequently recur as androgen-independent and more aggressive disease. In recurrent tumors, AR signaling often remains active through AR mutations or activation of alternative signaling pathways. Earlier studies from our laboratory had identified GPR56 (ADGRG1/GPCR205), an adhesion GPCR, as a possible membrane androgen receptor. Here, we demonstrate that GPR56, is significantly overexpressed in PCa tissues at both the transcript and protein levels and is associated with poor patient survival. Functional studies revealed that GPR56 promotes PCa cell proliferation and migration. Furthermore, GPR56 regulates the expression of key androgen-responsive genes, including KLK3 (PSA), FOXA1, TMPRSS2, and NKX3.1 and many others, across multiple prostate cell models. This study demonstrates that Testosterone (T) stimulation of cells expressing GPR56, activates the G13-RhoA-PKN1 signaling pathway, resulting in enhanced PKN1 expression and activation. This leads to AR-PKN1 interaction and increased transcriptional activity of AR target genes. Further T-stimulation activates serum response factor (SRF)-dependent transcription activating the RhoA-ROCK1-MLCK axis, leading to robust actin polymerization, a process associated with increased tumor cell motility and metastatic potential. Collectively, these findings shed light on the role of GPR56 in AR signaling and PCa. Further, the identification of a previously unrecognized GPR56-G13-PKN1 axis which interacts with AR and possibly SRF to enhance AR target gene activity, presents GPR56 as a promising therapeutic target especially in case of advanced PCa.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Metastatic involvement of the male genitourinary tract by lung cancer is exceedingly rare. We report a 56-year-old man with metastatic lung adenocarcinoma (initial stage T3N2M1b) under pembrolizumab, who presented with severe pelvic pain. Pelvic magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography demonstrated a large mass with an imaging epicentre favouring the left seminal vesicle, involving the prostate and fistulising to the distal rectum, without pelvic ascites or peritoneal disease. A total PSA of 0.81 ng/mL and a previous negative prostate biopsy made a primary prostatic malignancy less likely. Biopsy of the rectal component revealed a poorly differentiated carcinoma with an immunophenotype (CK7+, TTF-1+, p40-, CDX2-, NKX3.1-, PAX8-) consistent with metastatic adenocarcinoma of pulmonary origin. The patient underwent palliative pelvic radiotherapy, with improvement of pelvic pain; he subsequently developed pneumaturia and faecaluria and died eight months later from disease progression. Seminal vesicle metastasis from lung carcinoma has been reported previously; to our knowledge, however, this is the first report presenting with rectal fistulisation. This case highlights a diagnostically challenging presentation and the need to consider metastatic disease when evaluating atypical seminal vesicle masses in oncological patients.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42492399 is a review article
The retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) is crucial for visual function, and its dysfunction contributes to retinal diseases such as age-related macular degeneration. Despite the translational potential of iPSC-derived RPE (iPSC-RPE) in cell replacement therapy, the functional visual gains achieved to date are modest. A key challenge is that the molecular and epigenomic signatures underlying functional RPE are yet to be fully elucidated. By integrating multiomics data, we systematically benchmarked the 3D epigenomic landscapes of primary human RPE (hRPE), iPSC-RPE, and the immortalized ARPE-19 cell line. Our analysis reveals that iPSC-RPE exhibits a mixed molecular state. iPSC-RPE recapitulates hRPE-like transcription and chromatin looping, but its histone modification states remain incompletely matured, and its chromatin accessibility and higher-order chromatin organization do not fully converge to hRPE. Furthermore, we found that hRPE exhibits strong extracellular matrix (ECM) organization driven by enhancer-mediated long-range chromatin interactions and enriched RUNX1 motifs, while iPSC-RPE retains key developmental-related transcriptional signatures, marked by factors such as HAND1, OTX2, and PAX6. These findings establish a multiomics benchmark for RPE maturity, pinpoint key regulatory nodes like ECM organization and RUNX1 for therapeutic targeting, and provide a roadmap for optimizing differentiation protocols and scaffold design in retinal regenerative medicine.
Epitaxial all-nitride Josephson junctions are promising components for high coherence superconducting qubits, yet nanoscale defects often limit their performance. The key to mitigating these defects lies in understanding the atomic-scale relationship between polymorph selection, defect chemistry, and device performance. Here, we investigate structural and chemical defects in epitaxially grown 𝛿-NbN/AlN/𝛿-NbN, 𝛾-Nb4N3/AlN/𝛾-Nb4N3, β-Nb2N/AlN/β-Nb2N heterostructures on c-plane sapphire using molecular beam epitaxy. Advanced microscopy integrated with density functional theory shows varying impurity distribution across different polymorphs. The chemical distribution reveals that δ-NbN electrodes contain significant oxygen, whereas in β-Nb2N/AlN/β-Nb2N heterostructures oxygen preferentially segregates to the AlN barrier. DFT calculations indicate that these differences arise from phase-dependent oxygen energetics and diffusion kinetics, with oxygen remaining kinetically trapped in δ-NbN while exhibiting greater mobility in β-Nb2N. These structural and chemical differences are consistent with the distinct transport behavior observed in the two junction architectures and provide mechanistic insight into the role of defect chemistry in epitaxial nitride Josephson junctions. The observed impurity distribution may influence superconducting properties and contribute to the formation of two-level systems, a major source of loss and decoherence in superconducting quantum circuits.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Maternal obesity (MO) alters the intrauterine environment and increases the risk of a variety of developmental outcomes; however, the effects on placental cell population and development remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the impact of MO on placental cellular composition, development, and morphology in C57BL/6J mice fed a control or high-fat diet. Single-cell RNA sequencing of embryonic day (E) 13.5 placentas identified 16 transcriptionally distinct cell populations and revealed a reduction in the trophoblast progenitor cell population in MO placentas. MO suppressed trophoblast genes involved in placental development and mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, accompanied by decreased protein expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alpha (PGC-1α), a key regulator of mitochondrial biogenesis. Furthermore, MO reduced the expression of Hand1 and Tfap2c, transcription factors involved in trophoblast differentiation and placental development, while increasing prolactin-family gene expression and STAT5 phosphorylation. At E17.5, MO caused female-specific reductions in placental weight and labyrinth zone area, along with increased Tnf expression and sustained suppression of Hand1 in female placentas. These findings suggest that MO disrupts trophoblast differentiation and placental metabolic function during midgestation, which may contribute to placental vulnerability later in pregnancy.
Inspired by the design principles of single atom catalysts (SACs), two novel C58NbN isomers (A and B) have been theoretically designed and investigated as single superatom catalysts (SSCs) in the present study. These systems were constructed through rational replacement of adjacent carbon atoms in the C60 framework with a Pd-like NbN superatom. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal that the neutral C58NbN shows moderate catalytic activity for the Suzuki reaction, which can be further enhanced by introducing more positive charges to the NbN subunit because the cationic [C58NbN]+ species exhibit better catalytic performance than their neutral and anionic counterparts. Thus, to increase the positive charges on the NbN subunit of C58NbN, electron-withdrawing chlorine ligands were decorated at the sites opposite to NbN, generating a series of neutral C58NbN-Cln (n = 1, 2, 4, and 6) complexes. The introduction of chlorine ligands significantly enhances the catalytic efficiency of C58NbN-Cln because of the induced electron redistribution. These findings suggest from a theoretical perspective that superatoms can be used as feasible building blocks to design high-performance catalysts, whose catalytic activity can be further enhanced by tuning the charge states of the superatom units.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42508540 is a review article
To understand the prevalence and time course of symptoms and interventions for 35-week-old infants routinely admitted to the level II special care nursery (SCN) for observation.This single-institution, retrospective, cohort study analyzed electronic medical records of infants born at 3507 to 3567 weeks' gestation from 2023 to 2024.Of 186 infants, 31% were admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit, 67% to the SCN, and 2% to the well newborn nursery (NBN). Thirty-eight percent were discharged from the NBN; these infants had higher birth weights and lower rates of interventions. The median length of stay (LOS) was 8 days. Tachypnea was documented in 97%; 42% received respiratory support. Hypothermia was documented in 68%; 33% received incubator care. Hypoglycemia was present in 37%; 18% received dextrose gel, and 12% received intravenous fluid. Tube feeding was used in 58%. Apnea, bradycardia, desaturation (ABD) events were recorded in 33%. Most symptoms and interventions started in the first 24 hours of life and concluded by 96 hours. Tube feeding was associated with a 161% longer LOS, and monitoring after ABD events was associated with a 62% longer LOS.Routine admission of 35-week-old infants to the SCN for observation resulted in most being discharged from the SCN. Tube feeding and monitoring after ABD events were associated with extended LOS. These interventions may indicate overmedicalization for some infants.Copyright © 2026 by the American Academy of Pediatrics.
Metal nitrides represent a large class of materials with extensive applications in optoelectronics, energy and healthcare technologies. For example, GaN and related nitride semiconductors are key materials for solid-state lighting and high-power electronics1,2. TiN and other early transition metal nitrides (TMNs) are widely used in wear-resistant alloys, tool coatings, catalysts and medical implants3. Strong metal-nitrogen bonds grant nitrides structural rigidity as well as chemical and thermal stability4. However, the covalency of metal-nitrogen bonds necessitates high temperatures to synthesize crystalline metal nitrides. Common synthetic routes include high-temperature solid-state nitridation5, crystal growth in supercritical ammonia6, molecular-beam epitaxy (MBE)7, reactive sputtering8,9 and chemical vapour deposition1,10-12. The solution synthesis of colloidal nanocrystals (NCs) has been demonstrated for late TMNs with relatively weak chemical bonds13-17, whereas the synthesis of early TMN NCs is challenging because it requires temperatures far above the stability range of commonly used solvents. Here we report a general approach to solution synthesis of refractory metal nitride NCs by reacting metal halides and ammonia dissolved in molten inorganic salts at elevated pressures. Successful syntheses of colloidal TiN, VN, GaN, NbN, Mo2N, Ta3N5, TaN, W2N and ternary Ti1-xVxN NCs are demonstrated. These NCs expand the scope of solution-processable technologically important materials.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Apolipoprotein A-IV (apoA-IV) plays key roles in lipid metabolism, reverse cholesterol transport, and kidney function, yet its genetic determinants remain poorly defined. We conduct a genome-wide association study (GWAS) meta-analysis of apoA-IV concentrations measured by ELISA in 25,181 individuals and combine these with proteomic data from 33,995 UK Biobank participants (Olink platform), yielding a total sample of 59,176. We perform genetic correlations and colocalization analyses to explore links with lipid, renal, and other complex traits.The GWAS identifies several novel loci to be associated with apoA-IV concentrations (TDRD5, DPP4, MYL3, MORC1, MCUB, GATA4, ZPR1, UMOD, GLP2R, SLC38A10 and APOE) besides two previously identified loci (APOA5-A4-C3-A1 cluster and KLKB1). Cross-platform comparison shows strong concordance of effect directions and magnitudes, underscoring the robustness of findings across measurement techniques. Global genetic correlation reveals significant shared genetic architecture between apoA-IV, kidney function and HDL-cholesterol, while colocalization supports shared causal variants with lipid, renal, and hematological phenotypes, suggesting biologically relevant pathways.These results provide a comprehensive overview of the genetic architecture of apoA-IV and suggest mechanistic links to lipid metabolism, kidney function and blood-related traits. Our findings refine the role of apoA-IV as a potential biomarker and inform future epidemiological research.© 2026. The Author(s).
Elucidating the vibronic behavior of double helicenes and their structure-property relationships remains a key challenge in the design of chiral optoelectronic materials. In this study, we conducted an in-depth investigation into the vibronic effects influencing the electronic absorption (ABS), emission (EMI), electronic circular dichroism (ECD), and circularly polarized luminescence (CPL) spectra of a novel double [6]helicene derivative, Naph-NBNDH. Time-dependent (TD) approaches were employed to compute the fully converged vibrationally resolved electronic spectra, considering Franck-Condon (FC) contributions, Herzberg-Teller (HT) effects, and Duschinsky mixing. The results demonstrate good agreement with experimental data, with the most notable consistency observed for the CPL spectra. Time-independent (TI) methods were utilized to identify the stick peaks of the main vibronic transitions and assign them based on the quantum numbers of various vibrational normal modes. Our research underscores that the overestimation of spectral width in the ABS, ECD, and EMI spectra primarily originates from the mixing of low-energy vibrational modes and the intense CC stretching vibrations. This study not only provides fundamental insights into the vibronic behavior of double helicenes, but also establishes a theoretical basis for the rational design of advanced helicene-based optoelectronic materials.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42434229 is a review article
The gene fusion KIAA1549::BRAF is a common oncogenic driver in pediatric pilocytic astrocytoma. The chimeric fusion protein that comprises most of the type 1 transmembrane KIAA1549 protein fused in its C-terminal cytosolic domain to the truncated BRAF oncogene without its N-terminal autoinhibitory domains. KIAA1549 has a large N-terminal ectodomain that undergoes extensive O-mannosylation directed by the POMT1/2 protein O-mannosyltransferase complex localized in the ER. Here, we investigated how posttranslational modifications contribute to KIAA1549 protein maturation in the secretory pathway. Using a panel of KIAA1549 expression constructs and glycoengineered HEK293 cells, we provide evidence that O-mannosylation of the KIAA1549 ectodomain is required for ER exit, acquisition of complex N-glycans, and subsequent furin-like cleavage in the Golgi. In the absence of POMT1/2 O-mannosylation KIAA1549 is retained in ER and fails to undergo proprotein processing. Our findings confirm and extend our previous studies with the KIAA1549::BRAF fusion protein, where oncogenic transformation was dependent on POMT1/2 O-mannosylation and affected on furin processing. Thus, these intrinsic posttranslational modifications of the KIAA1549 ectodomain are critical determinants of the cellular trafficking that lead to activation of the BRAF oncogene, potentially involving a cascade of cleavage events in the Golgi that ultimately release a truncated but fully active BRAF kinase domain into the cytosol.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To identify clinical and anatomical predictors of pachychoroid macular atrophy (pMA) development in chronic central serous chorioretinopathy (CSC) patients treated with photodynamic therapy (PDT), eplerenone, or subthreshold micropulse laser (SMLT).Retrospective study of 74 consecutive chronic or recurrent CSC patients. All underwent baseline multimodal imaging and were treated with PDT (half-dose), eplerenone (50 mg daily), or SMLT (577 nm), per clinical protocols. Retreatment during follow-up with PDT or MLT was performed as needed based on fluid persistence or recurrence. Quantitative (SRF height, SFCT, CRT) and qualitative (SRF, SHRM, PED, EZ integrity) OCT parameters were recorded. Multivariate regression identified independent predictors of pMA, adjusting for treatment modality.At 12-month follow-up, persistent SRF was found in 51.4% of patients and was the strongest independent predictor of pMA (OR = 14.07; 95% CI: 1.73-114.65; p = 0.001). Additional independent predictors included reduced SRF height change (OR = 2.31; 95% CI: 1.14-4.68; p = 0.021), pronounced subfoveal choroidal thinning (OR = 1.68; 95% CI: 1.02-2.77; p = 0.045), and persistent SHRM (OR = 3.24; 95% CI: 1.32-7.95; p = 0.010). Treatment modality (PDT, eplerenone, SMLT) was not a significant independent predictor of pMA when adjusted for fluid persistence (p > 0.05).In chronic CSC, persistent subretinal fluid after treatment-regardless of retreatment-remains the dominant predictor of pMA. Anatomical resolution of SRF should be a primary therapeutic goal to prevent irreversible atrophic damage.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Royal College of Ophthalmologists.
TRIB3 is upregulated in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and associates with worse survival, yet targeted therapeutics remain lacking. Calcium phosphate (CaP) nanoparticles offer biocompatible, serum-stable delivery for siRNA therapy. Here, we developed CaP nanoparticles loading siRNA targeting TRIB3 (NPCaP/siTrib3) and evaluated antitumor efficacy and mechanisms in vitro and in vivo.NPCaP/siTrib3 was synthesized via biomineralization, and RNase resistance was verified by PAGE. Mouse KP-1 NSCLC cells were used for transfection, apoptosis (Annexin V/7-AAD), migration (scratch), invasion (Matrigel Transwell), qRT-PCR, and Western blot of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and stemness markers. C57BL/6 subcutaneous tumor models received tail-vein injections for efficacy and biosafety assessment.TRIB3 was significantly upregulated in NSCLC tissues compared with normal lung tissues and was associated with poorer overall survival. NPCaP/siTrib3 formed nanosheets with an average size of approximately 159.4 nm and exhibited a more negative zeta potential than bare CaP, indicating successful siRNA loading. The CaP shell effectively protected siTrib3 from RNase degradation. NPCaP/siTrib3 efficiently silenced TRIB3 protein expression in KP-1 cells, with gene knockdown efficacy comparable to Lipo8000 but with lower cytotoxicity. Functionally, NPCaP/siTrib3 significantly promoted apoptosis and inhibited cell migration and invasion. In vivo, intravenously administered NPCaP/siTrib3, which primarily accumulated in tumors through the enhanced permeability and retention (EPR) effect, markedly suppressed tumor growth without affecting body weight. Mechanistically, NPCaP/siTrib3 reversed EMT by upregulating E-cadherin and downregulating N-cadherin and Snail, and reduced cancer stemness by decreasing the expression of Sox2, Nanog, Pou5f1, Klf4, and c-Myc. Biosafety evaluations demonstrated negligible hemolysis, normal serum biochemistry and hematology, and no histopathological damage in major organs.NPCaP/siTrib3 is an effective and biocompatible siRNA nanoplatform that suppresses NSCLC progression through dual inhibition of EMT and cancer stemness, supporting TRIB3 as a promising therapeutic target.© 2026 Wu et al.
Transcription factors (TFs) are key players in eukaryotic gene regulation, but the DNA binding specificity of many TFs remains unknown. Here, we assay 284 mostly uncharacterized putative human TFs using selective microfluidics-based ligand enrichment followed by sequencing (SMiLE-seq), revealing 74 new DNA binding motifs. To investigate whether TFs lacking detectable motifs preferably bind epigenetically modified DNA, we develop methylation-sensitive SMiLE-seq (meSMiLE-seq), a microfluidic assay that simultaneously probes binding to methylated and unmethylated DNA. Using meSMiLE-seq, we assay 114 TFs and identify DNA-binding models for 48 proteins, including known methylation-sensitive binding modes for POU5F1 and RFX5. 11 TFs prefer methylated DNA or display alternative methylation-dependent motifs (e.g. PRDM13), while 13 show aversion to methylated sequences (e.g. USF3). Finally, we identify ZHX2 as a putative Z-DNA binder. Altogether, our study significantly expands the human TF codebook, while providing a versatile platform to quantitatively assay the impact of DNA modifications on TF binding.© 2026. The Author(s).
Immune system dysregulation during COVID-19 illness remains an area of intense investigation. Excessive release of proinflammatory cytokines and multi-organ injury suggest aberrant control of the immune system. Given the established role of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in modulating inflammatory responses, we explored the possibility that the SARS-CoV-2 spike-protein may directly perturb this regulatory pathway. The spike protein contains a furin cleavage-site with sequence similarities to α-neurotoxins known to antagonize α7, α9, and α10 nAChR subtypes. To test whether this region of the spike protein can influence nAChR function, we synthesized short peptides corresponding to putative nAChR-interacting domains from several SARS-CoV-2 variants. Electrophysiological recordings from Xenopus laevis oocytes expressing human nAChRs revealed potent, virus-variant dependent inhibition of nAChR activity. In human monocytic THP-1 cells, these peptides reversed acetylcholine-mediated suppression of interleukin-1β release. Our findings identify a potential molecular mechanism by which SARS-CoV-2 may directly suppress nAChR signaling on immune cells thereby amplifying inflammatory cytokine release. This work supports the broader concept that structural motifs present in the SARS-CoV-2 spike-protein can disrupt cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathways and elucidates a mechanism that may contribute to the pathophysiology and immune system dysregulation that can occur in severe COVID-19.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556545 is a review article
We report a case of a uterine mesenchymal tumor with myogenic differentiation and SRF::RELA fusion occurring in a 23-year-old woman manifesting as an endometrial polyp. The tumor consisted of bland spindle cells with a predominantly fascicular growth pattern and entrapment of the endometrial glands and vessels. The tumor was positive for smooth muscle markers and CD10. NGS RNA analysis revealed SRF::RELA fusion. NGS DNA analysis revealed no pathogenic variants or copy-number alterations. On follow-up 12 months after curettage, the patient showed no signs of the disease. To the best of our knowledge, only 3 cases of uterine tumors with SRF::RELA fusion arising in the gynecologic tract have been described previously, and all show benign behavior so far. Differential diagnosis includes both benign and potentially aggressive entities, such as leiomyoma, inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor, perivascular epithelioid cell tumor, uterine adenosarcoma, low-grade endometrial stromal sarcoma, and uterine sarcoma with KAT6B/A::KANSL1 fusion.Copyright © 2026 by the International Society of Gynecological Pathologists.
Phosphate plays essential roles within the human body and levels are tightly controlled through conserved feedback loops. FGF23, a phosphate-regulating hormone produced in the bone, is regulated by the glycosyltransferase, GALNT3, whose expression is sensitive to circulating phosphate levels. GALNT3-mediated glycosylation of FGF23 confers protection from inactivating furin cleavage, thus allowing intact FGF23 to modulate phosphate reabsorption in the kidneys. Mutations in either FGF23 or GALNT3 are responsible for diseases of phosphate regulation, which can lead to growth defects, skeletal malformations, soft-tissue calcification, kidney failure, and death. However, the specific effects of many of these mutations remain poorly understood and effective treatments are lacking. Here, we employ an in vivo system that recapitulates the FGF23/GALNT3 axis to demonstrate the functional consequences of 11 GALNT3 patient mutations. We identify certain GALNT3 mutations that affect stability yet retain catalytic activity and thus may be targets for therapeutic approaches that enhance folding/stability. We present evidence that one previously reported pathogenic mutation is not pathogenic. We also demonstrate that two additional members of the GALNT family can glycosylate FGF23 and protect it from furin cleavage in cells. Finally, we examine three patient-derived FGF23 mutations and show they have unique effects on stability or secretion. This study provides detailed mechanistic information regarding patient mutations in both GALNT3 and FGF23 that result in disease and a functional platform for developing new approaches to treat diseases of phosphate dysregulation.
The furin motif in the SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) protein is important for lung cell entry. It is embedded in an extended loop structure and preceded by a highly conserved QTQTX motif that is required for efficient furin cleavage of the SARS-CoV-2 WA-1 S protein. BA.3.2 is an emerging SARS-CoV-2 saltation variant that is spreading globally in April 2026 and encodes a highly mutated S protein. Here, we analyzed whether the QTQTX motif is also required for spike protein cleavage and lung cell entry of BA.3.2. We report that two patient-derived spike sequences of the BA.3.2 subvariant BA.3.2.2 lack the first QT repeat of the QTQTX motif and show that this motif is largely dispensable for both cleavage and lung cell entry of BA.3.2.2, which we found to depend on TMPRSS2. Our results suggest that the reconfiguration of the BA.3.2 S protein during persistent infection may have significantly altered the determinants of furin cleavage.IMPORTANCEThe furin motif in the SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) protein is unique among sarbecoviruses and constitutes a virulence determinant. A QTQTX motif located immediately upstream of the furin motif is required for furin cleavage of the S protein of the virus that circulated early in the pandemic. Here, we show that the QTQTX motif is largely dispensable for S protein processing and S protein-driven lung cell entry of the emerging saltation variant BA.3.2, which is currently spreading globally. Thus, BA.3.2 evolution within immunocompromised individuals may have relaxed the requirements for furin processing of the spike protein.
Uveal melanoma (UM) is a challenging malignancy, in terms of diagnosis, risk stratification, and treatment associated with high morbidity and mortality rates. It has been demonstrated that E2F-related pathways play a significant role in the tumorigenesis and distant metastasis of UM. In this study, the E2F target-related genes were utilized to construct and validate a prognostic risk score for patients with UM.Using the TCGA-UVM cohort (n = 80), 192 E2F target genes were screened using gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) to identify survival-associated genes. Prognostic genes were filtered using Kaplan-Meier analysis, univariate Cox regression, and LASSO, followed by multivariate Cox regression to construct a risk score model. The model was validated using the GSE22138 cohort (n = 63). Functional annotations of the risk score and its impact on stratifying tumor immune microenvironment components were assessed.A total of 9 genes (CDC25B, NME1, RFC2, PRDX4, NASP, UBE2S, PRKDC, MCM6, and LBR) passed the model construction pipeline. The risk score categorization system showed an independent prognostic power (HR: 2.34, 95% CI: 1.11-4.90, p = 0.025) and a good predictability of the survival outcome (receiver operating characteristic curve analysis: area under the curve = 0.730, 95% CI: 0.60-0.86, p = 0.002). When analyzing the most frequently mutated gene cohorts, the risk score was significantly lower in the mutated subgroups of GNAQ, SF3B1, and EIF1AX. In contrast, the risk score was notably higher in the BAP1 mutated subgroup. Copy number analysis of chromosomal arms showed significant correlations between the risk score and 1q, 3q, 3p, 6p, 8q. The high-risk group showed significant infiltration for NK cells, plasma B cells, gamma delta T cells, follicular T cells, M1 and M2 macrophages with lower infiltration of common myeloid progenitor cells. In addition, the high-risk group showed higher immune and microenvironment scores.The developed E2F target-related gene model offers a robust tool for predicting the prognosis of UM patients. As a potential risk stratification method for UM, this model could have clinical applications pending further evaluation.© 2026 S. Karger AG, Basel.
The Wnt/planar cell polarity (PCP) pathway plays a critical role in the development and homeostasis of multicellular organisms. Molecularly, it is organized into two core protein complexes, Vangl/Prickle and Dishevelled/Frizzled. Here, we identify the receptor-type tyrosine phosphatase Ptprz1b as a regulator of Prickle membrane retention. Ptprz1b binds Prickle2 through multiple regions and depends on Vangl through formation of a membrane-competent Prickle2 pool rather than direct Ptprz1b-Vangl binding. Loss of ptprz1b impairs Prickle2 membrane localization in zebrafish embryos and increases its turnover at the plasma membrane, while membrane Vangl2 levels remain unchanged. A catalytic trapping mutant of Ptprz1b shows increased Prickle2 binding but reduced membrane retention, supporting an activity-dependent stabilization mechanism. Ptprz1b deficiency leads to defects in PCP-dependent morphogenetic processes, including impaired convergent extension in zebrafish and neural tube closure defects in Xenopus. Together, these findings identify Ptprz1b as a regulator of membrane-associated Prickle2 required for PCP-dependent morphogenesis in vivo.© 2026 The Author(s).
Faithful chromosome segregation during meiosis requires accurate recombination and synapsis of homologous chromosomes. These processes are monitored in mammals by checkpoints involving the meiotic HORMA-domain proteins HORMAD1 and HORMAD2, which bind unsynapsed chromosome axes and promote activation of the DNA damage-response kinase ATR independently of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs). However, the in vivo mechanism for axial HORMAD1 and HORMAD2 recruitment and its relevance to checkpoint signaling remain unclear, although the chromosome-axis component SYCP2 has been proposed to contain a candidate HORMAD-binding closure motif (CM). We show that deletion of the SYCP2 CM disrupts SYCP2-HORMAD2 complexes and selectively prevents HORMAD2 axis binding without affecting axis assembly, recombination, or axial HORMAD1 recruitment. Consequently, ATR accumulation and signaling on unsynapsed axes are reduced, and the prophase checkpoint malfunctions, manifesting in aberrant elimination of synapsis-proficient spermatocytes and persistence of asynaptic oocytes, which reflect sex-specific characteristics of checkpoint mechanisms. The phenotypes of SYCP2-CM-deficient and HORMAD2-null mice are indistinguishable, establishing the requirement for HORMAD2 axis recruitment in synapsis surveillance. We propose that axial recruitment generates a HORMAD2 scaffold that drives clustering-mediated ATR network activation independently of DSBs, thereby linking chromosome-axis architecture to synapsis quality control in mammalian meiosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Diabetic foot ulcer (DFU) represents a significant challenge in clinical management due to its complexity and the impaired wound-healing process associated with diabetes. The role of MAF bZIP transcription factor B (MAFB) in regulating macrophage polarization and its potential impact on DFU healing is an area of growing interest. This study investigates the molecular mechanisms by which MAFB influences diabetic wound healing. MAFB and WD repeat domain 74 (WDR74) protein levels were evaluated using western blotting. mRNA expression of target genes was quantified through quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Flow cytometry was utilized to analyze the proportion of cluster of differentiation 206 (CD206) and CD86-positive cells. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays were conducted to measure the concentrations of interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and interleukin-10. Malondialdehyde production and superoxide dismutase activity were determined using colorimetric assays. Reactive oxygen species levels were quantified with a fluorometric assay. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to examine the interaction between MAFB and WDR74. Furthermore, a rat model of DFU was established to validate in vivo findings regarding MAFB's role in M2 polarization, inflammation, and oxidative stress. Histological evaluation of wound tissues was performed using hematoxylin and eosin (H&E)and Masson's trichrome staining. The results showed that elevated MAFB levels in LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 macrophages led to a shift towards an M2 phenotype, alongside decreased inflammatory responses and oxidative stress. Mechanistically, MAFB was found to activate the transcription of WDR74 in these macrophages. Notably, WDR74 upregulation promoted M2 polarization and mitigated inflammation and oxidative stress in LPS-treated cells, whereas silencing WDR74 reversed the beneficial effects of MAFB overexpression. Further, in vivo, MAFB promoted wound healing of DFU rats by repressing inflammatory and oxidative stress responses. Thus, MAFB overexpression promoted diabetic foot ulcer healing by fostering a tissue repair phenotype and suppressing inflammation and oxidative stress through the transcriptional activation of WDR74. These findings underscore the potential of MAFB as a therapeutic target for improving diabetic wound healing, which could lead to novel clinical strategies for treating DFUs.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Mutations in BRCA1 are key drivers of breast cancer by impairing homologous recombination. While these tumors are often sensitive to PARP inhibitors, resistance frequently emerges, highlighting the need to identify additional molecular vulnerabilities. HORMAD1 is frequently overexpressed in triple-negative breast cancer and associated with genomic instability, yet its role in therapy response in BRCA1-deficient tumors remains unclear. Here, transcriptomic profiling of BRCA1-mutant breast cancer identified HORMAD1 as one of the most upregulated and alternatively spliced genes. The splicing inhibitor Isoginkgetin globally altered alternative splicing patterns in BRCA1-mutant cells, promoting HORMAD1 exon 4 inclusion. We found that RNA-binding protein RBM38 is correlated with exon 4 inclusion, and RBM38 knockdown further sensitized BRCA1-mutant cells to MEK1 inhibition. Together, these findings define an RBM38-HORMAD1 signaling as a potential therapeutic vulnerability in BRCA1-mutant breast cancer and suggest that targeting splicing regulation may represent a promising strategy to enhance treatment efficacy.Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press for the RNA Society.
The objectives of this study were to develop a real-world-data (RWD) database for patients with epilepsy to provide further real-world-evidence (RWE) for monogenic genetic epilepsies; to assess the usefulness of a diagnostic algorithm in epilepsy; and to examine protein 3D structures using in silico tools to predict variant pathogenicity.We stratified patients into Group 1 (with genetic diagnoses) and Group 2 (with no genetic diagnoses). We performed protein 3D modeling of variants of uncertain significance (VUS) in genes.We included 167 patients in our RWD database. We report the genotypes and phenotypes of 44 distinct monogenic genetic epilepsies from 66 patients. The diagnostic yield of clinical exome sequencing (ES) was 31%. Developmental delay, developmental brain malformation, movement disorder, and infantile-onset epilepsy (seizure onset <2 years of age) were more common (p < 0.05) in Group 1. The diagnostic yield of biochemical investigations was 0%. Compared to wild type protein structures, there were predicted conformational changes to protein structure including changes in α-helices and/or β-sheets and losses in loops in the protein structures expressed by variants of uncertain significance (VUS) for ARHGAP35, BACH2, BAZ2B, DOP1B, EPHA5, FRYL, HMGXB4, MTDH, NHSL2, NLGN2, NRXN2, P2RX4, PRICKLE2, PRRC2A, RALGAPB, RNF157, SREBF2, ZNF532, and ZNF536, all of which are genes of uncertain significance (GUS). We calculated the estimated diagnostic yield of ES to be 48% by using a 3D protein structure prediction tool, and the functional characterization of a LARP7 VUS, as well as previous case series of GUS.We report 19 GUS that accounts 10% of the cohort with GUS. If those GUS would have been proven to cause genetic epilepsies, the diagnostic yield of ES would have been increased 17%. The GUS and VUS in monogenic epilepsy genes will require further functional characterization. International collaborations are needed to increase our understanding of these rare epilepsies.We wanted to create a database for people with epilepsy. We did genetic tests in people with epilepsy to find out if they have a genetic problem. We looked at their information. We added 167 people with epilepsy and diagnosed a genetic problem in 66 people with epilepsy. We applied genetic tools to find out if genetic changes were important. We still need to the do more laboratory tests to see if those genetic changes explain a genetic problem in >100 people that we did not diagnose a genetic problem.© 2026 The Author(s). Epilepsia Open published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International League Against Epilepsy.
The organized chromatin configuration in meiosis prophase I is crucial for spermatogenesis and male fertility, involving a series of tightly coordinated events mediated by numerous proteins. Neddylation, a ubiquitin-like post-translational modification, conjugates NEDD8 to substrate proteins and thus regulates protein degradation via activating Cullin-RING E3 ligases. Despite its importance in other cellular processes, its role in meiosis remains elusive.We inhibited neddylation using intratesticular MLN4924 treatment and generated germ cell-specific Nedd8-depleted male mice to study its meiotic role. Meiotic progression and chromosomal synapsis were assessed via markers of meiotic progression especially the assembly of synaptonemal complexes. Substrate-specific role of neddylation in meiosis was dissected to identify its functional targets both in vivo and in vitro.Nedd8 deficiency in spermatocytes caused meiotic arrest at the zygotene stage, leading to azoospermia and infertility. Spermatocytes showed disrupted synapsis, with persistent HORMAD1 on unsynapsed axes and defective assembly of synaptonemal complex central elements. Mechanistically, neddylation mediated SKP1-Cullin1-FBXO47 complex-dependent ubiquitination and degradation of HORMAD1, a prerequisite for proper synapsis.Our findings demonstrate that neddylation is essential for spermatocyte development and reveal its critical role in regulating synaptonemal complex dynamics, probably depending on SCF complex-mediated HORMAD1 degradation. This study provides insights into post-translational control of protein dynamics in meiosis and potential therapeutic targets for male infertility.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chinese Simmental cattle are a high-quality breed developed through long-term crossbreeding and selection after their introduction into China and have become the main dual-purpose cattle population in the Xinjiang region. To deeply dissect the population structure, characteristics of the population structure, and the genetic basis of the twinning trait, this study focused on Xinjiang Chinese Simmental cattle as the main research subject. It integrated genomic data from global public databases to systematically conduct population structure analysis, genetic relationship analysis, and genome-wide selection signature analysis. Population genetic analysis revealed that the IBS matrix and G matrix indicated that some individuals from different geographical origins exhibited distant genetic relationships; the Xinjiang population showed the fastest LD decay, suggesting abundant genetic diversity; the inbreeding coefficient based on Runs of Homozygosity (ROH) across populations ranged from 0.036 to 0.063; principal component analysis and phylogenetic tree showed that some individuals from different geographical origins had certain genetic interconnections; admixture analysis indicated that K = 5 was the optimal model, with each population exhibiting clear genetic differentiation and admixture characteristics. Furthermore, by combining Fst and θπ analysis (comparing the Xinjiang population with other geographical populations), a total of 89 candidate genes associated with the twinning trait in Xinjiang Chinese Simmental cattle were screened, including CYP19A1, HORMAD1, GRB14, CADM2, CXCR4, and others that have been reported to be closely related to oogenesis and reproductive function. In summary, this study explores genome-wide genetic differences among Simmental cattle populations from different regions, deepens our understanding of their population structures, and offers new candidate genes and molecular markers for high-fecundity breeding in Simmental cattle.
To elucidate the role and regulatory mechanisms of macrophage-derived cystatin C (CST3) in Crohn's disease (CD), focusing on colonic inflammation, macrophage-epithelial interactions, and barrier dysfunction. Colonic samples from CD patients, including inflamed and non-inflamed regions, were subjected to scRNA-seq. In vitro macrophage-epithelial co-culture models and untargeted metabolomics were employed, and the findings were validated using macrophage-specific CST3 knockout (KO) and overexpression mice under TNBS-induced and IL-10 KO colitis conditions. Mechanistic investigations included Co-IP, ChIP-qPCR, ubiquitination assays, rescue experiments, and functional analyses of efferocytosis, macrophage polarization, and barrier integrity. CST3 expression was considerably reduced in macrophages from inflamed CD tissues through suppressor of SMAD5-dependent transcriptional repression and MYCBP2-mediated K48-linked ubiquitination and degradation. Loss of CST3 impaired efferocytosis and M2 polarization by inhibiting the ACVR1C/TGF-β/SMAD pathway. CST3 deficiency also disrupted intestinal epithelial proliferation, compromised barrier function, and increased apoptosis via enhanced NAMPT-INSR signaling and accumulation of the inflammatory cytokines. In mice, macrophage-specific CST3 deletion exacerbated colitis, whereas its overexpression alleviated inflammation and restored epithelial integrity. These findings establish macrophage CST3 as a key regulator of immune-metabolic-epithelial crosstalk in CD, and indicate that restoring CST3 function or targeting its regulatory axis may represent a novel therapeutic strategy for CD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42070745 is a review article
The synaptonemal complex (SC) is a highly ordered proteinaceous structure that assembles between homologous chromosomes during the prophase I of meiosis. Conserved as a tripartite architecture across species, the SC plays a central role in chromosome synapsis, meiotic recombination, and faithful chromosome segregation. This review marks the 70th anniversary of the discovery of the synaptonemal complex by Montrose Moses in 1956. In mammals, the SC is composed of eight core (canonical) structural proteins: SYCP1, SYCP2, SYCP3, SYCE1, SYCE2, SYCE3, SIX6OS1, and TEX12. The archetypal SC consists of two lateral elements (SYCP2 and SYCP3), a central element (SYCE1/2/3, SIX6OS1, and TEX12), and numerous transverse filaments (SYCP1). A shared structural feature of SC components is the presence of coiled-coil domains. Although the tripartite organization of the SC is evolutionarily conserved, its constituent proteins exhibit little to no sequence homology across species. In addition to these core components, a number of proteins, including HORMAD1, HORMAD2, TRIP13, SKP1, CDCA5 (Sororin), UBE2I (UBC9), SYCP2L, HSPA2, PSMA8, and FKBP6, associate with the SC. Beyond serving as a structural scaffold essential for homolog synapsis, SC proteins interact with key recombination factors such as DMC1, RAD51, and TEX11, thereby regulating recombination progression and crossover formation. Genetic, biochemical, and structural analyses of SC components have provided important mechanistic insights into SC assembly and function, as well as their clinical relevance to non-obstructive azoospermia (NOA) and premature ovarian insufficiency (POI) in humans.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction.
In human acute myeloid leukemia (AML), a sub-population of leukemia stem cells (LSCs) drive disease initiation, therapeutic resistance, and relapse. However, the lack of reliable markers to distinguish LSCs from bulk leukemia cells has impeded progress in studying LSC pathogenesis and developing meaningful LSC-specific diagnostics and therapeutics. Existing LSC gene signatures, derived from bulk populations, cannot definitively identify LSCs at single-cell resolution. To address this, we analyzed large patient cohorts with bulk gene expression data and single-cell multi-omic assays to identify a prognostic gene signature that is specifically enriched in a clinically adverse AML sub-population. Using this signature, we defined and prospectively isolated CD34+CD90-CLL1-CD69+CD53- immunophenotypic LSCs that are significantly enriched for LSC content based on limiting dilution xenotransplantation assays. Our findings demonstrate the power of single-cell multi-omics to precisely identify a clinically relevant LSC population and establish a clear framework for future translational research in AML.Single cell multi-omics identifies human AML LSCs at high resolution. HOPX and SOCS2 co-expression (hrLSC2) defines a prognostic gene signature in de novo acute myeloid leukemia. hrLSC2 marks an AML subpopulation (iLSCs) with a distinct immunophenotype.iLSCs can be purified using flow cytometry and are significantly enriched for LSCs.
Background: Diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) is characterized by metabolic dysfunction, inflammation, extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling, and myocardial fibrosis. Increasing evidence suggests that ferroptosis-associated oxidative injury may contribute to cardiac remodeling; however, the interaction between ferroptosis-related pathways and fibrosis-associated molecular networks remains incompletely understood. This study explored the ferroptosis-fibrosis axis using an integrative transcriptomic and systems pharmacology framework. Methods: Differentially expressed genes were identified from the GSE5406 myocardial transcriptomic dataset comparing nonfailing donor hearts with ischemic and idiopathic cardiomyopathy samples and analyzed using functional enrichment, protein-protein interaction, and disease-association approaches. Cross-dataset comparison and exploratory sample-level external evaluation were performed using the independent GSE263297 DCM-related dataset. Candidate genes were further evaluated by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis and machine learning-based feature selection using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), random forest, and support vector machine-recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE). Representative compounds associated with fibrosis-, oxidative stress-, inflammation-, and ferroptosis-related pathways were subsequently assessed by molecular docking against TGFBR1, STAT3, GPX4, AKT1, SMAD3, and ACSL4. Results: Transcriptomic analyses highlighted ECM organization, collagen-containing ECM, and fibrosis-related pathways as dominant biological themes. Cross-dataset comparison showed partial preservation of transcriptional patterns between independent myocardial cohorts, with 20 of 51 evaluated genes demonstrating concordant expression direction across datasets. ROC analysis identified LUM and ASPN as having the highest area under the curve (AUC) values among candidate genes, whereas COL1A1, COL1A2, and COL3A1 also showed elevated AUC values. Machine learning analyses identified FCN3, HOPX, CNN1, and GLUL as the core signature consistently prioritized across all three algorithms, whereas LUM was additionally identified by two of three algorithms. Internal validation yielded a cross-validated AUC of 0.934 (95% CI: 0.820-1.000), and exploratory sample-level external evaluation of the four-gene signature in GSE263297 yielded an AUC of 0.673 (95% CI: 0.380-0.967). Exploratory docking analyses suggested potential structural compatibility between several candidate compounds and fibrosis-, inflammation-, and ferroptosis-associated targets, with comparatively lower predicted binding-energy values observed for selected ligand-target combinations. Conclusions: The findings are consistent with a fibrosis-dominant remodeling signature and suggest potential network-level links between ferroptosis-associated processes and cardiac fibrosis. These observations should be regarded as exploratory and hypothesis-generating and require validation in independent cohorts and experimental studies.
Inflammatory bowel disease, including ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD), is associated with reduced vagus nerve activity and impaired barrier function. Transcutaneous auricular vagus nerve stimulation (taVNS) shows preventive effects in acute colitis, but its impact on intestinal barrier integrity remains unclear. To assess this, C57BL/6 male mice received taVNS (10 V, 20 Hz, 500 µs, 10 min) prior to colitis induction. UC-like colitis was induced using 5% dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) for 120 h with daily taVNS, while CD-like colitis was induced by intrarectal dinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (DNBS, 4 mg) in 30% ethanol with taVNS during induction and for 48 h. TaVNS reduced colonic proliferation in non-colitic mice in a homeostatic manner, as well as in DNBS-colitic mice, and enhanced differentiation. It decreased enteroendocrine cells in non-colitic conditions but not in DSS-colitic mice, and reduced tuft cells in DSS and DNBS groups. TaVNS increased MUC2 in DSS colitis and decreased TFF3 in DNBS controls. It decreased Lgr5+ stem cells in DSS controls but maintained them during DSS colitis, while HOPX+ stem cells decreased in non-colitic DSS conditions, and fetal-like stem cells remained unchanged. Disease activity index negatively correlated with chromogranin A. TaVNS prevented increased paracellular permeability in the distal colon of DSS-colitic mice, increased TEER in distal DSS controls and proximal colitic colon, and enhanced ion transport in the proximal colon under non-colitic DSS conditions. Overall, taVNS effects on epithelial composition and barrier function are context- and model-dependent.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42506101 is a review article
Resistance to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and oxaliplatin (OXT) remains a major cause of treatment failure in colorectal cancer (CRC). Luteolin, a dietary flavonoid with anticancer properties, has shown therapeutic potential in various malignancies, but its effects on chemotherapy-resistant CRC remain poorly understood. In this study, we investigated whether luteolin restores chemosensitivity in 5-FU-resistant (SNUC5/5-FUR) and OXT-resistant (SNUC5/OXTR) CRC cells and explored the underlying molecular mechanisms. Luteolin reduced cell viability and induced apoptosis in both resistant cell lines. Mechanistically, luteolin suppressed β-catenin expression by downregulating ten-eleven translocation (TET) proteins, increasing DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) expression, enhancing CpG methylation, and reducing TET1 occupancy at the β-catenin promoter. Luteolin also decreased thymine DNA glycosylase (TDG) expression, disrupted the TET1/TDG interaction, and reduced TDG recruitment to the β-catenin promoter. Consistently, knockdown of either TET1 or TDG decreased β-catenin expression, while luteolin further enhanced apoptosis in siTET1-or siTDG-transfected resistant cells. Additionally, luteolin attenuated intracellular reactive oxygen species accumulation and potentiated the cytotoxic effects of 5-FU and OXT in resistant CRC cells. These findings demonstrate that luteolin reverses chemoresistance by suppressing the TET1/TDG-β-catenin axis through epigenetic regulation and modulation of intracellular redox homeostasis, supporting its potential as an adjuvant for CRC chemotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In the germline, DNA methylation is globally erased in primordial germ cells (PGCs), enabling establishment of sex-specific methylomes in prospermatogonia or oocytes. The catalytic activity of TET1 is required for complete demethylation in PGCs, yet sperm from Tet1 -/- mice display methylation defects not explained by incomplete erasure. Instead, these defects arise from abnormal de novo methylation during development, coinciding with erosion of H3K4me3, a chromatin modification that blocks DNMT3A/3L. Using a catalytically inactive Tet1 HxD mouse line, we demonstrate a noncatalytic role of TET1 in promoting H3K4me3 deposition and protecting a subset of sperm hypomethylated regions from aberrant methylation in prospermatogonia.© 2026 Prasasya et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Exercise is a powerful non-pharmacological strategy for preserving brain health during aging. However, whether intrinsic exercise capacity is associated with a distinct molecular phenotype in the aged brain, independent of training intervention, remains unclear. Aged selectively bred low-capacity runner (LCR) and high-capacity runner (HCR) rats were studied. Hippocampal DNA methylation was profiled by reduced representation bisulfite sequencing (RRBS), and differentially methylated regions (DMRs) were annotated and functionally enriched. Spatial learning, aerobic capacity, and cortical protein signaling were assessed by Morris water maze, VO2max testing, and Western blotting. RRBS identified 6452 significant DMRs, most of which were hypermethylated in HCR rats (82.4%) and enriched in open-sea and gene-body regions. Genes linked to hypermethylated DMRs showed context-dependent enrichment, particularly in intronic and exonic regions, highlighting MAPK, PI3K-Akt, TNF, calcium, and synaptic signaling pathways. Core methylation-related enzymes TET1/2 and DNMT3A/B were unchanged. Cortical protein profiling showed higher phosphorylation of ERK1/2, AKT, mTOR, S6, and synapsin in HCR rats, together with higher JNK2, p38, NF-κB, TNF-α, and OGG1 abundance, whereas protein carbonylation and selected exercise-responsive neurotrophic and metabolic/mitochondrial markers were unchanged. Exploratory correlation analysis identified a subset of DMRs associated with individual VO2max values. Morris water maze performance did not differ significantly between groups. High intrinsic exercise capacity in aged rats is associated with distinct hippocampal DNA methylation patterns that align with cortical protein profiles involving MAPK, AKT-mTOR-S6, synaptic, and inflammation-related signaling. These findings suggest a distinct molecular phenotype linked to intrinsic aerobic capacity in the aged brain.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Mapping of protein-DNA interactions at single-cell resolution remains a central challenge in epigenomics, particularly for transcription factors (TFs), whose sparse binding limits reliable detection. Here, we establish DeChIC-seq (DNA Deaminase-based Chromatin Immuno-Conversion sequencing), a conversion-based strategy that uses a protein A-DddAtox fusion to directly record protein-DNA interactions by inducing localized C-to-U conversions near antibody-bound chromatin. Retaining genome-wide background sequence information without immunoprecipitation, DeChIC-seq enables profiling of histone modifications and sensitive detection of TF binding. Integration with single-cell whole-genome amplification extends DeChIC-seq to single-cell applications (scDeChIC-seq), enabling chromatin profiling of individual cells. Applied to mouse embryogenesis, scDeChIC-seq resolves lineage-specific chromatin states through profiling of H3K4me3, CTCF, and RAD21 and sensitively detects TF binding, including that of NR5A2, TFAP2C, and KLF5, from extremely limited blastomere inputs. This underscores its strong potential for detecting TF-binding sites in scarce biological samples. DeChIC-seq establishes a conversion-based framework for chromatin profiling that enables mechanistic dissection of TF-driven gene regulation across rare cells, developmental systems, and disease contexts.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Center for Excellence in Molecular Cell Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences.
To evaluate changes in immunoexpression of proteins involved in epigenetic regulation in the uterus in female ICR mice following neonatal exposure to tamoxifen.Thirty-two neonatal mice were randomly assigned to 2 groups: the control and the tamoxifen-treated group. At post-natal day 5 and 42, 8 mice each from the two groups were sacrificed and their uterine tissues were harvested and processed for histology and immunohistochemistry analyses. The immunostaining of Hdac1-3, Dnmt1, Dnmt3a, Kat2a, Ehmt2, Jmjd3, Setdb1, Ezh2, Suz12, Tet1-3, and Six1, an estrogen responsive protein known to regulate endometrial aberrations following developmental exposure to xenobiotic estrogens, was evaluated.At adulthood, tamoxifen-exposed mice exhibited elevated endometrial staining of Hdac1, Setdb1, Suz12, Dnmt1, Dnmt3a, and Six1, but reduced staining of Hdac3, Kat2a, Ezh2, Jmjd3, and Tet1 in the endometrium. In the myometrium, Dnmt1, Dnmt3a, and Six1 staining was elevated, whereas Hdac3, Kat2a, and Jmjd3 staining was decreased.Neonatal tamoxifen exposure induces possibly lasting remodeling of uterine epigenetic regulators as well as Six1 overexpression in female ICR/CD-1 mice, especially in the endometrium. Collectively, these findings indicate that neonatal tamoxifen exposure in female ICR/CD-1 mice not only induces adenomyosis but also might sear a lasting exposure imprint on the reproductive tract.© 2026 The Author(s). Reproductive Medicine and Biology published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japan Society for Reproductive Medicine.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567458 is a review article
Ovarian endometrioma (OEM) is a common manifestation of endometriosis and is associated with both local lesions and systemic alterations. While immune dysregulation and metabolic disturbances have been individually reported in endometriosis, whether these changes are coordinated at the circulating molecular level in OEM remains unclear.We performed an exploratory integrative analysis of serum proteomic and untargeted metabolomic profiles in women with OEM and healthy controls. Differential analyses were conducted for each omics layer, followed by cross-omics integration to assess pathway-level relationships between molecular alterations. Selected platelet-associated proteins were further evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in a small independent cohort.Serum proteomics profiling showed predominant alterations in immune-related and extracellular processes, whereas metabolomic analysis revealed changes mainly involving lipid metabolism, amino acid metabolism, and redox-related pathways. Cross-omics integration suggested pathway-level correspondence between the two omics layers, particularly in carbohydrate metabolism, nucleotide metabolism, lipid remodeling, and antioxidant defense. Among platelet-associated proteins, pro-platelet basic protein (PPBP/CXCL7) showed higher levels in OEM in both proteomic profiling and ELISA validation, while MMRN1 and PDGFA showed concordant but non-significant increases in the ELISA cohort.These findings suggest that OEM is associated with concurrent immune-related and metabolic alterations detectable in the circulation. Integrative multi-omics analysis provides exploratory evidence for pathway-level correspondence between proteomic and metabolomic alterations in OEM and provides limited independent support for a platelet-associated circulating signal, with PPBP showing the most consistent validation.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Hu, Xiao, Ma, Zhu, Gao, Zhang and Jin.
Cirrhosis is the end-stage of chronic liver disease characterized by progressive hepatic fibrosis and persistent immune dysregulation, yet the mechanisms by which immune cell crosstalk drives disease progression remain poorly understood.In the present study, we integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses with immunofluorescence validation to investigate the role of the CCL20-CCR6 axis in MAIT cells-macrophages interactions during cirrhosis progression.We identified eight core cirrhosis-associated immune genes (OGN, IL32, CCL19, PDGFA, CCL20, NTS, SEMA3C, HSPA2), among which CCL20 was selectively enriched in mucosal-associated invariant T cells (MAIT) and closely associated with their activation- and exhaustion-related transcriptional profiles. Cell-cell communication analysis revealed that the CCL20-CCR6 axis may specifically mediate bidirectional interactions between MAIT cells and M2 macrophages, forming a disease-specific positive feedback loop within the cirrhotic microenvironment. Immunofluorescence staining further confirmed the enrichment and colocalization of CCL20, MAIT cells, and M2 macrophages in cirrhotic tissues.Collectively, these findings support the CCL20-CCR6 axis as a key regulator of hepatic immune dysregulation and fibrotic progression in liver cirrhosis, highlighting its potential as both a biomarker of disease activity and a therapeutic target for cirrhosis intervention.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Li, Zhang, Lou, Zhang, Lou, Zhang, Xu, Jiang and Lv.
In this study, an exploratory transcriptomic investigation was conducted to evaluate the feasibility of using feather transcriptomics to detect sex differences and gene responses to physiological changes in chickens. Feathers represent a promising non-invasive biological source of RNA, as the feather pulp of growing feathers contains living cells capable of active transcription. Growing feathers were collected from 150-day-old male and female chickens (Bionda Piemontese, a slow-growing breed) raised under a free-range system and fed two finisher diets differing in lipid content: low-lipid (LL, ether extract 3.6%) and high-lipid (HL, ether extract 9.3%) diets. RNA was extracted from feather pulp, and 12 pools were subjected to whole RNA-Seq analysis. The study was designed as 2 × 2 factorial experiments investigating the effects of diet and sex on gene expression. A total of 17,360 transcripts were detected and used for downstream analyses. Differential gene expression and functional enrichment analyses were performed. The main effects of diet and sex were estimated with an additive design using the DEseq2 package, while for the sex-specific diet analyses, subgroup comparisons were conducted on the RaNA-Seq platform. The analysis of the main effect of diet reveals that three genes associated with ether lipid metabolism (PLA2G10, PLA2G4F, and ENPP6) were upregulated in chickens fed the HL diet. In roosters, HL feeding significantly altered the expression of APOA1 and SLC27A4, suggesting an effect on lipid transport and metabolic regulation within the PPAR signaling pathway. In contrast, hens showed differential expression primarily in pathways related to apelin signaling, extracellular matrix remodeling, and cardiovascular function, rather than classical lipid metabolism pathways; additionally, gene set enrichment analysis indicated a limited enrichment of linoleic acid metabolism, suggesting secondary involvement of lipid metabolic processes. These findings are consistent with those in the literature reporting sex-related differences between males and females. The results further suggest that transcriptomic responses to dietary lipid supplementation can be investigated through the expression of selected candidate genes in feather pulp. Among the genes identified, PLA2G10, PLA2G4F, ENPP6, APOA1, and SLC27A4 emerged as potential molecular markers associated with dietary treatment, and the importance of sex-dependent transcriptional responses was highlighted. In conclusion, this study demonstrates the potential of feather pulp as a viable source of RNA for transcriptomic analyses in live chickens, providing a minimally invasive alternative to conventional tissue sampling. These preliminary results also support the hypothesis that feathers represent a practical and ethically favorable tissue for future nutrigenomic and genetic improvement studies, ultimately supporting more sustainable poultry production.
Background: Laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC) is a highly aggressive malignancy with poor prognosis, particularly in advanced stages. While traditional treatments have improved survival rates, reliable biomarkers for prognosis remain limited. Methods: We analyzed RNA-seq data of LSCC patients from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and validated the results using the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) dataset (GSE27020), clinical samples, and LSCC cell lines. Differentially expressed immune-related genes (DEIRGs) were identified using the "limma" R package. A prognostic signature was developed by integrating univariate Cox analysis, least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression, and multivariate Cox analysis. The signature's predictive performance was validated using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. Results: A three-gene immune-related prognostic signature comprising TNFRSF4, PPARG, and PDGFA was established. In the training cohort, the model stratified patients into high- and low-risk groups with significantly different overall survival (HR = 5.81, 95% CI: 2.56-13.22, p < 0.001), with apparent 1-, 2-, and 3-year AUC values of 0.838, 0.895, and 0.947, respectively. Predictive performance was further evaluated in the TCGA testing cohort, the full TCGA cohort, and the GSE27020 cohort. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that the signature genes are involved in immune regulation and tumor progression. Conclusions: This study identified and validated a novel three-gene immune-related prognostic signature for LSCC, offering a practical tool for individualized prognosis and personalized treatment strategies. The signature provides insights into immune-related mechanisms in LSCC, presenting potential targets for therapeutic intervention.
Hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia (HED), primarily caused by mutations in EDA and EDAR, is characterized by tooth agenesis and other dental anomalies, including smaller teeth, conical or peg-shaped teeth, and taurodontism. However, the specific role of EDAR in this process remains unclear, and suitable animal models for functional studies are lacking. In this study, we generated both global and epithelium-specific Edar knockout mice, demonstrating that epithelial Edar is essential for ectodermal organ development. Loss of Edar in the epithelium led to multiple developmental dental anomalies, including third molar agenesis, reduced tooth size, fused roots, decreased cusp number, taurodontism-like molars, and enamel hypoplasia, which could mimic most of the phenotypes seen in global Edar deletion and HED. Single-cell RNA sequencing further revealed that Edar deletion alters the normal developmental progression of preameloblast lineage cells toward later ameloblast states. This alteration may underlie the enamel defects observed upon Edar loss and is further supported by the finding that Edar knockdown impaired mineralization of ameloblast lineage cells in vitro. Notably, Dlx3 was downregulated in ameloblasts at various stages in Edar-deficient mice, and Dlx3 overexpression in Edar-knockdown ameloblast lineage cells could rescue the mineralization function. Chromatin immunoprecipitation-quantitative polymerase chain reaction revealed that p65 binds to the Dlx3 promoter, linking Edar to Dlx3 transcriptional activation via NF-κB signaling. Collectively, these findings reveal a critical role of epithelial EDAR in tooth development and, for the first time, provide evidence that its downregulated expression can lead to enamel formation defects, offering new insights into the pathogenic mechanisms of EDAR-related HED.
Skin wound repair involves coordinated cellular activities regulated by both biochemical and bioelectrical cues. In this study, an electroactive hydrogel system based on oxidized hyaluronic acid (oxi-HA) crosslinked with adipic dihydrazide (ADH) and incorporated with polypyrrole (PPy) was developed and systematically evaluated. The effects of PPy incorporation on hydrogel structure, physicochemical properties, electrochemical behavior, and cellular responses were investigated. FTIR and SEM analyses confirmed successful PPy incorporation within the oxi-HA network, while preserving an interconnected porous structure at low PPy content. Increasing PPy concentration reduced swelling capacity and altered degradation behavior, indicating a transition toward a denser network. Electrochemical measurements demonstrated a PPy-dependent increase in conductivity and electrochemical behavior, accompanied by increased peak-to-peak separation (ΔEp) at higher PPy content, indicating changes in electrochemical behavior that warrant further investigation. In vitro studies showed that hydrogels with moderate PPy incorporation (PPy-4) maintained high cytocompatibility (> 95%) and supported fibroblast proliferation, whereas excessive PPy content was associated with reduced cell viability. Under daily low-intensity electrical stimulation (20 μA, 5 min/day), PPy-4 hydrogels further enhanced fibroblast proliferation, migration, and upregulated wound-healing-related gene expression (PDGF-A, FGF-2, and TGF-β1). These results indicate that the incorporation of in situ polymerized PPy modulates the structural and electrochemical properties of oxi-HA hydrogels and is associated with composition-dependent differences in cellular responses under electrical stimulation. This study provides an in vitro proof-of-concept for the development of oxi-HA/PPy/ADH hydrogel systems with composition-dependent electroactive properties.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is characterized by lipid metabolic reprogramming. Valproic acid (VPA), a widely used antiepileptic drug known to modulate lipid homeostasis, has shown potential anti-HCC activity; however, its impact on lipid remodeling and the underlying mechanism remains unclear. We employed an integrated approach combining lipidomics, network pharmacology, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations to investigate this. In HepG2 tumor-bearing mice, VPA dose-dependently inhibited tumor growth. Lipidomics identified 210 and 98 differential lipids in the 250 mg/kg and 500 mg/kg groups, respectively, primarily enriched in glycerophospholipid and choline metabolism, with 17 overlapping species in both groups. Target screening revealed 127 lipid metabolism-related targets of VPA in HCC, including 10 core targets such as PLA2G10, LCAT, and PON1. Docking and dynamics simulations confirmed stable VPA-LCAT binding, supported by functional evidence of elevated PC/LPC ratio and reduced cholesterol esterification. These findings demonstrate that VPA significantly remodels the lipid metabolic microenvironment in HCC, and these multifaceted changes offer new insights into its anti-HCC mechanisms.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
ObjectiveVisceral adipose tissue (VAT) produces several adipokines; however, VAT adipocytes' gene expression has not been related with cardio-metabolic components. The present study aimed to explore associations between gene expression in human primary VAT adipocytes' and cardio-metabolic components in subjects who live with Metabolically Unhealthy Obesity (MUO) compared with subjects who live with Metabolically Healthy Obesity (MHO).MethodsCross-sectional study of patients who live with obesity, who underwent bariatric/metabolic surgery.ResultsForty-five patients (18 MHO and 27 MUO) aged 44 years, main co-morbidities Diabetes and Hypertension, were analyzed. MUO showed younger age and higher cardio-metabolic risk, as well as larger adipocyte´s sizes. Primary cultured adipocytes were isolated from trans-surgical VAT sample, then cDNA was analyzed for the expression of 92 genes, further distributed as MUO vs. MHO and clustered according to their linkage with cardio-metabolic components. Higher expression of genes like EDN1, IL-6, ADIPOQ, GSTA2, TGFβ, WNT3A, KDR, MAPK3, vWF (p<0.04); as well as reduced NOS2, PDGFA, HAMP and RARRES2 (p<0.01) were observed across clusters of hyperglycemia, hypertension, dyslipidaemia, and central obesity, broadly implicating pathways related to inflammation, oxidative stress, endothelial dysfunction, insulin resistance, and vascular regulation.ConclusionFindings from the present exploratory analysis show that cardio-metabolic risk is associated to VAT adipocytes' gene expression; particularly those genes related to oxidative stress, insulin resistance, inflammation, endothelial dysfunction, athero-thrombosis, and lower vasodilation. Further longitudinal and mechanistic studies are required to clarify the directionality and clinical significance of these associations.
Studies have shown that all men who die from prostate cancer exhibit bone involvement, highlighting the clinical significance of bone metastases. Previously, we demonstrated that prostate cancer exhibits elevated expression of FOXI3; a transcription factor critical to bone development. However, its functional role in prostate cancer progression remains unexplored. In this study, we explored FOXI3 expression in human prostate cancer tissues and cell lines. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed a significant association between FOXI3 expression, tumor pathology, and increasing tumor grade. Analysis of publicly available gene expression data from prostate cancer patients showed that FOXI3 is markedly elevated in bone metastases and strongly correlates with FGF8, suggesting a potential bone-specific regulatory interaction between these factors. Consistent with this, treatment of bone-derived prostate cancer cells with FGF8 increased FOXI3 RNA expression, whereas no such effect was observed in a brain-metastatic cell line. Further, we demonstrated that the FGF8-FOXI3 axis regulates bone-derived prostate cancer cell migration and proliferation in a FOXI3 dependent manner. Together, our findings demonstrate a pro-metastatic role of FOXI3 in prostate cancer progression.Copyright © 2026 Mukherjee, Hollern, Byrd, Rayburn, Williams, Knight, Yates and Jones.
Following traumatic brain injury (TBI), inflammation of the nerve and death of nerve cells are intimately associated with the unfavorable prognosis of TBI patients. This study aims to examine the function of programmed cell death protein-1 (PDCD1) signaling in neuroinflammation and nerve cell death following TBI in mice, as well as its impact on the recuperation of cognitive, memory, and motor capabilities, and to initially analyze its underlying mechanism. In vivo investigations employed a controlled cortical impact (CCI) murine model. BV-2 cells were activated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to create an in vitro model of microglial inflammation. The outcome indicates that TBI significantly and temporarily increased the expression of PDCD1 in vivo, with PDCD1 mostly expressed in microglia and neurons, but not in astrocytes. Knockdown of PDCD1 led to an increase in the protein expression levels of IL-1β, iNOS, and Bax, whereas the levels of Bcl-2, p-PI3K, and p-Akt dropped. Nonetheless, the overexpression of PDCD1 yielded contrary outcomes; furthermore, LY294002 may partially counteract the effects of PDCD1 overexpression and diminish its expression levels. And the results of further cell experiments in vitro were consistent with those in vivo. PDCD1 expression is elevated in both in vivo TBI models and in vitro microglial inflammation models. Moreover, PDCD1 mitigates neuroinflammation and nerve cell death, at least partially, via the PI3K/Akt pathway.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
While clinical data on anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy in relapsed/refractory (R/R) large B-cell lymphoma (LBCL) have been established, data specifically focusing on high-grade B-cell lymphoma (HGBCL) remain limited.To evaluate the efficacy of CAR T-cell therapy for HGBCL, we conducted a single-center retrospective study of patients with R/R HGBCL who received CAR T-cell therapy at our institution between March 2022 and October 2024.This study included 15 patients with R/R HGBCL treated with CAR T-cell therapy (10 with axicabtagene ciloleucel and 5 with lisocabtagene maraleucel). The median age at CAR T-cell infusion was 62 years (range, 39-76 years). Eleven patients (73.3%) were refractory to first-line therapy and 11 (73.3%) had MYC and BCL2 rearrangements. High-grade morphology was observed in nine patients (60.0%). Nine patients (60.0%) received CAR T-cell therapy as second-line treatment. The best overall response rate was 80.0%, with a complete response rate of 66.7%. At a median follow-up of 18.5 months (range, 1.3-26.0 months), the 1-year progression-free survival (PFS) rate was 40.0%. In univariate analysis, high-grade morphology was associated with inferior PFS (HR 5.09; 95% CI 1.46-17.73, p = 0.019), whereas high lactate dehydrogenase level and high metabolic tumor volume at lymphodepletion, number of prior lines of chemotherapy and MYC and BCL2 rearrangements were not significantly associated with PFS.The efficacy of CAR T-cell therapy in patients with R/R HGBCL remains suboptimal. High-grade morphology may help identify patients at particularly high risk of poor outcomes following CAR T-cell therapy.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Society of Clinical Oncology.
Chronic fatty acid (FA) elevation drives metabolic dysfunction-associated liver disease (MASLD). Hepatocytes buffer transient lipid overload via coordinated adaptive mechanisms, but the temporal limits of this capacity remain undefined.We characterized early, intermediate, and prolonged hepatocellular responses to sustained lipid excess.HuH7 hepatocytes were exposed to an equimolar palmitic/oleic acid (PA/OA) mixture for 1, 14, or 28 days. Viability, lipid accumulation, stress-response pathways, insulin signaling, metabolic regulators, mitochondrial markers, [14C]-PA uptake, and exo-metabolomic profiles were assessed (n≥3/group). Data (mean ± SEM) were analyzed by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni post hoc testing; cumulative cell death by linear regression. P<0.05 was significant.FA treatment increased lipid droplet accumulation 1.4- to 1.7-fold vs. time-matched BSA controls at all time points (p<0.001) and increased the rate of cumulative cell death ∼4.3-fold (1.556±0.083 vs. 0.365±0.054%/day, p<0.001). Exo-metabolomic PCA explained 88.5% of variance (Q2=0.758), with peak lactate release at Day 14 and progressively rising acetate through Day 28. [14C]-PA accumulation at Day 28 was ∼30% lower than Day 1 (∼800 vs. ∼500 cpm/mg protein), with a declining rather than plateauing profile between 20-60 s. By Day 28, FA-treated cells showed lower FASN (p<0.001), CD36 (p<0.05), FABP1 (p<0.001), SIRT1 (p<0.005), and CLOCK (p<0.01) protein levels, and higher CPT1A (p<0.001), pAMPK/AMPK (p<0.01), p53 (p<0.001), Bax/Bcl2 (p<0.005), and respiratory complex I-V abundance (p<0.05-p<0.001) vs. controls.Sustained PA/OA exposure induces a staged hepatocellular response, early lipid-buffering adaptation, intermediate metabolic compensation, and late decompensation, indicating that chronic lipotoxicity reflects progressive loss of regulatory coordination despite persistent metabolic adaptation.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Selenium nanoparticles (SeNPs) have emerged as promising anticancer agents due to their selective cytotoxicity and ability to modulate oncogenic signaling pathways. In this study, we developed a novel L-cysteine-modified selenium nanoparticles (L-SeNPs) system and investigated its antitumor effects and underlying molecular mechanisms in ovarian cancer cells. Our results demonstrated that L-SeNPs significantly inhibited cell proliferation and clonogenic potential in a dose- and time-dependent manner in A2780 and SKOV3 ovarian cancer cells. Mechanistically, L-SeNPs induced intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, which subsequently resulted in DNA damage, as indicated by the accumulation of γ-H2AX. Treatment with the ROS scavenger N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) markedly attenuated L-SeNPs-induced DNA damage, indicating that ROS generation serves as an upstream event in this process. L-SeNPs further triggered mitochondrial apoptosis characterized by activation of Bax, Bak, and cleaved PARP-1, along with downregulation of Bcl-2. Transcriptomic profiling revealed significant enrichment of the FOXO signaling pathway following L-SeNPs treatment, with GADD45A identified as a key upregulated downstream effector. Further mechanistic studies demonstrated that ROS-mediated DNA damage promoted FOXO3a nuclear translocation, leading to transcriptional activation of GADD45A. Functional experiments confirmed that both FOXO3a and GADD45A are essential for L-SeNPs-induced apoptosis, and restoration of GADD45A partially rescued apoptotic activity in FOXO3a-silenced cells, indicating that GADD45A acts downstream of FOXO3a. In conclusion, L-SeNPs exert potent antitumor effects in ovarian cancer cells by inducing ROS-mediated DNA damage and activating the FOXO3a-GADD45A axis, thereby triggering mitochondrial apoptosis and suppressing tumor cell proliferation. These findings provide new mechanistic insights into selenium-based nanomaterials and suggest the FOXO3a-GADD45A pathway as a potential therapeutic target for ovarian cancer treatment.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566728 is a review article
To report a rare case of Richter syndrome transformation presenting as diffuse large B-cell vitreoretinal lymphoma (DLBCL) in a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).A woman in her late fifties with 11q-mutated CLL in remission presented with bilateral, painless blurring of vision. The best-corrected visual acuity was 20/50 in the right eye and 20/80 in the left eye. Fundus examination revealed multiple hypopigmented yellowish subretinal lesions in both eyes. A presumed diagnosis of secondary vitreoretinal lymphoma/leukemic infiltration was made, and multiple intravitreal methotrexate injections were administered until complete regression of lesions and visual recovery. However, a year later, the left eye relapsed with a large placoid, yellowish subretinal infiltration. ^18F-FDG PET-CT scan revealed systemic lymphadenopathy. Subretinal and vitreous biopsy revealed CD20-and BCL2-positive large atypical lymphoid cells, confirming DLBCL, consistent with Richter transformation in the eye. Although lymph node and tonsillar biopsies showed no systemic involvement, the patient declined prophylactic high-dose methotrexate despite the elevated risk of systemic transformation.Bilateral vitreoretinal lymphoma presenting as the first manifestation of Richter transformation is exceedingly rare. Early ophthalmic recognition, biopsy, and systemic staging are essential for avoiding diagnostic delays.© 2026 The Authors.
Platinum-based chemotherapy remains the cornerstone of ovarian cancer treatment, yet acquired resistance severely limits efficacy. Because platinum agents can also influence immunogenic cell death and tumor microenvironment (TME) remodeling, clarifying cellular pharmacological mechanisms of sensitivity and resistance within the ovarian cancer tumor ecosystem is important for understanding therapeutic failure.We integrated single-cell RNA-seq from treatment-naïve and post-neoadjuvant chemotherapy ovarian tumors with bulk multi-omics cohorts to map epithelial tumor heterogeneity, transcriptional reprogramming, pathway activation, immune infiltration, and inferred cell-cell communication networks. DUSP5 was identified as a candidate regulator linked to stress-adaptive programs. Functional validation included qPCR, proliferation, migration, colony-formation, carboplatin dose-response, and xenograft assays following stable DUSP5 knockdown.Single-cell analysis revealed chemotherapy-associated epithelial states with enhanced stress, EMT, hypoxia, and inflammatory signatures. Elevated DUSP5 expression correlated with MAPK/JAK-STAT/TGF-β signaling, myeloid/stromal infiltration, and clinical outcome differences in independent cohorts. DUSP5 depletion suppressed proliferation and migration, amplified carboplatin-induced MAPK transcriptional responses and pro-apoptotic signaling (BAX/PUMA upregulation, BCL2 downregulation), reduced IC50 values in both OVCAR8 and SKOV3 cells, and significantly inhibited xenograft tumor growth.DUSP5 may contribute to platinum response and resistance by linking tumor-intrinsic adaptive programs with TME-associated features in ovarian cancer. These findings support DUSP5 as a candidate biomarker and therapeutic target that warrants further mechanistic and clinical validation.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Li, Liao, Li, Huang and Wang.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is one of the leading causes of cancer-related mortality in men, with castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) posing significant therapeutic challenges due to drug resistance mediated by the androgen receptor (AR) signaling pathway. Indolethylamine-N-methyltransferase (INMT), a tumor-suppressive enzyme downregulated in CRPC, regulates pathways associated with apoptosis and proliferation. Leveraging a structure-based drug design strategy, this study aimed to identify novel INMT agonists for CRPC therapy. Virtual screening of the ChemDiv compound library (guided by the INMT crystal structure, PDB ID: 2A14), combined with molecular docking, MM/GBSA binding energy calculations, and molecular dynamics simulations, identified five candidate compounds. Among these, DMPP-4M stably bound to an allosteric site adjacent to the catalytic domain of INMT via hydrogen bonds, π-cation interactions, and hydrophobic forces. In vitro experiments demonstrated that DMPP-4M dose-dependently upregulated INMT expression, inhibited proliferation, and induced apoptosis in CRPC cell models (PC-3, 22RV1). The mechanism involved activation of the pro-apoptotic protein BAX, suppression of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2, and upregulation of cleaved caspase-3 and PARP. Further mechanistic studies revealed that DMPP-4M-mediated INMT activation suppressed the activity of the TGF-β/Smad and Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathways. These findings suggest that DMPP-4M represents a promising INMT-targeted therapeutic agent, offering an AR-independent strategy for CRPC treatment. Subsequent structural optimization and in vivo experimental validation are required to advance its clinical translation potential.Copyright © 2026 Zheng, Cao, Kong, Xin, Bi and Wang.
Hair loss is a common clinical and aesthetic concern, and existing treatments remain limited by side effects, invasiveness, or unsatisfactory long-term efficacy. Stem cell-derived exosomes have emerged as a promising cell-free strategy for tissue regeneration. However, the hair-regenerative potential of hair follicle stem cell-derived exosomes (HFSC-Exos), particularly when enriched with miR-181a-5p, remains insufficiently explored.Commercially available rat hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) were cultured, and exosomes were isolated from cells at passages 3-4 after transfection with miR-181a-5p mimics or negative control mimics. Exosomes were characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM), nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA), and western blotting. Twenty 7-week-old C57BL/6 mice, which were generally in telogen at this age, were randomly assigned to four groups (n = 5/group): PBS, Exos, ExosmiR-NC, and ExosmiR-181a-5p. After dorsal hair shaving, mice received local subcutaneous injections every other day for a total of five injections. Hair regrowth was evaluated by gross observation, histology, immunohistochemistry, and immunofluorescence.HFSC-Exos accelerated the transition from telogen to anagen and promoted visible hair regrowth compared with PBS treatment. Among all groups, ExosmiR-181a-5p showed the strongest effect, with newborn hair coverage reaching approximately 90% on day 15, compared with approximately 40% in the Exos and ExosmiR-NC groups. In addition, Ki-67, Bcl-2, and β-catenin expression levels were significantly increased, whereas Bax expression was decreased in exosome-treated skin tissues (all P < 0.05), with the most pronounced changes observed in the ExosmiR-181a-5p group.HFSC-Exos promoted the telogen-to-anagen transition and hair regrowth in vivo. Enrichment of miR-181a-5p enhanced this effect and was associated with activation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway, although direct target validation remains to be established.This journal requires that authors assign a level of evidence to each submission to which Evidence-Based Medicine rankings are applicable. This excludes Review Articles, Book Reviews, and manuscripts that concern Basic Science, Animal Studies, Cadaver Studies, and Experimental Studies. For a full description of these Evidence-Based Medicine ratings, please refer to the Table of Contents or the online Instructions to Authors www.springer.com/00266 .© 2026. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature and International Society of Aesthetic Plastic Surgery.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) features a fibrotic stroma dominated by cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), yet the functional heterogeneity of CAFs and their crosstalk with malignant cells in metastasis and immune evasion remain unclear.We performed an integrated analysis of single‑cell RNA‑seq data and spatial transcriptomics of PDAC. Pseudotime trajectory reconstruction, regulon activity inference, and ligand-receptor interaction mapping were applied to dissect fibroblast heterogeneity and stromal-epithelial crosstalk. Bulk transcriptomic data from multiple independent cohorts were used to evaluate prognostic and immunotherapeutic implications.We identified nine CAF subsets, including a THBS2⁺ ECM‑remodeling population enriched in liver metastases. Spatial transcriptomics localized these THBS2⁺ CAFs to dense stromal regions surrounding malignant ducts, where they established an immune‑excluded microenvironment correlated with T‑cell exclusion and immunotherapy resistance. Pseudotime analysis revealed PRRX2 as a master regulator driving this CAF subset. Epithelial sub-clustering uncovered KRT17⁺ malignant cells (a transcriptionally distinct epithelial subpopulation associated with EMT and metastasis) that co-enriched with THBS2⁺ CAFs in metastatic sites. Ligand-receptor analysis showed that THBS2⁺ CAFs are computationally predicted to signal to KRT17⁺ cells via the THBS2-SDC4 axis, while malignant cells reciprocally activate CAFs through MDK-LRP1 and SPP1-integrin pathways. Co‑infiltration of both populations strongly predicted poor prognosis and resistance to anti‑PD‑L1 therapy across multiple cohorts.The THBS2⁺ CAF-KRT17⁺ malignant cell axis drives metastatic progression and immune exclusion in PDAC via THBS2-SDC4 signaling, representing a promising prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42518883 is a review article
The rapid identification and precise quantification of cancer biomarkers are essential for the purposes of diagnosis, classification, and therapeutic intervention. Traditional molecular diagnostic methodologies, such as polymerase chain reaction (PCR), provide considerable sensitivity; however, they depend on exponential amplification and advanced instrumentation, thereby constraining their applicability for point-of-care testing. In this study, we developed a Transcription-driven CRISPR Cascade Amplification (TCCA) for one-tube detection of mRNA at the concentration of 0.6 copies/μL within just 30 min. The target-induced assembly of a three-way junction (TWJ) facilitates the generation of a split T7 promoter, which initiates transcription and activates Cas13a collateral cleavage. The activated Cas13a subsequently cleaves cascade probes and releases new trigger strands, forming a transcription-driven cascade amplification circuit. The assay enables multiplex detection of breast cancer-associated mRNA biomarkers (HBB, KRT17, and CD55) in cell lysates, demonstrating robust performance in intricate biological matrices. Furthermore, incorporation of a multiplex OR-gated logic design enables parallel target recognition, thereby enhancing detection reliability for rapid and accurate clinical diagnostics.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Dysregulated alveolar epithelial repair is a central aspect of Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis but it has proven challenging to reliably model alveolar epithelial cell biology in-vitro. We previously reported persistent activation of Hypoxia-inducible Factor 2 (HIF2) is a hallmark of aberrant epithelial cell phenotypes in IPF. We hypothesized that HIF2 activation primes AECs for aberrant differentiation. In these studies, we investigated how primary human alveolar epithelial organoids respond to a commonly-used commercial alveolar differentiation media intended to facilitate AT2->AT1 differentiation (ADM; which includes human serum and withdrawal of multiple growth factors/inhibitors) in isolation and following biased HIF activation. Alveolar organoids from donor lungs were expanded and transitioned to ADM with pharmacologic modulators to establish HIF-biased signaling. Multimodal analysis integrating scRNA-seq, quantitative label-free proteomics, and Cell Painting revealed that ADM induces expression of several AT1 markers, yet these conditions are insufficient to generate mature AT1-like cells but drives the emergence of KRT17+/KRT5- "aberrant basaloid" -like cells which demonstrate high transcriptional similarity to populations in end-stage IPF lungs (p = 3x10-286). HIF2-biased activation significantly exacerbated these aberrant transitions. Gene module co-expression analysis (hdWGCNA) linked ADM to cytoskeletal modulation and HIF2-biased signaling to metabolic shifts and cytoskeletal rearrangement. Proteomics reinforced protein-level induction of aberrant markers (e.g., GDF15) and revealed novel signatures, including increased complement production. Orthogonal transmission electron microscopy confirmed ultrastructural remodeling, including lysosomal inclusions and mitochondrial modulation. Collectively, these data establish that ADM models disease-emergent transitional states rather than homeostatic AT1 differentiation. These data further position HIF2 as a critical potentiator of aberrant alveolar epithelial cell states in PF.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Thoracic Society.
Targeting neddylation offers a potential therapeutic strategy for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This retrospective study aims to identify genes linked to HCC prognosis associated with neddylation through bioinformatics.The research used publicly available datasets. Neddylation-related genes and survival-associated differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were intersected to identify key genes, which underwent enrichment analysis. Least absolute selection and shrinkage operator (LASSO)-Cox and multivariate Cox regression analyses were performed to identify prognostic genes and build a risk model. Potential mechanisms were explored via immune microenvironment and single-cell analysis. Finally, prognostic gene expression was validated in clinical tumor samples using real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR).Through methodical investigation, 62 intersection genes were found, mainly enriched in "DNA duplex unwinding" and "p53 signaling pathway". Six prognostic genes were further determined (SOCS2, DIRAS2, LPL, KRT17, BFSP1, and POF1B). RT-qPCR results confirmed the downregulation of SOCS2 and the upregulation of DIRAS2, LPL, KRT17, BFSP1, and POF1B in HCC. Risk prediction model based on these genes exhibited high predictive accuracy. Subsequently, analysis of the immunological microenvironment showed that the infiltration levels of 8 immune cell types varied significantly among risk categories. M0 macrophages had the highest negative correlation with SOCS2 and the strongest positive association with DIRAS2. Single-cell analysis showed that SOCS2 had higher expression levels in endothelial cells and significant differential expression in most cellular classifications.Six prognosis-associated genes (SOCS2, DIRAS2, LPL, KRT17, BFSP1, and POF1B) as predictive biomarkers for HCC were identified, and a high-accuracy risk model was developed, providing predictive and prognostic references for HCC risk stratification and clinical management.© 2026 Sun and Tan.
To investigate the role of Notch1 signaling in Lrig1-expressing vocal fold (VF) epithelial stem cells during epithelial repair following acute injury.Lrig1CreERT2/+, Lrig1CreERT2/+Notch1F/+, and Lrig1CreERT2/+Notch1F/F mice were generated. Cre-mediated recombination was induced by tamoxifen (100 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) on two consecutive days. Acute epithelial injury was induced by naphthalene (NAPH; 250 mg/kg, intraperitoneally), while corn oil was used as a control. Whole larynges were collected at 1, 3, and 7 days post-injury for histological and immunofluorescence analyses.Following injury, conditional deletion of Notch1 in Lrig1-expressing epithelial stem cells disrupted epithelial repair, with the most pronounced phenotype in homozygous Lrig1CreERT2/+Notch1F/F mice. Expansion of P63 positive basal cells and increased Ki-67 positive proliferating cells peaked at 3 days and persisted through 1 week post injury. Moreover, epithelial stratification was altered, as indicated by expansion of KRT14 positive epithelial layers and increased expression of the differentiation markers KRT13 and KRT17. Notably, accumulation of IBA1 positive immune cells increased in VF mucosa at 3 days and remained elevated at 1 week, indicating prolonged inflammation.Collectively, these results suggest that Notch1 plays an important role in regulating epithelial cell fate and coordinating the timing of repair processes in the VF epithelium following acute injury.N/A.© 2026 The Author(s). The Laryngoscope published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The American Laryngological, Rhinological and Otological Society, Inc.
EGFR-mutant lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) exhibits significant prognostic heterogeneity despite the efficacy of tyrosine kinase inhibitors. To uncover the transcriptomic markers of rapid disease progression, we integrated clinical and transcriptomic data to develop robust prognostic biomarkers for risk stratification.We utilized ensemble machine learning algorithms, including Random Survival Forest and XGBoost, to analyze transcriptomic data from 293 patients with EGFR-mutant LUAD. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis combined with copy number variation (CNV) profiling was employed to assess the cellular distribution and tumor epithelial contribution of the identified prognostic signature. The functional effects of the candidate biomarkers, USP15 and KRT17, and their dynamic regulation by oncogenic EGFR signaling were experimentally validated in EGFR-mutant cell lines using siRNA knockdown, pharmacological blockade (osimertinib), and gain-of-function assays.The optimized XGBoost model identified a 13-gene cluster with strong predictive performance (C-index = 0.863), which was independently validated in an external cohort (log-rank P = 0.0117; 1-year AUC = 0.698). Single-cell transcriptomic analysis demonstrated that the detectable 11-gene subset exhibited a mixed tumor-microenvironment distribution, including expression within CNV-defined malignant epithelial cells. Functional experiments further demonstrated that USP15 and KRT17 promote tumor cell proliferation, clonogenic growth, and migration. Moreover, the expression of both genes was responsive to downstream EGFR signaling. Collectively, these findings establish a robust 13-gene prognostic gene cluster with a mixed cellular origin and identify USP15- and KRT17-associated biology as a promising direction for future mechanistic investigation in EGFR-mutant LUAD.We identify a 13-gene prognostic cluster associated with poor survival in EGFR-mutant LUAD. These findings position the EGFR-regulated USP15/KRT17 axis as a novel framework for patient risk stratification, with potential implications for guiding targeted therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Metastasis is the principal cause of death from colorectal cancer (CRC), yet the cellular states that enable tumor dissemination remain poorly defined. Disseminated tumor cells (DTCs) are rare, transient, and clinically inaccessible, limiting mechanistic insight into their biology. Here we show that CRC cells transiently adopt a wound-healing program normally used by epidermal keratinocytes during tissue repair to enable metastatic dissemination. Using serial orthotopic transplantation of patient-derived organoids to model metastasis, we find that DTCs lose cancer stem cell features and instead express wound-inducible keratins, including KRT17, before metastatic outgrowth. This state is reversible, as cells reacquire primary tumor-like characteristics upon colonization of distant organs. Mechanistically, this transition is associated with reduced EZH2 activity and activation of YAP signaling. Clinically, KRT17⁺ cells localize to the invasive front of primary CRCs and are absent from adjacent normal tissue. These findings uncover unexpected lineage plasticity across distinct developmental origins and identify a transient, targetable state critical for metastatic progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42376483
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors and other targeted therapies frequently cause cutaneous toxicities, impairing patient quality of life and treatment adherence. This study investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying the protective effects of Xiao Zhen Fang (XZF), a traditional Chinese medicine formula, against EGFR inhibitor-induced dermatotoxicity.An erlotinib-induced mouse model of cutaneous toxicity was established. Transcriptomic and serum metabolomic profiles were collected and integrated to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs), metabolites, and pathways. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, machine learning algorithms, and enrichment analyses were applied, with selected biomarkers validated by Western blotting. To explore the role of PANoptosis, in vivo experiments with the caspase inhibitor Z-VAD-FMK were conducted, and skin barrier-related proteins were examined.XZF reduced the incidence of rash, alleviated erythema and swelling, improved body weight, and decreased epidermal thickness in the cutaneous toxicity model. Multi-omics analysis revealed significant alterations in inflammatory and lipid metabolism pathways. Key preventive and therapeutic biomarkers, including cytokine signaling and stem cell-related genes, were identified. PANoptosis-related proteins such as Caspase-1, Gasdermin D, IL-1β,RIPK1,ZBP1,ASC and MLKL were markedly upregulated in the model but suppressed by XZF pretreatment. Furthermore, XZF modulated expression of TGM3, STAT6, P65, P53, KRT1, and KRT14 to restore skin barrier function. Co-treatment with Z-VAD-FMK weakened these regulatory effects, confirming PANoptosis as a critical mechanism.XZF alleviates EGFR inhibitor-induced cutaneous toxicity by modulating inflammatory signaling pathways, lipid metabolism, stem cell regulatory mechanisms, and PANoptosis. This integrative multi-omics study systematically elucidates the therapeutic potential of XZF and highlights PANoptosis as a novel target for the prevention and treatment of drug-induced skin toxicity.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Biotin is a vital coenzyme involved in diverse metabolic pathways and plays a key role in hoof health by supporting keratin synthesis and the protective barrier of the hoof. This study systematically investigated the effects of rumen-protected biotin (RPB) on hepatic metabolic networks, redox homeostasis, and hoof health in lactating dairy cows using an integrated multiomics approach. The RPB supplement consisted of 2.1% biotin (purity ≥99%), 62.9% glucose, and 35% hydrogenated palm oil fatty acids. Eighty multiparous Holstein cows were stratified by parity (2.48 ± 0.69), body weight (637.76 ± 55.71 kg), body condition score (3.01 ± 0.20), days in milk (141 ± 16), and average milk yield (32.35 ± 4.36 kg/d). They were assigned for 75 d using a randomized block design to 4 treatment groups: Control (Con; basal diet, n = 20), low-RPB diet (LRPB; 0.5 g/d RPB, n = 20), mid-RPB diet (MRPB; 1.0 g/d RPB, n = 20), or high-RPB diet (HRPB; 2.0 g/d RPB, n = 20). Milk and blood samples were collected on d 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, and 75 for analysis of milk composition and serum biochemical parameters. Data were analyzed using mixed models with orthogonal polynomial contrasts to evaluate linear and quadratic effects of RPB. Among the markers of liver function, serum albumin increased but total cholesterol, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, and total bilirubin decreased in a linear and quadratic fashion with higher doses of RPB. Feeding RPB increased serum total antioxidant capacity, glutathione, and superoxide dismutase in a linear and quadratic fashion, while malondialdehyde decreased. Incremental feeding of RPB decreased linearly the serum type II collagen C-terminal peptide concentration and lameness scores. Further, serum cartilage oligomeric matrix protein concentration decreased in a linear and quadratic fashion, whereas serum procollagen IIA N-terminal propeptide and hoof horn hardness increased in a linear and quadratic fashion. Based on serum biochemical and hoof health results on d 75, the Con and MRPB groups were selected for proteomic and metabolomic analyses of serum. Proteomics revealed that RPB upregulated key proteins involved in antioxidant reactions and keratinization, including GSR, GCLC, GPX3, TGM1, and TGM3. Metabolomics identified l-cysteine, glycine, and pyruvate as key metabolites associated with RPB suggesting upregulated glutathione synthesis and flux through the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Integrated proteomics and metabolomics analyses revealed that GSR, GCLC, GPX3, TGM1, and TGM3 were positively correlated with l-cysteine and glycine but negatively correlated with γ-glutamylcysteine and palmitic acid. Overall, feeding RPB reduces oxidative stress and improves liver function in part by enhancing glutathione metabolism while reducing lipid peroxidation. Further, RPB promotes keratinization and limits cartilage degradation, thereby enhancing hoof health. These responses to dietary RPB supplementation provide molecular evidence for its targeted application in dairy herd nutrition management.The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of the American Dairy Science Association®. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
The differential diagnosis between Tuberculosis (TB) and Non-tuberculous Mycobacteria (NTM) has historically been constrained by the inadequate sensitivity and specificity of current diagnostic methods. Furthermore, distinguishing between Active Tuberculosis (ATB) and Latent Tuberculosis Infection (LTBI) poses significant challenges. This study aims to develop a molecular differentiation system for ATB, LTBI, and NTM by integrating plasma proteomics with multi-dimensional analytical techniques, while also exploring key biomarkers associated with disease progression and treatment response.Using label-free quantitative technology, we conducted a plasma proteomics analysis across five groups: ATB, LTBI, NTM, Cured Patients (CPs), and Healthy Donors (HD). Differentially Expressed Proteins (DEPs) were identified through screening (FC > 1.5 or <0.67, P < 0.05), followed by Gene Ontology/KEGG pathway enrichment, STRING interaction network, and Mfuzz dynamic clustering analysis to systematically elucidate molecular characteristics. Experimental data were validated through a multidimensional quality control system (Pearson correlation coefficient, peptide distribution, molecular weight distribution, etc.). Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was employed to detect the plasma expression levels of target proteins across the groups and to facilitate comparisons.This study identified 1,338 non-redundant proteins across five cohorts. Comparative analysis revealed 142 DEPs across the three comparative groups (ATB, LTBI, and NTM), which were primarily localized in the extracellular domain. Key findings include: 27 DEPs in the ATB-LTBI group, primarily enriched in inflammatory responses (such as A2M, IL-1R2) and epithelial barrier functions (TGM3, KRT3); 69 DEPs in the ATB-NTM group, characterized by significant changes in immunoglobulin light chains (IGLV2-11) and innate immune effector molecules (S100A8); 46 DEPs in the NTM-LTBI group, closely related to lipid metabolism (APOC3) and extracellular matrix remodeling (FN1). KEGG pathway analysis revealed that DEPs in the ATB-LTBI group were enriched in nitrogen metabolism pathways, those in the ATB-NTM group were associated with thyroid hormone synthesis, and the NTM-LTBI group was involved in phagosome function. Dynamic clustering results showed six treatment response modules: Cluster 1/2 (riboflavin metabolism, complement coagulation pathway) were activated post-treatment, Cluster 3/4 (proteasome, cardiac signaling pathway) exhibited partial reversal in expression, and Cluster 5/6 (platelet activation, cytoskeleton) showed delayed regression. Research confirmed 10 differential proteins between the ATB-CPs and ATB-HD groups, including S100A8, LTA4H, and DEFA1B, which constitute a molecular fingerprint specific to ATB. ELISA validation confirmed significantly elevated S100A8 and GPX3 in ATB group, while NTM group showed higher FGB and lower ATRN levels.This study systematically reveals the plasma proteomic characteristics under infection statuses caused by different mycobacteria. A discrimination framework for ATB/LTBI/NTM was constructed based on disease-specific differential proteins, overcoming the limitations of traditional diagnostic techniques in distinguishing infection states. Through dynamic analysis of six temporal therapeutic modules, the reprogramming patterns of the host protein network during tuberculosis treatment were elucidated. This research lays a multidimensional molecular foundation for the precise typing, personalized treatment, and prognostic evaluation of mycobacterial infections.Copyright: © 2025 Hu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skin cutaneous melanoma (SKCM) is an aggressive malignancy where regulatory T cells (Tregs) drive an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment, resulting in poor prognosis. Thus, there was an urgent need to identify Treg-related molecular biomarkers to optimize SKCM's prognostic assessment and therapeutic strategies. In this study, SKCM-related datasets were acquired from public databases. First, gene modules associated with Tregs screened using Weighted Correlation Network Analysis were intersected with differentially expressed genes to obtain Treg-DEGs. Subsequently, univariate Cox proportional hazards regression, LASSO regression, and multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression were employed to construct a prognostic biomarker signature. Furthermore, the biological functions of the prognostic biomarkers were explored by integrating functional enrichment analysis, molecular regulatory network construction, and drug prediction analysis. Finally, in cellular experiments, the mRNA and protein expression levels of the biomarkers were validated using qRT-PCR and Western blot. The risk model constructed based on the 10 prognostic biomarkers (PTPRF, ULK1, TGM3, CRABP2, SV2A, HLA-DQB2, KHDRBS3, VWA5A, CRIP1, and TFAP2C) could well predict the overall survival of SKCM patients. Functional enrichment analyses indicated that high-risk patients were enriched in keratinization pathways, whereas low-risk patients showed activation of autoimmune and infection-related pathways. NEAT1 might have regulated CRABP2 via miR-375. Additionally, 54 potential drugs, including resveratrol and metronidazole, were predicted for targeted therapy. qRT-PCR and Western blot confirmed PTPRF, ULK1, TGM3, and CRABP2 were upregulated at both the mRNA and protein levels. These findings indicate that the Treg-related signature serves as robust prognostic biomarkers and may guide personalized immunotherapy in SCKM.© 2025. The Author(s).
The development of ultrasensitive proteomic methods for detecting potential protein tumor biomarkers remains a key challenge in modern biomedicine. We integrated data from classical reference proteomic methods─both panoramic (DDA-Shotgun LC-MS/MS) and targeted (MRM)─with a novel AFM-based enrichment approach coupled to mass spectrometry (AFM-MS), providing lower detection limits. This integrated strategy enabled the compilation of an expanded list of proteins associated with ovarian cancer progression. We identified a panel of previously unreported, ovarian cancer-specific candidate markers. A total of 371 proteins were found to be potentially involved in the pathological process, with 33% detected exclusively by the ultrasensitive AFM-MS method and 26% discovered through metabolomic associations. Notably, 6% of the identified proteins correspond to previously recognized ovarian cancer-specific markers, validating our multiplatform approach. Nine potential biomarkers are proposed for the first time, including ATRN, CPN1, APOF, TGM3, and CRNN. Immunoglobulin variable region peptides were reclassified as low-specificity background signals due to their high abundance and inflammation dependence. The identified biomarkers are present in blood at concentrations ranging from 10-12 to 10-6 mol/L. The proposed approach overcomes the sensitivity limitations of conventional proteomic methods and may be adapted for the discovery of candidate markers in other multifactorial diseases.
Thoracic aortic aneurysms frequently go undetected until serious complications like acute dissections or ruptures arise. Therefore, this study aims to identify potential blood circulating biomarkers enabling an easy and early diagnosis of thoracic aortic disease.Potential biomarker candidates were identified through two different techniques, untargeted and targeted proteomic as well as extracellular vesicle (EV) analyses. The biomarker levels were compared between two patient groups with thoracic aortic aneurysms and two control groups without thoracic aortic disease. In total, 80 patients (TAA group (n = 40) vs. control group (n = 40)) were matched for untargeted and targeted proteome analysis, and 85 for EV analysis (TAA group (n = 42) vs. control group (n = 43)), based on the availability of blood samples and excised aortic tissue. Levels of biomarker candidates were correlated with aortic diameter, patient age, and histological alterations in aortic tissue using linear and logistic regression models.The untargeted proteomic and EV analysis identified 1,037 and 1,077 proteins, respectively, of which 11 and 28 proteins showed significant differences in concentration between the study groups. Of these, 9 proteins correlated with the aortic diameter: ACTN1 (Regression coefficient B = 1.633, p < 0.001), CRP (B = 0.001, p = 0.004), TGM3 (B=-0.293, p = 0.010), KRT84 (B=-0.477, p = 0.010), IGHG3 (-0.267, p = 0.018), DPYSL2 (B = 0.644, p = 0.020), TSPAN8 (B-0.838, p = 0.042), IGKV3D-11 (B=-0.242, p = 0.046), and VDAC1 (B=-0.491, p = 0.047). Moreover, IGKV3D-11 (B=-3.257, p = 0.029), IGHG3 (B=-0.003, p = 0.034), and APOC3 (B=-2.104, p = 0.037) showed significant correlations with the grade of aortic medial layer degeneration. None of the proteins correlated with patient age.The study identified 9 biomarker candidates correlating with the aortic diameter. To enable the clinical use for diagnosis and prognostic assessment, these biomarkers need to be validated in larger external cohorts.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sheep breeding is an important sector of livestock production in the Republic of Kazakhstan. The Kazakh fat-tailed coarse-wool sheep holds a prominent position among local breeds due to its high meat productivity, resilience to extreme climatic conditions, and efficient use of pasture resources. This study focuses on the analysis of runs of homozygosity (ROH) to evaluate the genetic diversity level, inbreeding and to detect selection signatures in the Kazakh fat-tailed coarse-wool sheep breed. A total of 500 animals were genotyped using the OvineSNP50 BeadChip (Illumina, San Diego, CA, USA). As a result, a total of 41,728 ROH segments were identified, with an average length of 1.59 Mb, distributed across the entire genome. The most prominent homozygous regions were detected on chromosomes OAR10, OAR13, and OAR22, which might be associated with selection signatures. Genomic inbreeding coefficients (FROH and FGRM) showed a strong positive correlation (r = 0.58, p < 0.001), supporting the effectiveness of ROH-based analysis. Several candidate genes were detected, including MYF5, PRDM16, TGM3, SLC26A4 and SMAD5 which are notably involved in muscle formation, wool traits, and fat metabolism. The findings have substantial practical value for breeding programs and for managing genetic diversity in sheep farming enterprises in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P) promotes colorectal cancer (CRC) under chronic inflammation. Piceatannol (PIC), a polyphenol with anti-inflammatory properties, was investigated for its timing-dependent effects in a B[a]P/dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced CRC mouse model. ICR mice received B[a]P and DSS, followed by PIC intervention at different time points. Continuous PIC treatment (PI group) significantly reduced tumor burden, disease activity index, and intestinal permeability. Proinflammatory cytokines significantly decreased, whereas interleukin-10 increased. RNA-seq analysis showed that PIC upregulated transglutaminase 3 (Tgm3), which was associated with suppression of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase/AKT/mechanistic target of rapamycin pathway, downregulation of proinflammatory and tumor-promoting genes, and enhancement of epithelial repair genes. Gut microbiota analysis demonstrated restored microbial diversity, characterized by increased Roseburia faecis and Kineothrix alysoides and a reduction in Turicibacter sanguinis and Romboutsia ilealis. Continuous piceatannol administration attenuates CRC through microbiota and inflammatory regulation, with Tgm3 upregulation potentially contributing to these effects.
Hair luster, a key component of visual hair quality, depends largely on the integrity of the cuticle. While cosmetic products offer temporarily enhanced luster, their effects are limited due to a poor understanding of the underlying molecular mechanisms. In this study, we employed a UVB-induced mouse model of hair luster loss to identify differentially expressed genes via quantitative real-time reverse transcription PCR. Key candidate genes were subsequently validated in vitro using human hair follicle dermal papilla cells and in ex vivo human scalp hair follicle tissue models. Subsequently, we evaluated the effects of minoxidil, caffeine, and biotin on gene expression and luster restoration. UVB exposure suppressed several luster-related genes, with COL7A1 consistently downregulated across all models. Treatment with minoxidil, caffeine, and biotin restored the expression of COL7A1 along with KRTAP5-5, KRTAP5-4, TGM3, and PTK7. These findings highlight COL7A1 as a novel molecular marker for hair luster and support its modulation as a potential therapeutic strategy.
As a prevalent type of hair loss, androgenetic alopecia (AGA) is complex due to the interplay of multiple factors, which has led to a long-standing exploration gap in the field of drug treatment. Qu-shi-yu-fa Decoction (QSYF), a traditional prescription, has shown positive effects on AGA in clinical practice, but its exact therapeutic mechanism has not been fully revealed.This study aimed to elucidate the mechanism of QSYF in the treatment of AGA.Identification of active components of QSYF using UPLC-MS/MS analysis. An AGA model was established for C57bL/6 mice using dihydrotestosterone to assess the effects of QSYF. Hair growth was observed using dermoscopy. Skin tissues were examined histologically using hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining. RNA-seq was performed on mouse skin samples to identify biological processes and targets. Biological processes and targets obtained from RNA-seq analysis were evaluated using Western blotting, RT-PCR and immunofluorescence assays. Mice were treated with target inhibitors and observed for hair growth for reverse validation. Network pharmacology was utilized to identify the key signaling pathways through which the targets functioned, and Western blotting was utilized for validation.The study identified 43 QSYF components.QSYF promoted hair regeneration and increased hair bulb diameter and skin thickness in AGA mice. Transcriptome analysis showed that hair cycle and keratinization were important biological processes in QSYF treatment of AGA, while QSYF could upregulate the expression of key targets FOXN1 and TGM3. Reverse experiments showed that Inhibition of FOXN1 and TGM3 leads to exacerbation of AGA. Network pharmacological analysis showed that QSYF regulation of hair cycle and keratinization involves activation of PI3K-AKT and MAPK signaling.This study demonstrates for the first time that QSYF regulates the hair cycle by up-regulating the expression of FOXN1 and promotes keratinization by up-regulating the expression of TGM3, both of them together exerting therapeutic effects on AGA.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
The recently characterized honeybee CaV4 channel is a high-voltage-activated Ca2+ channel ortholog to the DSC1 channel identified in Drosophila. While sequence similarities to NaV channels are obvious, permeation properties and current kinetics are more closely aligned with those of CaV channels. CaV4 exhibits a distinctive cation-dependent inactivation pattern, a hallmark of Ca2+ channel behavior, and nonetheless displays sensitivity to a Na+ channel-specific regulator, veratrine. Calcium channel facilitation is a phenomenon whereby the probability of calcium channel opening increases with successive depolarization pulses, resulting in an enhanced Ca2+ influx during repetitive or sustained electrical activity. In this study, we have identified an additional specific property of CaV4 in the form of an atypical voltage-dependent facilitation of the Ca2+ or Ba2+ currents by strong pre-depolarizations or prepulses (pPs). This physiologically relevant phenomenon, known as pP-induced facilitation (PiF), is subject to positive regulation by the amplitude of the pP but to negative regulation by its duration. It produces a hyperpolarizing shift of the I-V curve without any change in the reversal potential and macroscopic or single channel conductance. PiF is thus more pronounced for small depolarizations and almost absent when channels reach their maximal open probability. A mutation that affects the inactivation of the CaV4 channel prevents the occurrence of PiF. This previously undocumented form of facilitation appears exclusive to CaV4 channels. A strong pP may lock CaV4 channels in a pre-open state, rendering them more susceptible to activation and thereby shifting the activation curve toward more negative potentials. This, in turn, would accelerate channel opening and increase current amplitude. Lastly, we show that the inactivation particle of CaV4 (MFLT sequence, equivalent to the IFMT motif in human NaV, or MFMT in Apis NaV channel), in addition to its role in the initiation of the voltage-dependent inactivation, also modulates PiF.© 2026 Crown copyright. The government of Australia, Canada, or the UK (“the Crown”) owns the copyright interests of authors who are government employees. The Crown Copyright is not transferable.
The calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) plays a crucial role in cellular signaling and has been implicated in cancer progression. However, its specific role in breast cancer remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate CaSR gene expression levels, its correlation with oncogenic pathways, and its protein localization in human breast cancer tissues.Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) was used to analyze the relative expression of CaSR and associated genes in malignant and adjacent non-malignant breast cancer tissue samples. Pearson correlation analysis was performed to assess relationships between CaSR and other oncogenic markers. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was conducted to evaluate CaSR protein localization and intensity in different breast cancer grades and fibroadenoma tissues.Our findings revealed that 56% of patients exhibited elevated CaSR expression, with significant positive correlations between CaSR and oncogenic genes such as HOTAIR, SNOR78, BC200, DSG1, DSC1, HER2, BRCA1, p38 MAPK, and Akt (p = 0.001 for most correlations). Additionally, CaSR expression negatively correlated with menopausal status (p = 0.001), suggesting hormonal influences on its regulation. IHC analysis showed strong membranous and cytoplasmic staining in grade II tumors without metastasis (+ 3) but weak or undetectable CaSR expression in advanced metastatic cases. These findings indicate a potential role for CaSR in tumor progression, adhesion, and metastasis.Importantly, this study provides novel evidence linking CaSR expression to non-coding RNAs, desmosomal adhesion molecules, and MAPK/AKT signaling pathways, highlighting previously unexplored mechanisms through which CaSR may influence breast cancer progression and metastatic behavior. Further research is needed to determine its potential as a biomarker or therapeutic target in breast cancer treatment.
The inflammation and cellular dysfunction in periodontitis largely depend on N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification-related epigenetics. However, the role of methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3)-differentiated m6A modification of desmocollin 1 (DSC1) in periodontitis remains to be investigated.Periodontal ligament (PDL) tissues were collected from patients with periodontitis and healthy volunteers, and a periodontitis model was constructed using lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and human periodontal ligament fibroblasts (HPLF). METTL3 and DSC1 levels in the specimens and cells were measured using quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction. Proliferation, apoptosis, and inflammatory changes were analyzed using CCK-8, EdU, flow cytometry, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, respectively. Additionally, m6A RNA immunoprecipitation was conducted to analyze the influence of METTL3 on the m6A modification of the DSC1 gene.The expression levels of METTL3 and DSC1 were lower in patients with periodontitis compared to those in the healthy group. LPS treatment inhibited the survival of HPLF cells, promoting apoptosis and inflammation; alternatively, DSC1 overexpression alleviated the LPS-induced damage to periodontitis cells. Furthermore, METTL3 positively regulated the DSC1 level and enhanced its stability through m6A modification. Silencing METTL3 partially reversed the alleviating effect of DSC1 upregulation on inflammation and cellular dysfunction related to periodontitis in HPLF cells.These findings suggest that METTL3 mediates the m6A modification of DSC1 to alleviate periodontitis-associated inflammation and cellular dysfunction.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Drought and water scarcity, exacerbated by global warming, are enormous threats to global food sustainability and security. Poultry, in particular, are highly impacted by adverse environmental stressors. As nutrient absorption and intestinal integrity are critical for growth and performance, understanding the impact on the broiler gastrointestinal tract is highly relevant. Here, we examined the effect of chronic cyclic heat stress (HS) on the jejunal expression profile of tight-junction, gap-junction, adherens, and desmosome genes in the 4th generation of broiler lines divergently selected for low (LWE)- and high-water efficiency (HWE). Male HWE and LWE broilers (n = 240/line) were allotted to 12 environmental chambers (2 floor pens/chamber, 6 chambers/line, 20 birds/pen) and were exposed to cyclic HS (36°C for 9h/day from 9:00 am to 6:00 pm) or thermoneutral conditions (25°C) from day 29 to 49 of age in a 2 × 2 factorial design. Growth performance and mortality were recorded. At day 49, jejunal tissues were collected for molecular analyses using real-time quantitative PCR and immunoblot. Jejunal gene expression of multiple gut integrity factors were higher (P < 0.05) in the HWE as compared to the LWE lines, including claudin 22 (CLDN22), -34, occluding (OCDN), zona-occludin-2 (ZO-2), gap junction alpha1 (GJA1), GJA3, GJC1, and cadherin 1 (CDH1). CLDN8, -20, -25, -4, GJC2, and GJD2 were also greater (P < 0.05) in HWE, but were additionally downregulated (P < 0.05) during HS. Conversely PALS1-associated tight junction protein (PATJ) and desmocollin 1 (DSC1) mRNAs were significantly downregulated in the HWE as compared to the LWE broilers. Significant interactions between the line and environment were seen in CLDN1, where the expression was decreased in the LWE but increased in the HWE in HS. Additionally, CLDN15 and -16 genes were greatest in the HWE under TN conditions, while catenin alpha 2 (CTNNA2) was highest in the HWE during HS. Overall, the jejunal expression profile of key genes associated with intestinal barrier integrity likely contributes to the water efficiency phenotype and the response of these birds to HS.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Substance use disorder (SUD) significantly increases the risk of neurotoxicity, inflammation, oxidative stress, and impaired neuroplasticity. The activation of inflammatory pathways by substances may lead to reactive astrogliosis and chronic neuroinflammation, potentially mediated by the release of extracellular particles (EPs), such as extracellular condensates (ECs) and extracellular vesicles (EVs). These particles, which reflect the physiological, pathophysiological, and metabolic states of their cells of origin, might carry molecular signatures indicative of SUD. In particular, our study investigated neuroinflammatory signatures in SUD patients by isolating EVs from the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) Brodmann's area 9 (BA9) from postmortem subjects. We isolated BA9-derived EVs from postmortem brain tissues of eight individuals (controls: n = 4, SUD: n = 4). The physical properties (concentration, size, zeta potential, morphology) of the EVs were analyzed, and the EVs were subjected to integrative multiomics analysis to profile the lipidomic and proteomic characteristics. We assessed the interactions and bioactivity of EVs by evaluating their uptake by glial cells. We further assessed the effects of EVs on complement mRNA expression in glial cells and on microglial migration. No significant differences in EV concentration, size, zeta potential, or surface markers were observed between the SUD group and the control group. However, lipidomic analysis revealed significant enrichment of glycerophosphoinositol bisphosphate (PIP2) in SUD-derived EVs. Proteomic analysis revealed the downregulation of SERPINB12, ACYP2, CAMK1D, DSC1, and FLNB and the upregulation of C4A, C3, and ALB in SUD-derived EVs. Gene Ontology (GO) and protein‒protein interactome analyses revealed functions associated with the identified proteins, such as cell motility, focal adhesion, and acute phase response signaling. Both control and SUD-derived EVs increased C3 and C4 mRNA expression in microglia, but only SUD-derived EVs upregulated these genes in astrocytes. SUD-EVs also significantly enhanced microglial migration in a wound healing assay. This study successfully isolated EVs from postmortem brains and used a multiomics approach to identify EV-associated lipids and proteins in SUD. Elevated C3 and C4 in SUD-derived EVs and the distinct effects of EVs on glial cells suggest a crucial role for these cells in acute phase response signaling and neuroinflammation.© 2025. The Author(s).
The clinical application of human umbilical cord blood-derived exosomes (UCB-Exo) for wound healing is limited by ethical concerns and donor scarcity. To address these challenges, we propose porcine UCB-derived exosomes (PUCB-Exo) as an ethically acceptable alternative, which, when combined with a propolis complex (PC), demonstrates enhanced therapeutic efficacy. In a murine skin injury model, PUCB-Exo monotherapy significantly accelerated wound closure through the promotion of angiogenesis and modulation of extracellular matrix composition-specifically reducing excessive collagen deposition and optimizing the collagen I/III ratio compared to PBS controls. The combination therapy with PC further synergized this effect, resulting in superior tissue regeneration and wound repair outcomes compared to monotherapies. Transcriptomic profiling identified 26 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in PUCB-Exo-treated wounds, predominantly associated with immune regulation and skin function pathways. Integrated miRNA-mRNA analysis highlighted miR-192-5p as a key regulatory molecule targeting DSC1, an essential component of desmosomal junctions involved in epidermal repair. Our findings establish PUCB-Exo as a promising substitute for UCB-Exo that overcomes translational barriers while offering improved scar management, supported by mechanistic insights into its synergistic interaction with natural product adjuvants.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Desmosomes are junctional complexes that confer mechanical strength and enhance barrier protection at mucosal epithelial surfaces by anchoring intermediate filaments to plasma membrane. These roles are best defined in cutaneous epithelium, but we previously identified lower levels of the desmosomal cadherins desmoglein-1 (DSG1) and desmocollin-1 (DSC1) and loss of barrier function in vaginal epithelium of mice treated systemically with the progestin depot medroxyprogesterone acetate (DMPA). We also showed these changes were avoided in mice treated with both DMPA and a conjugated equine estrogen vaginal cream. We extend these earlier results in the current investigation, identifying ephrin-A3 (EFNA3) as an important regulator of desmosomal cadherin gene expression in murine vaginal epithelial tissue. Moreover, topical treatment of mice with recombinant EFNA3 (rEFNA3) significantly increased vaginal expression of DSG1 and partially reversed the loss of vaginal epithelial barrier function induced by DMPA treatment. Consistent with this improvement in vaginal epithelial barrier protection, mortality caused by genital herpes simplex virus type 2 infection was delayed, but not prevented, in mice administered DMPA and rEFNA3 vs. DMPA alone. Together, current studies identify EFNA3 as a key regulator of desmosomal structure and function in vaginal epithelium and newly suggest that ephrin-Eph signaling pathways will provide an important target for enhancing vaginal epithelial integrity and barrier function.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Anterior gradient 2 (AGR2) has recently been reported as a tumor biomarker in various cancers including breast, prostate, and lung cancers. Thus, there have been great efforts to unveil the roles of AGR2 as an extracellular signaling molecule and intracellular endoplasmic reticulum (ER) chaperone. However, it remains challenging to capture the whole protein interactome of AGR2 because both weak and transient interacting partners tend to be washed off during purification. In order to capture weak and transient interacting protein partners, a genetically-encoded photo-crosslinker, DiZPK (3-(3-methyl-3H-diazirine-3-yl)-propaminocarbonyl-Nε-l-lysine), was introduced at the essential domains of AGR2. Photo-crosslinking reaction of the recombinant mutant AGR2Q85DiZPK was subsequently initiated by UV light (365 nm) in MCF-7 breast cancer cell lysate. After purification and further analysis by LC-MS/MS, we identified a number of AGR2 partner proteins that are involved in the cell-cell adhesion pathway. Namely, they are desmosomes-related proteins including γ-catenin, desmocollin-1 (DSC-1), desmoglein-1 (DSG-1), desmoplakin (DSP), and plakophillin-1 (PKP-1). Further protein-protein interaction studies, including immunofluorescence and molecular dynamic simulation analysis, especially using γ-catenin as an example, corroborated with the observation that AGR2 directly interacts with γ-catenin. We believe the identification of these new protein partners would help to unveil how AGR2 renders its roles in cell adhesion, migration, and ultimately metastasis of cancers, and these proteins are worthy of future in-depth study for the elucidation of AGR2-mediated cellular functions.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Water scarcity and rising global temperatures are two of the greatest current and future threats to poultry sustainability. Therefore, selection for water efficiency (WE) and heat resilience are of vital importance. Additionally, intestinal integrity is of critical importance under challenging conditions to maintain nutrient absorption and therefore, growth and performance of broilers. Here, we examined the effect of chronic cyclic heat stress (HS) on the ileal expression profile of tight-junction, gap-junction, adherens, and desmosome genes in the fourth generation of divergently selected low (LWE)- and high water efficient (HWE)-chicken lines. LWE birds exhibited higher levels of gut permeability, regardless of temperature, as measured by fluorescein isothiocyanate-dextran (FITC-D). Among the claudins (CLDN), Cldn1 showed greater expression in the HWE as compared to LWE, regardless of temperature. Cldn5, -16, -20, and -34 genes were all greater in LWE and lower in HWE during HS. Conversely, Cldn25 was decreased in LWE but increased HWE under HS. Cldn4 was increased in the HWE line and decreased by HS. Cingulin (Cgn) gene expression was lower in HWE as compared to LWE and lower in HS as compared to thermoneutral (TN) condition. Gap junction protein α1 (Gja1) and desmoglein 4 (Dsg4) were greater in the HWE as compared to the LWE. Cadherin 1 (Cdh1) gene expression was greatest in the HWE in TN conditions and lowest in HWE under HS, whereas catenin α2 (Ctnna2) and desmocollin 1 (Dsc1) were highest in HWE during HS compared to all other groups. This differential expression of key genes associated with intestinal barrier integrity likely contributes to the water efficiency phenotype and the response of these birds to HS.Copyright © 2025 Greene, Roach, Cuadrado, Orlowski and Dridi.
High-density lipoprotein (HDL) particles form during cellular cholesterol removal, positioning HDL biogenesis as a potential strategy to combat atherosclerosis. We identified desmocollin 1 (DSC1) as a negative regulator of HDL biogenesis and discovered that docetaxel (DTX) effectively inhibits DSC1 activity. This study assessed the efficacy of DTX in reducing atherosclerosis in ApoE-/- mice. After two weeks on a high-fat diet, mice were divided into baseline, vehicle-treated, and DTX-treated groups. Baseline mice were sacrificed at the end of the two weeks, while the other groups received a vehicle or DTX (1 μg/μL) via subcutaneously implanted osmotic pumps delivering 0.15 μL/h for six weeks, with the high-fat diet continued. The controlled drug delivery system maintained stable DTX blood concentrations (2.7-4.3 nM) over six weeks without hematologic toxicity. DTX treatment significantly reduced circulating atherogenic lipids, including triglycerides, non-esterified fatty acids, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and total cholesterol, while increasing the HDL cholesterol/total cholesterol ratio. These improvements were associated with significant reductions in atherosclerotic lesions in the aortic sinus and arch. Notably, these effects occurred without altering circulating inflammatory cytokine levels. These results demonstrate that DTX effectively reduces dyslipidemia-induced atherosclerosis. Its HDL-biogenic and anti-atherosclerotic effects establish DTX as a promising candidate for developing HDL-directed therapies for atherosclerosis.
RNA 5-methylcytosine (m5C) methylation has emerged as an important epitranscriptomic regulator of gene expression, yet its role in stem cell maintenance remains not well understood. Here we identify a previously unrecognized function of the m5C methyltransferase NSUN2 in protecting stem cells from ferroptosis and promoting tissue regeneration. NSUN2 deletion reduced GPX4 expression, decreased intracellular GSH levels, increased Fe2+ accumulation, and enhanced lipid peroxidation in stem cells, leading to ferroptotic cell death, loss of tissue stem cells and impaired tissue regeneration across multiple organs. Mechanistically, NSUN2 catalyzed m5C methylation of Klf4 mRNA, thereby increasing KLF4 expression and transcriptionally promoting GPX4 to suppress ferroptosis in stem cells. Importantly, KLF4 restoration in vivo rescued NSUN2 deficiency-induced stem cell defects and impaired tissue regeneration. Furthermore, NSUN2 gene therapy significantly bolstered tissue stem cells with superior tissue regeneration and repair in multiple tissues. These findings highlight the NSUN2/KLF4/GPX4 axis in safeguarding stem cells against ferroptosis for tissue repair and a promising therapeutic value of NSUN2 in regenerative medicine.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
m5C modification plays a vital role in the progression of human cancers, including breast cancer (BC), but the function of NOP2/Sun RNA methyltransferase 2 (NSUN2), an RNA m5C modification enzyme, remains largely unclear.qRT-PCR, western blot and IHC assays were carried out to determine the expression of NSUN2, poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP9) and Y box binding protein 1 (YBX1). EdU, flow cytometry, transwell, tube formation and sphere formation assays were conducted to evaluate cell proliferation, apoptosis, invasion, angiogenesis and stemness, respectively. ELISA was performed to examine the concentrations of inflammatory factors. RIP and pull-down assays were used to verify the interaction between NSUN2/YBX1 and PARP9. Murine xenograft model was constructed to explore the functions of NSUN2 and PARP9 in tumor growth in vivo.PARP9 silencing suppressed the proliferation, invasion, angiogenesis, stemness and immune escape, and promoted apoptosis in BC cells in vitro. Mechanically, NSUN2 functioned as an m5C writer that catalyzed m5C modification of PARP9 mRNA, while YBX1 acted as an m5C reader that recognized the modified transcript and enhanced its stability, thereby elevating PARP9 expression in BC cells. YBX1 could elevate PARP9 expression in BC cells. Moreover, NSUN2 knockdown restrained the malignant behaviors of BC cells, with PARP9 overexpression restored the effects. In addition, NSUN2 knockdown blocked tumorigenesis in vivo by regulating PARP9 expression.NSUN2-mediated m5C modification stabilizes PARP9 mRNA and is associated with enhanced BC progression and immune escape. The results broadened our understanding of the pathogenic mechanism of BC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42454353 is a review article
Heart failure (HF) presents a persistent clinical challenge. While SUMOylation and mitochondrial function are vital for cardiomyocyte health, their combined influence on HF remains elusive. Two HF-related datasets were downloaded from GEO. The overlapping genes were obtained from all genes in the training set, SUMO-related genes, and mitochondrial-related genes. Three machine learning algorithms were applied to identify diagnostic key genes. Subsequently, diagnostic models were constructed and evaluated based on these genes. Besides, the immune microenvironment in HF versus healthy controls was assessed using CIBERSORT, MCP-counter, and ssGSEA. The differences in immune infiltration between HF and healthy controls were analyzed. Drug prediction and molecular docking were performed to identify potential drug candidates targeting these genes. Finally, qPCR was employed to validate gene expression levels in clinical samples. A total of 113 common genes with notable enrichment in mitochondrial regulation were identified. Five key genes, namely NFKB1, MYEF2, NSUN2, SQSTM1, and FKBP4, were identified by three machine learning algorithms. Functional enrichment analyses linked these genes to immune response, RNA processing, and cell cycle regulation. Moreover, immune infiltration profiling revealed that neutrophil infiltration contributes to dysregulated immune responses in HF. Molecular docking revealed that the small-molecule drug IMX-942 has a favorable binding affinity with SQSTM1 (-5.8 kcal/mol). qPCR validation supported the bioinformatics results. NFKB1, MYEF2, NSUN2, SQSTM1, and FKBP4 were identified as key genes linking SUMOylation and mitochondrial function in HF. These findings provide new insights into HF pathophysiology and may contribute to the development of novel diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) remains a major therapeutic challenge because of its aggressive metastatic behavior and the paucity of effective targeted therapies. The present study identifies YBX1 as a critical 5-methylcytosine (m5C) reader that cooperates with the m5C methyltransferase NSUN2 to promote malignant progression through mRNA stabilization. Integrated analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas datasets demonstrated significant upregulation of YBX1 in HNSCC. Clinical validation in a cohort of 77 patients further showed that elevated YBX1 expression was a significant risk factor for poor overall survival, with a hazard ratio of 1.184. Functional analyses in vitro and in vivo revealed that YBX1 depletion markedly suppressed proliferation, migration, and invasion, whereas YBX1 overexpression enhanced these oncogenic properties in multiple HNSCC cell lines and xenograft models. Mechanistic investigations using m5C methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (m5C-MeRIP-seq) combined with YBX1-RIP-seq identified ATF4 mRNA as a direct YBX1 target containing m5C modifications within its coding region. NSUN2-dependent m5C deposition significantly increased YBX1 binding affinity, thereby stabilizing ATF4 transcripts (p < 0.001). Luciferase reporter assays confirmed the specificity of YBX1 recognition of m5C-modified ATF4 mRNA. Collectively, these findings define an epitranscriptomic regulatory pathway in which YBX1 decodes NSUN2-installed m5C marks to enhance oncogenic mRNA stability and support tumor progression. Dual inhibition of YBX1 and NSUN2 is therefore proposed as a potential therapeutic strategy for HNSCC.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
How glucose and one‑carbon metabolism converge on Rag GTPase-dependent mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) remains poorly defined, particularly in the absence of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). This study mapped an AMPK-independent glucose-response pathway in human cells using CRISPR editing, rescue assays, proteomics, thermal stability analysis, and RNA sequencing. In AMPK-deficient human cells, glucose refeeding rapidly reactivated mTORC1, and proteomics of mTORC1-associated complexes identified NSUN2 as a glucose-associated factor. NSUN2 loss markedly reduced glucose-induced mTORC1 activation, whereas re-expression restored it. Genetic analyses placed NSUN2 upstream of the lysosomal Rag module because constitutively active Rag GTPases bypassed NSUN2 deficiency. Structure-function studies showed that the acute signaling role of NSUN2 was largely independent of its catalytic cysteines, but required an N-terminal nutrient-responsive motif and a predicted S-adenosylmethionine (SAM)-responsive segment. SAM increased the thermal stability of wild-type NSUN2, and proteomics and Immunoprecipitation identified methionine adenosyltransferase 2 A (MAT2A), a SAM-producing enzyme, as a glucose-responsive NSUN2 partner. MAT2A knockout reproduced the signaling defect. Transcriptomics further linked NSUN2 to glucose-responsive programs in proteostasis, secretion, and stress adaptation. These results identify NSUN2 as a noncanonical signaling factor that couples glucose and methyl-donor availability to Rag-dependent mTORC1 control and transcriptional adaptation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a prevalent age-related disease associated with significant pain and disability. Although 5-methylcytosine (m5C) modification is implicated in age-related diseases, its role in OA remains unclear. Here, the regulatory effects and mechanisms of the m5C-related proteins NSUN2 and ALYREF on chondrocyte senescence and inflammation during OA progression were investigated. NSUN2 expression and m5C modification were upregulated in articular chondrocytes from damaged cartilage of surgically induced OA and naturally aged mice, as well as in primary human chondrocyte aging models. NSUN2 was found to promote chondrocyte senescence and NLRP3 inflammasome activation. Messenger RNA (mRNA) m5C enrichment, RIP sequencing, and transcriptomic sequencing elucidated the mechanism by which NSUN2 regulates inflammation and aging. IP3R3 was identified as a target gene of NSUN2. Rescue experiments showed that NSUN2 induced Ca2+ overload, which was mitigated by 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate (2-APB) or BAPTA/AM. NSUN2 knockdown or IP3R3 inhibition protected mouse articular cartilage from senescence and NLRP3 inflammasome activation, alleviating OA progression. Mechanistically, NSUN2 cooperated with the m5C reader ALYREF to stabilize and promote cytoplasmic export of IP3R3 mRNA, increasing IP3R3 expression. Thus, NSUN2 inhibition reduces chondrocyte senescence and cartilage damage via the IP3R3-Ca2+ axis, may represent a potential therapeutic target for further investigation.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, often driven by the hyperactivation of cell cycle and DNA repair pathways. While genomic alterations in these pathways are well-documented, the role of RNA epigenetics in orchestrating these oncogenic signals remains poorly understood. Here, we identify a hierarchical signaling axis driven by the RNA methyltransferase NSUN2 that fuels LUAD progression. We demonstrate that NSUN2 is frequently amplified and overexpressed in LUAD, where it correlates with advanced disease stage and poor patient survival. Mechanistically, NSUN2 catalyzes 5-methylcytosine (m5C) modification of the E2F1 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR). This modification, recognized by the reader protein YBX1, enhances the translational efficiency of E2F1 transcripts. The resulting accumulation of E2F1 transcriptionally activates the DNA translocase RAD54L, which we redefine as a proactive oncogenic effector essential for cell proliferation, invasion, and in vivo tumorigenesis. Integrated multi-omics and rescue experiments confirm that the NSUN2-mediated translational induction of E2F1 is a prerequisite for RAD54L-driven malignancy. Our findings uncover a novel epitranscriptomic-transcriptional regulatory cascade, establishing the NSUN2-E2F1-RAD54L axis as a critical driver of LUAD and a promising target for therapeutic intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) involves persistent synovial inflammation and progressive destruction of cartilage and bone, where aberrantly activated fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLSs) play a central role. Although 5-methylcytosine (m5C) modification is implicated in many diseases, its role in RA remains unclear. Here, we observed upregulated expression of the m5C methyltransferase NOP2/Sun domain family member 2 (NSUN2) in both synovial tissues (STs) and FLSs from RA patients. Functionally, NSUN2 knockdown suppressed migration and invasion of RA FLSs, whereas NSUN2 overexpression exerted opposing effects. Mechanistically, NSUN2 mediated m5C modification of isoprenylcysteine carboxyl methyltransferase (ICMT) mRNA and enhanced its stability. Furthermore, we identified salvianolic acid A (SAA) as an NSUN2 inhibitor, which phenocopied the effects of NSUN2 knockdown on RA FLSs. Given the well-recognized ROS-scavenging capacity of cerium oxide nanoparticles, we constructed Ce/SAA nanoparticles (Ce/SAA NPs) via coordination self-assembly to enable synergistic therapy for RA. Notably, Ce/SAA NPs ameliorated arthritis in collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) mice, and intra-articular NSUN2-siRNA attenuated disease progression in CIA rats. These results highlight NSUN2‑mediated m5C modification in RA pathogenesis and suggest NSUN2 as a therapeutic target.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42387935
Parkinson's disease (PD)-related constipation represents a prevalent and disabling non-motor symptom that imposes a substantial and growing health and economic burden worldwide. Current management strategies, including dietary modification, probiotics, and pharmacological therapies, often provide limited benefit, with potential adverse effects and minimal improvement in other PD-related symptoms. Acupuncture has emerged as a promising complementary therapeutic approach and has demonstrated preliminary clinical efficacy. However, the underlying biological mechanisms and the potential contribution of placebo responses to therapeutic effects remain insufficiently understood.This randomized controlled clinical trial will enroll 66 patients with PD-related constipation and randomly assign them in a 1:1 ratio to the real acupuncture group or the sham acupuncture group. Participants, acupuncturists, outcome assessors, and statisticians will be blinded to group allocation. The 8-week trial consists of a 4-week treatment period followed by a 4-week follow-up period. The primary outcome is the longitudinal change in the Chronic Constipation Severity Score (CCS) over time. Secondary clinical outcomes include weekly complete spontaneous bowel movements (CSBMs), spontaneous bowel movements (SBMs), Bristol Stool Scale (BSS) scores, and Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) scores. In addition, exploratory outcomes include levels of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1), and phosphorylated α-synuclein at serine 129 (pS129-α-syn) measured in biofluid samples. Adverse events will be systematically monitored throughout the trial. The study is conducted in accordance with the SPIRIT guidelines.This trial is designed to evaluate the clinical efficacy of acupuncture for PD-related constipation using a rigorously implemented double-blind, sham acupuncture-controlled design. Although the sham acupuncture procedure may itself induce nonspecific physiological and contextual effects, the use of a standardized double-blind control is intended to reduce expectancy-related bias and improve methodological rigor in the assessment of acupuncture-related outcomes. In addition to clinical symptom evaluation, the integration of SCFAs, HDAC1, and pS129-α-syn allows exploratory investigation of potential biological changes associated with treatment. This trial aims to provide multidimensional evidence regarding possible gut-brain axis-related mechanisms involved in acupuncture treatment for PD-related constipation.The study protocol was registered with the International Traditional Medicine Clinical Trial Registry (ITMCTR 2026000107) on December 7, 2025. The publicly accessible website is: https://itmctr.ccebtcm.org.cn/mgt/search.Copyright © 2026 Lin, Lin, Li, Liu, Gu, Zhang, Wu, Wang, Fan and Zhuang.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is one of the most common cancers in males, and its treatment remains challenging due to the tumor microenvironment (TME) with immunosuppressive properties and limited response to anti-PD-1 therapy. Gut microbiota-derived metabolites have recently emerged as modulators of cancer immunometabolism, however, their role in PCa progression and immunotherapy is poorly understood. Here we found that indole-3-lactic acid (ILA), a metabolite produced by Lactobacillus plantarum, exerted dual anti-tumor effects on PCa cells and the TME. Mechanistically, ILA activates the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR), and the resulting AHR/ARNT heterodimer translocates into the nucleus and binds to the promoter of ASF1B. This heterodimer then recruits the HDAC1/2-NuRD complex to reduce H3K27ac levels and suppress ASF1B expression. ASF1B binds to specific residues of ENO1 via its N-terminal core domain and enhances ENO1 enzymatic activity. ILA-induced downregulation of ASF1B impairs this interaction, reduces ENO1 activity, and suppresses the PI3K/Akt pathway, thereby inhibiting the malignant phenotypes of PCa cells. Concurrently, ILA decreased CXCL8 secretion by inhibiting the PI3K/Akt/NF-κB pathway, enhancing CD8+ T cell infiltration and M1 macrophage polarization, thereby remodeling the TME. Additionally, ILA synergized with anti-PD-1 therapy to more effectively suppress tumor growth. These findings reveal a novel mechanism by which gut microbiota-derived metabolites regulate PCa progression and immunometabolism, positioning ILA as a potential therapeutic agent to improve PCa treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42551134 is a review article
This study investigated the capacity of Clostridium butyricum CB-a, a novel environmental isolate with unique ecological adaptability, to restore host-microbiome homeostasis in a dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced murine model of intestinal dysbiosis. Integrated 16S rRNA gene sequencing and untargeted LC-MS/MS metabolomics revealed that CB-a (1 × 10⁸ CFU/mL, administered orally) fundamentally restructured the colonic microbial architecture. Specifically, it enriched beneficial, short-chain fatty acid (SCFA)-producing consortia (e.g., Lactobacillus, Bacteroides, and Alloprevotella) while suppressing opportunistic pathobionts (Escherichia-Shigella) and mitigating excessive mucin-degrading bacteria (Akkermansia). This ecological shift was accompanied by a pronounced metabolic reconfiguration, highlighted by the significant restoration of fecal SCFA pools, predominantly butyrate (P < 0.05). Mechanistically, multi-omics correlation potential that the CB-a-driven microbial remodeling alleviates mucosal inflammation through SCFA-linked host-microbe signaling. This pathway explicitly involves the upregulation of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPR41, GPR43, and GPR109A), the inhibition of histone deacetylases (HDAC1/2), and the subsequent reinforcement of epithelial tight junction proteins (ZO-1, Occludin). Furthermore, CB-a significantly attenuated systemic pro-inflammatory cytokine expression while restoring superoxide dismutase (SOD) antioxidant capacity. These findings provide mechanistic insights into how this specific environmental isolate modulates the intestinal microenvironment, offering a robust theoretical basis for deploying C. butyricum in functional interventions targeting microbiota-associated inflammatory disruptions.IMPORTANCESevere gut inflammation, such as inflammatory bowel disease, is often driven by a breakdown in our natural gut bacteria. Although probiotics are popular treatments, how they actually repair the gut remains largely unknown. Our study highlights the remarkable healing ability of Clostridium butyricum CB-a, a natural bacterium isolated from the environment. We discovered that this microbe acts as an ecological engineer for the digestive system. It actively rescues the damaged gut by promoting the growth of beneficial bacteria and suppressing harmful ones. This positive shift triggers the release of natural, healing molecules that calm the immune system and rebuild the protective gut lining. By uncovering the exact steps this bacterium takes to restore digestive harmony, our work provides a powerful blueprint for designing highly targeted, natural probiotic therapies to combat severe intestinal diseases.
Asymmetric cell division generates distinct daughter cells essential for tissue development, yet the mechanisms orienting division polarity within tissues remain incompletely understood. Here, we uncover a role for chromatin-mediated transcriptional repression in controlling polarity orientation during asymmetric division of C. elegans epidermal stem cells, known as the seam cells. Tissue-specific loss of the class I histone deacetylase hda-1, homologous to mammalian HDAC1/2, causes polarity reversals and reduces molecular asymmetry between daughter cells. Using Targeted DamID, we identify the Wnt receptors lin-17/Frizzled and cam-1/Ror as key targets. Single-molecule FISH reveals opposing expression gradients along the body axis, with cam-1 enriched anteriorly and lin-17 posteriorly. In hda-1 mutants, both receptors are upregulated and differences between seam cells are flattened. Overexpression of either receptor alone is sufficient to reproduce the polarity reversals, while co-overexpression produces additive effects. The polarity phenotype is independent of the canonical NuRD and SIN3 complexes, suggesting that HDA-1 acts through an alternative mechanism. These findings link histone deacetylase activity to Wnt receptor expression and suggest that graded receptor expression may provide cues that orient asymmetric division polarity.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Glioblastoma (GBM) frequently develops resistance to temozolomide (TMZ), limiting the effectiveness of standard therapy. Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors have emerged as potential chemosensitizers; however, the comparative performance of these inhibitors and the associated mechanistic impact remain incompletely characterized.In vitro, this study systematically evaluated the effects of the Class I-selective HDAC inhibitors Entinostat and Tucidinostat, and the pan-HDAC inhibitor Vorinostat on TMZ sensitivity in multiple GBM cell lines (U87, U251, LN229). Additionally, this study assessed cell viability, morphology, and the expression of selected markers glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2), class III β-tubulin (TUBB3), and synapsin I (SYN1). In vivo, the therapeutic efficacy of Entinostat combined with TMZ was evaluated in a U87 xenograft mouse model by measuring tumor growth, and the expression of GFAP and TUBB3 was examined in tumor tissues. Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats associated protein 9 (CRISPR-Cas9)-mediated knockout of HDAC1/2/3 was used to test the dependence of these effects on canonical Class I HDACs.Entinostat and Tucidinostat significantly enhanced TMZ-induced cytotoxicity across all cell lines, demonstrating greater TMZ-sensitizing activity than Vorinostat under the conditions tested. Treatment was associated with altered cell morphology and changes in marker expression, including reduced GFAP and increased MAP2 and TUBB3. In the U87 xenograft model, Entinostat combined with TMZ significantly suppressed tumor growth and was associated with decreased GFAP and increased TUBB3 expression. Importantly, both TMZ sensitization and the associated morphological and marker changes persisted in HDAC1/2/3-knockout cells, suggesting that the effects are not fully explained by HDAC1/2/3 depletion. These effects were consistent across multiple cell lines and in xenograft tumors.Entinostat and Tucidinostat enhance TMZ sensitivity in GBM models and are associated with specific markers and morphological changes that persist despite HDAC1/2/3 knockout. These findings support further evaluation of Entinostat and Tucidinostat as TMZ-sensitizing agents in GBM models and highlight associated phenotypic and molecular changes that warrant further mechanistic validation.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Jianpi Bushen Qingchang Huashi Formula (JBQHF) is a traditional Chinese medicine compound of nine herbal ingredients clinically used to treat chronic diarrhea and dysentery syndromes, corresponding to ulcerative colitis (UC). Although clinical evidence supports its efficacy, the underlying mechanism remains unclear.This study sought to define the therapeutic benefit of JBQHF in a murine colitis model and to dissect the underlying mode of action.Ultra-high performance liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UHPLC-QTOF-MS) was applied to profile the chemical constituents of JBQHF. Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated in a DSS-induced murine colitis model. Gut bacterial composition and metabolite output were analyzed by 16S rRNA gene sequencing and Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS), respectively. Network pharmacology, deep learning-based virtual screening, and molecular docking were employed to predict candidate active compounds and their potential targets. Immunological assays focused on Histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) expression, HDAC enzymatic activity, histone acetylation status and the T helper 17/regulatory T (Th17/Treg) differentiation axis.JBQHF attenuated colitis as reflected by lower disease activity indices (DAI) and reduced histopathologic injury. Pro-inflammatory mediators were decreased while intestinal tight junction protein levels were elevated. JBQHF was associated with increased gut microbiota-derived butyrate production, reduced colonic HDAC1 expression and HDAC enzymatic activity, elevated Acetyl-H3K9 and Acetyl-H3K27, and a rebalancing of the Th17/Treg ratio. The protective effects of JBQHF were largely abrogated by the HDAC activator ITSA-1. Deep learning-based virtual screening further identified flavonoids within JBQHF as candidate HDAC1 ligands with predicted target selectivity.JBQHF ameliorates experimental colitis via a dual inhibition of HDAC1, providing an integrated mechanism for its clinical application.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Inspired by reports that HDAC blockade can trigger compensatory activation of the LIFR-JAK1-STAT3 axis in solid tumors, we designed and synthesized a series of niclosamide-based STAT3/HDAC dual-target inhibitor candidates by incorporating a SAHA-derived hydroxamate zinc-binding group into the pleiotropic, STAT3-modulating niclosamide scaffold. Biological evaluation identified NS06 as the best-balanced analogue, with IC50 values of 1.49 and 1.41 μM against MDA-MB-231 and HCT116 cells, respectively. Mechanistic studies showed that NS06 bound STAT3 in vitro (SPR, KD = 5.82 μM), suppressed STAT3 phosphorylation, and inhibited HDAC1, HDAC3, and HDAC6 with IC50 values of 129.1, 451.2, and 230.4 nM, respectively, while showing limited inhibition of HDAC4 and HDAC11 in the primary screen. NS06 also increased histone H3 acetylation, induced apoptosis, and inhibited migration and colony formation. In addition, NS06 retained antiproliferative activity in a 3D tumor spheroid model and showed improved Caco-2 permeability together with moderate liver microsomal stability (t1/2 ≈ 48.6 min in rat liver microsomes). Docking and 100-ns molecular dynamics simulations further supported chemically plausible binding modes in the HDAC1 catalytic pocket and the STAT3 SH2 domain. Overall, these findings support niclosamide as a tractable scaffold for mechanism-driven STAT3/HDAC dual-target inhibitor design and identify NS06 as a promising lead for further optimization against solid tumors.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
A phase 1b/2 study of the all-oral "kick-and-kill" combo nanatinostat + valganciclovir (nana-val) showed a ~40% overall response rate in patients with relapsed/refractory Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-associated lymphomas. Despite the promising results in these difficult-to-treat cancers, there is little known about the effects of nanatinostat on EBV and cell death. In this work we demonstrate that nanatinostat, an HDAC1/3 inhibitor, robustly induces the full EBV lytic cycle in a panel of EBV-positive lymphoma and transformed cell lines (Burkitt, DLBCL, lymphoblastoid), spanning viral latency types and EBV genotypes. Nanatinostat drives lytic-gene transcription across all kinetic classes, viral genome replication, and virion release, and kills cells at nanomolar concentrations. Although valganciclovir does not increase cytotoxicity, its ability to block viral DNA synthesis and virion production justifies its inclusion to prevent viral dissemination. Importantly, the two main metabolites of nanatinostat lack histone-H3 acetylation activity and neither activate nor inhibit the EBV lytic phase, indicating that they are biologically inert with respect to EBV. These mechanistic insights clarify the clinical efficacy of nana-val and support further development of kick-and-kill strategies for EBV-driven malignancies.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Medical Virology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Ischemic stroke is a major cause of mortality and disability worldwide, with limited effective neuroprotective treatments. Epigenetic modulation and oxidative stress regulation have emerged as promising therapeutic targets. This study aimed to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of melatonin and valproic acid, alone and in combination, in a rat model of cerebral ischemia.Male Wistar rats were randomly divided into nine groups including sham, MCAO, vehicle, melatonin, valproic acid, and different combination treatment groups. Cerebral ischemia was induced using the middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) method. Neurological deficits, infarct volume, brain edema, antioxidant activity, and gene expression of HDAC1, HDAC3, MT1, and MT2 were evaluated.Both melatonin and valproic acid significantly improved neurological outcomes, reduced infarct volume, and decreased brain edema compared to the MCAO group. Combination therapy, particularly at high doses, showed significantly greater neuroprotective effects than monotherapy. These effects were associated with downregulation of HDAC1 and HDAC3 expression, upregulation of MT1 and MT2 receptors, and increased antioxidant enzyme activity including catalase and superoxide dismutase levels.Combined administration of melatonin and valproic acid exerts synergistic neuroprotective effects in cerebral ischemia through modulation of oxidative stress, epigenetic regulation, and melatonin receptor signaling. This combination may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for ischemic stroke.
Keratins (KRTs) are intermediate filament proteins expressed in epithelial cells and serve as diagnostic cancer biomarkers. They serve pivotal roles in tumor progression and metastasis, but their prognostic value in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) and relationship with the tumor immune microenvironment remain unclear. Gene expression of KRTs in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA)-LUAD was analyzed; candidate genes were selected using LASSO and random forest. An XGBoost classifier with SHAP interpretation distinguished tumor from normal tissues. Prognostic models were developed using 101 algorithms with 10-fold cross-validation and validated in two independent GEO cohorts. Immune cell composition and pathway activity were assessed by CIBERSORT, MCP-counter, ssGSEA and GSEA; the TIDE score estimated potential immunotherapy response. Functional validation of KRT81 was performed via shRNA knockdown in LUAD cell lines, followed by proliferation, apoptosis and migration assays. A KRT-based diagnostic and prognostic signature was established. The XGBoost model achieved high accuracy (TCGA AUC=0.996; GSE31210 AUC=0.860); SHAP identified KRT81 as a key contributor. A four-gene prognostic model (KRT27, KRT80, KRT16, KRT81) stratified patients into high- and low-risk groups. The risk score was associated with advanced tumor stage and independently predicted overall survival (multivariate HR=2.16, 95% CI 1.43-3.28, P=2.0×10-4). High-risk tumors enriched proliferation/stroma pathways (cell cycle, DNA repair, ECM-receptor interaction, focal adhesion, p53 signaling); low-risk tumors enriched immune pathways. Immune profiling revealed reduced T/B cell infiltration, increased endothelial cells and higher T-cell exclusion scores in high-risk patients, indicating an immunosuppressive microenvironment. Higher risk scores also associated with chemotherapy resistance. Functional validation confirmed that shRNA-mediated KRT81 knockdown reduced LUAD cell proliferation, migration and invasion, while promoting apoptosis. These findings link KRT expression to clinical outcomes, the tumor microenvironment and therapeutic response in LUAD, suggesting roles for KRTs in cancer progression, chemotherapy resistance and predictive potential for immunotherapy response. This study provides new insights for prognostic evaluation and therapeutic decision-making in LUAD.Copyright: © 2026 Chen et al.
The cashmere fibers produced by the secondary hair follicles of cashmere goats are precious textile raw materials. The secondary hair follicles exhibit a distinct annual cyclical pattern, comprising anagen, catagen, and telogen phases. Although a large amount of skin transcriptome data is currently available for cashmere goats, this study aims to systematically investigate the regulatory factors controlling the cyclical dynamics of secondary hair follicles through re-analysis of these data. Skin transcriptome data of Inner Mongolian cashmere goats were downloaded from the Sequence Read Archive (SRA) database. Bioinformatics analyses, including quality control, read mapping, quantification, differential expression analysis, Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis, and KEGG pathway analysis, were performed to identify key regulatory genes governing the secondary hair follicle cycle. The results revealed a total of 1232 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from comparisons across different phases. KEGG pathway analysis identified three signaling pathways associated with cashmere development: the cAMP signaling pathway (chx04024), the relaxin signaling pathway (chx04926), and the estrogen signaling pathway (chx04915). GO analysis yielded 335 terms, of which 236 were statistically significant (P-adj < 0.05). The DEGs were predominantly involved in biological processes such as regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II, proteolysis, and positive regulation of transcription by RNA polymerase II. Significantly enriched cellular components included the plasma membrane, membrane, and extracellular space, and molecular functions were mainly related to protein binding, identical protein binding, and DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific. Based on their expression patterns, five key genes were selected: KRT25, KRT39, MAPK12, SPP1, and TCHHL1. These genes displayed significantly distinct expression profiles across the hair follicle cycle. TCHHL1 exhibited the highest expression in anagen, intermediate expression in catagen, and the lowest expression in telogen, with significant differences among all three phases. MAPK12 was specifically upregulated in telogen and was significantly more highly expressed than in both anagen and catagen. SPP1 showed high expression in anagen and catagen but extremely low expression in telogen. KRT39 displayed significantly higher expression in both anagen and catagen compared to telogen. KRT25 reached its highest expression in catagen, which was significantly different from that in telogen, while its expression in anagen showed no significant difference from either telogen or catagen. This study characterized the regulatory genes of the secondary hair follicle cycle in cashmere goats at the transcriptional level and analyzed the association between their expression patterns and cycle regulation.
Mugwort (Artemisia vulgaris) is a predominant aeroallergen for allergic rhinitis (AR) in northern China. However, the molecular changes linking local nasal mucosal inflammation with systemic alterations remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to explore the cross-level regulatory network in a mouse model of mugwort-induced AR by combining nasal mucosal transcriptomics and serum metabolomics.BALB/c mice were sensitized with mugwort extract and then challenged intranasally to establish an AR model. Nasal mucosal tissues were collected for RNA sequencing, and serum samples from the same cohort were subjected to non-targeted metabolomic analysis. Transcription factor (TF)-associated analysis, pathway enrichment analysis, and integrative multi-omics analysis were used to identify candidate regulatory factors and pathways involved in mugwort-induced allergic inflammation. Targeted validation of arginine-related changes was performed by measuring serum Arg1 and L-arginine levels, followed by ARG2 knockdown analysis in BEAS-2B epithelial cells after mugwort extract stimulation.Transcriptomic analysis revealed a clear Th2-type immune response in the model group, with significant upregulation of Il13, Arg1, Ccl24 and Il6. In addition, many downregulated genes were enriched in pathways related to ciliary function and epithelial differentiation, accompanied by suppression of structural genes such as Krt25 and Krt71. Gene set enrichment and TF-associated analyses further highlighted cytokine-mediated signaling and potential upstream regulators, including Fos, Batf, and Mafb. Serum metabolomics showed increased 1-methylhistamine and enrichment of arachidonic acid metabolism in mugwort-treated mice. Integrated analysis of the two omics datasets further pointed to arginine-related metabolism as a shared altered pathway. Consistently, targeted assays showed increased serum Arg1 levels and decreased serum L-arginine concentrations in the mugwort group. In BEAS-2B cells, ARG2 knockdown attenuated the induction of IL6 and CCL26 after mugwort extract stimulation.Together, our findings indicate that mugwort-induced AR is accompanied by coordinated local and systemic changes, including immune activation, epithelial/ciliary dysfunction, and serum metabolic remodeling. The arginine-related alterations supported by both omics analysis and targeted validation provide a potential link between nasal mucosal inflammation and systemic metabolic changes in mugwort allergy.© 2026 Chi, Chen, Jin, Sun and Xu.
Opioids are first-line therapy for cancer pain, yet up to 30% of patients fail to achieve adequate control at standard doses. Opioid response is partly genetically mediated, and understanding these factors may improve symptom management. This project aimed to assess the feasibility of using tumor bank DNA for pharmacogenetic analyses and to validate previously identified genetic variants associated with opioid response using existing genetic and clinical data. In this retrospective cohort study, clinical data (morphine equivalent daily dose, demographics) and genetic data (single-nucleotide polymorphisms) were analyzed across 31 candidate loci. Adult deceased patients with melanoma, colorectal, or lung cancer treated with opioids between 2016 and 2021 and with available tumor bank DNA were included. Patients without sufficient DNA or not deceased were excluded. Of 3503 potential samples, 502 met the inclusion criteria. The median morphine equivalent daily dose was 40 mg (range 1-2140 mg). Eleven loci across six genes may be associated with higher (OPRM1, TAOK3, NFKBIA, COMT, and RHBDF2) and lower (COMT and GCH1) opioid dose requirements (p < 0.05, not significant after Bonferroni correction). Ultimately, tumor bank DNA is a feasible resource for pharmacogenetic research. Identified loci may contribute to variability in opioid response and support future personalized pain management strategies.
Androgenetic alopecia (AGA) is characterized by androgen-dependent follicular miniaturization and progressive disturbance of follicular structure and cycling. Local steroid metabolism, including 5α-reductase-related androgen production and aromatase-related estrogen conversion, may contribute to this process.A dihydrotestosterone (DHT)-induced mouse model of AGA was used to evaluate the in vivo effects of Dendrobium officinale polysaccharide (DOP). Dose screening was followed by histological assessment, quantitative proteomics, biochemical assays, multiplex immunofluorescence, and pharmacological perturbation with 17α-estradiol (17α-E2) and letrozole (LETZ).DOP improved hair regrowth in a dose-related manner, and the high-dose group showed the most consistent changes in hair coverage, hair follicle density, dermal thickness, hair bulb diameter, and anagen proportion. Proteomic analysis served to narrow the candidate range and prioritize steroid hormone biosynthesis- and estrogen-signaling-related processes. Quantitative evaluation showed that DOP treatment was associated with lower SRD5A1 expression, higher CYP19A1 expression, lower local dihydrotestosterone and testosterone levels, increased p-ESR1, and increased KRT28/KRT71 expression. Spatial analysis further showed a shift of CYP19A1, ESR1, and KRT28 toward hair matrix- and inner root sheath-associated regions. Pharmacological modulation with 17α-E2 and LETZ altered these DOP-related changes, although not uniformly across all endpoints.In this model, the in vivo response to DOP was associated with changes related to local steroid metabolism, ESR1 activation, and keratin-related follicular responses, together with improvement in follicular morphology and cycle status. These findings support a candidate response framework for further study of DOP in AGA.Copyright © 2026 Ba, Wang, Qi, Liu and Peng.
Suicide is a complex public health challenge. Although psychosocial factors are important, molecular dysregulations in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) have been implicated in suicidal behavior.Six post-mortem PFC transcriptomic datasets from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) were analyzed to investigate the molecular basis of suicide, a major public health problem whose underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. After harmonizing microarray and sequencing data from 248 individuals younger than 60 years, both global and diagnosis-stratified meta-analyses were performed, focusing on major depressive disorder (MDD) and bipolar disorder (BPD).In the overall comparison between suicide cases and controls, 10 nominally differentially expressed genes were identified, although none remained significant after multiple-testing correction. In the MDD-stratified analysis, four genes survived false discovery rate (FDR) correction (HRH3, PDE2A, NET1, and RHBDF2) and were associated with stress-related pathways, cyclic nucleotide signaling, and synaptic organization. No significant genes were identified in the bipolar disorder subgroup.These findings suggest that suicide-related transcriptomic alterations in the PFC are not uniform or clearly transdiagnostic, but may be partly shaped by the underlying psychiatric diagnosis, with a more clearly detectable signal in cases with MDD. This study provides a harmonized, bias-aware framework for integrating heterogeneous post-mortem transcriptomic datasets; however, the results should be interpreted as hypothesis-generating candidate signals rather than as definitive biomarkers, and require independent replication and functional validation.© 2026. The Author(s).
CD8+ NKG2D+ T cells mediate hair follicle (HF) damage in Alopecia Areata (AA); however, the mechanisms and targets of T cell attack are not yet known. Here, we showed that CD8+ T cells penetrate the dermal sheath and epithelial layers of HF in AA and stop abruptly upon reaching Henle's layer of the inner root sheath. CD8+ T cells assembled a cytolytic immune synapse (IS) with polarization of Lck kinase and convergence of granzyme B. The formation of IS and localization of caspase-8-dependent apoptosis in KRT71+ Henle's layer of IRS pinpointed these cells as T cell targets in AA. Using direct visualization of in situ activity of pathogenic CD8+ T cells within AA-affected mice skin, we elucidated the molecular mechanism and target of CD8+ T cell cytotoxicity within HF in AA.
Esophageal cancer imposes a considerable health burden in the high-risk areas of Northwest China, necessitating the development of effective biomarkers for its early detection to address this public health challenge.We integrated multi-omics analysis, machine learning algorithms, and population epidemiology investigations in Gansu Province to screen and develop biomarkers for the early detection of esophageal cancer.Epidemiological findings revealed distinct geographical variations in esophageal cancer incidence, with Yugu County being the sole high-risk area (incidence rate: 54.2/100,000). Cases were predominantly in individuals aged > 40 years; males were the main affected population except in Yugu County. Protective factors for the disease included a healthy diet, regular exercise, and positive emotions, while smoking, alcohol consumption, and high-salt intake were identified as risk factors. A random forest machine learning model exhibited excellent predictive performance (AUC = 0.995) and identified key predictive factors for esophageal cancer. Proteomic analysis further revealed that RHBDF2 was downregulated and could serve as a potential biomarker for the disease.This study provides robust epidemiological and molecular evidence for esophageal cancer prevention and early intervention strategies, and the identified potential biomarker RHBDF2 and high-performance predictive model offer valuable tools for the early detection of esophageal cancer in high-risk regions of Northwest China.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
BACKGROUND: The “nine-curve” crimped wool is a key economic trait of Tan sheep, which peaks at 35 days of age and disappears in adulthood. However, the regulatory mechanisms underlying this age-dependent trait remain unclear. This study aimed to decipher these mechanisms by analyzing the skin of Tan sheep across critical developmental stages. RESULTS: We integrated small RNA sequencing, mRNA sequencing, and proteomics, combined with phenotypic observation and histological analysis, to examine the skin tissues of Tan sheep at three critical developmental stages (embryonic day 120, trait initiation stage; 35 days of age, trait peak stage; 24 months of age, trait disappearance stage). Phenotypic and histological results confirmed that this crimped trait depends on medullated fibers derived from primary follicles; with individual aging, the ratio of secondary to primary follicles increases, and primary follicles degenerate in adulthood, ultimately leading to the loss of the crimped trait. Transcriptomic analysis showed that the PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint pathway is the core hub mediating “immune-follicle” crosstalk. Proteomic results revealed a “transcriptional reserve-translational delay” characteristic in keratin genes such as KRT5 and KRT71, confirming that the phenotype at 35 days of age is a continuation of the developmental program initiated at embryonic day 120. Small RNA analysis revealed a "miRNA storm" that peaks at embryonic day 120 (41 miRNAs in total, 40 of which are derived from the MEG3 (GTL2)-miRNA cluster on chromosome 18), and the expression level of this storm gradually decreases with age. Multi-omics integration analysis found that these MEG3-miRNAs can target six key genes (HOXC6, RILPL2, RAB10, ARL1, MX1, and ST7) and are significantly enriched in immune-inflammatory related pathways, suggesting that they may participate in the development and remodeling of wool follicles by regulating immune-inflammatory responses, thereby affecting the formation of the crimped trait. CONCLUSIONS: This study identifies MEG3-miRNAs as key epigenetic regulators of wool crimping and highlights the role of the immune microenvironment in follicle remodeling. We propose that these MEG3-miRNAs likely inhibit immune activation at embryonic day 120 to support primary follicle development, whereas postnatal reduction of these miRNAs relieves immune suppression, triggering overactivation and primary follicle degeneration. This study provides guidance for Tan sheep breeding, reveals conserved epigenetic‒immune synergy in mammalian skin appendages, and offers a model for studying human age-related hair disorders and cross-species age-dependent traits.
The hairy ear (Eh) mutation in heterozygous mice (Eh/+) results in elongated and additional ear hairs, along with altered pinna morphology compared to wild-type (+/+) mice. Previous studies suggest that disruption of the Hoxc gene cluster caused by the Eh inversion influences the hair growth cycle.To elucidate the molecular basis of this phenotype, we performed RNA-seq analysis on ear tissues from four-week-old Eh/+ and +/+ mice and compared their transcriptomic profiles.Differential expression analysis identified 2092 genes, and subsequent Gene Ontology (GO) and overrepresentation analysis revealed significant alterations in hair growth-related processes, including the hair cycle and canonical keratinization in Eh/+ ears. Notably, numerous hair keratin and keratin-associated protein (Krtap) genes were markedly upregulated in Eh/+ mice. Validation by quantitative real-time PCR confirmed increased expression of randomly selected keratin genes (Krt34, Krt39, Krt71, Krt81, Krt84) and keratin-associated proteins (Krtap4-16 and Krtap22-2). In contrast, epithelial keratin genes such as Krt2 and Krt14 were downregulated in Eh/+ ears. In addition, genes associated with hair follicle growth, Car6 and Gprc5d, showed elevated expression, while Dab2, a telogen-anagen transition marker linked to hair follicle stem cell activation, was slightly increased at the telogen stage in Eh/+ compared with +/+ mice.These findings provide new insights into the role of Hoxc cluster genes in orchestrating the expression of hair keratin and Krtap genes and highlight potential regulatory mechanisms underlying the hairy ear phenotype.
Feed efficiency (FE) is recognized as a vital component of sustainable dairy production, with residual feed intake (RFI) serving as a key metabolic indicator of FE independent of production levels. However, the genetic improvement of this complex trait is limited by the inability of conventional genomic Best Linear Unbiased Prediction (gBLUP) model to capture complex, non-linear genetic architectures and epistatic interactions. To address these limitations, this study aims to compare the predictive performance of machine learning (ML) approaches, specifically Random Forest (RF) and Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) models, against standard gBLUP using genomic data from 220 UK Holstein cows genotyped with the BovineSNP50 v3 BeadChip with 47,446 quality-controlled single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), phenotyped for RFI from 1996-2023. SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) were applied to interpret SNP feature importance from the ML models, and an ensemble framework was implemented to leverage the complementary strengths of RF and MLP.While the gBLUP model exhibited moderate predictive performance, the RF model demonstrated greater stability and accuracy compared to gBLUP, and the MLP showed higher variance across random states. The ensemble framework achieved the highest coefficient of determination (R2 = 0.39) and lowest root mean squared error (RMSE = 0.086). SHAP interpretability analysis revealed distinct genomic architectures between the models. The RF model prioritized genes regulating mitochondrial oxidation and immune surveillance, including SKINT1 and PPARGC1A, whereas the MLP model identified genes involved in lipid metabolism and fat storage, including APCDD1 and ADIPOR1. A convergence of biological signals was observed between the models, with nine common SNPs and 32 consensus genes identified, including ACOD1, CNTNAP2, and core spliceosomal snRNAs.These results suggest that the genetic architecture of RFI may be explored by ML methods as they offer flexibility in mapping non-additive genetic effects. The reliability of genomic predictions for complex traits was enhanced when complementary computational strategies were leveraged in an ensemble framework, providing a focused set of candidate genes for future experimental validation. Whilst exploratory gene networks require validation in larger cohorts, the ensemble ML framework presented here offers an interpretable approach for dissecting the genetic architecture of complex production traits in livestock.© 2026. Crown.
To investigate the role of histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2) in cisplatin resistance in ovarian cancer (OC). Cisplatin-resistant OC cell lines were employed to construct HDAC2 overexpression and knockdown models, and their effects on cell proliferation and apoptosis were examined. Chromatin immunoprecipitation, immunoprecipitation, and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to investigate the regulation of SMAD7 protein stability and promoter activity by HDAC2. Expression of DNA damage repair-related genes was detected by qRT-PCR. A xenograft mouse model was established for in vivo validation. HDAC2 was highly expressed in cisplatin-resistant OC cells. Overexpression of HDAC2 enhanced drug resistance and inhibited apoptosis and DNA damage, whereas knockdown of HDAC2 exhibited the opposite effects. Mechanistically, HDAC2 directly deacetylated the SMAD7 protein to prevent its degradation rather than suppressing its transcription via H3K27 deacetylation. The HDAC2/SMAD7 axis promoted drug resistance by activating the Wnt/β-catenin signalling pathway and modulating DNA damage repair-related genes. In vivo experiments confirmed that HDAC2 knockdown significantly inhibited tumour growth and enhanced the sensitivity. HDAC2 enhances cisplatin resistance in OC by deacetylating and stabilising SMAD7 protein, thereby activating the Wnt/β-catenin signalling pathway and promoting DNA damage repair.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Histone deacetylases (HDAC) overexpression is associated with oncogenesis. Hence, HDAC inhibitors are a promising class of compounds for targeted cancer therapy. Some HDAC inhibitors, such as vorinostat (SAHA), are already approved for the treatment of hematologic cancer. A number of 4-substituted anilides (para-aminophenol or para-aminobenzoic acid derivatives) were designed and synthesized as potential HDAC inhibitors. Compound 23e behaved as a potent HDAC2 inhibitor (IC50 = 4.2 nM) with greater activity than SAHA. Molecular docking results showed that the ligand 23e well placed to the HDAC2 active site through both hydrogen (Gly32, Asp104, Gly154, and His183) and hydrophobic (His33, Pro34, Phe155, His183, and Phe210) interactions. Molecular dynamics simulations confirmed stable complex formation over 500 ns with only small adaptive conformational fluctuations upon ligand binding. MM/PBSA analysis indicated a favorable binding free energy (ΔGbind = -27.98 kcal/mol), confirming a thermodynamically stable and dynamically compatible protein-ligand interaction. Compound 23e exhibited a pronounced antiproliferative effect comparable to SAHA against HeLa and Raji cells, with IC50 values of 5.07 ± 0.09 µM and 1.87 ± 0.22 µM, respectively, with low toxicity on normal cells. The synthesized derivatives can be considered as potential compounds for further development.© 2026 Wiley‐VHCA AG.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509403 is a review article
Ferroptosis represents a regulated form of cell death. Currently, the impact of ferroptosis on sepsis-induced acute kidney injury (SAKI) remains unexplored. We examined the effect of 17β-estradiol (E2) on macrophage inflammation and ferroptosis in SAKI. Histological staining of renal sections was conducted in CLP mice. Levels of serum creatinine (Scr) and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) were detected by kits. Levels of TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6 were measured by ELISA. HK-2 cells with different treatments were co-cultured with PMA-induced THP-1 cells (M0 macrophages). CCK-8 and flow cytometry detected cell viability and apoptosis. MDA, GSH and Fe2+ levels were detected by kits. Expressions of HDAC2, HDAC5 and GPX4 were detected by RT-qPCR. Western blot assessed protein levels of HDAC2, GPX4, ACSL4 and exosome markers (CD63, TSG101). Exosomes from HK-2 cells were identified using electron microscope and particle size analysis. The target relationships were confirmed through ChIP and luciferase reporter assays. E2 protected against CLP-induced kidney damage and decreased ferroptosis in SAKI mice. E2 effectively mitigated LPS-induced damage in HK-2 cells and reduced HDAC2 expression. Exosomal HDAC2 from HK-2 cells induced macrophage inflammation and ferroptosis. Exosomal HDAC2 impedes GPX4 expression in macrophages by aiding HDAC2-driven H3K27 deacetylation at GPX4 promoter. Exosomes from HK-2 cells with increased HDAC2 levels overturned renal protective benefits of E2 in septic AKI mice. E2 inhibits LPS-induced macrophage ferroptosis and alleviates sepsis-related renal injury in septic AKI mice via exosomal HDAC2 from tubular epithelial cells-mediated H3K27 deacetylation at the GPX4 promoter, which provides new therapeutic targets for SAKI treatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42499203
Developmentally regulated GTP-binding protein 1 (DRG1), a member of the GTPase family, has been implicated in cancer progression; however, its biological function and therapeutic relevance in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain poorly understood. This study aimed to define the role of DRG1 in HCC progression and uncover its underlying regulatory mechanisms.Multi-omics analyses, clinical tissue validation, in vitro functional assays, and in vivo xenograft models were integrated to investigate the biological function, regulatory mechanism, and therapeutic relevance of DRG1 in HCC.DRG1 was significantly upregulated in HCC tissues and associated with aggressive clinicopathological characteristics and poor patient survival. Integrated single-cell and spatial transcriptomic analyses revealed preferential DRG1 expression in malignant regions and its association with an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. Mechanistically, DRG1 promoted HCC cell proliferation through regulation of c-Myc activation, while HDAC2 was identified as an upstream regulator of DRG1 expression. Furthermore, DRG1 depletion enhanced sensitivity to lenvatinib treatment in HCC models.Our findings identify DRG1 as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target in HCC. The HDAC2-DRG1-c-Myc regulatory network contributes to malignant progression, while DRG1 inhibition represents a potential strategy to improve lenvatinib response.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
High-fat diet (HFD)-driven hepatic steatosis is associated with impaired mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation and dysregulated expression of genes that control lipid disposal. Carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1α (CPT1α), encoded by Cpt1a, is the rate-limiting enzyme for mitochondrial fatty acid β-oxidation and responds to nutritional stress. However, the chromatin mechanisms that regulate Cpt1a in diet-induced steatosis remain incompletely defined.To map histone modifications at the hepatic Cpt1a locus and determine whether berberine (BBR) is associated with the restoration of Cpt1a transcription through histone acetylation remodeling.Male Sprague-Dawley rats were assigned to the normal diet (ND), high-fat diet (HFD), or berberine (BBR)+HFD group (n = 8 initially), with individual rats as the experimental unit. ChIP-qPCR was performed on archived liver samples (ND, n = 6; HFD, n = 8; BBR+HFD, n = 8) and normalized to input DNA. In BRL cells, TSA (100 nM) and SAHA (20 μM) were used to assess HDAC-sensitive regulation of Cpt1a.HFD reduced H3/H4 acetylation and increased H3K9 methylation at Cpt1a regulatory regions. BBR restored H3/H4 acetylation, selectively reduced H3K9me3 at +12 kb, and attenuated HFD-induced increases in HDAC2 and SIRT2 mRNA (approximately 40-fold and 3.8-fold, respectively) toward baseline. TSA and SAHA increased Cpt1a mRNA at 24 h by approximately 8.1-fold and 5.4-fold, respectively. Palmitate reduced Cpt1a expression by approximately 58%, and this repression was reversed by BBR or TSA.BBR alleviates HFD-induced hepatic steatosis, concomitant with the restoration of Cpt1a histone acetylation and modulation of HDAC2/SIRT2. These data support, but do not prove, an HDAC2/SIRT2-linked chromatin mechanism and should be interpreted as a candidate pathway requiring further functional validation.Copyright © 2026, Shi et al.
Diabetic wounds often result in non-healing chronic ulcers due to prolonged inflammation, oxidative stress and impaired tissue regeneration. Current hydrophilic wound dressings primarily function as absorption dressings and have limited tissue regeneration capabilities, leading to extended healing periods. Peptides have been identified as therapeutic macromolecules with several cellular modulatory functions. They possess cell adhesion, matrix formation, cell proliferation, angiogenesis and tissue regenerative properties that are essential for wound healing. Therefore, a novel fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl-substituted arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (FRGD) oligopeptide was co-incorporated with mesoporous silica into poloxamer 407/PEG 8000 hydrogel base in five formulations (F0-F4) intended to modulate the impaired regenerative microenvironment of diabetic wounds. Formulations were characterised for pH, texture, rheology, morphology, DSC and FT-IR, and the formulations were evaluated in streptozotocin-nicotinamide-induced diabetic Sprague Dawley rats with full-thickness dorsal excisional wounds using daily topical application for 15 days. Healing outcomes were assessed by wound closure measurements, histology, immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, qRT-PCR and ELISA. The hydrogels exhibited a near-physiological pH (7.26-7.33), suitable hardness (18.0-32.3 g) and a thermoreversible sol-gel transition, with apparent viscosity at low shear rising from ≈ 33.2 kPa·s at 25 °C to ≈ 47.0 kPa·s at 32 °C, indicating in situ gelation at skin temperature. In vivo, F4 formulation with FRGD oligopeptide significantly accelerated wound closure from day 6 onwards (p < 0.01), achieving near-complete re-epithelialisation by day 15 compared to the positive control. Histologically, F4 formulation-treated wounds showed continuous stratified epidermis, organised collagen alignment, hair-follicle regeneration and reduced inflammation. At the molecular level, F4 formulation significantly reduced Tgfb1 and Smad5, normalised Smad2 and reactivated the Wnt/β-catenin pathway (Wnt10a, Ctnnb1). Angiogenic (Vegfa, Pecam1, Hif1a) and ECM remodelling markers were restored, with enhanced COL1A1 deposition and CD31-positive neovascularisation. F4 formulation also suppressed pro-inflammatory mediators (Tnf, Il1b, Il6, Nfkb1) and elevated IL-10 at both gene and protein levels, indicating a reparative immune environment. Collectively, these findings indicate that the FRGD/mesoporous silica hydrogel can modulate the TGF-β/Smad and Wnt/β-catenin pathways and support tissue repair in a diabetic wound model. Long-term remodelling and scar-quantification studies are required to confirm accelerated healing.© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Cell surface markers are important tools for quality control (QC) and enrichment of cellular subtypes, such as the dopaminergic (DA) progenitors used for treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the regional specificity of many published surface markers is not fully known. Here, we identified APCDD1 as a surface marker with high regional selectivity for caudal ventral midbrain DA fate, outperforming the specificity of seven other previously published markers in flow cytometry analysis. APCDD1 expression correlated with key markers of caudal ventral midbrain DA fate, and antibody-based sorting for APCDD1 enabled enrichment of DA progenitors and depletion of non-DA populations. In regionally mixed neural populations, APCDD1-high, but not APCDD1-low cells, yielded full motoric amelioration after grafting in a rat model of PD, and the APCDD1-high cells produced a higher proportion of DA neurons co-expressing ventral midbrain markers FOXA2 and LMX1A. Taken together, APCDD1 is a promising tool for improving the QC and enrichment of clinically applied cell products for PD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Given the limited knowledge of probiotic effects on clock genes, this study investigated whether probiotics that regulate gut integrity and microbiota balance influence central circadian clock gene expression. In this study conducted on three groups [control group (CG), shifted group (SG), and shifted and probiotic supplement group (SPG)] of eight BALB/c mice each, Clock, Bmal1, and Per2 gene expressions and weight gain were evaluated. Although body weights at baseline, week 8, and week 16 were similar among groups, weight gain over time was significantly higher in the SG and SPG groups (p<0.05). Significant differences were observed between CG and SG at week 8 and between SG and SPG at week 16. Gene expression analyses revealed no significant differences in Clock expression. However, Bmal1 expression at ZT18 was significantly different between the CG and SPG groups (p = 0.045). These findings demonstrate the regulatory effect of probiotic supplementation on circadian disruption and weight gain, suggesting a potential role in circadian rhythm management. Nevertheless, the results should be interpreted cautiously because they are based on limited gene expression changes and require confirmation in larger studies.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Nutrition & Food Research published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
X-linked ichthyosis (XLI) and X-linked retinoschisis (XLRS) are both inherited in an X-linked recessive manner. To date, no prior reports document both conditions' simultaneous occurrence. This case presents two brothers who were diagnosed with XLI combined with XLRS in a family.An 11-year-old boy (Case 1) presented to our hospital due to decreased bilateral vision detected during a physical examination over the past month. One month after birth, the parents noticed the child's skin was dry and rough. He was diagnosed with "ichthyosis" at another hospital, and after treatment, the condition improved. His mother had also been previously diagnosed with ichthyosis. The child was a full-term infant delivered by cesarean section, and his parents were not closely related. There was no family history of eye disease. Physical examination showed dry skin with diamond-shaped scales. The best-corrected visual acuity was 0.40 logMAR in both eyes. No abnormalities were observed in the anterior segments of both eyes. Fundus examination revealed petaloid macular edema, and OCT showed numerous cystic changes in the macular area of both eyes. His 6-year-old younger brother (Case 2) exhibited similar systemic and ocular features. Comprehensive ophthalmic and genetic examinations were performed on the entire family, revealing that both children carried an RS1 gene mutation, with the mutation site at c.545G>T/p.Arg182Leu, inherited from their mother. Additionally, a deletion variant of approximately 478 kb was found at the X chromosome p22.31 location, completely covering the STS gene region. Based on the genetic testing and ocular examination, both children were finally diagnosed with bilateral XLRS and XLI.This case expands the mutation spectrum of XLRS in Chinese patients and, for the first time, reports the ocular and systemic manifestations when two different disease genes, STS and RS1, coexist. The family members vividly demonstrate the phenotypic and genotypic individual heterogeneity associated with hereditary eye diseases. A comprehensive analysis of clinical phenotype and genotype improves clinical diagnosis and genetic testing accuracy, providing a clinical approach for a more comprehensive understanding of the disease.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Du, Yang and Chen.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42537978 is a review article
Hepatic fibrosis (HF) serves as a critical pathological process underlying the progression of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Despite its clinical relevance, effective anti‑fibrotic therapies remain scarce. Although total ginsenosides (GSS) can ameliorate hepatic oxidative damage and attenuate the development of HF, the molecular mechanism mediating their anti‑fibrotic effects remains incompletely elucidated. Notably, circadian clock gene dysregulation is associated with hepatic metabolic dyshomeostasis and the fibrotic process. As a core circadian gene in the liver, clock circadian regulator (CLOCK) serves a role in the progression of fibrosis. The present study hypothesized that GSS may exert anti‑fibrotic effects by restoring hepatic circadian rhythmicity through circadian clock‑dependent pathways. Using a well‑established carbon tetrachloride‑induced murine model of HF in C57BL/6 mice, GSS was administered intraperitoneally at graded doses of 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg. Subsequently, serum and liver tissues were collected from mice for histopathological examination. Furthermore, the expression levels of fibrotic markers (α‑smooth muscle actin and collagen type 1) and circadian rhythm genes [CLOCK, basic helix‑loop‑helix ARNT‑like 1, cryptochrome (CRY)1, CRY2, period circadian protein homolog (PER)1 and PER2 were assessed. At the cellular level, LX‑2 hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) were activated with TGF‑β1 and treated with GSS, after which, RNA sequencing was performed on GSS‑treated cells. In addition, the CLOCK inhibitor (CLK8) was used for in vitro experiments. The results of the present study revealed that GSS intervention effectively reversed the dysregulation of circadian gene expression and alleviated the progression of fibrosis. Molecular docking analysis further supported the interaction between GSS active components and the CLOCK protein. Thus, the current study focused on GSS and explored its role in ameliorating HF through regulation of the core circadian gene CLOCK. Collectively, the findings demonstrated that GSS may alleviate HF by rescuing circadian clock‑driven circadian homeostasis in hepatocytes and HSCs, thereby providing mechanistic insight into traditional Chinese medicine‑based interventions and identifying CLOCK as a druggable node for fibrosis therapy.
Central nervous system (CNS) injuries often result in permanent neurological impairments or fatal outcomes. While circadian regulation is a key pathway affecting the regenerative capacity of peripheral neurons, the role of the intrinsic circadian clock in CNS axon regeneration remains elusive. Using a zebrafish larval model with disrupted circadian rhythms, we observed significant inhibition of CNS axon regeneration in a single Mauthner cell (M cell). Mutations or inhibition of the core circadian clock gene per2 in zebrafish larvae severely impaired axon regeneration and acoustically evoked escape movements. Time-of-day-dependent transcriptomic analysis revealed that per2 regulates genes involved in regeneration-related pathways, such as mitochondrial metabolism and Wnt signaling transduction. Furthermore, reverse transcription quantitative PCR and Western blot experiments indicated that the neurotrophic factor carboxypeptidase E (Cpe) exhibits robust circadian rhythmicity in wild-type but is significantly downregulated in per2 -/- mutants. Cpe deficiency significantly suppressed axonal regeneration, whereas its overexpression enhanced regenerative capacity, thereby rescuing the axonal regeneration impairment in per2 -/- mutants. Overall, our findings demonstrate the critical role of a stable circadian rhythm system and per2 in CNS regeneration, as well as the potential function of Cpe in promoting axon regeneration.
Circadian rhythm disruptions are increasingly recognized in disorders such as obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), yet analysis of 24 h gene expression patterns remains challenging due to the lack of reliable reference genes for normalization. Even commonly used housekeeping genes may exhibit circadian oscillations, which can confound rhythmic gene expression analyses and hinder biomarker identification. To address this limitation, we evaluated the gene expression stability of 11 commonly used housekeeping genes in blood collected every 6 h over 24 h period from 40 adults with varying OSA severity and controls. Stability ranking by analytical tools RefFinder and EndoGeneAnalyzer identified ACTB (β-actin) and RPL13A (ribosomal protein L13a) as the most consistent reference genes, with minimal intra- and inter-individual variability across sampling times and disease groups. Their suitability was assessed by personalized cosinor analysis of core clock genes (BMAL1, PER2, CRY1), demonstrating that appropriate normalization enables detection of circadian oscillations in clinical samples. Using the optimal normalization, CosinorPy analysis of the core clock genes revealed significant circadian oscillations of at least one clock gene in the studied participants. These findings establish ACTB and RPL13A as robust reference genes for blood-based circadian studies of OSA and provide an important methodological framework for future circadian biomarker research.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509727 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42504374 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42499341 is a review article
Deoxynivalenol (DON), a Fusarium-derived mycotoxin, disrupts immune homeostasis and induces immunotoxicity. Macrophage extracellular traps (METs) are key effectors in innate immunity and inflammation, yet whether DON triggers METs formation and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study aims to investigate the molecular mechanism by which DON induces METs generation through circadian rhythm immune checkpoints involving the PER2-c-Myc axis. Using RAW264.7 and THP-1 macrophage models, we combined siRNA-mediated Per2 knockdown, and pharmacological inhibitors to dissect the mechanisms of DON-induced METosis. We showed that DON (2-4 μM) triggered a biphasic METosis. The early phase (1-2 h) represents vital or non-suicidal METosis, characterized by F-actin depolymerization, rapid DNA release, and acute extrusion of MET markers histone H4, H2AX, CitH3, and MPO, reflecting an acute defense response. The late phase (8-12 h) corresponds to suicidal METosis, featuring a secondary surge in MET markers and typical reticular ultrastructures, indicating impaired repair and pathological progression. Mechanistically, DON co-activates an ROS-driven pathway and a PADI2-mediated histone modification pathway to drive suicidal METosis. PER2 acts as a circadian-immune checkpoint, positively regulating both pathways while suppressing c-Myc and maintaining its phosphorylation balance. In turn, c-Myc inhibits ROS signaling and MET release. Thus, DON-associated changes in PER2 expression, causing its aberrant upregulation, c-Myc suppression, and consequent derepression of ROS-driven METosis. This study elucidates a novel molecular mechanism by which DON promotes suicidal METosis in macrophages via the PER2-c-Myc-ROS signaling, providing new molecular targets for understanding DON-induced immunotoxicity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) is among the deadliest malignancies, driven by metastatic progression and profound cellular heterogeneity. We previously identified glutathione S-transferase theta 1 (GSTT1) as a regulator of a slow-cycling, highly metastatic tumor cell population, suggesting that GSTT1High cells may possess stem-like properties. Here, we define the functional and molecular features of this subpopulation in metastatic PDA. Using a mCherry-tagged Gstt1 reporter system in metastatic murine PDAC cells, we enriched for Gstt1High cells and observed increased tumor sphere formation, accompanied by upregulation of stemness-associated genes including PROM1 (CD133) and activation of Wnt and FGF signaling pathways. In human PDA models, CD133HighGSTT1High cells exhibited enhanced tumor sphere initiation and expansion compared to other populations, defining a maximal stem-like state. Notably, sensitivity to FGFR inhibitors was observed only under tumor sphere conditions, highlighting a context-dependent therapeutic vulnerability. Mechanistically, FGFR3 expression correlated with GSTT1 and CD133 levels, and FGF signaling was required to sustain this state. GSTT1 knockdown reduced CD133 protein levels, impaired tumor sphere formation, and altered sensitivity to FGFR inhibition. These findings were largely recapitulated in patient-derived PDA organoids, where GSTT1 and PROM1 co-expression predicted increased tumor sphere formation and enhanced response to the multi-kinase inhibitor Nintedanib. Together, these results identify a GSTT1HighCD133High stem-like subpopulation in metastatic PDA and identify an FGFR-dependent signaling axis that sustains this state, representing a potential therapeutic vulnerability.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) play a pivotal role in shaping the inflammatory microenvironment of colorectal polyps. MiR-146a-5p has been implicated in innate immune regulation, but its function in TAM polarization and polyp pathogenesis remains unclear.Forty paired colorectal polyp and adjacent normal tissues were analyzed for miR-146a-5p, IRAK1, and macrophage markers (CD86/CD206) by qRT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. THP-1-derived macrophages were polarized to M1 or M2 phenotypes, transfected with miR-146a-5p mimic/inhibitor, si-IRAK1, or IRAK1 overexpression plasmids, and treated with polyp-conditioned medium (Polyp-CM) where indicated. Macrophage polarization was evaluated by flow cytometry, qRT-PCR, ELISA, and Western blot. Dual-luciferase reporter assays in HEK293T cells validated direct targeting of IRAK1 by miR-146a-5p. Rescue experiments assessed the functional contribution of IRAK1 and NF-κB signaling to M1 polarization.MiR-146a-5p was significantly downregulated in polyp tissues, whereas IRAK1 and M1 macrophage markers (CD86, iNOS) were upregulated, with a strong negative correlation between miR-146a-5p and IRAK1. Overexpression of miR-146a-5p in macrophages suppressed M1 polarization, decreased pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6), and reduced NF-κB activation, while miR-146a-5p inhibition enhanced these responses. Dual-luciferase assays confirmed IRAK1 as a direct target of miR-146a-5p. Silencing IRAK1 or inhibiting NF-κB rescued the pro-M1 effects induced by miR-146a-5p loss. Conversely, IRAK1 overexpression promoted M1 polarization, which was attenuated by miR-146a-5p co-expression. Polyp-CM experiments corroborated these effects under tumor-mimicking inflammatory conditions.These findings suggest that the miR-146a-5p/IRAK1/NF-κB axis may represent a potential therapeutic target for modulating macrophage-mediated inflammatory responses in colorectal polyps.© 2026 The Author(s). Annals of Gastroenterological Surgery published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Japanese Society of Gastroenterological Surgery.
Colorectal cancer is recognized as one of the leading causes of cancer death amongst both sexes in the U.S. Despite rigorous screening, those diagnosed with colon cancer often face poor prognosis, and approximately 70% of affected patients will develop metastatic relapse. The investigation of colon carcinoma cell lines' genetic variability and response to chemotherapy panels may aid in targeting therapies to improve outcomes. This study aims to find correlations between metastasis status, gene variability, and drug response. We used two cell lines that were isolated from the same 51-year-old male with colorectal adenocarcinoma: a primary tumor-derived line (SW480) and a secondary metastasis-derived line (SW620). Live cell imaging using time-lapse microscopy over 3 days exhibited differential cell death responses following treatment with multiple chemotherapeutic agents, particularly cediranib and Nu-7441, with SW620 demonstrating greater sensitivity. Western blots revealed changes in DNA repair machinery expression (particularly NHEJ proteins) between SW480 and SW620. RNA sequencing and Gene Ontology analysis corroborated our findings, demonstrating upregulated DNA repair and metabolic survival genes including TGM2 in SW620 and PROM1 in SW480. An SW620 line grown in non-attachment plates and then reattached (SW620F) exhibited high DNA-PKcs activation and drug sensitivity. Correlation between drug response and gene expression crucial to cell growth and successful metastasis may reveal new biomarkers to target potential treatments.© 2026 The Author(s). Pharmacology Research & Perspectives published by British Pharmacological Society and American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Cell-based therapies hold great promise for treating late-stage retinal degenerative diseases. However, photoreceptor cell transplantation has been limited by poor cellular integration, suggesting that an ideal population of donor cells has not yet been defined.Here, we utilized single-cell RNA-sequencing and lineage tracing to assess the heterogeneity of photoreceptor precursor cells during murine retinal development.Subgroup analysis revealed three transcriptionally distinct populations of Crx + cells from postnatal day 2-6 retinas which are consistent with early (Dll1+), intermediate (Neurod4+), and late (Prom1+) photoreceptor precursor cells. Lineage tracing with subpopulation-enriched Cre mice showed that Dll1+, Neurod4+, and Prom1+ cells all generate photoreceptor cells, and captured dynamic changes in gene expression suggestive of sequential states of photoreceptor differentiation. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that similar CRX + subpopulations are present in maturing human retinal organoids.These findings highlight the heterogeneity of neonatal photoreceptor precursor cells, and could help inform future strategies to isolate an optimal population of cells for retinal regeneration.Copyright © 2026 Yano, Wei, Gajjar, Barati-Stec, Yang and Uyhazi.
Inherited retinal diseases (IRDs) typically follow a single inheritance pattern, but some genes cause disease through both autosomal recessive (AR) and autosomal dominant (AD) patterns, challenging genetic counselling. This study aims to identify dual inheritance genes in a Portuguese cohort and characterise the prevalence of each inheritance mode and associated phenotypes.Cross-sectional study at Portugal's largest IRD referral centre. Genes reported with dual inheritance were identified through literature search and screened in IRD-PT registry. For each gene, AR versus AD proportion was determined and clinical features were analysed to establish genotype-phenotype correlations.Among 40 genes reported with dual inheritance, 22 were present in the IRD-PT registry and nine displayed both patterns (102 families, 141 patients). PRPH2 (95.0% AD) was associated with retinitis pigmentosa (RP) and macular dystrophies. ABCC6 (91.3% AR) was linked to pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE). BEST1 (91.7% AD) mainly caused Best disease, while PROM1 (76.9% AR) was linked to RP, macular dystrophy and cone-rod dystrophy. PRPF31 (88.9% AD) was exclusively associated with RP. IMPG2 (75.0% AR) and IMPG1 (87.5% AD) caused RP and adult-onset vitelliform macular dystrophy. NR2E3 (85.7% AR) was linked to enhanced S-cone syndrome and RP, and RP1 was detected in two families (one AR, one AD), presenting with RP.Dual inheritance genes accounted for 12% of our genetic diagnoses. This spectrum, modulated by variant location and allele dosage, determines phenotypes and contributes to IRD heterogeneity. Deep phenotyping and comprehensive molecular diagnosis are essential for accurate genetic counselling and patient management.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Glioblastoma is the most common and aggressive malignant brain tumor in adults, characterized by rapid progression and limited therapeutic response. The presence of glioma stem cells contributes to high recurrence and treatment resistance. Epidemiological data indicate a higher incidence of glioblastoma in men than in women, suggesting a potential role for sex hormones in disease progression. To evaluate the influence of testosterone on glioblastoma stemness-associated characteristics, male human glioblastoma-derived cell lines were analyzed for androgen receptor (AR) regulation and responses to testosterone exposure. AR protein levels were quantified, and functional assays were performed to assess clonogenicity, neurospheres formation, and stemness-associated gene expression. T98G and U251 human glioblastoma cell lines expressed AR. Notably, neurospheres exhibited a higher AR expression than cells in monolayer cultures, and testosterone further increased its expression. In suspension cultures, testosterone significantly enhanced clonogenic potential, as evidenced by increased numbers and sizes of primary and secondary neurospheres. Testosterone upregulated the expression of stemness-associated genes (PROM1, SOX2, and NES) and, in differentiation assays, elevated the number of Sox2-positive cells. Overall, these findings suggest that testosterone increases clonogenicity and self-renewal capacity of human glioblastoma cells, highlighting androgen signaling as a critical regulator of tumor resilience and a promising therapeutic target to disrupt the maintenance of glioblastoma stem-like cells.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Cone-rod dystrophy (CORD) and achromatopsia (ACHM) are inherited retinal dystrophies for which conventional adeno-associated virus (AAV) gene augmentation has important limitations, particularly in autosomal-dominant gain-of-function CORD and recessive ACHM. Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated protein 9 (Cas9) offers the potential for one-time, mutation-specific gene correction or allele ablation. This systematic review summarizes preclinical evidence on CRISPR/Cas9-based approaches for CORD and ACHM, focusing on editing efficiency, phenotypic rescue, and safety.This review followed PRISMA guidelines. PubMed, Google Scholar, and ScienceDirect were searched through June 2025 for original experimental studies using CRISPR/Cas9 in CORD or ACHM animal models or human-derived cell lines. Dual independent screening and data extraction were performed. Outcomes related to editing efficiency, structural or functional rescue, and safety were synthesized narratively.Four studies were included: three targeting CORD and one targeting ACHM. In vivo studies used AAV-delivered SaCas9 to disrupt GUCY2D (or murine orthologs) in mouse and macaque photoreceptors, achieving approximately 8-45% on-target editing in mice and approximately 13% in macaques. Although ablation alone reduced retGC1 expression, it did not improve retinal function; however, a dual-AAV "ablate-and-replace" strategy preserved outer nuclear layer thickness for up to 24 weeks in CORD6 mice. In vitro, PROM1 correction in patient-derived iPSCs restored CD133 expression, and SpCas9-HiFi-mediated PDE6C correction in ACHM iPSCs achieved approximately 80% editing efficiency while preserving pluripotency and showing no detectable off-target effects. Safety data were limited, with immune responses assessed in only one primate study.CRISPR/Cas9 shows promising preclinical efficacy for CORD and ACHM, particularly allele-specific ablate-and-replace strategies for CORD and precise HDR-based correction for ACHM. However, the available evidence remains limited, underscoring the need for expanded safety assessment, non-human primate studies, and standardized functional outcomes measures before clinical translation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42193986 is a review article
This work aimed to establish a translationally viable, xeno-free, serum-free platform and protocol for the isolation and expansion of human salivary stem/progenitor cells (hS/PCs) suitable for regulatory qualification and future FDA-approved first-in-human autologous regenerative therapy trials for the treatment of hyposalivation disorders. Parotid gland specimens from non-cancerous regions/tissues were collected from consented surgical patients. Primary hS/PCs were isolated from tissue specimens, cultured in animal-component-free conditions, expanded to produce millions of cells, then enriched for CD44+ stem/progenitor cells by magnetic cell sorting. Normal epithelial purity was assessed using cytokeratins 5/14. Anti-CD133/PROM1 (cancer marker) and anti-fibroblast (clone TE-7) antibodies were used to demonstrate a lack of contaminating cells. Phenotype validation was performed by flow cytometry and immunocytochemistry on both CD44+ sorted and unsorted populations. Senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-β-gal) assays were performed across serial passages (P1-P6). Pluripotency was demonstrated by culture under conditions supporting lineage-specific differentiation. Primary hS/PCs demonstrated consistent expansion and epithelial morphology under serum-free conditions. CD44 expression remained high (>95%) throughout expansion, with negligible detection of CD133 or fibroblast markers, confirming epithelial purity and absence of tumorigenic or stromal contamination. Immunocytochemistry corroborated these expression profiles. SA-β-gal staining revealed only a minor, passage-dependent increase (5-16%) in senescent cells from multiple donors, indicating retention of proliferative potential. Our defined, animal-free culture system supports stable expansion of pure low passage hS/PCs under conditions compatible with good manufacturing practice (GMP).
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) is among the deadliest malignancies, driven by metastatic progression and profound cellular heterogeneity. We previously identified glutathione S-transferase theta 1 (GSTT1) as a regulator of a slow-cycling, highly metastatic tumor cell population, suggesting that GSTT1 High cells may possess stem-like properties. Here, we define the functional and molecular features of this subpopulation in metastatic PDA. Using a mCherry-tagged Gstt1 reporter system in metastatic murine PDAC cells, we enriched for Gstt1 High cells and observed increased tumor sphere formation, accompanied by upregulation of stemness-associated genes including PROM1 (CD133) and activation of Wnt and FGF signaling pathways. In human PDA models, CD133 High GSTT1 High cells exhibited enhanced tumor sphere initiation and expansion compared to other populations, defining a maximal stem-like state. Notably, sensitivity to FGFR inhibitors was observed only under tumor sphere conditions, highlighting a context-dependent therapeutic vulnerability. Mechanistically, FGFR3 expression correlated with GSTT1 and CD133 levels, and FGF signaling was required to sustain this state. GSTT1 knockdown reduced CD133 protein levels, impaired tumor sphere formation, and altered sensitivity to FGFR inhibition. These findings were largely recapitulated in patient-derived PDA organoids, where GSTT1 and PROM1 co-expression predicted increased tumor sphere formation and enhanced response to the multi-kinase inhibitor Nintedanib. Together, these results identify a GSTT1 High CD133 High stem-like subpopulation in metastatic PDA and identify an FGFR-dependent signaling axis that sustains this state, representing a potential therapeutic vulnerability.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42506084 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42443385
Skipped: PubMed ID 42431253 is a review article
Exome sequencing (ES) has become a primary tool for diagnosing neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs), yet the interpretation of genetic variants in large, heterogeneous cohorts presents significant challenges that automated pipelines often fail to resolve. This study showcases the complexities and novel findings derived from a decade-long analysis of 419 Italian NDD patient-parent trios. While ES established a molecular diagnosis in 36.5% of cases (53.8% in syndromic presentations), our investigation moves beyond diagnostic yield to highlight the critical value of manual curation integrated with deep phenotyping. We demonstrate how this rigorous approach uncovers complex disease mechanisms, revealing that variants initially misclassified as missense or stop-gain are, in fact, pathogenic splicing defects confirmed by functional analysis. Furthermore, we resolve the paradox of pathogenic truncating PPM1D variants in control databases by demonstrating their somatic mosaic nature, a crucial insight for population data interpretation. Our work also refines gene-disease correlations by challenging the established role of MID2 in NDDs, providing further evidence for DSCAM as a high-confidence risk gene, and expanding the known phenotypic spectrum of disorders, such as a novel GNAI2-related syndrome lacking expected immune dysfunction. This study underscores that navigating the complexities of large NDD cohorts requires a detailed, expert-driven approach to not only enhance diagnostic yield but also to advance our fundamental understanding of rare disease genetics.© 2026. The Author(s).
The genetic programs directing nascent enteric nervous circuits and their unique architecture remain poorly characterized. To gain insight, we combined manipulations in the chick embryo model, whole gut three-dimensional (3D) imaging, and single-nucleus transcriptomics at very short intervals for time-resolved analyses of neuronal subtype trajectories. In imaging, we found highly dynamic axon network growth, with rapid increase in axon density and spatial orientation diversification. At transcriptomic levels, we correlated these changes to cell-state transitions with specific axon guidance gene sets. Cross-analyses with human and mouse embryo scRNAseq and expression profiles revealed globally conserved enteric lineage trajectories and subtypes specific axon guidance programs in all species. Finally, manipulation of DSCAM and ISLR2 evolutionary conserved networks in chick whole gut cultures altered enteric axon patterns, validating our paradigm and its applicability to advance current knowledge on human enteric circuit wiring.
Mammalian antibodies are widely used as detection reagents. However, manipulating mammalian antibodies using molecular techniques is challenging, and the costs associated with these reagents are relatively high, because they are synthesized from two different genes. Accumulating evidence supports the existence of an antibody-like protein in crustaceans, known as the Down syndrome cell adhesion molecule (Dscam). Unlike mammalian antibodies, Dscam proteins are produced from a single gene, which makes their isolation, synthesis, and optimization through molecular techniques much easier. In this study, Kuruma shrimp (Marsupenaeus japonicus) were injected with antigens derived from human pathogens including Lassa virus glycoprotein, human immunodeficiency virus type 1 p24, and cholera toxin, as well as with Escherichia coli cells. We successfully constructed plasmids expressing Dscam fused with nano luciferase, enabling the detection of these antigens. The first to fourth immunoglobulin domains were sufficient for antigen binding. A total of 18 Dscam clones were constructed from two shrimp immunized with cholera toxin, and the most abundant sequences exhibited antigen-binding activity. Furthermore, peptidoglycan was identified as the antigen recognized by the Dscam isolated from E. coli-immunized shrimp. Since it is much easier to capture and culture live shrimp than mammals, the production costs for detection reagents are significantly reduced when using the antibody-like Dscam protein from shrimp. This novel biomaterial can be easily isolated via PCR, synthesized, and optimized through gene engineering technology, offering a cost-effective alternative for use as a detection reagent.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Down syndrome results from the triplication of human chromosome 21 and is the leading cause of intellectual disability. Down syndrome cell adhesion molecule (DSCAM) is located on human chromosome 21 and is overproduced in Down syndrome. DSCAM is a homophilic cell adhesion molecule, a receptor for netrin-1, and plays a critical role in neural wiring during brain development. Using a Dscam gain-of-function mouse model and human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cortical neurons, in combination with cellular, molecular, and behavioral approaches, this study aims to understand how DSCAM triplication and its subsequent excessive production contribute to changes in neural development and intellectual disability in Down syndrome. Analysis of morphological parameters revealed impaired neuronal development and loss of netrin-1-mediated axon guidance in mouse hippocampal pyramidal neurons overexpressing DSCAM. DSCAM overexpression also reduces interhemispheric connectivity in vivo. Furthermore, we find that DSCAM overexpression leads to impaired hippocampal-dependent learning and reduced anxiety in adult mice. Down syndrome human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived excitatory pyramidal neurons exhibit a similar phenotype: impaired morphological development and loss of netrin-1-mediated axon guidance. Remarkably, normalization of DSCAM in Down syndrome human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived neurons rescues many of these neuronal phenotypes, including reduced axon length and deficits in axon guidance. This study presents the first comprehensive cellular, molecular, and behavioural evidence that DSCAM is a significant contributor to multiple Down syndrome phenotypes, providing insight into a pathway for treatment. In summary, these results suggest that DSCAM plays an essential role in the development of neurons and neuronal networks, and its overproduction contributes to intellectual disability in Down syndrome.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Intestinal immunity in crustaceans must control invading pathogens while maintaining a stable microbial community, yet the molecular mechanisms that connect immune recognition to tissue-specific signaling outputs remain poorly understood. In the Chinese mitten crab (Eriocheir sinensis), Dscam generates vast receptor diversity via alternative splicing across three extracellular exon clusters, two transmembrane (TM) exons, and three intracellular variable exons. However, how transmembrane and intracellular domain splice variants (ICD) are paired in the intestine and how these combinations influence antibacterial defense remain unknown. Here, we developed an oral intestinal infection model in the Chinese mitten crab using bacteria Vibrio parahaemolyticus and Staphylococcus aureus. Oral challenge led to broad induction of antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) and increased intestinal transmembrane Dscam expression. Systemic double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) knockdown of transmembrane Dscam resulted in higher culturable bacterial loads in the gut and significantly decreased survival after infection. Splicing analysis showed a persistent bias toward the second transmembrane exon (TM2), whereas bacterial challenge selectively remodeled ICD splicing to produce ICD-truncated isoforms, thereby altering the ICD composition of the predominantly TM2-containing receptor pool in the gut. Isoform-specific silencing demonstrated that TM2-containing Dscam isoforms dominate immune responses by promoting nuclear translocation of Dorsal, a nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) family transcription factor, and by inducing stronger AMP expression than TM1-containing isoforms. Lastly, TM-specific knockdown disrupted gut microbial structure and reduced diversity, with the greatest dysbiosis observed following TM2 depletion. Overall, these results reveal that TM-ICD combinatorial splicing acts as a dynamic regulatory layer linking intestinal Dscam isoform composition to NF-κB-dependent antibacterial immunity and microbiota homeostasis in a decapod crustacean.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The Down syndrome cell adhesion molecule (Dscam) is a highly diverse immune receptor produced through extensive alternative splicing, but whether specific bacterial surface ligands can guide stimulus-specific Dscam splicing and subsequent immune signaling in crustaceans remains unclear. In this study, we examined the role of the Chinese mitten crab (Eriocheir sinensis) Dscam in hemocyte responses to two outer membrane proteins of Vibrio parahaemolyticus, OmpA0764 and OmpA1186. Bacterial challenge increased Dscam expression in hemocytes. Both recombinant proteins significantly elevated Dscam and multiple antimicrobial peptide (AMP) gene levels and also promoted Dorsal nuclear translocation. Conversely, RNA interference-mediated knockdown of Dscam markedly reduced these responses. Exon-targeted amplicon sequencing further revealed that OmpA0764 and OmpA1186 triggered distinct exon usage patterns within the extracellular exon 4 and exon 6 variable clusters of Dscam. OmpA0764 favored isoforms containing Exon4.25 and Exon6.15, while OmpA1186 favored Exon4.17 and Exon6.41. Functional studies showed that silencing these ligand-enriched exons significantly impaired Dorsal nuclear accumulation and downstream AMP expression. Collectively, these results suggest that bacterial outer membrane proteins not only induce Dscam expression but also modulate ligand-biased extracellular isoform profiles that are associated with immune signaling efficiency. This research highlights extracellular Dscam alternative splicing as a potential mechanism linking bacterial ligand-induced isoform remodeling to Dorsal activation and humoral antibacterial defense in the Chinese mitten crab.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Down syndrome cell adhesion molecule (DSCAM) is an immunoglobulin-superfamily cell-adhesion molecule important for neuronal survival, morphogenesis, synaptic specificity, and particularly retinal organization. Pathogenic variants in Dscam have been linked to developmental disorders including Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), Down Syndrome (DS), developmental delays and intellectual disabilities. Here we work to better understand the link between morphology and function in the nervous system by assessing the effects of Dscam mutations on both visual and ASD-relevant social interaction behaviors. While it is known that Dscam deficiency leads to perturbations in retinal organization, the subsequent effect on vision is not well studied. We found that homozygous conditional deletion of Dscam in the retina impacted optokinetic response and visual acuity; however, mice were still capable of image discrimination. In addition, Dscam heterozygous mice were used to test ASD-relevant social interaction and other phenotypes, matching the monoallelic human genetics of DSCAM variants in association studies. The Dscam heterozygous mice performed normally in the open field test, rotarod assay, forced swim test, and both the three chamber and dyadic social interaction assays. Overall, we found that our Dscam deficient mice provide a good model for exploring the relationship between retinal anatomy and visual behavior. However, heterozygous mice did not provide a good behavioral model for ASD. To fully understand the role of Dscam in neurodevelopment, additional functional and physiological studies will be necessary.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this issue of Structure, Xue et al.1 present the cryo-EM structure of the Norrin-Tspan12 complex, revealing that Tspan12 directly binds a Norrin dimer without enhancing its affinity for FZD4. Instead, Tspan12 acts as a ligand organizer, enabling the assembly of a quaternary Norrin-FZD4-LRP5/6-Tspan12 signalosome. This study provides new insight into ligand-specific Wnt signaling.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
As an atypical Wnt ligand, Norrin initiates β-catenin signaling through the receptor Frizzled 4 (FZD4), the co-receptors Low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 5 or 6 (LRP5/6), and Tetraspanin 12 (Tspan12). Tspan12 interacts with Norrin via its large extracellular loop (LEL). However, the molecular mechanism by which Tspan12 enhances Norrin signaling has remained unclear. Here, we determined the cryo-EM structure of the Norrin-Tspan12 LEL complex at 3.78 Å resolution, which reveals that a Norrin dimer binds two Tspan12 molecules and defines the Norrin-Tspan12 interface. We show that Tspan12 binds directly to Norrin without enhancing the binding affinity between Norrin and FZD4. Our results support a model in which Norrin, FZD4, LRP5/6, and Tspan12 form a quaternary complex. As mutations in these proteins can lead to familial exudative vitreoretinopathy (FEVR), these findings are important for targeted therapy development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To compare the genetic causes, prevalence, and clinical characteristics of syndromic and non-syndromic familial exudative vitreoretinopathy (FEVR). A total of 281 patients with FEVR who underwent clinical and genetic evaluation at five ophthalmological institutions in Japan between 2010 and 2023 were included. Whole-exome sequencing, Sanger sequencing, or karyotype analysis was performed using blood samples from probands and available family members. Clinical characteristics of FEVR probands were assessed according to the presence or absence of systemic abnormalities. Among the 281 FEVR probands, 42 (15%) had syndromic FEVR and 239 (85%) had non-syndromic FEVR. Syndromic FEVR was more frequently diagnosed during infancy (95% vs. 57%, p < 0.0001) and occurred more often in sporadic cases (69% vs. 50%, p = 0.028). Variants in Norrin/β-catenin signaling genes were less common in syndromic FEVR (29% vs. 54%, p = 0.0026), whereas symmetrical retinal severity was more frequently observed (67% vs. 39%, p = 0.001). Sex distribution did not differ between groups. Pathogenic variants were identified in 71% of syndromic cases, most commonly in KIF11, NDP, CTNNB1, DOCK6, TSPAN12, and LRP5. Syndromic FEVR exhibits distinct and heterogeneous genetic and clinical features compared with non-syndromic FEVR. Genotype-phenotype characterization may enable earlier diagnosis.
The genetic spectrum and early clinical indicators of familial exudative vitreoretinopathy (FEVR) remain incompletely defined, and few studies have investigated the genetic variants and clinical phenotypes associated with eoHM-FEVR and anisometropia-FEVR patients. The purpose of this study was to screen the pathogenic variations in 11 FEVR families and analyze the refractive status and pathogenic genes in patients with irregular dominantly inherited FEVR.The patients with clinical diagnoses of eoHM-FEVR or anisometropia-FEVR were evaluated from October 2019 to August 2022. Comprehensive ophthalmic tests were performed on participants to confirm the phenotype. The genotype was identified using whole-exon sequencing and further verified the results among other family members by Sanger sequencing. Normal protein structures were modeled with AlphaFold, whereas mutant variants were analyzed via PyMOL. Variant pathogenicity followed the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) guidelines. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis with STRING and k-means clustering was applied for detecting the interaction of genes in the candidate genes, and the ClusPro Server was used for protein-protein docking.A total of 11 FEVR families were included in the study, and all the probands were found to have high myopia in both eyes or one eye before the age of 7 years. The pathogenic variants were identified in the genes TSPAN12, LRP5, and FZD4 known to be associated with FEVR in six probands. Among 13 eoHM-related genes, FZD4 and LRP2 encode proteins that can dock together as analyzed by ClusPro software.This study observed dominant inheritance of an irregular pattern in FEVR families, with asymmetric FEVR presenting as severe anisometropia. The eye with higher myopia often had more advanced FEVR and pronounced fundus changes. PPI network analysis revealed important modules of gene interaction, and the FZD4-LRP2 complex protein was potentially related to high myopia development. For patients with high myopia or with obvious anisometropia in both eyes, more attention should be paid clinically to the comprehensive examination of the peripheral fundus and early genetic testing.Copyright © 2025 Wan-Yu Cheng et al. Genetics Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Familial exudative vitreoretinopathy (FEVR) is an inherited eye disease characterised by the incomplete development of the retinal vasculature. Over 10 genes have been associated with FEVR, but there are still a substantial number of genetically unsolved cases. The aim of this study was to analyse whole genome sequencing (WGS) data from the FEVR cases in the Genomics England (GEL) 100 000 genomes project to identify the causative variants.WGS was performed by GEL and accessed within the GEL Research Environment. FEVR cases were identified using LabKey and candidate variants were extracted using the 'gene-variant workflow' and 'CNV/SV workflow' and by using BCFtools in unfiltered VCF files.Fifty-nine FEVR probands were submitted to GEL. We found six novel and eight previously reported pathogenic variants in six genes known to underlie FEVR (TSPAN12, LRP5, FZD4, CTNNB1, KIF11 and NDP), as well as structural variants in TSPAN12 and KIF11. These accounted for 15/59 (25.4%) of FEVR cases. We also found candidate heterozygous variants in CTNND1 in three unsolved FEVR cases. Expanding the list of genes examined to include all genes reported to be mutated in ocular disorders likely solved a further four cases, indicating that these individuals may be misclassified as FEVR in GEL.By performing bespoke reanalysis of the FEVR GEL cohort, this study has highlighted additional heterozygous variants in CTNND1 in FEVR cases and increased the diagnostic yield from 20% solved by the GEL analysis pipeline to 37% (22/59), but the majority of FEVR cases remain without a molecular diagnosis.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ Group.
Familial exudative vitreoretinopathy (FEVR) is a category of vitreoretinal diseases with a broad phenotypic spectrum ranging from subclinical peripheral vascular changes to total retinal detachments. We report the clinical and molecular genetic findings in a 43-year-old patient whose ocular findings were consistent with retinitis pigmentosa but genetic testing indicative of FEVR.The patient underwent serial examinations over a 12-year period that included fluorescein angiography, electroretinophysiologic testing, and molecular genetic testing using a retinal dystrophy panel.Repeated examinations demonstrated retinal pigmentary changes, arteriolar narrowing, and waxy disc pallor consistent with retinitis pigmentosa. Fluorescein angiography demonstrated peripheral non-perfusion, staining, and window defects, while electroretinogram and electro-oculogram were within normal limits. Genetic testing identified a novel heterozygous likely pathogenic nonsense variant in TSPAN12 gene, c.315T > A, p. (Cys105*).This report highlights a novel TPSAN12 pathogenic variant causing atypical FEVR which manifests with a retinitis pigmentosa phenotype.
Macular edema (ME) can cause profound vision impairment and occurs in several prevalent retinal diseases, including diabetic retinopathy, choroidal neovascularization, retinal vein occlusion, and uveitis. Retinal edema typically results from dysfunction of the blood-retina barrier (BRB), which is associated with increased retinal expression of complement components. It is unclear whether the classical complement pathway has detrimental or protective roles in the context of BRB dysfunction. Here, we characterized Tspan12-KODBM (disrupted BRB maintenance) mice, a mouse model of cystoid edema generated by genetically and pharmacologically manipulating β-catenin-dependent norrin/frizzled-4 (FZD4) signaling. We assessed BRB function, cystoid edema, electroretinogram, and microglia activation outcomes in an aging study with WT, C1qa-KO, Tspan12-KODBM, and Tspan12-KODBM; C1qa-KO compound mutant mice. Phenotypic analyses and cell-based experiments indicated that C1QA contributes to maintaining basal β-catenin-dependent signaling and that the absence of C1QA exacerbates BRB dysfunction, cystoid edema, and neuroinflammation in Tspan12-KODBM; C1qa-KO compound mutant mice. Activation of β-catenin-dependent signaling by an anti-FZD4 and anti-LRP5 agonistic antibody modality achieved complete resolution of cystoid edema. This study shows that reducing or enhancing norrin/FZD4 signaling can increase or decrease cystoid edema, respectively, underscoring its potential as a therapeutic target in ME. Furthermore, this study provides insights into the contribution of C1QA to BRB maintenance.
Norrin is an atypical ligand that regulates retinal angiogenesis through the Wnt/β-catenin pathway by triggering heterodimerization of Frizzled-4 (FZD4) with Low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 5 or 6 (LRP5/6), leading to downstream β-catenin stabilization. Unlike Wnt ligands, Norrin requires the tetraspanin Tspan12 for signaling amplification, but it is not understood why. Here, we report a 3.4-angstrom structure of Tspan12 in complex with FZD4 determined by cryo-electron microscopy. The structure reveals that FZD4 and Tspan12 form a direct complex in the absence of Norrin, with a contact interface between the lower hinge of FZD4 and the extracellular loops of Tspan12 that enables FZD4 to respond with a more gradual response to a wider range of Norrin concentrations. The transmembrane (TM) domain of Tspan12 is oriented in a tightly packed four-helix bundle and interacts with TM2 of FZD4 to promote trafficking of Tspan12 to the cell surface. The C-D helices of Tspan12, which mediate binding to Norrin, remain exposed while Tspan12 is in complex with FZD4, facilitating higher-affinity Norrin binding. Cell-based assays reveal that Tspan12 and FZD4 remain associated after Norrin recognition, indicating that Tspan12 is a core component of the FZD4-Norrin-LRP5/6 signaling complex. Together, these studies reveal the molecular mechanism underlying Tspan12-FZD4 complex assembly and enhancement of Norrin signaling and suggest new ways to target the FZD4-Tspan12 complex for ocular diseases of hypo- or hyper-vascularization.
Macular edema (ME) causes significant vision impairment and occurs in several prevalent retinal diseases including diabetic retinopathy (DR), choroidal neovascularization (CNV), retinal vein occlusion, and uveitis. Retinal edema typically results from dysfunction of the blood-retina barrier (BRB), which is associated with increased retinal expression of complement components. It is unclear whether the classical complement pathway has detrimental or protective roles in the context of BRB dysfunction. Here, we characterize Tspan12 KODBM (Disrupted Barrier Maintenance) mice, a new mouse model of cystoid edema based on genetically and pharmacologically manipulating beta-catenin-dependent norrin/frizzled4 (FZD4) signaling. We assess BRB function, cystoid edema, ERG, and microglia activation outcomes in an aging study with WT, C1qa KO, Tspan12 KODBM, and Tspan12 KODBM; C1qa KO compound mutant mice. Phenotypic analyses and cell-based experiments indicate that C1QA contributes to maintaining basal beta-catenin-dependent signaling and that the absence of C1QA exacerbates BRB dysfunction, cystoid edema, and neuroinflammation in Tspan12 KODBM; C1qa compound mutant mice. Activation of beta-catenin-dependent signaling by a FZD4/LRP5 agonist antibody modality achieves complete resolution of cystoid edema. This study shows that reducing or enhancing norrin/frizzled4 signaling can increase or decrease cystoid edema, respectively, underscoring its potential as a therapeutic target in ME. Furthermore, this study provides novel insights into the contribution of C1QA to BRB maintenance.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40691884 is a review article
Gastric cancer (GC) is a heterogeneous disease with limited prognostic biomarkers. ACTL6A is a core subunit of chromatin remodeling complexes, is implicated in tumor progression, but its clinical relevance, particularly subcellular localization, in GC remains unclear. This study aims to investigate whether the subcellular distribution of ACTL6A can serve as a potential biomarker for prognosis assessment in patients with GC.Multi-platform bioinformatics analysis of public datasets (The Cancer Genome Atlas, Genotype-Tissue Expression, DepMap) was performed to evaluate the expression of ACTL6A in GC. Western blot was employed to assess ACTL6A protein expression in GC cell lines. ACTL6A protein expression and localization were further evaluated by immunohistochemistry (IHC) in a tissue microarray (TMA) cohort of 96 GC patients, including 96 cases of GC tissues and 84 cases of normal adjacent tissues. The associations of clinicopathological features and overall survival (OS) were analyzed by univariate Cox regression and multivariate Cox regression. After knockdown of ACTL6A, the migration and invasion abilities of GC cells were observed, and protein-protein interaction networks were constructed.ACTL6A was significantly overexpressed at messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein levels in GC versus normal tissue. High ACTL6A expression positively correlated with advanced N stage (lymph node metastasis). Crucially, high nuclear (but not cytoplasmic) ACTL6A protein expression was an independent and powerful prognostic factor in GC. The hazard ratio (HR) is 3.052, with a 95% confidence interval (CI) of 1.643-5.670, and P<0.001. Moreover, after knockdown of ACTL6A, the migration and invasion abilities of GC cells were weakened.Nuclear ACTL6A is a compartment-specific, independent prognostic biomarker in GC, associated with lymph node metastasis and poor survival.© AME Publishing Company.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41489043
Lung cancer is one of the deadliest cancers in the world with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) being the most common subtype. Although advanced NSCLC patients undergone comprehensive treatment, their prognosis remains poor. Recent studies have elucidated that actin-like 6 A (ACTL6A) is aberrantly elevated in various cancers and acts as a driver of tumor progression. However, the main effect and mechanism of ACTL6A on NSCLC remains obscure.Databases, NSCLC tissue samples and cell lines were employed to investigate the ACTL6A expression levels in NSCLC using immunohistochemistry, western blot and qRT-PCR assays. CCK-8, wound healing assay, transwell assay, cell cycle analysis, in vivo animal experiment and other assays were performed to determine the effect of ACTL6A on NSCLC and uncover its underlying mechanism. Finally, the effect of NSCLC cell lines and tissues with varying ACTL6A expression levels on tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) was determined.ACTL6A was overexpressed in both NSCLC cells and tissues. Furthermore, the elevated ACTL6A expression induced cell proliferation, migration, epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and in vivo tumorigenicity of NSCLC cells to increase. The knockdown of ACTL6A induced G1 phase cell cycle arrest. And the Hippo signaling pathway was inactivated in ACTL6A-overexpressing NSCLC cells with the suppression p-YAP expression, resulting in the translocation of YAP to the nucleus, while ACTL6A knockdown cells resulted in opposite changes. What's more, ACTL6A-interfered NSCLC cells mainly regulate the expression of TEAD1 and TEAD4 to affect the migration capabilities. Interestingly, the high ACTL6A expressions in NSCLC tissues were correlated with the levels of MRC1+CD68+ TAMs, while deleting macrophages could inhibit ACTL6A-driven tumor progression. Moreover, the condition mediums from ACTL6A-overexpressing NSCLC cells promoted TAMs to present the M2 phenotype and facilitated the migration of M2-TAMs through CSF1. This means that ACTL6A-overexpressing NSCLC cells may induce TAMs into M2 polarization and recruit M2-TAMs to the tumor microenvironment, which in turn, may promote the development of NSCLC.ACTL6A accelerates the progression of NSCLC by modulating the Hippo/YAP signaling axis and influencing TAMs-mediated immune regulation through CSF1.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cilia are vital subcellular organelles whose assembly is regulated by master transcription factors, such as Foxj1 and Rfx. However, the mechanisms of epigenetic regulation over cilia stability remain largely unclear. Here, we investigate epigenetic control by manipulating chromatin-remodeling genes in zebrafish. We demonstrate that the depletion of multiple components of the switch/sucrose non-fermentable (SWI/SNF) chromatin remodeling complex induces ciliopathy-like phenotypes in zebrafish embryos. Specifically, the loss of Actl6a, an essential component of the SWI/SNF complex, leads to cilia disassembly and cystic kidney defects, without affecting ciliary motility. Our multi-omics analyses (RNA-seq, ATAC-seq, and FitCUT&RUN) consistently reveal that in Actl6a-depleted pronephros or embryos, a critical set of ciliary genes, including the master regulators foxj1a and rfx2, exhibit concordant downregulation across the transcriptional level, chromatin accessibility, and SWI/SNF binding. Consistently, the depletion of foxj1a or rfx2 causes cilia assembly defects and cystic kidney formation in zebrafish. Furthermore, overexpression of either foxj1a or rfx2 mRNA substantially rescues the cystic kidney and cilia disassembly defects observed in actl6a-/- mutant embryos. Collectively, these findings reveal that the SWI/SNF complex maintains cilia stability and kidney homeostasis by directly modulating the expression of the key ciliogenesis transcription factors foxj1a and rfx2.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Actin-like protein 6A (ACTL6A) is thought to be associated with the survival and prognosis of patients with a variety of human cancers. This study investigates the effect of ACTL6A knockdown on ESCC radiosensitivity and explores molecular mechanisms that may enhance radiotherapy efficacy. The ACTL6A expression level was increased in esophageal squamous carcinoma cells after radiation irradiation. The protein expression level of ACTL6A in tumor tissue samples of clinical esophageal squamous cell carcinoma patients was analyzed by immunohistochemistry, and it was found that the prognosis of the high expression group was worse than that of the low expression group. Further knocking down the ACTL6A gene in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma cells, it was found that ACTL6A could regulate the proliferation, migration, invasion, DNA damage repair, cell cycle, and apoptosis of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma cells, which further affected the radiosensitivity of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma cells. Through functional enrichment analysis of gene set enrichment and validation of the mechanism using the Wnt pathway inhibitor XAV939, it was shown that ACTL6A is involved in the regulation of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. Knockdown of ACTL6A can inhibit the activity of this pathway, thereby increasing the radiosensitivity of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. ACTL6A may become an important therapeutic target for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, providing a necessary theoretical basis for future treatment strategies.© 2025 The Author(s). The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Chromatin factors, defined here as proteins that chemically modify the DNA and histones, remodel chromatin and regulate nucleosome occupancy, play central roles in the transcriptional regulation of genes and are implicated in cancer initiation and progression in multiple cancer types. To systematically investigate the genomic and expression alterations of chromatin factors in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), we utilized the molecular profiles from 530 HNSCC tumor samples in the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), and characterized the mutational, copy number and transcriptional alterations of 422 chromatin factors, as well as their correlation with the "cold" tumor phenotype in HPV-negative and HPV-positive HNSCC. Histone-lysine N-methyltransferase 2D (MLL2) was the most frequently mutated chromatin factor in both HPV-negative and HPV-positive HNSCC, with mutation frequencies of 12-17 %. Actin Like 6A (ACTL6A), a component of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex, was the most frequently copy-number amplified chromatin factor in both HPV-negative and HPV-positive HNSCC, with amplification frequencies of 19-24 %. Double PHD Fingers 1 (DPF1), a component of the chromatin remodeling complex, and Ubiquitin Like With PHD AndRing Finger Domains1 (UHRF1) were the most overexpressed chromatin factors in HPV-negative and HPV-positive HNSCC tumors respectively. Components of the chromatin remodeling complex, such as ACTL6A, SMARCA1 and MORF4L2, were correlated with the "cold" tumor phenotype in both HPV-negative and HPV-positive HNSCC. This brief study highlights epigenetic chromatin factors that may drive oncogenesis and immune evasion, thereby identifying novel targets for cancer therapy in clearly defined, epigenetically-driven subtypes of HPV-negative and HPV-positive HNSCC.Published by Elsevier Ltd.
ACTL6a is an essential component of SWI/SNF and expressed on the chromosome 3q26 cytoband, which is amplified in head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCC). While ACTL6A is emerging as an oncogene, its role as a treatment target and mechanisms of transcription factor induction remain unknown. Here, we show that ACTL6A expression is a mediator of the Warburg effect, with ACTL6A knockdown inducing mitochondrial dependency and significantly decreasing levels of aerobic glycolysis. These effects lead to near complete attenuation of hypoxic cell growth by blunting induction of HIF1α and HIF2α protein expression. They also sensitize treatment resistant HNSCC cells to the tumor killing effects of the complex I inhibitor IACS-010759 in vivo. Using ATAC-seq, we identify ACTL6A as a mediator of chromatin accessibility of AP-1 transcription factor sites and find that it regulates upstream MAPK signaling through induction of Ras and Galectin-1. These effects sensitize ACTL6A over-expressing cells to inhibition of glycolysis by MEK inhibitors. Our results link SWI/SNF subunit amplification with potentiation of MAPK signaling in HNSCC and provide a novel mechanism by which cancer cells drive aerobic glycolysis and reduce mitochondrial dependency. We leverage these findings to propose treatment strategies for hypoxic tumors with SWI/SNF subunit amplifications.
Actin-like protein 6 A (ACTL6A), a subunit of SWItch/sucrose non-fermentable (SWI/SNF) complex has emerged as a key player in cancer progression. Despite growing evidence of its oncogenic potential, a comprehensive evaluation of its role in tumourigenesis and clinical outcomes remains warranted. This systematic review and meta-analysis aim to elucidate the role of ACTL6A in cancer pathophysiology and its prognostic significance.A systematic search in PubMed, Scopus and Web of Science was conducted from inception to 31 December 2024, using the keywords 'ACTL6A' and 'Cancer'. Studies investigating ACTL6A's role in cancer and those reporting hazard ratios (HRs) for ACTL6A expression in human samples were considered for systematic review and meta-analysis, respectively.A total of 39 studies were included in systematic review which collectively reported the role of ACTL6A in tumuorigenesis, invasion and metastasis via HIPPO-YAP, PI3K/AKT, NOTCH and Wnt/β-catenin pathways. Six studies (n = 863) qualified for meta-analysis, revealing that ACTL6A overexpression was significantly associated with poor overall survival (OS) (p = 0.001), larger tumour size (p < 0.01) and higher tumour grade (p = 0.002).ACTL6A is a critical oncogenic driver which promotes cancer progression and poor clinical outcomes. ACTL6A may serve as a promising prognostic marker, paving the way for targeted therapeutic strategies in oncology.
ACTL6A, a subunit of the SWI/SNF and INO80 chromatin remodeling complexes, is frequently overexpressed in various cancers, and its depletion attenuates cell proliferation in colorectal cancer (CRC). However, the epigenetic mechanisms underlying ACTL6A function remain poorly understood. Here, we aimed to elucidate how ACTL6A regulates chromatin accessibility and gene expression in CRC. Integrated multi-omics analyses revealed that ACTL6A deficiency alters chromatin accessibility and upregulates P53 pathway-related genes, accompanied by the recruitment of SWI/SNF and INO80 complexes. Mechanistically, ACTL6A depletion enhances KLF4 binding at newly accessible regions, where it cooperates with these chromatin remodeling complexes to activate P53 pathway-related genes and induce apoptosis. ACTL6A contributes to CRC cell proliferation by inhibiting the KLF4-mediated transcriptional activation of tumor-suppressive genes. Thus, our findings highlight that targeting ACTL6A may serve as a promising therapeutic strategy in CRC.© 2025. The Author(s).
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is a prevalent and deadly form of lung cancer, with treatment challenges including drug resistance and limited therapeutic targets, despite advances, such as immune checkpoint inhibitors. This study investigated the role of BAP18 (BPTF-associated protein of 18 kDa), a chromatin-associated protein, in NSCLC progression and its potential as a therapeutic target. NSCLC tissue samples were analyzed for BAP18 expression using Western blot and immunohistochemistry, and NSCLC cell lines with BAP18 knockdown were assessed for proliferation, migration, cell cycle, and tumor growth through in vitro assays and xenograft models. Coimmunoprecipitation and luciferase reporter assays were used to explore the interaction of BAP18 with β-catenin, ACTL6A (actin like 6A), and PAF1 (polymerase-associated factor 1) and its impact on β-catenin-mediated transcriptional activity. RNA sequencing and enrichment analyses identified the pathways involved in BAP18-regulated NSCLC progression. The results showed that BAP18 is highly expressed in NSCLC tissues, and its knockdown significantly inhibited cell proliferation, migration, and tumor growth. Mechanistically, BAP18 recruits ACTL6A and PAF1 to Wnt (wingless/integrated) target gene promoters, enhancing β-catenin-mediated transcription. These findings suggest that BAP18 plays a critical role in NSCLC progression through the Wnt-β-catenin pathway and could serve as a novel therapeutic target, particularly for patients with Wnt-β-catenin-driven tumors.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Rates of binge drinking have converged significantly between the sexes over recent decades, driven by increased rates of alcohol misuse in women. However, understanding of the fundamental circuitry and neurobiology driving alcohol use in females, or how this may differ from male subjects remains underexplored. Here, we quantified c-Fos expression across 40 brain regions in alcohol naïve, alcohol anticipating and binge-like drinking male and female mice. The basolateral amygdala (BLA) was of particular interest given the robust sex differences in c-Fos expression, with female mice showing greater alcohol-associated expression. This was confirmed with in vivo calcium imaging revealing greater and more prolonged BLA responsivity at the onset of alcohol intake in female mice. To functionally test this, we used chemogenetic inhibition, however non-specific inhibition of the BLA broadly reduced alcohol and other reward intake in both sexes. Given the diversity of BLA efferent projections we assessed sex differences in c-Fos expression in BLA efferent projections following alcohol consumption drinking, identifying preferential activation of the BLA to nucleus accumbens core (AcbC) projection in female mice. Precision chemogenetic inhibition of the BLA→AcbC pathway reduced binge-like alcohol intake sex-specifically in females. Together, this study uncovers sex differences in the neural circuits engaged in binge-like drinking, highlighting the BLA→AcbC projection may in part underpin sex differences in alcohol misuse. This provides further evidence of distinct neurobiological drivers of alcohol-related behaviors between the sexes.© 2026. The Author(s).
The gut-brain axis (GBA) plays a critical role in regulating neurocognitive and gastrointestinal functions through integrated neuronal, immune, endocrine, and microbial pathways. Estrogen deficiency causes gut dysbiosis and associated GBA dysfunction. Strategies that may modulate GBA dysfunction in the postmenopausal phase need to be explored. Our present research aimed to examine the synergistic effect of soy isoflavone (SIF) and fructooligosaccharide (FOS) in combination on GBA dysfunction in an estrogen-deprived rat model.To induce similar postmenopausal complications, female SD rats were bilaterally ovariectomized (OVX) and were orally administered a combination of FOS (50 mg/kg) & SIF (40 mg/kg) and 17β-estradiol (10 μg/kg) for 28 days. At the end, the uterus, hippocampus, & proximal colon health was measured.Co-supplementation of FOS with SIF in estrogen-deprived rats synergistically improves body weight, neurobehavior, brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels, and monoamine neurotransmission. We also observed marked restoration of oxidative stress, inflammation, and apoptosis in the hippocampus and colon. With this, we also observed restoration of gut health as indicated by increased mucosal layer integrity, promoting tight junction (TJ) genes, and rebalancing the gut microbiome (GM). The combination approach also selectively activates ER-β expression in the hippocampus without affecting serum estradiol levels & uterine weight. Collectively, the combination approach acts as a selective estrogen receptor modulator and improves GBA functioning.Thus, the combination approach may attenuate GBA dysfunction in estrogen-deprived rats by selectively activating the ER-β receptor and modulating oxidative stress, inflammation, and apoptosis while preserving the mucosal layer, TJ genes, and GM.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Soft tissue tumors with chondroid matrix represent a heterogeneous group with persistent diagnostic challenges. Advances in molecular diagnostics have identified recurrent gene fusions in several chondroid neoplasms, predominantly involving FN1. Here, we report two cases of chondroid tumors harboring a novel FOS::PABPN1 fusion. The patients were young and presented with small, deep, peri-osseous nodules located in the extremities. Histologically, the tumors were well-circumscribed and lobulated. Both cases presented fibro-cartilaginous and spindle cell areas. No cytonuclear atypia, mitoses, or necrosis were observed. Immunohistochemistry (performed in Case 2) revealed positivity for S100, CD34, and FOS, with negativity for MDM2, HMGA2, PLAG1, and desmin. RNA sequencing identified an identical in-frame FOS::PABPN1 fusion transcript in both tumors. Unsupervised transcriptomic clustering positioned the cases near synovial chondromatoses and other chondroid lesions, despite the absence of FN1 rearrangements. Massive overexpression of the WIF1 (Wnt Inhibitory Factor1) gene was also observed. To our knowledge, this is the first description of FOS rearrangement in mesenchymal tumors exhibiting chondroid differentiation. The FOS::PABPN1 fusion expands the spectrum of FOS-altered neoplasms beyond osteoblastic and vascular lesions and defines a potential new molecular subset of benign chondroid tumors. These findings highlight the utility of RNA sequencing in the diagnosis of chondroid neoplasms in order to identify rearrangement (of FN1, THBS1 or FOS) or IDH1/2. The consistent upregulation of WIF1 may represent a potential diagnostic biomarker.© 2026 The Author(s). Genes, Chromosomes and Cancer published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Bone remodeling depends on the coordinated balance between osteoclast-mediated resorption and osteoblast-mediated formation. Although Indian hedgehog (Ihh) is known to regulate skeletal development and bone homeostasis, its direct involvement in osteoclastogenesis remains unclear.We generated a novel mouse model, Ctsk-CreERT2; Ihhfl/fl, to investigate the role of Ihh in osteoclast lineage cells. Skeletal phenotypes were assessed by radiography, micro-CT, histology, dynamic histomorphometry, and three-point bending tests. Bone marrow macrophages were isolated to assess osteoclast precursor viability, RANKL-induced osteoclast differentiation, F-actin ring formation, and bone resorptive activity using CCK-8 assays, TRAP staining, phalloidin staining, and resorption pit assays. Osteoclastogenic gene expression and signaling pathway activation were examined by RT-qPCR and Western blotting.IhhCKO mice exhibited reduced body weight and an osteosclerotic phenotype, characterized by increased metaphyseal trabecular bone mass, improved femoral peak load and stiffness, and reduced cortical bone parameters. Histological analyses revealed fewer TRAP-positive osteoclasts on trabecular surfaces, increased osteoblast-related parameters, and decreased cortical bone formation indices. In vitro, Ihh deficiency reduced osteoclast precursor viability, impaired RANKL-induced osteoclast formation, decreased F-actin ring number/size and nuclei per osteoclast, and markedly reduced resorption pit formation. Mechanistically, Ihh loss suppressed osteoclast marker and fusion-related genes and diminished RANKL-induced JNK phosphorylation, c-Fos, NFATc1, and CTSK expression.Osteoclast-lineage-derived Ihh is required for efficient RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis and bone resorption, at least in part by sustaining the JNK/c-Fos/NFATc1 axis. These findings identify Ihh as an osteoclast-intrinsic regulator of postnatal bone remodeling.
Neuromuscular oculoauditory syndrome (NMOAS; OMIM# 618733) is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder caused by heterozygous variants in DHX16, a gene in the DExD/H-box RNA helicase family. Despite increasing reports of DHX16-related NMOAS, the functional impact of specific variants on RNA splicing remains poorly understood. In this study, whole-exome sequencing identified a de novo DHX16 variant (c.1360C>G, p.Arg454Gly) in a 2-year-old boy with NMOAS. In vitro assays revealed aberrant intron retention in HSPH1 and FOS transcripts in cells expressing the mutant DHX16-1360G, suggesting impaired splicing efficiency. Longitudinal clinical follow-up uncovered progressive multisystem involvement, including delayed gonadal development and autism spectrum disorder phenotypes not previously linked to DHX16. These findings expand the genotypic and phenotypic spectrum of NMOAS, confirm the pathogenic role of this variant in splicing dysregulation, and emphasize the need for long-term monitoring of emerging comorbidities in affected patients.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Estrogen deficiency-induced osteoporosis is largely driven by excessive osteoclast formation and bone resorption, but the direct pharmacological targets of flavonoid derivatives in osteoclast differentiation remain unclear. Here, we investigated the anti-osteoclastogenic activity and molecular mechanism of 2'-O-Galloylhyperin (2'-O-GH), a structurally defined flavonoid derivative. The effects of 2'-O-GH on RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis were evaluated in bone marrow-derived macrophages and RAW264.7 cells using TRAP staining, qPCR, western blotting, F-actin staining, immunofluorescence, and bone resorption assays. Target identification was performed using a biotinylated 2'-O-GH probe coupled with pull-down and LC-MS/MS analysis, followed by molecular docking and microscale thermophoresis. In vivo efficacy was assessed in an ovariectomy-induced osteoporosis mouse model. 2'-O-GH inhibited RANKL-induced formation of TRAP-positive multinucleated osteoclasts without evident cytotoxicity at effective concentrations. It downregulated osteoclast-related markers, including NFATc1, c-FOS, SRC, ACP5, ATP6V0D2, and CTSK, and impaired F-actin ring formation and bone resorption. Mechanistically, 2'-O-GH restrained RANKL-induced NF-κB p65 nuclear translocation. Chemical proteomics identified MAP3K11/MLK3 as a candidate target, and molecular docking and microscale thermophoresis supported its direct interaction with 2'-O-GH. 2'-O-GH further suppressed RANKL-induced phosphorylation of MLK3 and IKKα/β, whereas MLK3 overexpression partially rescued NF-κB activation and osteoclast differentiation. In ovariectomized mice, 2'-O-GH attenuated bone loss without obvious effects on body or uterine weight. These findings identify MLK3 as a pharmacological target of 2'-O-GH and suggest that 2'-O-GH suppresses osteoclastogenesis through the MLK3/IKK/NF-κB axis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Giardia lamblia infection alters gut physiology and microbiota interactions, but the impact of prebiotic supplementation in this context remains unclear. This study investigated how fructooligosaccharide (FOS) treatment affects microbial fermentation, intestinal function, inflammation, and hepatic bile acid synthesis in G. lamblia-infected gerbils. Gerbils were divided into four groups: uninfected control, infected control, uninfected and FOS-treated, and infected and FOS-treated. Cecal short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), intestinal disaccharidase activities, serum and intestinal cytokines, and hepatic expression of Cyp7a1 and Cyp8b1 were analysed. Giardia infection increased cecal acetate, reduced butyrate, elevated serum TNF-α, and increased hepatic Cyp7a1 expression. FOS supplementation increased cecal propionate and other SCFAs and elevated IL-10 levels in serum and intestinal tissue. Notably, FOS reduced intestinal maltase activity regardless of infection status, without affecting lactase activity. Together, these data indicate that giardiasis alters microbial fermentation and inflammatory responses, whereas FOS supplementation primarily promotes a more regulatory immune profile, characterized by increased IL-10 levels, alongside shifts in microbial fermentation, without directly modifying hepatic bile acid-related gene expression. These findings highlight complex diet-microbiota-host interactions during intestinal parasitic infection and support further mechanistic studies.
Conventional noninvasive neuromodulation is constrained by trade-offs among field strength, focality, and penetration. We propose a phase-synchronized transcranial electromagnetic combined stimulation (TECS) approach that concurrently combines temporal interference transcranial alternating current stimulation (TI-tACS) with repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to improve the local intensity-focality trade-off in the motor cortex. To our knowledge, this is the first study to investigate a phase-synchronized concurrent TI-tACS + rTMS paradigm.Finite-element simulations quantified the peak magnitude-based stimulation metric in the target M1 region, together with the equivalent focal area and effective penetration depth under a half-maximum criterion. A phase-synchronized TECS system was implemented and evaluated in rats using rotarod performance, c-Fos immunofluorescence, and histology, with comparisons to TI-tACS alone, rTMS alone, and a sham-like control condition.TECS produced the highest peak target-region electric-field value (178.0 V/m) while maintaining a much smaller focal area than rTMS alone (8.3 vs. 76.0 mm²) and greater penetration than TI-tACS alone (2.1 vs. 1.2 mm). In vivo, TECS produced the longest rotarod latency on Day 7 (288.5 ± 16.4 s; n = 6 rats/group; daily values averaged over three trials/rat), exceeding the control, TI-tACS, and rTMS groups by 75.3%, 15.3%, and 19.4%, respectively. TECS also induced the highest c-Fos activation, with corresponding increases of 50.1%, 9.4%, and 12.8%, respectively. Histology revealed no overt abnormalities across conditions.Phase-synchronized TECS enhances focal electric-field intensity and neuronal activation, translating to improved motor performance.The proposed TECS platform provides a promising neuroengineering approach for targeted noninvasive brain stimulation, supported by simulation-defined field metrics and in vivo feasibility and safety validation.
The dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus and perifornical area (DMH/PeF), historically identified as the hypothalamic defence area, plays a key role in orchestrating autonomic and respiratory adjustments during threat-related states. To investigate how activation of this region affects upper-airway and respiratory motor circuits, we examined its anatomical and functional interactions with laryngeal-related medullary nuclei using combined immunohistochemical mapping and physiological recordings in spontaneously breathing anaesthetised rats. Neuronal activation was assessed using c-Fos immunohistochemistry (c-Fos-ir) combined with ChAT and FoxP2 labelling to identify motoneurons and non-motoneuronal populations across the compact, semicompact and loose formations of the nucleus ambiguus (nA), as well as within the nucleus retroambiguus (nRA), during DMH/PeF electrical stimulation. Hypothalamic activation produced a clear subdivision-specific recruitment in the nA, with significant ipsilateral increases in c-Fos-ir within the semicompact (motoneurons, p < 0.001; non-motoneurons, p < 0.05) and compact formations (non-motoneurons, p < 0.05). The nRA also exhibited robust ipsilateral activation (non-motoneurons, p < 0.001). FoxP2-positive neurons remained stable across groups, indicating that FoxP2 reflects neuronal phenotype rather than acute activation. A second set of experiments evaluated the functional impact of electrical and chemical (glutamate) DMH/PeF activation on subglottic pressure, an index of laryngeal resistance. Both stimulation modalities produced a marked reduction in subglottic pressure (p < 0.001 and p < 0.01), accompanied by a reproducible autonomic-respiratory pattern characterised by tachypnoea, tachycardia and a pressor response. Overall, our results provide new insight into how hypothalamic circuits regulate subglottic pressure and laryngeal activity, suggesting that DMH/PeF activation is associated with the recruitment of specific nA and nRA domains, which may contribute to the adjustment of upper-airway patency during defensive responses.Copyright © 2026 Carrillo-Franco, González-García, Morales-Luque, Rivera, Gago, Ponce-Velasco, Dawid-Milner and López-González.
Transient receptor potential ankyrin 1 (TRPA1) is a cation channel originally identified in lung fibroblasts and extensively studied in sensory neurons, where it is associated with pain and neurogenic inflammation. We and others have recently shown that TRPA1 is also expressed in lung epithelial cells and that its expression is regulated by the cytokine environment. In the present study, we used next-generation sequencing to analyse the role of TRPA1 and the effects of its inhibition on human A549 lung epithelial cell phenotype under inflammatory conditions. Two different TRPA1 inhibitors (HC-030031 and A-967079) were used and found to alter the expression of 968 genes: 576 genes were downregulated, and 392 upregulated. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) predicted that TRPA1 inhibitors significantly suppress the activity of pulmonary fibrosis idiopathic signalling and wound healing pathways. In these pathways, altered genes included matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), growth factors, collagens and transcription factors. The major profibrotic mediators MMP-12 and MMP-7 were among the most strongly inhibited genes by TRPA1 inhibitors. STRING network analysis suggests that TRPA1 regulates fibrosis-related genes through FOS gene and AP-1 transcription factor. These findings together with previous data propose TRPA1 as a factor and therapeutic target in fibrotic lung diseases, which are associated with poor survival and critical need for novel disease-modifying therapies.© 2026 The Author(s). Basic & Clinical Pharmacology & Toxicology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Nordic Association for the Publication of BCPT (former Nordic Pharmacological Society).
Acral melanoma (AM) exhibits significant intratumoral heterogeneity, but its tumor microenvironment (TME) and immune regulation remain unclear. This study aims to dissect TME heterogeneity and establish a prognostic model based on key cell subpopulations.We collected AM single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and bulk RNA-seq data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Unsupervised clustering, CellChat, and Scissor analysis were performed to characterize cellular heterogeneity, cell-cell communication, and prognosis-related cell subpopulations. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to assess the prognostic value of key genes, which were further validated by multiplex immunohistochemistry (mIHC).In AM, Mel_C2, C7, and C9 with high SEMA6A and KIT expression were strongly linked to poor prognosis. We further identified a senescent fibroblast subpopulation (sCAF_CDKN2A) characterized by high fibroblast senescence signature (FSS) scores. Integrating Scissor analysis of fibroblast subtypes with bulk prognostic data, we identified COL3A1, VCAN, and KIT as prognosis-associated genes upregulated in poor-outcome-related fibroblast subsets. Cell-cell communication analysis revealed that sCAF_CDKN2A engages in an immunosuppressive network, interacting with regulatory T cells (Tregs) via MIF signaling and receiving signals from exhausted CD8+ T cells through PPIA-BSG interactions. Using transcription factor expression patterns from these fibroblast subtypes, we constructed a prognostic model that effectively stratified patients into distinct risk groups with significant differences in overall survival (OS). mIHC confirmed significantly higher protein levels of SEMA6A and COL3A1 in tumor tissues compared to matched normal tissues.We established a novel prognostic model for AM and identified sCAF_CDKN2A as an immunosuppressive senescent fibroblast subpopulation driving poor prognosis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA) frequently coexist, complicating diagnosis and treatment. The extracellular matrix (ECM) serves as a critical modulator of disease progression, coordinating multilayered matrix degradation and inflammatory cascades in both conditions. This study aims to identify ECM-driven molecular signatures to stratify the risk of RA and OA.We integrated bulk transcriptomics data from 113 samples across four datasets, as well as scRNA-seq data from 101 samples comprising 449,907 cells. Differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis, and machine learning were employed to identify ECM-related hub genes. A risk score (RS) model based on ridge regression was established and validated. The model was correlated with immune cell profiles, and a regulatory network involving miRNAs, mRNAs, transcription factors, and drugs was constructed.We identified eight ECM hub genes (SPARC, COL1A1, ANGPTL2, THY1, COL5A1, LRRC15, NID2, THBS3) that were significantly upregulated in RA and OA. The RS model stratified patients into high-risk and low-risk groups. The diagnostic performance of the model, as measured by AUC values, exceeded 0.8 across all cohorts. scRNA-seq and immune cell infiltration analyses revealed the involvement of these genes in ECM dysregulation. We predicted the relationship between genes and multiple factors, in which the drug Metoprolol was associated with LRRC15.We established an ECM-derived risk signature with robust diagnostic power, elucidating the shared mechanisms of ECM immune dysregulation. Metoprolol was associated with LRRC15 in the disease cohort. This study provides a framework for precise diagnosis and targeted therapy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Dermal group 2 innate lymphoid cells (dILC2s) contribute to skin homeostasis and inflammatory responses, yet they are frequently studied in Rag1-deficient mice in which the dILC2 compartment may itself be altered.We compared dILC2s from wild-type (WT) and Rag1-deficient mice by transcriptomic profiling, flow cytometric phenotyping, and functional analysis in a DNFB-induced contact hypersensitivity model with short-term adoptive lymphocyte transfer.Rag1 deficiency was associated with a marked expansion of dILC2s and broad transcriptional remodeling, including increased expression of Il7r, Thy1, Il5, and Il13, together with enrichment of cytokine signaling, apoptosis, and activation pathways. In vivo, Rag1-deficient mice showed attenuated ear swelling after DNFB challenge and, in contrast to WT mice, failed to expand their absolute dILC2 abundance during inflammation. Short-term adoptive transfer of sensitized WT lymphocytes modestly modified dILC2 dynamics but did not restore the WT inflammatory phenotype. At the cellular level, Rag1-deficient dILC2s displayed a predominantly CD44hi phenotype, increased basal apoptosis, elevated caspase-3/7 activity, and increased BrdU incorporation.Together, these findings show that Rag1 deficiency durably alters dILC2 state and responsiveness and should be taken into account when interpreting cutaneous inflammation models in immunodeficient mice.Copyright © 2026 Saleh, Liao, Braun, Salinas, Schön, Dasari and Buhl.
The progression of carotid plaques is closely associated with immune dysregulation. This study aimed to identify key natural killer (NK) cell-related genes and to explore their immune microenvironment using bulk and single-cell transcriptomic data.Differential expression analysis was performed based on the transcriptomic dataset GSE43292. Key gene modules were identified using weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA). NK cell-related hub genes were further screened using Lasso and logistic regression, followed by validation in an external cohort. The expression profile of IGHG1 and intercellular communication of NK cells were assessed using single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq). Pseudotime trajectory analysis was conducted with Monocle 2, and IGHG1-associated signaling pathways were explored through gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA).Four candidate genes were screened, and IGHG1 was the only independent risk factor. IGHG1 was significantly upregulated in advanced-stage plaques and demonstrated high predictive performance (AUC = 0.831; external AUC = 0.911). In the scRNA-seq dataset analyzed in this study, IGHG1 signal was mainly detected in the annotated NK-cell cluster. However, because IGHG1 is canonically associated with B-lineage and plasma cells, this observation should be interpreted cautiously in the context of SingleR/CellMarker-based annotation. Two NK-related subclusters were identified, showing inferred intercellular interactions predominantly involving the PPIA-BSG ligand-receptor pair. Pseudotime analysis revealed a transient high expression of IGHG1 during the transition from precursor to mature NK cells. GSEA indicated that IGHG1 was involved in the T cell receptor signaling pathway and NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity pathway.IGHG1 is a key gene closely associated with the progression of carotid plaques and was linked to NK cell-related immune features in our analyses. Given the canonical association of IGHG1 with B-lineage/plasma cells and the limitations of automatic annotation, its cellular origin and functional relevance require further validation.Copyright: © 2026 Shen et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Six agri-food side streams, linseed press cake (LPC), brewer's spent grains (BSG), bread residues (BR), apple pomace (AP), sugar beet pulp (SBP), and acid cheese whey (CW), were compared as feedstocks for compound-resolved Monascus ruber SRZ112-m22 pigment production under submerged (SmF) and liquid-surface fermentation (LSF). Authentic-standard HPLC quantified five azaphilones across days 3-8. Apple-pomace hydrolysate gave the highest measured total titer in SmF (1042.85 mg/L, day 7), whereas bread-residue hydrolysate was optimal in LSF (504.65 mg/L, day 6), demonstrating strong substrate-by-cultivation-mode control of pigment yield and profile. Purified monascin, monascorubrin, and rubropunctamine bound AChE, BChE, MAO-A, and PPAR-gamma, but binding was not interpreted as therapeutic efficacy. Post-cultivation liquid caused only slight bakery coloration at 40% replacement and inconsistent antioxidant changes, identifying concentration, process, and safety constraints. This within-strain comparison links compound-specific fermentation kinetics to preliminary molecular and food-matrix screening while supporting waste valorization consistent with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals SDG 12.3.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder leading to dementia, disability, and premature death. Beta-amyloid (Aβ) and tau pathology are considered key components of its pathogenesis; however, the role of peripheral amyloid load in modulating pre-existing tau pathology remains understudied. We hypothesized that peripheral amyloid load could exacerbate tau pathology through mechanisms potentially linked to the disruption of the Akt/glycogen synthase kinase-3β-associated signaling pathway, which could lead to increased behavioral deficits and progression of neurodegenerative changes.To evaluate the effect of double peripheral (retro-orbital) administration of the Aβ isoform D7 on the behavioral phenotype, morphological signs of tau pathology, and the expression of genes related to Akt/GSK-3β-associated signaling, neuroinflammation, and apoptosis in the brains of P301S transgenic mice.The study included 12-week-old male P301S transgenic mice (Tg(Thy1-MAPT*P301S)2541Godt) (n = 20, biological duplication) and wild-type C57Black6/J mice (n = 10). P301S mice received two retro-orbital injections of isoD7-Aβ into the venous sinus at a dose of 100 µg (n = 10) with a 1-month interval; control P301S mice received an equivalent volume of water for injection (n = 10). Behavioral testing ("open field", "novel object recognition", "vertical pole", "inverted screen") was performed at 16 and 20 weeks of age. Tau pathology was assessed immunohistochemically using AT-8 (pSer202/pThr205) antibodies in the frontal cortex and brainstem, and amyloid deposits were assessed histologically using Congo red staining in the entorhinal cortex and hippocampus. The expression of Akt1, Gfap, Mapt, Cdk5, Casp3, Bax, and Bcl2 genes in brain tissue was analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR.Two peripheral administrations of isoD7-Aβ were not associated with further deterioration of performance in the "open field" and "novel object recognition" tests compared to the control P301S group, which likely reflects the already established deficit characteristic of this transgenic line. In contrast, in motor coordination tests ("vertical pole", "inverted screen"), motor impairments in the P301S+Aβ group emerged by week 16, whereas in P301S mice without amyloid load, they appeared only by week 20. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed an increase in AT-8-positive staining in the brainstem, whereas no statistically significant differences were found between groups in the frontal cortex. Histological analysis did not reveal amyloid plaques in the entorhinal cortex and hippocampus of P301S+Aβ mice and control P301S mice. At the molecular level, the P301S+Aβ group showed decreased Akt1 expression, increased Gfap and Bax expression, and decreased Bcl2 expression, with no significant changes in Mapt, Casp3, and Cdk5. This pattern is consistent with dysregulation of Akt/GSK-3β-associated signaling, enhanced glial activation, and a pro-apoptotic shift.Two peripheral administrations of isoD7-Aβ to P301S mice were associated with earlier development of motor impairments, increased tau protein phosphorylation, and changes in gene expression consistent with a disrupted Akt/GSK-3β-associated signaling pathway. These findings support the hypothesis that peripheral amyloid load can exacerbate tauopathy manifestations, and the observed transcriptional changes are consistent with the possible involvement of the Akt/GSK-3β-associated signaling pathway, which may represent a potential therapeutic target in AD.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Fistulizing Crohn's disease represents a severe and disabling complication characterized by transmural inflammation and aberrant tissue remodeling. Although fissures are considered precursors of fistulas, the cellular and molecular mechanisms driving this transition remain poorly defined. We aimed to characterize the spatial immune-stromal interactions underlying fissure formation and progression toward fistula.Spatial transcriptomics was performed on intestinal surgical specimens from Crohn's disease patients with inflamed tissue, fissures of increasing depth, and entero-enteric fistulas. Spatial data were integrated with single-cell reference and ligand-receptor analysis to define cellular programs and signaling networks across tissue niches.Fissure-associated regions were enriched in inflammatory fibroblasts and inflammatory monocytes, identifying fissures as active immune-stromal niches rather than passive structural defects. Integration with independent single-cell datasets confirmed the association of these signatures with Crohn's disease fistulae, while comparison with non-Crohn's fistulas and ulcerative colitis supported disease specificity. Single-cell-informed pseudotime analysis identified coordinated stromal and myeloid remodeling programs associated with inflammatory fibroblast enrichment and macrophage/LAMP3 + dendritic cell states. Ligand-receptor analysis demonstrated a progressive shift from CXCL12-CXCR4-mediated immune recruitment toward Complement activation and adhesion-mediated retention circuits involving ADGRE5-CD55 and THY1-integrin pathways, defining a spatially organized fistula-associated immune-stromal niche.Fissures represent active immune-stromal niches in which coordinated remodeling programs support the development of the fistula microenvironment. These findings identify early fissure-associated remodeling as a potential therapeutic window and highlight CXCR4, complement, and immune-stromal adhesion pathways as candidate targets to intercept fistula progression in Crohn's disease.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Crohn’s and Colitis Organisation. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Cervical cancer (CC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality among women, and advances in its therapeutic approaches are disappointing, in which novel therapies and precise experimental approaches are needed to be exploited. This study intends to explore the effects and involved molecular mechanism of Stichopus japonicus acidic mucopolysaccharide (SJAMP) on CC progression. CCK8 and EdU assays were utilized to test the ability of cell proliferation. Colony formation, transwell, flow cytometry assays were applied to detect cell colonies, migration, invasion, and apoptosis accordingly. RT-qPCR and western blot were used to quantify the expression levels of transcription factor AP-2 Alpha (TFAP2A) and centromere protein W (CENPW), respectively. JASPAR website, ChIP-qPCR, and dual-luciferase reporter assay were used to verify the binding loci of TFAP2A on the promoter region of CENPW. Xenograft tumor models were produced to confirm the effects of CENPW silence or SJAMP treatment in CC. SJAMP suppressed malignant phenotypes of CC cells in a dosage-dependent manner. Besides, SJAMP regulated the biological behaviors of CC cells via regulating TFAP2A expression, which further regulated CENPW expression as its transcription factor. The expression of CENPW was elevated in CC and positively correlated with TFAP2A, and the silence of CENPW hampered tumor growth in vivo. In addition, CENPW overexpression abolished the repressed cell malignant activities induced by TFAP2A silence. Xenograft tumor models proved that SJAMP curbed tumor growth in vivo via repressing TFAP2A-mediated CENPW expression. Our research revealed that SJAMP exerted its anti-tumor effects via decreasing TFAP2A-mediated CENPW expression in CC.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10616-026-01023-6.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
This study aimed to investigate the time-dependent biological effects of mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) on cellular viability and the gene expressions associated with oxidative stress response (Nrf2), apoptosis-related signaling (p53), calcium homeostasis (CALB1), and extracellular matrix regulation (FN) in L-929 fibroblasts.MTA specimens were allowed to set for 4, 6, 8, and 24 h. Eluates were obtained according to ISO-10993-12 guidelines and applied to cells. Cell viability was assessed by MTT assay. Relative mRNA expressions of Nrf2, p53, CALB1, and FN were analyzed by real-time PCR. One-way ANOVA and post-hoc Tukey's were used. Higher cell viability than the positive control was obtained. Viability remained above the 70% biocompatibility threshold in all time periods. A time-dependent fluctuation in viability was observed, with differences between 4 h and 6 h and between 4 h and 8 h (p < 0.05). No significant differences were detected in Nrf2, p53, CALB1, or FN expression levels between the negative control and MTA-treated groups at any time point (p > 0.05).MTA preserved cellular viability and molecular homeostasis without inducing oxidative, apoptotic, or calcium-related imbalance. The inclusion of Nrf2 and CALB1 as previously unexplored parameters provides additional mechanistic insight into the biocompatibility profile of MTA. MTA maintained cellular homeostasis throughout its critical setting phase without activating oxidative stress, apoptosis-related signaling, or calcium imbalance pathways. The stable expression of Nrf2, p53, and CALB1 suggests that the favorable clinical performance may depend not only on biocompatibility but also on its ability to preserve intracellular equilibrium during early tissue contact.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
SMARCA4-deficient undifferentiated tumors (SMARCA4-dUT) have been included in the latest WHO classification of tumors. This study examined the cytomorphology, management, molecular features and prognosis of malignancies harboring SMARCA4 alterations.Biopsied cytologic slides were reviewed. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) and clinical data were analyzed.Thirty-four cases with SMARCA4 alterations were identified, including 13 primary and 21 metastatic tumors, sampled primarily from lung (35%), lymph nodes (26%) and liver (15%). Tumor origins were predominantly the lung (61%) and gallbladder (9%). The most common tumor type was adenocarcinoma (70%). Predominant architectures included nested, single-cell, tubular/acinar, and 3D clusters. Cells were most commonly round and columnar, with medium cytoplasm mostly showing vacuoles and granular features. Nuclear grade 2-3 was seen in 93% of cases, with prominent nucleoli and coarse chromatin. SMARCA4 alteration included mutations (32) and loss (2). These tumors are characterized by a high co-mutation burden, including TP53 (62%), KRAS (35%), and STK11 (15%). Prognosis is further modulated by allelic status (biallelic vs. monoallelic vs. subclonal), and mutations in DDR pathway (24%). Most tumors presented as stage IV. 26% received surgical resection. Overall, 74% underwent chemotherapy and 29% radiotherapy. Mean follow-up was 17 months, with 2-year OS of 49.1%. Twenty-three (68%) patients were current or former smokers.SMARCA4-altered malignancies show diverse differentiation and lack consistent cytomorphologic features. Majority of cases were differentiated malignancies and only four cases (12%) were undifferentiated, suggesting SMARCA4 alterations were associated with poor prognosis but were not exclusive drivers of undifferentiated malignancy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
SMARCA4-deficient thoracic malignancies comprise biologically heterogeneous tumors, ranging from conventional non-small cell lung cancer with SMARCA4 alterations to thoracic SMARCA4-deficient undifferentiated tumor (SMARCA4-UT), an aggressive entity frequently associated with concomitant SMARCA2 loss. However, the extent to which SMARCA4-deficient lung cancer cell lines recapitulate SMARCA4-UT-like biology remains incompletely defined. Here, we characterized lung cancer cell lines across distinct SMARCA4 and SMARCA2 states and identified a subgroup with SMARCA4/2 co-deficiency that exhibited reduced expression of epithelial lineage markers and transcriptional similarity to SMARCA4-UT and other SWI/SNF-deficient malignancies. The EZH1/2 inhibitor HM97662 selectively suppressed growth in SMARCA4/2-deficient cells, with limited effects in SMARCA2-proficient cells. EZH1/2 inhibition broadly reduced H3K27me3 and induced derepression of PRC2 targets regardless of drug sensitivity. However, its biological effects were most pronounced in SMARCA4/2-deficient cells, where it promoted apoptosis, reduced stemness marker expression, attenuated the SMARCA4-UT-associated transcriptional signature, and suppressed proliferative and mTORC1-related programs. Chromatin accessibility analysis further revealed cell-line-specific patterns of accessibility loss, with reduced accessibility at stemness-associated transcription factor motif-enriched regions coupled with transcriptional repression of nearby genes in SMARCA4/2-deficient cells. These findings support dual EZH1/2 inhibition as a potential therapeutic vulnerability in SMARCA4/2-deficient, SMARCA4-UT-like lung cancer cells.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42561665 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42560505
Skipped: PubMed ID 42543876 is a review article
Acne inversa, or hidradenitis suppurativa, is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder that causes painful and reoccurring abscesses. The PSEN1 gene is responsible for the sequence coding for the presenilin 1 protein, which is part of the gamma-secretase complex and is responsible for cleaving multiple peptides. Acne inversa occurs when the Notch signaling pathway of PSEN1 is disrupted. Analysis of multiple pathogenicity predictors and simulated aqueous environments of the transmembrane protein in its native state and mutated state through molecular dynamics simulation predicted deleterious effects from swap of tyrosine to cysteine at the highly conserved and buried position 189.Copyright: © 2026 by the authors.
Cerebral Small vessel disease (cSVD) is a prevalent feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. Whether this pathology is a late consequence of amyloid and tau accumulation or an early, direct effect of PSEN1 dysfunction has remained unresolved. We found that it is more severe in familial AD (FAD) caused by E280A mutation in presenilin 1 (PSEN1). These cases present with a distinctive proteomic signature, associated with pathological features, more dysregulated in the occipital cortex (OC) compared to the frontal cortex (FC), and characterized by multiple dysregulated proteins involved in extracellular matrix (ECM) and RNA-associated processes. This proteomic fingerprint was associated with abnormal collagen build up, ECM disorganization, and signatures of aberrant angiogenesis. Six months old transgenic knock-in mice homozygous for Psen1 E280A mutation (PSEN1Ki) also showed a similar phenotype with microvascular tortuosity and proteomic changes. Critically, these mice develop neither Aβ plaques nor tau tangles, indicating that the shared microvascular and RNA-associated changes are direct consequences of PSEN1 dysfunction rather than downstream effects of amyloid pathology. Remarkably, dysregulated RNA-associated protein networks overlapped between FAD and PSEN1Ki mice. Cerebral microvessels microstructure in PSEN1Ki mice at two months and six months showed abnormal astrocytic end-feet with lamellar deposits implicating blood-brain barrier damage. Finally, single nuclei transcriptomic analysis of AD patients and controls showed similar abnormal astrocytes in both sporadic and familial variants, but FAD astrocytes expressed dysregulated genes identified in the proteomic analyses, such as GLUL, APOE, and CLU. Our findings suggest that cSVD is an early pathological event in PSEN1 FAD and that is driven by abnormal RNA-associated processes and astrocytic dysfunction.
BACKGROUND Thoracic SWI/SNF-related matrix-associated actin-dependent regulator of chromatin subfamily A member 4 (SMARCA4)-deficient undifferentiated tumor (SMARCA4-UT) is a rare and highly aggressive thoracic malignancy. It predominantly affects male smokers and typically arises in the mediastinum, where rapid tumor growth and early metastasis contribute to a poor prognosis. Recent evidence suggests that this tumor exhibits biological heterogeneity and variable responses to therapy, underscoring the need for further clinical characterization. CASE REPORT A 67-year-old man presented with dyspnea and superior vena cava syndrome. Computed tomography revealed a 7-cm mass in the anterior and superior mediastinum with suspected lymph node and bone metastases. Histological examination demonstrated a sheet-like proliferation of large atypical cells with rhabdoid features and necrosis. Immunohistochemical analysis showed loss of SMARCA4 (Brahma-related gene 1 [BRG1]) expression, positivity for cluster of differentiation 34 (CD34) and sex-determining region Y-box 2 (SOX2), weak epithelial membrane antigen expression, preserved integrase interactor 1 (INI1) expression, and negativity for other epithelial markers, fulfilling the diagnostic criteria for SMARCA4-UT. Despite palliative radiotherapy and combination immunotherapy with nivolumab and ipilimumab, the tumor rapidly progressed. The patient developed grade 4 drug-induced pneumonitis; transient stabilization was achieved, but his condition deteriorated. He died 6 months after disease onset. Autopsy revealed widespread metastases with minimal therapeutic effect, highlighting the aggressive clinical course and treatment resistance. CONCLUSIONS SMARCA4-UT is a highly aggressive tumor requiring comprehensive immunohistochemical evaluation for accurate diagnosis. This case highlights the limited efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors in a PD-L1-negative setting and underscores the need for more effective therapeutic strategies.
Dysfunctional mitophagy is proposed as a key component of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology, yet direct in vivo evidence and mechanistic insights are still lacking. Here we show that AD model mice expressing a mitophagy reporter (APP/PSEN1/mt-Keima) develop large accumulation of acidic and neutral mitochondria within neuronal processes that form a previously unrecognized pathological structure termed mitochondrial plaques (MPs). The development of MPs is driven by abnormal mitochondrial buildup and lysosomal recruitment occurs as a delayed response to promote mitochondrial degradation. However, degradation through mitophagy is incomplete due to impaired lysosomal functions, resulting in accumulation of both neutral and acidic mitochondria. MPs frequently codevelop with amyloid to form mixed plaques but can also emerge independently at early stages of disease. Notably, MPs were also identified in the 5xFAD AD mouse model and postmortem human AD brains. These findings establish MPs as a new pathological entity in AD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
Dysregulation of chromatin remodeling is a key driver of malignant progression. The SWI/SNF ATPase subunits SMARCA2 and SMARCA4 are essential for chromatin dynamics, yet the clinicopathological and microenvironmental landscape of SMARCA2/4-deficient esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) remains insufficiently defined. We analyzed 722 resected EACs from a large Western cohort. SMARCA2 and SMARCA4 status were assessed by immunohistochemistry, and tumors were classified as SMARCA-intact or SMARCA-deficient (complete loss of nuclear expression in tumor cells with internal controls). Molecular co-alterations were evaluated by immunohistochemistry and fluorescence in situ hybridization, including amplifications of MET, ERBB2 (HER2), EGFR, PIK3CA, MYC, MDM2, TERT, and Y-chromosome loss (LOY). Several markers were available from prior works. Digital pathology workflows quantified CAF markers (SMA, PDGFRβ, FAP, Periostin, Tenascin) and immune infiltrates (including CD4, CD8, FOXP3, CD20, MUM1, mast cell tryptase). Overall survival was examined using Kaplan-Meier estimates and Cox regression models. SMARCA2/4-deficient tumors accounted for 11.2% of the cohort (81/722) and were enriched among patients aged ≥ 65 years. SMARCA-deficient EACs showed a significantly higher frequency of MET amplification (16.9%), particularly after neoadjuvant therapy. Within SMARCA-deficient tumors, PDGFRβ-positive CAFs, increased plasma cell (MUM1+) and mast cell infiltrates correlated with a favorable outcome, whereas loss of Y-chromosome (LOY) identified an adverse-risk subgroup with particularly poor prognosis. This largest-to-date study defines SMARCA-deficient EAC as a distinct subtype characterized by frequent MET amplification and high-risk interaction with LOY, alongside prognostically relevant stromal-immune features, supporting refined biomarker-based risk stratification and therapeutic exploration.© 2026. The Author(s).
Molecular small cell lung cancer (SCLC) subtypes (ASCL1, NEUROD1, POU2F3, and inflamed) display distinct immune contextures, but preclinical modeling remains limited. We evaluated peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) humanized mice (hu-mice) as a platform to capture subtype-specific tumor-immune interactions and therapeutic sensitivity to the triplet regimen: AZD1390 (ATM inhibitor), radiotherapy (RT), and durvalumab (aPDL1). SCLC cell lines representing all molecular subtypes were engrafted into hu-mice, and while T cell infiltration varied across subtypes, SCLC-inflamed cell lines exhibited the highest levels of infiltration. Infiltrating CD8+ T cells rapidly acquired exhaustion markers PD1, CD39, and TOX. Although aPDL1 monotherapy achieved tumor control only in the inflamed SBC5 cell line, combination AZD1390 and RT upregulated chemokine expression (CCL5 and CXCL10) and increased surface PDL1 to sensitize previously non-responsive xenografts in vivo. Responding xenografts showed enrichment of CD39+CD103+ tumor-reactive T cells with reduced terminal exhaustion (TCF1-TOX+). Overall, PBMC hu-mice may effectively recapitulate SCLC immune contextures and guide development of combinatorial strategies to overcome aPDL1 resistance.© 2026 The Authors.
Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are important regulators of complex traits in pigs and the systematic annotation and functional roles of these genes remain poorly understood. This study aimed to construct a comprehensive porcine lncRNA atlas and explore the regulatory role of lncRNAs in muscle development.We integrated 8,871 strand-specific RNA-seq datasets to identify porcine lncRNAs. Their transcriptional features, tissue specificity, evolutionary conservation, and eQTL-supported regulatory relationships were characterized. Single-cell RNA-seq, Hi-C, H3K27ac ChIP-seq, and population differentiation analyses were further incorporated to investigate candidate lncRNAs involved in muscle development.We identified 50,203 porcine lncRNA genes with stronger tissue specificity and lower expression abundance than protein-coding genes. A subset of lncRNAs showed sequence conservation across mammals. Integration with pigGTEx data identified extensive eQTL-supported lncRNA-mRNA candidate regulatory pairs enriched in active promoter and enhancer chromatin states. Single-cell and multi-omics analyses highlighted PRANCR as a candidate regulator of postnatal muscle growth in Laiwu pigs. A highly differentiated enhancer variant (chr5:g.34155013T>C; Sscrofa11.1) may alter SOX8 binding and regulate PRANCR expression in satellite stem cells.This study provides the most comprehensive porcine lncRNA resource currently available and proposes a potential enhancer-lncRNA regulatory mechanism that contributes to muscle development in pigs.
Nearly 11 years after T-VEC became the first oncolytic virus approved in a major market, the closest candidate to follow it-Replimune's RP1, now facing an FDA advisory committee-remains a locally injected herpesvirus for melanoma, underscoring how little the field has advanced. Researchers blame a stack of unresolved obstacles-flawed trial designs, mistimed drug combinations, tumor defenses, such as hypoxia, and the inability to deliver most viruses intravenously-even as smarter sequencing, neoadjuvant approaches, and a bladder-cancer virus near approval hint at renewed momentum.©2026 American Association for Cancer Research.
Inherited ocular disorders are a leading cause of early-onset visual impairment, particularly in populations with high consanguinity such as Iran, where a substantial proportion of affected individuals remain without a molecular diagnosis after conventional evaluation. We aimed to determine the diagnostic yield and variant spectrum of whole-exome sequencing (WES) in Iranian probands with congenital or early-onset ocular disorders that were genetically unresolved by prior testing.Thirty unrelated probands were recruited consecutively (July-September 2024). Genomic DNA underwent exome capture (Agilent SureSelect V7) and paired-end sequencing (Illumina NovaSeq 6000). Reads were cleaned with SOAPnuke, aligned with BWA-MEM, and variants were called with GATK HaplotypeCaller and DeepVariant, filtered by GATK VQSR, and annotated against public and Iranian-specific databases (GEMIRAN, IRANOM). Variants were classified per ACMG/AMP criteria. Diagnostic yield was defined as the proportion of probands with a causative or candidate variant concordant with phenotype.A causative or strong candidate variant concordant with the phenotype was identified in 21 of 30 probands (diagnostic yield 70.0%; 95% CI 50.6-85.3%). Pathogenic or likely-pathogenic variants were found in established genes including ABCA4, USH2A, RP1, CRB1, CEP290, GUCY2D, CYP1B1 and TYR. Among the identified genotypes, 54% were homozygous and 12% hemizygous (X-linked), consistent with consanguinity in 11/30 (36.7%) families; 35% were single heterozygous findings in autosomal-recessive genes, interpreted as incomplete genotypes pending detection of a second allele. Onset was infantile in 73% of probands.WES is an effective first-tier test for congenital and early-onset ocular disorders in the Iranian population, resolving roughly 70% of previously undiagnosed probands. Single-allele findings in recessive genes indicate that complementary copy-number and structural-variant analysis, deep-intronic assessment, periodic reanalysis, and reflex whole-genome sequencing are needed to maximise yield and support accurate genetic counselling.© 2026 The Authors.
To assess long-term safety and exploratory ophthalmic outcomes in patients treated with voretigene neparvovec-rzyl (VN) in US clinical practice.Prospective, multicenter, observational post-authorization safety study.Eighty-seven patients (169 eyes) receiving VN at 10 ocular gene therapy treatment centers.Eligible patients were ≥12 months old with viable retinal photoreceptors and received VN in ≥1 eye. Subretinal delivery followed a 3-port pars plana vitrectomy modified at surgeons' discretion (e.g., automated foot pedal delivery, pre-bleb injection, cannula cut, use of dye for visualization).Safety outcomes included treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) and occurrence of chorioretinal atrophy (CRA). Exploratory assessments included changes in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and full-field stimulus threshold (FST). Outcomes were analyzed descriptively; relative risk (RR) was estimated for subgroup comparisons.With a median 3.7 years of follow-up (range, 2.9-4.9), most patients (95%) reported ≥1 TEAE (387 events); 67% were procedure related, 9% were attributed to VN, and 82% were mild. CRA, including related terms retinal degeneration and retinal depigmentation, occurred in 24 patients (28%; 45 eyes), typically within 1 year, and was mild (80%) or moderate (20%). The area of CRA mostly localized to the retinotomy or bleb area, with 40% of eyes with CRA having atrophy outside the bleb area and highly correlated between fellow eyes (r=0.97; P<0.0001). CRA risk was higher with automated foot pedal administration of VN (RR, 5.33; 95% CI, 1.27-22.40) and in patients with myopia (RR, 8.40; 95% CI, 1.16-60.69). At 3 years, treated eyes showed sustained improvements in BCVA (-0.13 logMAR) and FST (-1.68 log10 cd·s/m2). BCVA and FST were comparable between CRA and non-CRA eyes, although a subset of CRA eyes showed greater FST improvement at most time points up to Year 3.This interim analysis supports the long-term safety of VN in a real-world US cohort, consistent with clinical trial results. CRA did not appear to diminish sustained functional and anatomical benefits with a minimum follow-up of nearly 3 years. Ongoing data collection will further clarify the occurrence, impact, and risk factors for CRA while continuing to monitor VN safety in clinical practice.Copyright © 2026 American Academy of Ophthalmology, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pigmented tissues of the vertebrate eye are essential for optical performance, metabolic support, and tissue homeostasis, yet their coordinated development has been difficult to study because melanin interferes with histological and immunohistochemical analyses. Here, we apply a gentle hydrogen peroxide based bleaching method compatible with IHC for Rpe65, Rhodopsin, ZO-1, Cralbp/Rlbp1, S100b, and Cd34, and examined Dct/Tyrp2 expression, to generate a unified developmental atlas of all pigmented tissues in the mouse eye. We also re-analyzed published single-cell RNA-seq datasets from developing and adult mouse eyes to examine gene expression patterns across pigmented ocular tissues. Using daily samples from embryonic day 14.5 (E14.5) through postnatal day 14 (P14), we tracked the emergence and maturation of pigmented cell populations in the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), choroid, ciliary body, and iris. The RPE, the earliest tissue to synthesize melanin, does not acquire continuous Rpe65 expression, apical-basal polarity, or full morphological maturity until eyelid opening. Neural crest-derived melanocytes in the choroid, ciliary body and iris undergo distinct maturation phases marked by early Dct expression, subsequent melanin synthesis, and late induction of S100b. In the innermost layer of the future iris epithelium, early Dct expression precedes postnatal pigmentation. Notably, we observe a coordinated burst of melanogenesis across multiple ocular and periocular tissues immediately after birth, suggesting regulation by systemic developmental transitions rather than light exposure. Together, these findings establish a comprehensive timeline for the maturation of pigmented ocular tissues, providing a clearer framework for studying eye development and disease.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Rehmannia, a natural medicinal and functional plant, has been used as a Chinese materia medica and dietary supplement for a long time, with its polysaccharides being the main bioactive ingredients. Natural polysaccharide hydrogels loaded with bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) represent an effective strategy for bone defect repair. In this study, a neutral homogeneous polysaccharide (RP-1) was isolated from Rehmannia glutinosa, and it was mainly formed by →2)-β-D-Fruf-(1→, →6)-α-D-Glcp-(1→, →6)-α-D-Galp-(1 → and α-D-Galp-(1 → as backbone. In vitro cell experiments indicated that RP-1 could promote the proliferation and osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs. Then, temperature-sensitive RP-1 hydrogels loaded with BMSCs (RPB@Gel) were prepared and characterized to demonstrate rapid cross-linking at body temperature, and their bone defect repair efficacy was systematically validated through in vitro and in vivo experiments. In vitro studies demonstrated that RPB@Gel hydrogels promoted the proliferation and differentiation by upregulating the mRNA and protein expression (RUNX2, ALP, and Col1a1) in BMSCs. The mechanisms by which this occurs include the activation of the ERK phosphorylation pathway and the facilitation of β-catenin nuclear translocation. In vivo studies demonstrated that RPB@Gel exhibits significant bone defect repair efficacy, as evidenced by micro-CT scanning, histological analysis, and immunohistochemical staining. In summary, within the field of bone defect repair, RP-1 functions both as a bioactive component and as a structural carrier, and RPB@Gel may offer a potential therapeutic approach for bone regeneration.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The cerebellar rhombic lip (RL) of the prenatal hindbrain is a progenitor niche essential for cerebellar glutamatergic neurogenesis. Humans demonstrate a structural elaboration of this niche with a rhombic lip subventricular zone (RL-SVZ). Disruption of this zone causes cerebellar malformations and tumors, yet its gene regulatory networks are poorly understood. We present a predicted gene regulatory network for the human RL inferred from epigenomic maps of the developing human cerebellum. We generated DNA methylomes from microdissected mid-gestation human RL ventricular zone (RL-VZ) and RL-SVZ (N = 9; 15-16 post-conception weeks) using low-input Enzymatic MethylSeq, and profiled histone marks of active promoters and enhancers in whole fetal cerebellum (N = 6; 14 and 18 weeks). Transition from RL-VZ to RL-SVZ is accompanied by widespread hypomethylation, including 9,855 differentially methylated regions (DMRs) enriched for binding sites of ATOH1, NEUROD1/2, and HMGA1. Of these, 88.9% are hypomethylated in RL-SVZ, enriched in active enhancers and human accelerated regions, and depleted at promoters. By integrating DMRs with bulk tissue histone maps as well as single-cell chromatin accessibility and transcriptomic maps of the mid-gestation cerebellum, we inferred over 100,000 transcription factor-enhancer-gene links. Twenty-five DMRs overlap human accelerated regions near genes implicated in intellectual disability, autism spectrum disorder, and neurological deficits. DMRs are also enriched in copy-number aberrations in medulloblastoma, with ~ 25% overlapping known aberrant regions, nominating disrupted promoters and enhancers. These data provide a framework for interpreting non-coding variation in human cerebellar development and disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
SLFN11, highly expressed in SCLC, predicts sensitivity to DNA-damaging agents. Its role in other lung neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs) (typical/atypical carcinoids - TC/AC and large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma- LCNEC) is unknown. This multicentre study assessed SLFN11 across lung NENs exploring its clinical-molecular associations.SLFN11 immunohistochemistry (H-score 0-300) was assessed in 361 tumours (127 TC, 35 AC, 152 LCNEC, 47 SCLC). Ki67, pRb, cMYC, DLL3, ASCL1, HNF1a, OTP and NEUROD1, ASCL1, POU2F3, and YAP1 (NAPY; H-score > 50 as dominant subgroup) staining were integrated with clinicopathologic data and survival. Median SLFN11expression (exp) was used for survival analysis.SLFN11exp varied across histologies (p < 0.001), with median values of 0 in TC (range 0-20) and AC (0-40), 2.49 (0-250) in LCNEC, 35 (0-240) in SCLC. SLFN11 showed a positive correlation with Ki67 (R2 = 0.187) across all histologies. In TC/AC, SLFN11exp was enriched in A1 subgroup tumours (known for ASCL1exp) (p = 0.035) and not correlated with OTP, HNF1A, CD44 and SSTR2Aexp. In LCNEC, SLFN11exp was higher in ASCL1high tumors (median 17.2; 0-162.5, p = 0.003) and correlated with cMYCexp (p = 0.024), but not with pRB and DLL3 status. In SCLC, a trend toward higher SLFN11exp in ASCL1high tumours was observed. SLFN11exp was not prognostic in TC/AC or LCNEC. In SCLC, SLFN11exp ≥ median value was associated with improved OS (13.9 vs 6.8 months; HR = 0.48, 95%CI 0.26-0.90, p = 0.020).SLFN11exp in lung NENs is higher in SCLC > LCNEC > TC/AC, and correlated with Ki67. SLFN11exp was associated with ASCL1exp in all lung NENs. SLFN11 role in TC/AC and LCNEC remains to be defined.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Although many genes have been implicated in spermatogenesis, their precise relationships to male fertility remain unclear. Here, we investigated the in vivo importance of the highly conserved, testis-enriched gene Samd7 as a potential regulator of murine spermatogenesis and fertility.Samd7-/- mice were generated using CRISPR/Cas9. qPCR was used to assess Samd7 mRNA expression across mouse tissues. SAMD7 protein levels in testis were examined by Western blotting. Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining of testis and epididymis was performed to evaluate spermatogenesis and sperm maturation. Immunofluorescence was used to characterize developmental stages of germ cells in the testis. Computer-assisted sperm analysis (CASA) was employed to measure sperm motility and related parameters.Samd7 expression was enriched in testis beginning at postnatal week 3. Compared with wild-type (Samd7+/+) littermates, Samd7-/- males showed no abnormalities in sperm content, testicular morphology, or fertility. Histology confirmed intact seminiferous tubules and normal testicular architecture in both Samd7+/+ and Samd7-/- mice. No differences were detected in sperm morphology or motility, including swimming velocity, in Samd7-/- mice. Testes and epididymides from Samd7-/- animals contained the expected spectrum of germ cells-from spermatogonia to mature spermatozoa-consistent with unimpaired spermatogenesis.These findings indicate that Samd7 is dispensable for murine spermatogenesis and male fertility under standard laboratory conditions.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Inflammation in the pancreas drives acinar-to-ductal metaplasia (ADM), a progenitor-like state that can be hijacked by mutant Kras in the formation of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. How these cell fate decisions vary according to KRAS mutation remains poorly understood. To define mutation-specific lineage reversion and tumor initiation, we implement Ptf1a-tdTomato mice and multiple KRAS mutants across several genetic, pharmacologic, and inflammatory perturbations in vivo. Whereas KRASG12D co-opts injury to enable lineage reversion, enhancer reprogramming, and tumor initiation, KRASG12R/V cannot sustain dedifferentiated and neoplastic transcriptional and epigenetic programs. Specifically, KRASG12R/V mutants fail to invoke robust EGFR, AKT, and RAC1/VAV1 signaling and to license Pou2f3 and Vav1 in chromatin, such that only constitutive AKT activation is sufficient to rescue the tumorigenic potential of KRASG12Rin vivo. As the marked heterogeneity among KRAS variants begins early in tumorigenesis, these data are crucial to deciphering mutation-specific oncogenic trajectories and directing the implementation of KRAS-directed therapeutics.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Uterine spiral artery remodelling (SAR) is a fundamental developmental process that facilitates optimal placental perfusion and supports fetal growth. Central to SAR is the phenotypic transformation of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) from a contractile to a synthetic state, directed by invasive trophoblast cells. To advance these findings, we sought to elucidate the epigenetic mechanisms governing trophoblast-induced reprogramming of VSMC identity, enabling plasticity required for uterine vascular adaptation.VSMC dedifferentiation was assessed by qRT-PCR, Western blotting, and immunofluorescence. Epigenetic alterations were evaluated by Western blotting. A chromatin remodelling PCR array was performed and validated by qRT-PCR and Western blotting. Chromatin remodelling factors were downregulated using antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs), and VSMC dedifferentiation was confirmed by Western blotting. E13.5 and E16.5 rat metrial glands were used for in vivo validation. An IUGR rat model was generated by administering dexamethasone from E13.5 to E20.5. In IUGR tissues, trophoblast invasion, VSMC dedifferentiation, and chromatin remodelling factor expression were validated by Western blotting.Co-culture of primary E16.5 rat trophoblast cells with VSMCs revealed a trophoblast-induced shift in the expression landscape of epigenetic regulators, resulting in upregulation of chromatin-modifying "writers" (CBP, DNMT1, DNMT3A), downregulation of "erasers" (HDAC 1,2,3), and an increase in both transcription activation marks (H3K27ac, H3K9ac) and repression marks (H3K27me3, H3K9me3). Targeted real-time PCR array profiling identified coordinated downregulation of 13 chromatin remodelling genes (ARID1B, SMARCAD1, SMARCD1, SMARCD3, BMI1, EZH2, CBX2, CBX5, CBX6, BAZ1B, ZMYND8, CHD1, MBD3,) during VSMC de-differentiation. This change in the epigenetic landscape was recapitulated in vivo within the metrial gland, the entry point of uterine spiral arteries, on E16.5. Knockdown of these factors impaired the phenotypic transition of VSMCs, establishing their mechanistic role in enabling vascular adaptation. Notably, in a model of intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR), the normal expression dynamics of chromatin remodelling factors and VSMC phenotypic markers were reversed, indicating the need for the dynamic epigenetic regulatory axis, which is essential for vascular adaptation in healthy pregnancies.These findings uncover a trophoblast-driven epigenetic axis that governs VSMC plasticity during SAR and highlight its dysregulation as a potential contributor to the pathogenesis of IUGR.© 2026. The Author(s).
Precise regulation of progenitor identity is essential for the formation of functional auditory circuits. Cochlear nuclei arise from two major progenitor populations: Atoh1-expressing progenitors generate excitatory glutamatergic neurons, while Ptf1a-expressing progenitors generate inhibitory GABAergic and glycinergic neurons. Lmx1a and Lmx1b, expressed in the hindbrain roof plate, maintain Atoh1 expression in lower rhombic lip progenitors that give rise to excitatory neurons of the cochlear nuclei. Detailed analysis using dye tracing of cochlear and vestibular central projections revealed an overall reduction of input in both Lmx1a knockout mice and Lmx1a knockout mice with additonal loss of one copy of Lmx1b, although projections to the dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) remain relatively preserved. Dye insertion at the crossing of the acoustic stria demonstrate a progressive loss of the ventral acoustic stria (VAS) and its altered trajectory between the trigeminal and restiform body in Lmx1a-/- and Lmx1a-/-;Lmx1b+/- mice. Together, these data show that the anteroventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN) is most severely affected at both embryonic and postnatal stages, showing loss and reduction of central projections. Ultimately, these findings identify Lmx1-dependent regulatory activity as a critical checkpoint for the proper development and connectivity of auditory pathways.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cardiomyocyte senescence drives cardiovascular disease, underscoring the need to define its molecular mechanisms. The role of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) ion channel in this process remains unclear, particularly regarding its expression and function. Atrial tissues were collected from patients with sinus rhythm or atrial fibrillation (AF) of varying durations. CFTR was downregulated in AF patients and negatively correlated with p16, p21, and p53. Myocardial aging models were established using D-galactose (D-gal) in both mice and neonatal mouse cardiomyocytes (CMs). In both animal and cellular models, D-gal increased SA-β-gal positivity and senescence markers while decreasing CFTR. Overexpressing CFTR reduced D-gal-induced elevations in p16, p21, p53, and malondialdehyde (MDA), and restored superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), and catalase (CAT) activities. Mechanistically, CFTR alleviates mitochondrial oxidative stress damage by enhancing plasma membrane Ca2+ ATPase (PMCA) activity to reduce cytoplasmic Ca2+ levels. Furthermore, we identified USP45 as a direct binding partner of CFTR, which deubiquitinates CFTR by specifically targeting K48-linked chains and the K688 residue. CFTR knockdown exacerbated D-gal-induced senescence and mitochondrial oxidative stress, which was rescued by USP45 overexpression. In conclusion, this study reveals a novel mechanism in which USP45-mediated deubiquitination of CFTR mitigates cardiomyocyte senescence and mitochondrial oxidative stress, offering a targeted intervention against age-related cardiovascular diseases.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Vocal impairments are a debilitating but understudied feature of several dystonias, including generalized and early-onset genetic forms. Despite growing recognition that cerebellar dysfunction contributes to dystonic pathophysiology, the circuit mechanisms underlying vocal-motor abnormalities remain poorly understood, and effective treatments remain limited, in part due to the lack of a preclinical model that captures specific vocal features. Our experiment evaluates ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) in Ptf1a Cre/+;Vglut2 fl/fl mice, a cerebellum-specific generalized dystonia model, to assess cerebellar contributions to phonation and explore translational relevance for vocal features. At postnatal day 9, dystonic mice demonstrated statistically significant reductions in total USV count, relative count of complex calls, and key spectral parameters-especially frequency modulation and power-mirroring general phonatory abnormalities seen in dystonia. Cluster analyses further revealed impaired vocal burst initiation, suggesting disrupted cerebellar coordination of temporal vocal-motor output. These findings support the model's construct and face validity for studying cerebellar mechanisms of vocal impairment. By identifying quantifiable acoustic disruptions, our study establishes a foundational platform for future circuit-targeted investigations of vocal-motor dysfunction in dystonia.
Synthetic gene-regulation logic is established in immortalized cell lines but remains largely aspirational in human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) and derivatives. This gap constrains both mechanistic discovery and translational engineering in physiologically relevant models. We developed CIRI (Combinatorial Inducible CRISPR in IPSCs), an isogenic, safe-harbor-engineered platform in which tetracycline-responsive single guide RNAs (sgRNAs) carry modular RNA aptamers that recruit RNA-binding proteins and effector domains. This design enables multimodal regulation from a single catalytically inactive Cas9 (dCas9), exemplified by orthogonal CRISPR activation and interference (CRISPRa/i). After optimizing sgRNA-aptamer architectures, we achieved robust CRISPRa and CRISPRi in hiPSCs and hiPSC-derived cardiac organoids. CIRI rapidly channels hiPSC forward programming into skeletal myocytes by activating MYOD1 while repressing NANOG, POU5F1/OCT4, and SOX2. Combinatorial pooled dual-guide single-cell RNA sequencing screens identify ID3 as a roadblock and KDM6B and SMARCD3 as synergistic enhancers of myogenic maturation. Together, CIRI establishes a programmable synthetic biology framework in human stem cell models.
Invasive micropapillary carcinoma (IMPC) of the breast, a rare and aggressive subtype, represents a unique morphology of reversed polarity with higher metastatic propensity. Due to the limited availability of experimental models, understanding distinct molecular pathways and potential therapeutic targets remains challenging. This study aimed to establish patient-derived cell cultures (PDCs) from IMPC to generate viable models for in-vitro studies. Tissue samples from five IMPC cases were enzymatically disaggregated using five different cell disaggregation protocols. These cells were characterized using immunofluorescence, short tandem repeats profiling, and real-time assays for tumor marker expression profiles. RNA sequencing was performed and compared with invasive ductal carcinoma, no special type (IDC-NST), to study differential gene expression and cell polarity markers. Two short-term PDCs were successfully established from IMPC samples with an optimized collagenase-based protocol. These cultures showed an immunohistochemical profile consistent with the original tumor tissues and maintained hormone receptor and MUC1 expression status. RNA sequencing of PDCs revealed similar gene expression patterns with matched tumor tissue and revealed upregulated RAP1, MAPK, and PI3K-AKT pathways, when compared with ER/PR-matched IDC. These PDCs also showed different gene expression patterns in cell-polarity associated genes, such as cadherins CDH2, tight junction gene MARVELD2, PAR complex gene PARD6B, and downregulation of the cell polarity CRB2 gene. This study indicated the need for an optimization of cell culture conditions and the feasibility of establishing patient-derived cell cultures from IMPC. These models provide a great tool to study molecular insights, cell polarity, and therapeutic research in a rare breast cancer subtype.© 2026 International Federation of Cell Biology.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a major global health concern, with a substantial proportion of cases that remain of undetermined cause. Mutations in genes affecting podocyte structure and function, are increasingly recognized as causes of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS), a common but highly nonspecific histological pattern of kidney injury, that ultimately lead to CKD.We report the case of a 55-year-old male who presented with hypertension and end-stage renal disease (ESRD) of unknown etiology. He had a progressive decline in kidney function and proteinuria beginning in young adulthood. A kidney biopsy showed a pattern of FSGS. A comprehensive workup did not identify autoimmune or inflammatory causes. Whole-exome sequencing detected a previously undescribed heterozygous CRB2 mutation (c.1037G > T, p.Cys346Phe), predicted to be deleterious.Animal models of CRB2 deprivation in podocytes showed progression toward FSGS. In humans, CRB2 mutations have previously been linked to severe early-onset nephrotic syndrome, typically in homozygous or compound heterozygous states. This is the first report of an adult-onset CRB2-associated FSGS in a heterozygous state, suggesting a milder disease course with a progressive kidney decline. As with other genetic forms of FSGS, we hypothesize that heterozygous CRB2 mutations may permit near-normal renal function for years until cumulative stressors trigger podocyte injury and CKD progression.This case expands the clinical spectrum of CRB2-related kidney disease and highlights the importance of genetic testing in adults with unexplained CKD. Identifying genetic forms of CKD may refine diagnostic and therapeutic approaches in nephrology.Copyright © 2026 Michele Marchini et al. Case Reports in Nephrology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Gastric cancer (GC) is a major cause of cancer mortality and remains difficult to diagnose early and treat effectively. Although transcriptomic profiling has defined extensive molecular heterogeneity, many studies are not anchored to clinicopathological variables or interpreted in the context of tissue-level pathobiology. We applied an integrative transcriptomic and network-based framework to identify molecular signatures that reflect structural and biochemical reprogramming of gastric tissue during malignant transformation. RNA-seq expression profiles and clinical annotations were analyzed using non-parametric differential expression filtering, functional enrichment, and protein-protein interaction network modeling. Expression patterns were further evaluated across clinicopathological strata (stage, grade, nodal status, and metastasis) and by network-informed clustering. Across clinical strata, GC showed a consistent signature of developmental reactivation and loss of gastric epithelial identity. Developmental regulators, most prominently HOX-cluster genes and the histone variant HIST1H3J, were upregulated, consistent with epigenetic/chromatin reprogramming. In parallel, gastric differentiation and secretory lineage markers (ATP4A, KCNE2, PTF1A, VSTM2A) were persistently downregulated, reflecting suppression of parietal/ductal programs and altered metabolic/secretory function. ADIPOQ demonstrated stage-dependent repression and was associated with poorer survival, supporting a context-dependent prognostic role. Enrichment and network analyses also highlighted FGFR-centered signaling as a dominant oncogenic axis linked to proliferation and invasion. This study identifies a molecular pathology framework in which GC progression involves coordinated chromatin-level developmental reprogramming and sustained loss of gastric differentiation programs, accompanied by FGFR-driven oncogenic signaling and stage-dependent metabolic disruption. These signatures provide candidate diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers and support prioritization of therapeutically actionable pathways in GC.Copyright: © 2026 Mottaghi-Dastjerdi, Soltany-Rezaee-Rad. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511878 is a review article
Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) is a clinically challenging multisystem neuromuscular hereditary disorder, with generational increase in severity and earlier age at onset. It is caused by an unstable cytosine-thymine-guanine repeat expansion at the DMPK locus, accompanied by associated genetic and epigenetic modifications. While somatic mosaicism and meiotic instability are well established, to the best of our knowledge, no study has performed a genome-wide interrogation for global inherited instability. Performing whole-genome optical mapping, with sequence base-resolved structural variant verification, we examine global inherited genomic instability in an atypical paternally transmitted DM1 family presenting with a range of neurological manifestations, including early-onset Parkinson's disease (PD). While the juvenile-onset DM1 proband presented with a 10-fold repeat expansion with associated hypermethylation, her partially hypermethylated asymptomatic protomutation father transmitted a 1.8-fold contracted allele in the younger premutation sibling. Adult-onset symptomatic DM1 and PD phenotypic paternal aunts showed significant genome-wide copy number alteration, including PD-associated chr19 aneuploidy loss, with additional losses on chr16, 17, and 22. In the absence of potentially pathogenic de novo or maternally inherited structural variants, the proband presented with large paternally inherited aberrations impacting gene candidates CASC15, CBFA2T3, GPHN, H3F3A, SDK1, and SPAG16, with advanced global hypomethylation. Here we suggest that inherited genomic instability may contribute to phenotypic variability, including multi-neurological presentations and single-generation repeat expansion or contraction. By providing a landscape of inherited large structural variants, this single-family study expands knowledge of this broad and growing class of diseases. © 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
Glioma prognosis is shaped by molecular markers such as IDH mutation, WHO grade, and MGMT methylation, yet heterogeneity persists within defined subgroups. Sidekick Cell Adhesion Molecule 1 (SDK1), an immunoglobulin superfamily member mediating homophilic adhesion, has been documented in glioma tissue but lacks systematic prognostic evaluation. I assessed SDK1's prognostic value using the Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas (CGGA, N = 503) and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA, N = 572) through multivariate Cox regression, subgroup analyses, differential gene expression, pathway enrichment, ssGSEA-based immune profiling, and molecular subtype association. High SDK1 expression was independently associated with poor overall survival in both cohorts (CGGA: adjusted HR = 1.48, 95% CI 1.16-1.89, p = 0.002; TCGA: HR = 1.76, 95% CI 1.19-2.61, p = 0.005; pooled HR = 1.55, I2 = 0%). Effect estimates varied across subgroups, with significant associations in WHO grade IV and IDH-wildtype strata but not in grade II or older patients. Cross-validated differentially expressed genes were enriched in extracellular matrix organization and focal adhesion pathways. Notably, SDK1 expression showed weak but statistically significant correlations with COL1A1-associated mesenchymal program scores (CGGA: R = 0.12, p = 0.008; TCGA: R = 0.15, p < 0.001) and oncostream-related gene signatures (CGGA: R = 0.16, p < 0.001; TCGA: R = 0.086, p = 0.039), suggesting a modest association with mesenchymal invasion programs. SDK1-high tumors showed elevated M2 macrophage and Treg signatures with upregulated immune checkpoints, though cohort-dependent differences were observed. Multivariate Cox analysis demonstrated that the prognostic significance of SDK1 is independent of tumor mutational burden (TMB), with no significant correlation or interaction observed between them (p > 0.05). SDK1 is a candidate prognostic biomarker in glioma co-occurring with ECM remodeling and immunosuppressive features, warranting experimental validation for clinical translation.
The prevalence of Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is rapidly increasing in India, yet molecular markers that reflect early disease susceptibility remain limited. Epigenetic modifications such as DNA methylation may reflect early metabolic vulnerability preceding overt dysglycemia. In this study, we examined genome-wide DNA methylation patterns in a pilot subset nested within a prospective Indian cohort using Nanopore sequencing and assessed their associations with previously identified metabolite predictors from the same cohort.Genome-wide DNA methylation profiling was performed on buffy-coat DNA from 12 participants who were normoglycemic at baseline and later classified into normoglycemia, prediabetes, or T2DM based on their glycemic status at 6-year follow-up. At baseline, gene-level aggregation of CpG methylation revealed directionally consistent hypermethylation of seven genes (ABCG1, ADARB2, BCL2, DLC1, EGFLAM, SYK, ZNF516) in individuals who later developed T2DM, while those progressing to prediabetes exhibited six hypermethylated (ABCG1, FLT3, LCP1, MBP, NCOA2, TCF7L2) and five hypomethylated genes (ZFHX3, PAX6, PTPRN2, ERC1, HIPK1). ABCG1 showed consistent hypermethylation across both groups. Longitudinal within-individual comparisons identified additional gene-associated methylation changes, including ANK1, IQSEC1, and RUNX1, and shared alterations in CACNA1C, KANSL1, PTPRN2, and TTC34, while six genes showed stage-dependent directional shifts in methylation (ASB3, EFR3A, PCSK5, KLHL14, PDE4C, UNC5C). Correlation analyses at baseline suggested associations between ABCG1 and EGFLAM methylation, fasting glucose, phosphatidylethanolamine [PE (20:3_18:0)] and insulin sensitivity indices.This pilot longitudinal study suggests that gene-associated DNA methylation changes in blood may be detectable prior to the onset of dysglycemia. These findings are exploratory and hypothesis-generating, highlighting candidate genes and epigenetic-metabolic associations for targeted validation in larger, independent cohorts using alternative analytical approaches.© 2026. The Author(s).
Epileptic activity is common throughout the glioma disease course and causes significant morbidity for patients. While its clinical impact on glioma has been analyzed, the underlying biological mechanisms of hyperactivity remain uncharacterized. Herein, the authors characterized the differences in epileptic activity across the disease course of various glioma subtypes based on tumor grade and histopathology. To gain further understanding of potential transcriptional differences between tumor cases presenting with seizures and those with other presentation signs, they analyzed a subset of patients with bulk RNA-sequenced tumors.The authors assessed clinical factors associated with glioma-related epilepsy across gliomas: IDH-wildtype glioblastoma (GBM), IDH-mutant astrocytoma, and IDH-mutant oligodendroglioma. They conducted multivariate Cox regression for survival analysis, incorporating variables known to influence glioma patient survival and seizure status. They also utilized bulk RNA sequencing to assess transcriptional correlates of hyperactivity in a subset of the cohort and conducted multivariate logistic regression for seizure presentation using this subgroup's transcriptional and clinical data.Among 363 gliomas-190 IDH-wildtype GBMs, 113 IDH-mutant astrocytomas, and 60 IDH-mutant oligodendrogliomas-the frequency of seizure as a presenting symptom was assessed. The rate of seizure presentation was significantly lower in IDH-wildtype GBM (30.5%) than in IDH-mutant astrocytoma (56.6%) and IDH-mutant oligodendroglioma (66.7%; p < 0.001) with no difference in seizure at recurrence among the groups. Seizure presentation was associated with smaller-volume tumors and less peritumoral edema in IDH-wildtype GBM (both p < 0.001) and with smaller-volume tumors in IDH-mutant astrocytoma (p = 0.0289). Seizure presentation had lower-grade tumors in IDH-mutant astrocytoma (p = 0.026). When accounting for relevant clinical factors, there was no survival difference between seizure at presentation and seizure at recurrence for any glioma subtype. Transcriptional analysis demonstrated upregulation of pathways related to ion transport and synaptic function in seizure-presenting IDH-wildtype tumors, including specifically IGFN1, RELN, and SLC17A8 (VGLUT3). VGLUT3, a vesicular glutamate transporter, was elevated at a protein level for IDH-wildtype GBM presenting with seizures. A multivariate logistic regression for seizure presentation combining clinical and transcriptional variables demonstrated that temporal location (p = 0.032, OR 3.25), parietal location (p = 0.023, OR 5.44), and SLC17A8 levels (p = 0.019, OR 3.44) were positively predictive of seizure, whereas the presence of edema (p = 0.004, OR -7.57) and ADAMTS2 expression (p = 0.015, OR -3.46) were both negative predictors.In IDH-wildtype GBM, tumors presenting with seizures had smaller volumes than those presenting with other signs. Transcriptionally, seizure presentation in IDH-wildtype GBM correlated with the upregulation of synaptic and ionic pathways, with SLC17A8 holding independent predictive value for seizure presentation.
miR-142-3p is aberrantly expressed in preeclampsia placentas, but its regulatory mechanisms in trophoblasts remain incompletely understood. Given that miRNAs exert biological effects primarily by targeting the 3'UTR of downstream genes, we prioritized potential downstream regulators of miR-142-3p to elucidate its pathogenic mechanism in preeclampsia. This study aims to elucidate how miR-142-3p modulates trophoblast functions and its clinical significance in preeclampsia pathogenesis using integrated bioinformatics and experimental approaches.Public datasets (GSE25906 and GSE10588) and miR-142-3p-related downstream target genes (predicted by the miRWalk database) were retrieved. Differentially expressed genes were identified by WGCNA and machine learning algorithms. RDH13 was identified as a candidate functional mediator of miR-142-3p based on its intersection with miR-142-3p targets, DEGs, and preeclampsia-related module genes. Clinical samples and HTR-8/Svneo cells were used for validation: miR-142-3p mimics/inhibitors and RDH13 siRNA were transfected to construct gain-of-function and loss-of-function models; co-transfection of miR-142-3p inhibitors and RDH13 siRNA was performed to verify the functional dependency. RT-qPCR and WB detected gene/protein expression. Cell apoptosis, invasion, migration, and proliferation were evaluated to clarify the functional roles of miR-142-3p and RDH13 in preeclampsia.Through bioinformatics analysis, HEXB and RDH13 were identified as potential early biomarkers of preeclampsia diagnosis. Clinically, miR-142-3p was upregulated while RDH13 was downregulated in preeclamptic samples. In HTR-8/Svneo cells, miR-142-3p promoted apoptosis and inhibited invasion, migration, and proliferation, whereas RDH13 exerted opposing effects. Rescue experiments confirmed that RDH13 is a functional downstream regulator of miR-142-3p, and the regulatory roles of miR-142-3p were partially mediated by suppressing RDH13 expression-consistent with canonical miRNA-downstream gene regulatory mechanisms. Importantly, these regulatory roles of miR-142-3p were partially mediated by RDH13, which further coordinately regulated the mRNA and protein expression of CDH5, LFA-1, and L-SELECTIN across experimental groups.This study identifies miR-142-3p/RDH13 axis as a potential diagnostic biomarker and a promising candidate target for preeclampsia research. Functional and rescue assays confirm that miR-142-3p negatively regulates RDH13, thereby suppressing trophoblast proliferation, invasion, and migration while promoting apoptosis, revealing a novel preeclampsia-related regulatory mechanism.Copyright © 2026 Shan, Lu, Zhang, Tao, Ma and Fen.
The aim of this study was to gain insight into the molecular spectrum of anophthalmia and microphthalmia (A/M) in the Egyptian population.We studied a cohort of 34 patients from 31 unrelated families affected by the A/M spectrum. All patients underwent a thorough clinical examination, ophthalmological assessment, and genetic testing including conventional karyotyping and exome sequencing (ES).Chromosomal anomalies were identified in six patients. ES was performed on the remaining cases, revealing potentially causative variants in 13 families. The implicated genes were SOX2, OTX2, CHD7, HMX1, PRR12, ATOH7, ZBTB11, B3GALNT2, GCNT2, DPH1, GJA8, FRAS1 and UBE3B. Among the variants, six were classified as pathogenic, five as likely pathogenic, and two as variants of uncertain significance. Notably, a DPH1 pathogenic variant was identified in a patient with bilateral severe microphthalmia, representing a novel phenotype. Additionally, we report the fifth family diagnosed with oculo-auricular syndrome.Our findings confirm that genetic factors are a predominant cause of both syndromic and non-syndromic A/M and underscore the value of ES in uncovering the molecular basis of this spectrum. By reporting novel variants and unusual phenotypes within our cohort, we contribute to expanding both the mutational landscape and the phenotypic spectrum of A/M associated syndromes.Copyright © 2026 Molecular Vision.
Nonsyndromic hearing loss (NSHL) is a highly prevalent, genetically heterogeneous condition, yet its molecular basis in the Singaporean population remains underexplored. We performed whole-exome sequencing and integrative bioinformatics analysis in 115 patients with NSHL to define population-specific genetic biomarkers. A molecular diagnosis was achieved in 57% of cases, with 76% of identified variants classified as pathogenic or likely pathogenic and 24% exhibiting high pathogenic potential. Common East Asian NSHL genes, including GJB2, SLC26A4, and OTOF, were frequently detected alongside less prevalent genes such as ACTG1, CEACAM16, COL11A2, DIAPH1, KCQN4, MYH14, MYO6, MYO7A, MYO15A, SLC17A8, SMPX, STRC, TJP2, TMC1, TMPRSS3, highlighting extensive genetic heterogeneity. Notably, multiple novel variants, including MYO6 c.554-2A>G, and TNC p.N750Y, were identified, expanding the known mutational spectrum of NSHL. Genotype-phenotype correlations revealed that GJB2 variants were primarily associated with mild to moderate hearing loss, whereas SLC26A4 variants correlated with severe to profound phenotypes in the Singaporean populations. Collectively, our study provides important insights into the genetic architecture of NSHL in Singapore's population. In addition, it supports improved molecular diagnosis yield and informed clinical management decisions as well as the advancement of precision medicine approaches aimed at reducing the burden of hearing loss in the region.
While a few studies have reported on single nucleotide polymorphisms associated with glaucoma in the Korean population, comprehensive data on genotype-phenotype correlations across multiple candidate genes are lacking. This study aimed to investigate the associations of variants in 10 candidate genes (CDKN2B, SIX1, SIX6, SCYL1, CHEK2, ATOH7, DCLK1, RERE, CDC7, and CARD10) with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) susceptibility and structural phenotypic features. We employed a 2-stage study design consisting of a discovery phase (targeted sequencing of 100 subjects) and a confirmation phase (genotyping of 24 selected variants in a total cohort of 382 subjects: 160 POAG cases and 222 controls). Associations with POAG risk and structural parameters, including vertical cup-to-disc ratio and retinal nerve fiber layer thickness (RNFLT), were analyzed using multivariable logistic regression and analysis of variance. The Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate method was applied to account for multiple testing. Regarding POAG susceptibility, 3 variants in DCLK1, SIX6, and SCYL1 showed nominal significance in the initial analysis but did not withstand false discovery rate correction. However, regarding phenotypic traits, rs33912345 in SIX6 demonstrated robust significant associations with both increased vertical cup-to-disc ratio and reduced average, superior, temporal and inferior RNFLT. Additionally, rs748189671 in RERE was significantly associated with temporal RNFLT. In detailed clock-hour analysis, variants in DCLK1 and SIX1 also showed significant correlations with 3 o'clock sector of RNFLT. Our findings identify DCLK1, SIX1, SIX6 and RERE as key genetic factors influencing optic nerve morphology and RNFLT in the Korean population. These results suggest that these genes may primarily modulate the structural vulnerability of the optic nerve, highlighting their potential utility for phenotypic profiling of glaucoma in the Korean population. However, these results are exploratory, and further large-scale studies are warranted to validate these associations and elucidate their clinical implications in glaucoma genetics.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
The razor clam Sinonovacula constricta is an economically important cultured mollusk in China, but the molecular mechanism of its gonadal development and sexual differentiation remains unclear. This study integrated gonadal transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic analysis to identify key sex-related molecules. Transcriptome analysis identified 2795 DELs and 6497 DEGs between sexes, including the sex-related genes Fem-1b, Fem-1c, GUCY1B2 and FAT4, as well as a regulatory network of 39 lncRNA-mRNA pairs involving Tektin-4, Ropporin-1, Histone H1, and FoxN4. Proteomic analysis revealed 3217 DEPs: Tektin family members, Ropporin-1 and Tssk proteins were upregulated in the testis, while histone H1 and FAT4 were upregulated in the ovary. Metabolomic analysis detected 409 DEMs, with uridine identified as a potential sex differential marker (upregulated in the ovary), and 23 gonadal development-related DEMs showed sex-specific upregulation. Integrative transcriptome-proteome analysis identified 1543 co-expressed DEGs/DEPs enriched in nucleosome assembly, oxidative phosphorylation, and carbon metabolism, including key sex-related genes AKAP14, Tektin/Tssk families, Histone H1, and FAT4. Transcriptome-metabolome integration identified 32 shared KEGG pathways (e.g., biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids, pyrimidine metabolism), while proteome-metabolome integration revealed 5 (positive ion) and 6 (negative ion) co-enriched pathways, with alanine, aspartate and glutamate metabolism and oxidative phosphorylation being functionally relevant to gonadal development. Collectively, these results reveal the molecular basis of gonadal development, highlight critical sex-related genes and steroid metabolic pathways, and provide valuable resources for future reproduction and breeding in S. constricta.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42527191
To investigate the total circulating exosome transcriptome in animal models of two different CNS pathologic conditions, autoimmune demyelination and traumatic brain injury (TBI).Next generation sequencing (NGS) was used to define the global RNA profile of blood exosomes in the MOG-induced EAE model of autoimmune demyelination and TBI mice model. We analyzed 5 million reads per sample, including a detailed analysis of microRNAs (miRNAs) differentially expressed in EAE versus control mice and versus TBI model.Exosomal RNA NGS revealed 10 different classes of transcripts including miRNA. MiRNA numbers from EAE and TBI mice showed trend to be lower versus control mice. The differentially expressed miRNAs were found in all three sequential EAE time points: early stage post mice immunization (EAEp), peak of disease (EAEa) and recovery (EAEl). The differential expression pattern of miRNA in EAE versus TBI correlated with their involvement in activation or inhibition of immune response. In the early stage of EAE miRNA-335-5p and miRNA-411-5p were upregulated versus TBI. At the peak of disease six miRNAs were most upregulated, miRNA-27a-3p, miRNA-141-3p, miRNA27b-3p, miRNA-195a-5p, miRNA21a-5p and miRNA-99a-5p. The six most upregulated miRNA at the recovery time point of EAE, miRNA-27b-3p, miRNA 141-3p, miRNA 27a-3p, miRNA-127-3p, miRNA-429-3p and let-7b-5p were associated with inhibition of immune response and enhancement of immunoregulation. Interestingly, it was found that similar pattern of downregulated miRNAs versus TBI were present at all three of EAE time points. Bioinformatic analysis of protein genes targeted by the most differentially expressed miRNAs revealed a numbers of proteins involved in neuroinflammation both in EAE and TBI models. In the early phase of EAE, three protein transcripts, Hdac9, Syt7 and NT5c2 serve as an epigenetic switch controlling T cell fate and cytokine production. In recovery of EAE RoRb, a member of ROR nuclear receptor family involved in Th17 cell differentiation was inhibited.These data indicate that different type of CNS pathology, autoimmune demyelination versus TBI is associated with different pattern of miRNA expression in circulating exosomes which may suggest their differential role in these two CNS pathologies.Copyright © 2026 Selmaj, Tinsley, Badaut and Mycko.
Background: Coarctation of the aorta (CoA) is a congenital narrowing of the aortic isthmus near the ductus arteriosus or ligamentum arteriosum. Despite successful anatomical repair, patients remain at risk of recoarctation, arterial hypertension, and diffuse aortopathy, suggesting intrinsic vessel-wall abnormalities beyond localized obstruction. The developmental and molecular basis of these persistent vascular features remains incompletely understood. Methods: Human aortic tissue samples were obtained from 8 male infants with CoA and 6 age- and sex-matched controls aged <1 year. Total RNA was isolated, and gene expression profiling was performed using whole human genome oligo microarrays (Agilent). Differentially expressed transcripts were subjected to pathway, network, and upstream regulator analyses using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA, Qiagen). Selected candidate genes were evaluated by RT-qPCR in independent verification sets. Results: Transcriptomic profiling identified 402 analysis-ready transcripts distinguishing CoA from control tissue. Exploratory pathway analyses suggested extracellular matrix remodeling characterized by collagen turnover, integrin-mediated cell-matrix interactions, wound-healing signaling, and fibrosis-associated programs. In addition, enrichment analyses identified developmental annotations involving retinoic acid (RA)/RAR/RXR signaling, HOX-associated developmental programs, and a shared HOX/MEIS-associated signature. Network and upstream regulator analyses further suggested associations with cytoskeletal, muscle-associated, and epigenetic regulatory pathways, including KAT6A, KAT6B, retinoic acid/RAR/RXR signaling, DNMT3B, KMT2A, and ARID1A. RT-qPCR independently confirmed increased expression of EDN1, AGTR2, IRS4, and TFAP2B.Conclusions: Infantile CoA tissue exhibited molecular signatures consistent with vessel-wall remodeling accompanied by developmental, vascular signaling, and smooth muscle/cytoskeletal regulatory programs. These findings support the hypothesis that developmental patterning signals and postnatal extracellular matrix remodeling coexist within CoA tissue and may contribute to persistent vascular abnormalities beyond anatomical repair. Given the exploratory nature of the study, these observations should be considered hypothesis-generating and require validation in independent cohorts.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive degeneration of midbrain substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons, resulting in striatal dopamine depletion and motor dysfunction. While this pathological cascade is well-established, its underlying mechanisms remain elusive.To further investigate the pathological mechanisms of PD, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing of the midbrain and striatum from Hua-Syn (SNCA*A53T) transgenic (A53T) mice as a PD model.Analysis of 22 865 midbrain and 32 117 striatal cells revealed cell-type-specific risk association. Glial populations (astrocytes, microglia, oligodendrocytes) showed significant enrichment for PD-risk genes. Variance-based clustering identified PD-enriched subclusters exhibiting upregulated inflammatory pathways, apoptotic pathways, proteostasis disruption, glutamatergic signaling dysregulation, and mitochondrial respiratory chain defects. Transcriptional regulation analysis identified genes associated with PD specific activity, including Rorb and Foxc1 in the midbrain and Dbx2 and Klf13 in the striatum. Cell-cell interactions showed that cell-to-cell signaling was enhanced, and the SEMA and CCL neuroinflammatory axes were specifically activated in the PD group.Our integrative analysis delineates the cellular and molecular architecture of the pathological process triggered by the expression of A53T mutant α-synuclein, and provides a framework for targeted therapeutic development.© 2026 The Author(s). Animal Models and Experimental Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Chinese Association for Laboratory Animal Sciences.
To evaluate the clinical characteristics, genomic landscape, and perinatal outcomes of fetal polydactyly using combined copy number variation sequencing (CNV-seq) and trio-exome sequencing (trio-ES).This retrospective cohort study included 44 prenatally confirmed fetuses with polydactyly. Cases were stratified into isolated (n = 21) and non-isolated (n = 23) groups. Polydactyly was further subclassified according to anatomical distribution, laterality, and duplication axis. Genetic etiology was investigated using CNV-seq and trio-ES, and pregnancy outcomes were ascertained through clinical follow-up.The overall genetic diagnostic yield was 36.4% (16/44), comprising aneuploidies (n = 6), one pathogenic CNV and monogenic disorders (n = 9). Causative variants were identified in NEK1, EVC2, BBS4, GLI3, TBX3, MYCN, and KIAA0825, with one incidental finding in PIK3CD. The diagnostic yield was significantly higher in the non-isolated group than in the isolated group (60.9% vs. 9.5%, p < 0.001). Specific anatomical features were associated with markedly increased genetic burden, including concurrent involvement of both upper and lower limbs (100%), bilateral presentation (64.7% vs. 18.5% for unilateral; p < 0.01), and postaxial polydactyly (PAP) compared with preaxial polydactyly (PPD) (65.0% vs. 12.5%; p < 0.001). Pregnancy outcomes differed substantially between phenotypic subgroups, with a live birth rate of 100% in isolated cases versus 34.8% in non-isolated cases (p < 0.001).Fetal polydactyly exhibits profound genetic and phenotypic heterogeneity. Although non-isolated, multi-limb, bilateral, and postaxial presentations are strong predictors of underlying chromosomal or monogenic disorders, apparently isolated cases still carry a clinically relevant genetic risk. The integration of detailed prenatal sonographic phenotyping with CNV-seq and trio-ES improves diagnostic precision, facilitates prognostic assessment, and informs prenatal counseling and long-term postnatal surveillance.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Acrylamide (AA), a widespread environmental and food-borne pollutant, has been classified as a probable human carcinogen. However, its specific role and underlying mechanisms in the progression of prostate cancer (PCa) remain poorly elucidated. This study aims to comprehensively investigate the effect of AA on PCa progression and its molecular mechanisms.Differentially expressed AA-related genes (DEARGs) were identified by intersecting data from the Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD) and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) functional enrichment analyses were performed to reveal biological functions of DEARGs. A prognostic signature was constructed using Lasso regression analysis. The expression and cellular localization of the key genes were analyzed using single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data. Additionally, the effects of glycidamide (GA) on PCa cells malignant phenotypes and tumor growth in vivo were experimentally validated.We identified a total of 165 DEARGs significantly associated with PCa. Functional analysis revealed they mainly enriched in PI3K-Akt and cAMP signaling pathway. The prognostic model constructed from the six DEARGs (CYP11A1, TUBB3, ALB, ESPL1, FOXN4, ISYNA1) demonstrated satisfactory predictive accuracy for biochemical recurrence-free survival (BCRFS) in PCa patients. scRNA-seq analysis delineated the specific expression of six target genes within the tumor microenvironment. It was found that expression of CYP11A1 was downregulated, while expressions of TUBB3, ALB, ESPL1, FOXN4 and ISYNA1 were upregulated after treatment with GA. In vitro and in vivo experiments confirmed that GA significantly enhanced proliferation, migration, invasion of PCa cells and tumor growth. RNA‑sequencing and functional rescue assays further revealed that the MAPK pathway may be a key mechanism by which GA promoted proliferation, invasion, and metastasis of PCa cells.This study successfully identified and validated an AA-related prognostic model to effectively predict BCRFS of PCa. The oncogenic effects of GA are primarily mediated by the activation of specific MAPK signaling pathways, elucidating a key mechanistic basis for its toxicity in PCa.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neural crest cells exhibit axial-level-specific transcriptional programs, yet the regulatory mechanisms underlying their fate decisions remain unclear. Here, we investigate whether differential transcription factor usage governs cardiac neural crest cell identity. Comparing ATAC-seq profiles of cardiac and cranial neural crest revealed open chromatin regions that were both shared and region-specific. Single-cell RNA sequencing further identified putative target genes, including signaling molecules and receptors. We uncovered two adjacent Cxcr4 enhancers: one specific to the cardiac crest containing a TGIF binding site, and another active in both cranial and cardiac crest containing a TFAP2B binding site. Mutating the TFAP2B site abolished cranial, but not cardiac, crest expression. Finally, we show that the cardiac crest-specific Cxcr4 enhancer also drives expression in zebrafish cardiac crest cells, suggesting evolutionary conservation across vertebrates. These findings suggest that transcription factors enriched in distinct neural crest subpopulations may bias cell fate by modulating enhancer activity, shedding light on the regulatory landscape governing neural crest diversity.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a highly aggressive disease associated with a poor prognosis. The present study attempts to discover the potential of esculentoside A (EsA) in inhibiting HCC progression. Cell viability was assessed using the Cell Counting Kit-8 assays. At the same time, stemness and malignant behaviors were evaluated through sphere formation, Western blot (WB), flow cytometry, colony formation assays, and TUNEL. EsA treatment suppressed HCC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and stemness in vitro and tumor growth in vivo. Bioinformatics identified retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor beta (RORB) as a potential target of EsA, and EsA induced RORB expression in HCC cells. EsA also inhibited Wnt signaling activity, as shown by TOP/FOP Flash assays and WB. Knockdown of RORB through lentivirus infection reversed the effects of EsA. At the same time, Wnt pathway inhibitor rescued the promotive role of RORB knockdown in HCC malignant behaviors, suggesting that EsA inhibited HCC progression via the RORB/Wnt axis. RORB expression was reduced and associated with higher Wnt signaling in tumor tissues from patients with HCC, and low RORB expression showed significant correlation with higher TNM staging in HCC patients. This study offers novel insights into the molecular mechanism of EsA in HCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
The human heart remains a central focus of biomedical research, yet capturing early chamber morphogenesis in vitro with structural and functional fidelity remains challenging. Here we show the generation of chamber-like cardiac organoids (CCOs) from human pluripotent stem cells that reproduce key features of heart chamber development. CCO formation is orchestrated by coordinated FGF, WNT, BMP, RA, and AA signaling, and regulated by transcription factors including HAND1, TFAP2B and NR2F2. These CCOs exhibit stable self-organized architectures with myocardial, endothelial layers and inner chamber, displaying spontaneous contraction and calcium transients. Single-cell transcriptomics revealed endothelium-to-cardiomyocyte interactions mediated by WNT2B, suggesting coordinated tissue patterning. We further validated the essential roles of RA and AA in modulating chamber enlargement and stability. Furthermore, CCOs enable efficient evaluation of cardiotoxicity and teratogenicity through direct visualization of drug-induced changes. Together, this platform provides a robust model for studying cardiac development, mechanistic research, and pharmacological screening.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic exposure to mid-band radiofrequency (RF) electromagnetic fields at 3.5 GHz is increasingly relevant to modern wireless environments; however, its effects on hippocampal circuit stability under non-thermal conditions remain unclear. We investigated whether prolonged 3.5-GHz RF exposure is associated with anxiety-like behavior and hippocampal transcript-level changes consistent with excitatory-inhibitory (E/I) imbalance, and whether thymoquinone (TQ) or taurine (TAU) are associated with modulation of these responses.Adult male Wistar rats (n = 28) were assigned to Sham, RF, RF + TQ (20 mg/kg), or RF + TAU (20 mg/kg) groups (n = 7/group). Animals were exposed to a GSM-like 3.5-GHz RF signal (2 W; 2 h/day; 5 days/week; 10 weeks). Anxiety-like behavior and spatial learning were assessed using the Elevated Plus Maze (EPM) and Morris Water Maze (MWM). Hippocampal gene expression (bdnf, creb1, camk2a, th, tph2, gad1, slc17a7) was quantified by RT-qPCR, and histopathology by H&E staining.Dosimetry indicated whole-body SAR of 0.0383 W/kg and brain gray matter SAR of 0.3411 W/kg. RF exposure was associated with reduced open-arm time in the EPM. Expression of slc17a7 increased in the RF group, suggesting a shift toward excitation. Under RF co-exposure conditions, TQ and TAU were associated with changes in slc17a7 expression and with increases in bdnf, creb1, and camk2a, along with inhibitory and monoaminergic markers. RF-exposed hippocampi showed neuronal degeneration, less pronounced in antioxidant-treated groups.Chronic non-thermal 3.5-GHz RF exposure is associated with anxiety-like behavior and a hippocampal molecular-structural profile consistent with E/I imbalance and tissue stress. TQ and TAU were associated with context-dependent changes under RF co-exposure conditions; however, due to the absence of antioxidant-only control groups, independent effects cannot be determined. These findings suggest that synaptic homeostasis may represent a potential target of prolonged mid-band RF exposure.
Homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 2 (HIPK2) can function either as a tumour suppressor or promoter in cancer. Understanding key features of HIPK2 context dependent effects in cancer could lead to novel therapeutic strategies. Our investigation of HIPK2 expression in gastric cancer (GC) showed it to be down regulated.HIPK2 manifested context dependent anti- and pro-tumorigenic effects as demonstrated in GC cell lines SNU638 and NUGC-3 (β-Cateninlow, CD44Hi) and AGS (β-CateninHi, CD44low). The dualistic effects could be plausible due to HIPK2's differential impacts on the Akt-mTOR pathway. The HIPK2 inhibitor TBID further supported this context-dependent regulation of mTOR markers. Gene expression combined with protein-protein interactions analysis was used to identify the HIPK2-NLK-MAPK11 axis linked by their interaction with transcription factor MYB in GC. Validation of the axis was shown by increased NLK and MAPK11 expression in GC cell lines concordant with lower HIPK2 expression. Similarly, HIPK2 ectopically expressing cells showed lower levels of NLK and MAPK11 expression. Combinatorial targeting of HIPK2-NLK/MAPK11 axis with (HIPK2i + NLKi) or (HIPK2i + MAPK11i) resulted in a synergistic effect suppressing GC cell proliferation and mTOR markers. Targeting HIPK2 in combination with NLK or MAPK11 can be a promising strategy to overcome context dependent effects of HIPK2.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Human Cell Society.
Pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 6 (PCH6) is caused by biallelic pathogenic variants in RARS2, encoding mitochondrial arginyl-tRNA synthetase. Although mitochondrial dysfunction is a recognised feature, how RARS2 deficiency disrupts neural lineage development remains unclear.We generated rars2-deficient zebrafish using the clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats/CRISPR-associated protein 9 (CRISPR/Cas9) system and performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) at 48 hours postfertilisation, complemented by immunofluorescence, in situ hybridisation, behavioural assays and ultrastructural analyses. Neural lineage composition, developmental trajectories, intercellular communication and transcriptional programmes were systematically examined.rars2 -/- zebrafish displayed impaired survival, locomotor deficits, early mitochondrial ultrastructural damage and marked disruption of neurogenesis. scRNA-seq revealed reduced neuronal populations and expansion of neural progenitor and glial-like cells. Key neurogenic regulators (neurod4, her6 and pou3f1) were downregulated, whereas glial and stress-associated markers (hmgb1a, fabp7a and foxp1b) were upregulated. Developmental pathways including Notch and non-canonical Wnt were attenuated while extracellular matrix (ECM), adhesion and inflammatory programmes were activated. Additional trajectory-based analyses supported dysregulated lineage progression characterised by glial programme activation and impaired maintenance of neurogenic differentiation.RARS2 deficiency disrupts mitochondrial integrity and reprograms neural lineage development through coordinated suppression of neurogenic transcriptional networks and activation of glial/ECM programmes. These findings provide mechanistic insight into loss-of-function RARS2 deficiency and highlight candidate molecular pathways for future therapeutic investigation.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Occult hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection (OBI) has the same transmission routes and clinical outcomes as overt HBV infection. However, due to the lack of reliable biomarkers, its occurrence and potential clinical harm are often overlooked. We previously found that the prevalence of OBI increases with age among individuals vaccinated at birth, but the transcriptome characteristics of their immune cells remain unknown. In this study, fifteen subjects born between 1987 and 1993 and vaccinated perinatally were recruited. They were divided into OBI, inactive chronic HBsAg carriers (ICHC) and healthy control groups. Blood samples were drawn from each subject for scRNA-seq and subsequent validation studies. The results showed that eleven cell types and nine T-cell subsets were identified, with no significant differences in the proportions of T-cell subsets among the three groups. HIPK2 expression in T cells was downregulated 1.42-fold in the OBI group versus healthy controls (p = 2.01 × 10-69) and upregulated 1.34-fold versus the ICHC infection group (p = 9.95 × 10-61). Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in immune-related pathways were enriched in the OBI group. TP53 plays a central role in HIPK2 function in the context of OBI. Serum HIPK2 levels were significantly lower in the OBI group than in the healthy controls (p = 0.047), but they were also significantly lower than in the ICHC infection group. In conclusion, downregulated HIPK2 expression in T cells is associated with OBI. The functional role of HIPK2 in OBI, including its role as a biomarker to distinguish OBI from a healthy status, warrants further investigation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42500827 is a review article
Phospholipid asymmetry in cellular membranes is maintained by flippases. ATP8A1 and ATP8A2 are the principal flippases of phosphatidylserine (PS) in the mammalian nervous system; however, their specific physiological roles and potential functional redundancy remain incompletely characterized. Here, we show that ATP8A1/ATP8A2 double-knockout mice displayed more severe growth retardation than ATP8A2 knockout mice, indicating that ATP8A1 and ATP8A2 play redundant roles. In hippocampal neurons, ATP8A2 was highly enriched at inhibitory post-synapses. Surface biotinylation assays revealed increased surface GABAA receptor levels of hippocampal neurons deficient for ATP8A1 or ATP8A2. Mechanistically, our data support a model in which ATP8A2, but not ATP8A1, regulates local membrane lipid asymmetry, thereby facilitating dynamin2 recruitment and promoting GABAA receptor endocytosis. Collectively, ATP8A1 and ATP8A2 share overlapping roles in postnatal growth, while they contribute to neural function by modulating inhibitory synaptic transmission through distinct mechanisms.© 2026 The Author(s).
Phosphatidylserine (PS) asymmetry in plasma membranes is critical for cellular functions and serves as an apoptotic signal in many cell types. However, in mature neurons, the molecular mechanisms governing PS distribution, its precise regulation, and its functional significance beyond apoptosis and development remain poorly understood - particularly in the context of neurodegeneration. Here, we mapped the spatiotemporal dynamics of PS exposure in mature hippocampal neurons under physiological and pathological conditions using time-lapse imaging, revealing specific PS externalization hotspots at dendritic branching points. Using multiple in vitro and in vivo neurodegeneration models combined with molecular modeling, RNA interference, pharmacological interventions, and biochemical assays, we identified Atp8a2 as the primary regulator of PS asymmetry in mature neurons beyond its known roles in development. Notably, Atp8a2 expression levels - rather than its flippase activity alone - were essential for maintaining neuronal structural integrity and viability. Atp8a2 expression was significantly altered by neurotoxic stimuli and in multiple mouse models of neurodegeneration. Reduced Atp8a2 expression led to increased PS exposure, compromised neuronal architecture, and heightened susceptibility to degeneration, whereas Atp8a2 overexpression conferred substantial neuroprotection. The distinction between Atp8a2's enzymatic activity and expression level reveals a mechanism of neuronal homeostasis linking PS regulation to structural integrity and survival, possibly through association with cytoskeletal protein networks. Thus, Atp8a2 expression is a critical determinant of mature neuronal viability, presenting a potential target for neuroprotective strategies in neurodegeneration.© 2026. The Author(s).
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is a common and challenging microvascular complication of diabetes. TGF-β1-mediated epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in renal tubular epithelial cells, characterized by loss of epithelial polarity and intercellular adhesion alongside acquisition of a mesenchymal phenotype, is widely recognized as a key driver of DKD. Here, we reveal that renal interstitial fibrosis (RIF) and EMT constitute important pathological foundations for DKD progression, validated in both clinical DKD patients and DKD mouse models. Concurrently, we confirm the elevated expression of homoeotic domain-interacting protein kinase 2 (HIPK2) in DKD, though its regulatory role in EMT remains unclear. We further established a DKD-EMT cellular model by inducing human renal tubular epithelial cells (HK-2) with TGF-β1 combined with high glucose stimulation. Here, we found that inhibiting HIPK2 expression significantly delayed EMT progression and improved RIF in DKD. Thus, our study provides a novel therapeutic strategy for DKD progression and demonstrates that HIPK2 serves as a potential therapeutic target for DKD-EMT.
Background Cognitive symptoms after SARS-CoV-2 infection, often described as "brain fog," remain difficult to measure objectively and are biologically heterogeneous. DNA methylation may provide a stable, blood-accessible layer of information linking post-COVID immune remodeling, biological aging, and neuropsychiatric vulnerability. We re-analyzed GSE247869, a whole-blood Illumina MethylationEPIC dataset from individuals sampled six months after COVID-19 infection, to identify age-associated methylation signals with translational relevance. The present analysis was designed to characterize age-associated methylation within this post-COVID cohort, not to establish a COVID-19-specific signature or biological age acceleration. Methodology This was a cross-sectional analysis of a single post-COVID cohort, with 94 samples included in the age models and no COVID-19-negative comparator included in the analyzed model. Processed beta values were aligned to metadata, converted to M-values, and modeled at each cytosine-phosphate-guanine (CpG) using ordinary least squares with age and sex as predictors. Differentially methylated positions were corrected by Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate (FDR). CpGs were mapped to genes using robust annotation and Illumina manifest fallback. Gene-level signals were integrated using a multi-evidence prioritization score that incorporated statistical strength, effect size, multi-CpG support, direction consistency, known epigenetic-clock membership, and curated pathway membership. Results Within this cohort, the analysis identified 3,467 age-associated CpGs at FDR < 0.05, with an overall hypomethylation bias but focal hypermethylation at canonical aging loci. In total, 11 of 12 reference clock CpGs were recovered, including ELOVL2, FHL2, TRIM59, EDARADD, ASPA, and PDE4C. The strongest exploratory signal was enrichment of glutamatergic/N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) genes, including GRIN1, GRIN2C, GRIN2D, GRM1, GRM5, and SLC17A7. GRIN1 and GRIN2C had high integrated evidence scores and showed age-associated hypermethylation. The prioritized genes mapped interpretively to glutamatergic synapse, calcium signaling, and cAMP signaling pathways, although these complete KEGG pathways were not tested as formal enrichment categories. Conclusions This re-analysis recovered established age-associated CpGs and identified age-associated methylation enrichment near glutamatergic/NMDA genes within this post-COVID cohort. It cannot determine whether these signals are specific to COVID-19 infection, reflect accelerated biological aging, or relate to cognitive symptoms because no COVID-19-negative comparator or symptom-level cognitive phenotyping was included in the present analysis. The glutamatergic finding is hypothesis-generating, particularly because the curated set was small and no independent replication cohort was analyzed. Future longitudinal and case-control studies integrating GRIN1/GRIN2C methylation with cognitive and inflammatory phenotyping are needed. Glutamatergic and calcium-signaling pathways may be evaluated in appropriately designed mechanistic and intervention studies, including but not limited to hypotheses related to the Cheung Glutamatergic Regimen, only after independent validation and careful safety evaluation.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
HIPK2 is a nuclear serine/threonine kinase that regulates development and cellular stress responses including DNA damage response. Previously we have shown that HDAC6 increases HIPK2 protein stability via UBP domain rather than its deacetylase activity. Here, we identify USP2 as a deubiquitinase that stabilizes HIPK2 by complexing to HDAC6 UBP. Overexpression of USP2 increased while its knockdown or chemical inhibition decreased the protein level of HIPK2. USP2 decreased the polyubiquitination of HIPK2, suggesting that USP2 is a HIPK2 deubiquitinase. We found evidence that HDAC6, USP2 and HIPK2 form complex in cells. Importantly, USP2 knockdown or chemical inhibition suppressed the HDAC6-mediated accumulation of HIPK2 protein. This indicates that the HDAC6-mediated HIPK2 regulation is USP2-dependent. Functionally, upregulation of HIPK2 by USP2 promoted the TNFα-induced cell death. Overall, our data suggest that USP2 increases HIPK2 protein stability and enhances its proapoptotic function.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Understanding how the brain processes bodily signals requires mapping the circuits that transform interoceptive information into coordinated responses. Visceral signals converge in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), which coordinates appetite, breathing, cardiovascular reflexes, and digestion. The NTS contains many intermingled subpopulations of neurons, and deciphering their functions requires understanding their connections. Here, we used cell-type-specific tracing to test whether molecularly distinct NTS neurons exhibit unique connectivity patterns. First, we found that Lmx1b-expressing excitatory neurons provide output to a broad array of NTS target regions in both the brainstem and forebrain, while inhibitory neurons in this region project predominantly within the brainstem. Next, we found that several genetically defined excitatory subpopulations-catecholaminergic (Th), neuropeptidergic (Cck, Npff, or Pdyn), and aldosterone-sensitive (Hsd11b2)-exhibit unique output patterns across multiple targets. As examples, the ventrolateral medulla receives moderate Th, Cck, and Pdyn, light Npff, and no Hsd11b2 input. The outer rim of the external lateral parabrachial subnucleus receives concentrated Th, Cck, and Npff input, contrasting a more uniform Pdyn input and a lack of Hsd11b2 input. The subcommissural bed nucleus of the stria terminalis receives broad Th, light Cck, sparse Pdyn, and virtually no Npff input, contrasting the focal Hsd11b2 input to its fusiform subnucleus. These divergent patterns demonstrate that molecular identity predicts connectivity and define the organizational logic by which interoceptive signals are transformed into coordinated autonomic and behavioral responses.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Comparative Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Based on findings from human atherosclerotic arteries and mouse arterial injury models, where ZHX2 expression is significantly downregulated, this study identifies ZHX2 as a critical inhibitor of pathological vascular remodeling. Functionally, local adenoviral overexpression of ZHX2 in vivo attenuates neointima formation in a mouse carotid artery ligation model, while in vitro experiments demonstrate that ZHX2 impedes the proliferation and migration of primary Vascular Smooth Muscle Cells (VSMCs). Mechanistically, integrated RNA-seq and ChIP-seq analyses reveal that ZHX2 transcriptionally regulates GADD45G, directly binding to its promoter and activating its transcription. The essential role of this pathway is confirmed by the finding that knockdown of GADD45G counteracts the inhibitory effects of ZHX2 overexpression on VSMC proliferation, migration, and neointima formation. Consequently, the ZHX2/GADD45G signaling axis is highlighted as a potential regulatory pathway in injury-associated neointimal remodeling.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) can differentiate into various types of central nervous system organoids which are valuable for applications in tissue engineering and injury repair. The secreted extracellular vesicles (EVs) of organoids, in particular the small-sized EV subset referred as exosomes (30-200 nm), have emerged as novel therapeutics in regenerative medicine. This study investigated the encapsulation and controlled release of human spinal cord organoid (hSCO)-derived EVs in viscoelastic hyaluronic acid (HA) hydrogels and assessed their impact on organoid patterning. A series of pH-responsive hydrogels were fabricated, leading to sustained EV release regulated by viscoelastic properties. The pH of these hydrogels decreased from 9 to 7 during incubation, which altered hydrogel viscoelasticity, thereby modulating EV release kinetics. In addition, EV-loaded hydrogels regulated key hSCO patterning markers such as DBX1 and ISL1. Furthermore, these EVs in hydrogels can cross a modeled blood-spinal cord barrier and provide cross-barrier capability for delivery. Taken together, the organoid-secreted EVs in viscoelastic HA hydrogels can be released at a controlled rate and have potential to regulate spinal cord organoid patterning. This study advances our knowledge of regulating intercellular communication and developing EV-based therapies for treating neurological disorders such as spinal cord injury.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42532155 is a review article
Central venous catheters are a major risk factor for Candida albicans vascular infections, which remain challenging to manage. Although antifungal therapy is standard, the host pathways shaping vascular responses-particularly the Notch signaling pathway (NSP)-are not well characterized in this context. In addition, the potential influence of the prostaglandin pathway on vascular NSP-related responses during infection remains unclear. In this study, a rat model of central venous catheter-associated C. albicans infection was used to evaluate microbiological outcomes and vascular NSP-related protein expression. Immunohistochemical analyses were performed to assess Candida immunostaining alongside the expression of Notch receptors (Notch1-3) and ligands (DLL1/4, Jagged1/2) in vascular tissues. Experimental groups included sham, infected control, antifungal-treated (fluconazole, caspofungin, liposomal amphotericin B), and prostaglandin pathway-intervention groups (sulprostone and sulprostone followed by indomethacin). C. albicans infection was associated with higher vascular NSP-related protein expression compared with sham animals. Antifungal-treated groups showed lower NSP-related protein expression, while fungicidal agents were associated with absence of fungal growth in catheter and kidney cultures. In the sulprostone-indomethacin-treated group, NSP-related protein expression levels were lower than those in the sulprostone-treated group despite persistent fungal burden. In conclusion, central venous catheter-associated C. albicans infection was associated with altered vascular NSP-related protein expression. Differences in NSP-related protein expression patterns were observed across antifungal- and prostaglandin pathway-intervention groups. These findings are descriptive and do not allow causal inference but may provide a basis for future studies exploring the role of NSP in vascular responses to C. albicans infection.
Protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 14 (PTPN14) exhibits dual roles in cancer, acting as either a tumor suppressor or oncogene depending on context, while its role in colon adenocarcinoma (COAD) and liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC) remains unclear. Since COAD and LIHC showed high incidence and mortality rates, we investigated PTPN14's prognostic and mechanistic significance in COAD and LIHC. Pan-cancer analysis were performed based on TCGA and GEO database. Clinical validation used IHC staining of 50 COAD and 40 LIHC specimens. In vitro functional assays and in vivo xenograft models assessed PTPN14's impact on proliferation, migration, invasion and tumorigenicity. Mechanistic studies included Co-IP, immunofluorescence, ubiquitination assay and Western blot to evaluate PTPN14-Notch1 interaction and pathway regulation. As a result, pan-cancer analysis identified PTPN14 as prognostic biomarker in COAD and LIHC. Clinical validation confirmed PTPN14 as a prognostic biomarker in COAD and LIHC and associated with survival and TNM stage progression. In vitro experiments revealed knockdown of PTPN14 suppressed the proliferation, migration and invasion of COAD and LIHC cell lines. PTPN14 stabilized Notch1 by competitively binding to prevent FBXW7-mediated ubiquitination, and increasing the expression of Notch1 intracellular domain (Notch1 ICD) and downstream targets (DLL1 and HES1). At last, in vivo experiments revealed knockdown of PTPN14 inhibited xenograft tumor formation in COAD and LIHC cell lines. In conclusion, PTPN14 drives COAD and LIHC progression via Notch signaling stabilization, serving as a prognostic biomarker and potential therapeutic target for COAD and LIHC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Patrolling monocytes (pMos) scavenge debris from vessel walls and mediate antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis, making them attractive cell therapy candidates for cancer, atherosclerosis, and Alzheimer's disease. However, methods to generate pMos for cell therapy are not available. To address this, we developed a 2-step procedure to produce pMos in vitro from murine bone marrow (BM). First, myeloid progenitors were expanded and enriched from BM using cytokines for 4 d. Second, expanded progenitors were differentiated into pMos on delta-like ligand 1 (DLL1)-expressing monolayers for 8 d. We confirmed that in vitro grown pMos expressed the transcription factor Nr4a1 (Nur77) and other canonical pMos surface proteins, and depended on Notch signaling for their development. RNA-sequencing revealed that in vitro pMos expressed hallmark pMos genes, including Cx3cr1, Itgax (CD11c), CD43, Fcγr4, and Cd274 (PD-L1), and their gene signatures clustered closely with in vivo blood and BM pMos. Transcriptomic and phenotypic analyses further demonstrated that in vitro pMos were distinct from classical BM macrophages. Phagocytosis assays demonstrated the function of in vitro pMos in cancer cell uptake. Adoptive transfer studies demonstrated that in vitro pMos persisted within the circulation and lung vasculature during the early post-transfer period compared with BM-derived macrophages, consistent with the vascular-patrolling properties of pMos. Adoptive transfer of pMos reduced lung tumor burden in a metastatic model, supporting an anti-tumoral role for pMos and their ability to mediate immune surveillance in vivo. These findings demonstrate that the DLL1 culture system allows for propagation of functional pMos, enabling studies of pMos biology and their therapeutic potential.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for Leukocyte Biology.
During transit in the genital tract until ejaculation, spermatozoa (SPZ) protein content and spatial distribution are remodeled through the cargo channeled by extracellular vesicles, namely epididymosomes (EpS), and the soluble luminal content. This remodeling confers the maturational competence for fertilization. This study evaluated the expression patterns of Notch components (NOTCH1-4, DLL1, 3 and 4, JAGGED1-2) in the bull genital tract tissues and their respective lumen, and their presence in EVs and SPZ, by immunocytochemistry and western blot. Results evidenced that NOTCH proteins are differentially expressed from the testis to the epididymis, the vas deferens and the accessory glands. In the testis, expression is mainly linked to acrosome biogenesis, while in post-testicular tissues is mainly localized in the adluminal cytoplasm of epithelial cells and the lumen. NOTCH1-3, DLL3 and JAGGED2 are released into the lumen via EVs, namely EpS, and are detected in SPZ of the corresponding genital tract segments. The spatial relationships support a model of region-specific acquisition of NOTCH proteins by SPZ through both testicular and EpS origins, with additional contributions from accessory glands at ejaculation. This prompts the involvement of NOTCH proteins in intercellular communication within the male reproductive tract, leading to SPZ maturation and competence for signaling in the female reproductive tract and during gamete interaction.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Mesenteric ischemia frequently causes bowel necrosis even after recirculation, known as reperfusion injury, and no effective therapy has been validated for preserving the intestine. Adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cell-conditioned medium (MSC-CM), a tissue engineering and regenerative therapy, has been suggested as a feasible acute-phase treatment for organ damages. This study aimed to elucidate the therapeutic effects of MSC-CM on intestinal tissue injuries by ischemia and reperfusion. Mice were categorized into three groups that underwent either 60-min mesenteric artery occlusion (ischemia group), 60-min reperfusion following 60-min occlusion (reperfusion group), or ischemia-reperfusion with the same duration following intravenous administration of 200-µL MSC-CM by retroorbital injection (MSC-CM group). The distal ileum was harvested, and immunofluorescence staining with caspase-3 and LGR5, an intestinal stem cell-specific marker, was performed for evaluating the injury location and type of cells protected by MSC-CM. Moreover, LGR5, Notch1, Jagged 1, Hes1, DLL1, DLL3, and DLL4 mRNA expressions were measured using quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Ischemia extensively damaged the epithelial layer, and reperfusion-induced cellular apoptosis at the epithelial layer. MSC-CM administration was associated with preservation of cells at the crypt base, which were identified as intestinal stem cells using double-immunofluorescence staining. The MSC-CM group demonstrated significantly higher LGR5 expression than the reperfusion and ischemia groups. Similarly, the MSC-CM group exhibited higher Notch1 and Jag1 expressions, whereas the reperfusion group showed a higher Notch1 expression. In conclusion, MSC-CM use was associated with preservation of the intestinal stem cells at the crypt of villi and higher Notch1 and Jag1 expressions.© 2026. The Author(s).
During metamorphic development from larva to adult, insect brains exhibit cell proliferation; however, the molecular mechanisms governing this process remain poorly understood. Employing the lepidopteran insect Helicoverpa armigera (cotton bollworm), an agricultural pest, as a model system, this study demonstrates that the steroid hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E) regulates neural cell proliferation during imaginal brain development by upregulating the expression of SOX12 and DELTA via nuclear receptor EcRA. SOX12 exhibits significantly elevated expression and is localized in the brain during metamorphosis. Overexpression of SOX12-GFP in the H. armigera epidermal cell line (HaEpi) promotes cell proliferation. RNA interference (RNAi)-mediated knockdown of Sox12 in larvae leads to lethality, delayed pupation, impaired imaginal brain development, downregulation of cell proliferation-related genes, and reduced neural cell proliferation in the brain. CRISPR/Cas9 knockout of Sox12 can also impair imaginal brain development and reduce neural cell proliferation in the brain. Sox12 is upregulated by 20E through its nuclear receptor EcRA, which subsequently induces Delta expression to facilitate imaginal brain development during metamorphosis. Notably, Delta knockdown recapitulates the phenotypic effects observed upon Sox12 silencing and knockout. Collectively, these findings establish that the steroid hormone 20E, acting through the EcRA-SOX12-DELTA regulatory axis, drives neural cell proliferation in the developing imaginal brain during insect metamorphosis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a leading cause of heart failure with notable sex differences in susceptibility and progression. Although sarcomere mutations such as cardiac actin ACTC1 p.T126I contribute to familial DCM, the in vivo effects and sex-specific consequences remain unclear. We generated a zebrafish model carrying the orthologous Acta1b p.T126I mutation and conducted longitudinal, sex-stratified analyses of cardiac function, morphology and gene expression. Mutants showed variable onset of cardiac dysfunction, with progressive DCM, pericardial effusion, ventricular dilation, and reduced survival in adults. Female mutants exhibited earlier and sustained diastolic dysfunction, greater cardiac remodeling and significantly lower survival compared to males, revealing pronounced sexual dimorphism. Molecular profiling at a pre-symptomatic stage identified upregulation of nppb, downregulation of hypertrophic transcription factors (gata4, mef2ca), and sex-specific alterations in calcium handling genes (serca2, pln1, slc8a1a) and proteostasis regulators (hsf1, bag3). Older stages demonstrated a variable shift of individuals' gene expression to cardiac remodeling and decompensation. These findings demonstrate that the Acta1b p.T126I mutation drives progressive, sex-specific DCM in zebrafish, highlighting biological sex as a critical modifier of sarcomeric cardiomyopathy progression and targeted therapy development.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552541
The use of rodent models in the study of cardiopulmonary disease is widespread, but comprehensive functional and hemodynamic characterization of the cardiopulmonary system in each rodent is often impractical and may require integration of multimodal measurements. The objective of this study is to evaluate a 0D cardiopulmonary model for simulating mouse-specific physiology and inferring individualized parameters.We developed a 0D model of the cardiopulmonary axis, bounded by the right and left atria, incorporating 13 unknown parameters representing vascular impedance, RV pressure (RVP)-volume dynamics, and tricuspid/pulmonic valve regurgitation. The model fitted RVP and volume data from 28 mice across four surgical conditions, including two scenarios of mechanically induced RVP overload. Sensitivity and identifiability analyses revealed a reduced subset of nine parameters that were structurally and practically identifiable.Optimization of the identifiable parameters adequately reproduced RVP waveforms (r = 0.94 for maximum dP/dt with LOA < 1 mmHg s-1) and volume extrema (r = 0.97 for EDV, r = 0.98 for ESV with LOA for both measurements ~ 5 μL), while one non-physiological case was excluded from the analysis. As expected, mice with RVP overload exhibited elevated inferred Ees, Eed, and RAP. Also, model-inferred Ees was moderately correlated with single-beat estimates of RV contractility (r = 0.68, p < 0.01).This study demonstrates that subject-specific computational modeling enables inference of ventricular function and pulmonary hemodynamics from RV pressure and volume data. This approach provides access to otherwise unmeasurable quantities and lays the groundwork for digital twins to support disease tracking and in silico testing of interventions.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Biomedical Engineering Society.
Resistance exercise (RE) improves strength and muscle mass, with multiple benefits for human health. However, intense RE also induces acute myofibrillar damage. The molecular mechanisms that preserve, mark, degrade, and restore damaged proteins to keep skeletal muscle working under RE are incompletely understood. Based on repeated sampling of human skeletal muscle, we show here that acute, repeated and interrupted RE induce dynamic changes of the protein landscape associated with the sarcomeric cytoskeleton. These changes correlate with changes in phosphorylation indicative of adaptation and deadaptation signaling footprints. Regulation mainly affects the protein network linked to the muscle maintenance protein BAG3, which includes mechanosensory proteins, small heat shock proteins, and a lipid droplet associated protein. All network components exhibit altered phosphorylation and increased cytoskeletal association after damaging RE. Moreover, network components cooperate to recognize strained skeletal muscle structures and mediate their degradation through chaperone-assisted selective autophagy (CASA). Our study thus identifies key regulators of skeletal muscle homeostasis in humans.© 2026. The Author(s).
Erythema elevatum diutinum (EED) is a rare and chronic form of cutaneous vasculitis often associated with systemic diseases including such hematologic malignancies as IgA monoclonal gammopathy, multiple myeloma, and non-Hodgkin lymphoma, as well as such autoimmune disorders and infections human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and streptococcus. Clinically, EED presents as symmetrical red-to-brown papules, plaques, or nodules, primarily on extensor surfaces including the elbows, knees, and hands. These lesions may be asymptomatic or associated with burning, tenderness, or pruritus, and their chronic nature often leads to fibrosis and discoloration over time. Histologically, EED exhibits leukocytoclastic vasculitis associated with neutrophilic infiltration in the upper and mid dermis with sparing of the papillary and periadnexal dermis, fibrin deposition, and progressive dermal changes, including granulation tissue and fibrosis in late-stage lesions. While no cure exists, the first-line treatment is dapsone. Corticosteroids and immunosuppressive agents are employed for resistant cases. Early diagnosis and management are essential, particularly given the condition's potential to signal serious underlying systemic diseases. Although EED lesions may persist for decades, treating theunderlying conditions can influence the disease course, offering a pathway to improved outcomes.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Reconstructing missing image content is especially challenging when the damaged region extends to the image boundary, rendering a portion of the boundary data inaccessible and turning the underlying partial differential equation (PDE) into an ill-posed elliptic Cauchy problem. Classical inpainting methods, whether PDE-driven or data-driven, typically assume that complete boundary information is available and therefore degrade significantly in this setting. In this work we propose a novel hybrid framework that unites the mathematical rigor of iterative regularization with the mesh-free flexibility of Physics-Informed Neural Networks (PINNs). The core idea is threefold. First, we decompose the ill-posed Cauchy problem into a sequence of well-posed mixed boundary-value problems via a relaxed Kozlov-Maz'ya-Fomin (KMF) alternating iteration that switches between Dirichlet and Neumann conditions on the inaccessible boundary. Second, each sub-problem is solved by a dedicated lightweight PINN whose loss function encodes the nonlinear edge-enhancing diffusion (EED) operator, thereby enforcing physical consistency; including anisotropic gradient preservation; without mesh generation or matrix assembly. Third, a Bayesian hyperparameter optimization layer automatically selects the relaxation factor, loss-term weights, and network capacity, eliminating tedious manual tuning and ensuring stable convergence across diverse inpainting scenarios. The proposed method achieves considerable improvement in PSNR over conventional PDE solvers and state-of-the-art deep inpainting models, with the most pronounced gains observed for large or boundary-adjacent damaged regions. These results highlight the untapped potential of coupling physics-based modeling with deep learning for principled, reliable, and fully automated image restoration.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The unequal distribution of resources in society generates social gradients that translate into health inequalities and differential use of health care resources and their costs. Non-medical factors such as employment, income, ethnicity and education impact the prevalence and treatment outcomes of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM); however, there is a scarcity of articles assessing the relationship between health inequalities and the economic costs of treatment. Therefore, we conducted a systematic review of published studies examining the cost differences of treating T2DM across social determinants of health (SDH).We systematically searched MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, EconLit, and NHS EED for original peer-reviewed articles that provided cost differences of treating T2DM by SDH: education, income, employment, residency and ethnicity. We grouped the studies by each SDH and calculated the percentage differences where possible between the lowest and highest ends of the gradient (education, income and employment). Residency was categorised as rural vs. urban and ethnicity as white or general population vs other ethnic minorities.We included 19 articles retrieved internationally from varying healthcare systems. Results were contextualised given the healthcare financing model. In countries with high out-of-pocket expenses, Black and Hispanic ethnic backgrounds and rural residence were associated with lower direct health care and costs likely to be determined by ability to pay rather than clinical need. Indirect costs such as lost productivity due to absenteeism were also lower in unemployed, and lower income groups.There are evident health disparities in the direct and indirect economic consequences of T2DM. The effect of decreased healthcare use and costs on treatment outcomes needs to be further explored to inform policies to ensure healthcare delivery is based on clinical need rather than socio-economic factors.Copyright: © 2026 Alarcón-Yaquetto et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Neural circuit assembly requires precise coordinated interactions between developing neurons and the vasculature; yet, the instructive signals provided by endothelial cells remain largely unknown. Here, we find a vascular-to-neural signaling axis that orchestrates postnatal cerebellar development. Endothelial-specific deletion of the adapter protein Dab1 (Dab1iΔEC) in mice disrupts vascular patterning and uncouples the growth of major cerebellar neuronal populations. We show that endothelial Dab1 in the cerebellum drives secretion of the morphogen Wnt5a, which acts through Frizzled-2 to restrain granule-cell progenitor proliferation and promotes Purkinje cell dendritic maturation. Endothelial Wnt5a deletion phenocopies Dab1iΔEC defects, whereas exogenous Wnt5a restores normal progenitor dynamics in Dab1iΔEC cerebellar slices, demonstrating pathway sufficiency. Functionally, loss of this vascular signal impairs Purkinje cell firing, diminishes parallel-fiber input, reduces synapse formation from both parallel and climbing fibers, and disrupts long-term plasticity. These findings indicate a key instructive role for blood vessels in shaping cerebellar architecture and establishing functional circuit connectivity.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
[This retracts the article DOI: 10.3727/096504017X15143731031009.].© 2026 The Author. Published by Tech Science Press.
The apolipoprotein E ε4 (APOE ε4) allele confers the greatest genetic risk for sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD).To identify APOE ε4-associated metabolic factors related to AD risk and to provide preliminary insights into their biological and nutritional context.We leveraged multi-omics analyses across two independent cohorts to characterize biomarkers associated with AD. The effects of metabolite × APOE ε4 interactions were tested on incident AD and the ε4-specific metabolic signatures were pinpointed. Multimodal analyses were used to test the underlying mechanisms, including neuroimaging, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and PET biomarkers within the A/T/N framework, as well as plasma proteomics combined with bioinformatics enrichment analyses.Across both cohorts, valine emerged as the only metabolite associated with a reduced risk of incident AD specifically among APOE ε4 carriers (P < 0.005). Significant interaction effects between valine and APOE ε4 were detected in both cohorts (P for meta-analyses < 0.005). Higher levels of valine were associated with greater total white matter and posterior cingulate cortex volumes, as well as with lower levels of CSF tau proteins. Higher valine levels also predicted a slower decline in FDG-PET metabolism. No association was found between valine and Aβ. Mediation analyses of plasma proteomic data suggested statistically significant mediation effects involving GFAP, NEFL, and APOE (P < 2 × 10-16).Valine is a metabolite associated with lower AD risk in APOE ε4 carriers, with potential associations with tau pathology, neurodegeneration, and neuroinflammation-related processes. As this was an observational study, causality cannot be inferred.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565948 is a review article
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a genetic disorder predisposing patients to malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNSTs), which represent a leading cause of mortality with poor therapeutic outcomes. Large MPNSTs with NF1 are extremely rare, and only a few clinical reports are published on this disease. We describe a case of giant cervicothoracic MPNST with major vessels encased and present the clinical profiles, radiological findings, operative management, and follow-up data, along with a literature review.A 30-year-old male patient complained of an incidentally discovered painful mass in the right neck that had been progressively enlarging, accompanied by right hand weakness and intrinsic muscle atrophy. Contrast-enhanced MRI revealed a giant tumor closely related with the right brachial plexus and intervertebral foramina of C6-T2. The right subclavian artery and internal jugular vein were tightly encased by the tumor. A multidisciplinary approach incorporating advanced 3D imaging, preoperative vertebral artery embolization, and en bloc resection with vascular reconstruction achieved successful tumor removal while preserving neurological function. The patient received adjuvant radiotherapy and was followed up on the 6th and 12th months postoperatively. There were no complaints or signs of recurrence.The successful long-term outcome provides a valuable template for managing similar high-risk cases, though long-term surveillance remains crucial due to the high recurrence potential of MPNSTs. This report contributes to the limited literature on radical surgical management of NF1-associated MPNSTs and emphasizes the critical balance between oncological control and functional preservation in these challenging cases.© 2026 Yongning, Hongxun, Xiaohai, Kuangwen, Wenbo and Lei.
The development of the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus is protracted over time in comparison with other brain regions such as hippocampal cornus ammoni or neocortex, extending over the first postnatal weeks. During DG postnatal development, neural stem cells (NSCs) will remain to generate the adult neurogenic niche that will sustain granule neuron (GN) production throughout life. NSCs in the DG divide to generate intermediate progenitor cells (IPCs), whose highly regulated dynamics of self-renewal or cell cycle exit decisions still remain poorly understood. Sox5 is a transcription factor (TF) essential for the establishment of adult NSCs, however, its potential role in Sox5 expressing IPCs during DG development remains unexplored. In this study, we demonstrate that conditional loss of Sox5 during embryonic development leads to critical alterations in cell proliferation and survival in IPCs. Specifically, following Sox5 loss, IPCs exhibit a shortening of S-phase duration in late postnatal and juvenile adult stages. Furthermore, these alterations in IPC cell cycle dynamics could be behind the defects in GN differentiation observed in Sox5-defective mice that ultimately leads to subtle morphological changes in DG architecture. Finally, we demonstrate that the additional loss of one Sox6 copy, a closely related TF to Sox5, lead to more profound disruptions in DG morphology than the one observed upon Sox5 loss. Overall, these findings point to a prominent role for Sox5 in combination with Sox6 in IPC cell cycle progression and GN maturation during postnatal DG development.Copyright © 2026 Tirado-Melendro, Li, Medina-Menéndez, Jurado-Angulo, Rodríguez-Martín, García-Redondo, Bilińska and Morales.
Degenerative ocular diseases are among the leading causes of visual impairment worldwide and require innovative therapeutic approaches capable of promoting tissue regeneration. In this context, biomaterial-based cell therapies have emerged as promising alternatives, although challenges remain regarding the maintenance of a supportive microenvironment after transplantation. This study developed and characterized a hybrid biomembrane composed of poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) and decellularized corneal extracellular matrix (dCECM) to provide structural and biochemical support for ocular progenitor cells. PLGA membranes were fabricated and coated with dCECM layers. Their morphological, physicochemical, mechanical, and biocompatibility properties were evaluated. Biocompatibility was assessed using stem cells from the apical papilla (SCAP), periodontal ligament (PDLC), and corneal stroma (CSSC). The capacity of the membranes to preserve ocular progenitor markers (PAX6 and RX) and to exert cytoprotective effects on oxidatively damaged retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells was also investigated. Hybrid PLGA-dCECM membranes exhibited suitable thickness, increased hydrophilicity, improved tensile strength, and enhanced cell adhesion without evidence of chemical incompatibility. SCAP and CSSC maintained high expression of ocular progenitor markers, while co-culture with injured RPE cells reduced LDH release and cell death. The PLGA-dCECM biomembrane showed both structural support and bioactive cues, supporting its potential application in ocular regenerative therapies.© 2026 The Author(s). Macromolecular Bioscience published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNSTs) are aggressive soft tissue sarcomas and the most common cause of disease-associated death for neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) patients. In the context of NF1, MPNSTs develop from benign premalignant precursors and the transition to malignancy is typically accompanied by loss of the polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2), which results in aberrant upregulation of over 1200 genes due to global depletion of histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27me3). Previous studies suggest cells compensate for the loss of this repressive histone mark via hypermethylation of the genome. Here we analyzed genome-wide DNA methylation and the transcriptome in MPNST cell lines and isogenic PRC2-deficient and -proficient CRISPR-engineered immortalized human Schwann cells. In addition to effects of PRC2 status, we also measured the effects of two DNA methyltransferase inhibitors (DNMTi), decitabine and azacitidine. We found that PRC2 status does not affect global DNA methylation or average methylation levels across specific genomic features. Furthermore, decitabine and azacitidine have differential effects on MPNSTs. While both DNMTis hypomethylate the genome, they upregulate different targets. Azacitidine upregulates genes involved in RNA processing pathways and exhibits direct tumor cell cytotoxicity, while decitabine upregulates genes involved in the immune response, has no direct-cell killing effects, and likely suppresses tumor growth in vivo by altering the tumor microenvironment. We show that DNA hypomethylation alone is insufficient to kill MPNST cells, regardless of PRC2 status. Consequently, these findings suggest that DNMT inhibitors should be utilized in combination with other targeted therapies for MPNST patients.© 2026 The Author(s). Genes, Chromosomes and Cancer published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
To describe the demographic characteristics and outpatient and inpatient procedures experienced by pediatric patients with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) in the Unified Health System (SUS).This was an observational and retrospective study using administrative data from the Brazilian Outpatient Information System (SIA/SUS) and Inpatient Information System (SIH/SUS), covering the period from January 2008 to August 2024. Patients with a diagnosis code of ICD Q85.0 before the age of 18 were included. Demographic variables, comorbidities, and procedures were analyzed using a descriptive approach.A total of 3,748 patients with outpatient records and 1,262 inpatient admissions were identified. The mean age was 9.7 years, with a slight male predominance (53%). There was a significant increase in the number of visits over time, especially in the Southeast and South regions. The highest proportion of SUS-recorded pediatric NF1 cases per 10,000 pediatric inhabitants was recorded in the Federal District (4.22) and the lowest in Sergipe (0.10). The most common outpatient procedures were diagnostic, with emphasis on magnetic resonance imaging and cranial tomography. In a hospital setting, 9.5% of hospitalizations required intensive care. In the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), lethality rate varied from 0 to 4.4%.Although rare, NF1 represents a high-complexity condition within SUS, with a substantial demand for specialized resources, particularly among pediatric patients. The high frequency of comorbidities and frequent need for ICU admissions highlight the clinical and healthcare burden of the disease. These findings underscore the need for public health strategies to promote early diagnosis, improve health information systems, and expand access to specialized care centers in order to reduce regional disparities and enhance comprehensive care for patients with NF1.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
Glioblastoma (GBM) remains one of the most lethal human malignancies, yet extraneural metastases are exceptionally rare and poorly understood. Standard treatment-surgical resection followed by chemoradiotherapy-offers only modest survival benefits, and therapeutic options for metastatic GBM are limited. Here, we describe a rare clinical case of metastatic GBM and provide comprehensive molecular characterization alongside a potential targeted treatment strategy. The tumor exhibited several molecular features associated with aggressive behavior, including alterations in the tumor suppressor genes NF1, TP53, PTEN, and RB1, a mesenchymal DNA‑methylation subclass, and activation of the MAPK signaling pathway. To functionally evaluate therapeutic vulnerabilities, we developed tumor models using patient‑derived GBM cells and their assembloids with cerebral organoids that recapitulate patient‑specific tumor biology and the human brain microenvironment. We identified the MEK inhibitor trametinib as a promising candidate capable of selectively reducing viability and invasion of highly aggressive, stem‑like GBM cells within our personalized patient-derived tumor avatars. This work highlights the proof-of-concept evidence that MEK pathway inhibition may represent a potential therapeutic vulnerability to counteract rapid tumor spread and improve responsiveness to temzolomide in this individual metastatic GBM case. Study underscores the need for continued research to advance targeted, multi‑modal therapeutic approaches for GBM.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301607
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a rare, genetically determined condition characterised by clinical variability, diagnostic uncertainty, and the need for long-term, multidisciplinary care. In this context, patients' experiences are shaped not only by biomedical factors but also by interactions with healthcare professionals. This study explores how adults with NF1 define the characteristics of a "good doctor" based on their experiences within healthcare systems. A qualitative study was conducted using semi-structured, in-depth interviews with 93 adults diagnosed with NF1. An interpretive qualitative approach was adopted, and the data were analysed using Reflexive Thematic Analysis to examine how patients' expectations toward physicians are formed in the context of ongoing care. Participants' accounts revealed that the "good doctor" is understood as a context-dependent concept shaped by patients' experiences rather than a fixed set of clinical competencies. While medical expertise was considered important, participants emphasised communication, empathy, and acknowledgement of patients' perspectives and experiences. Experiences of delayed diagnosis, fragmented care, and inconsistent information were found to shape expectations toward physicians and influence trust in the healthcare system. Negative interactions, including dismissal of symptoms or lack of understanding, contributed to disengagement from care, whereas respectful, partnership-based relationships supported better coping with the condition. Patients' expectations toward physicians are shaped by their long-term experiences of living with NF1 and navigating healthcare systems. The findings highlight the importance of integrating clinical expertise with patient-centred communication and coordinated care. Strengthening these aspects may improve patient trust, engagement, and overall quality of care in rare genetic conditions.© 2026. The Author(s).
Tethered cord syndrome (TCS) is a neurodevelopmental disorder associated with neural tube defects (NTD), yet its genetic underpinnings remain poorly characterized. To elucidate its molecular basis, we conducted whole-exome sequencing (WES) on 81 TCS patients. Our analysis revealed that MNX1 variants, including two microdeletions and a deleterious missense variant, accounted for 3.7% (3/81) of cases in this cohort. Furthermore, gene-based collapsing analysis against 5,000 healthy controls revealed eight genes significantly enriched for loss of function variants and nine genes with an excess burden of damaging missense variants in TCS patients. Additionally, TCS patients exhibited a significantly higher burden of damaging missense variants in NTD-related genes. We also identified a trigenic variant combination (AFDN/PCSK5/PRICKLE4) exclusively in TCS patients, suggesting potential oligogenic inheritance in TCS. Collectively, our findings expand the genetic architecture of TCS, highlight novel pathogenic mechanisms, and provide insights for future clinical surveillance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
DLL4-NOTCH1 signaling mediates juxtacrine communication between tip- and stalk-like endothelial cells during vascular sprouting, contributing to complementary aspects of endothelial function. Thus, simultaneous modulation of DLL4 and NOTCH1 may provide a strategy to broadly interfere with the endothelial functions involved in tumor angiogenesis. Accordingly, this study aimed to identify a novel natural compound capable of modulating DLL4-NOTCH1-mediated endothelial communication and to investigate how such modulation influences tumor angiogenesis and growth.We screened 66 natural compounds to identify those that suppress DLL4 and NOTCH1 signaling in endothelial cells. Using a dual-reporter system that combines a DLL4 promoter-driven reporter and a CSL luciferase reporter, we simultaneously assessed ligand-associated activity and downstream transcriptional output of the DLL4-NOTCH1 axis. We confirmed VEGF-induced target gene expression via Western blotting and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. We further performed in vitro angiogenesis assays and in vivo Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC) allograft tumor experiments.Among the 66 screened natural compounds, para-coumaric acid (p-CA) dose-dependently suppressed DLL4 transcription and NOTCH1 signaling activity in endothelial cells, with IC50 values of 4.57 and 8.34 µm, respectively. Furthermore, p-CA significantly suppressed VEGF-induced endothelial cell proliferation, migration, and tube formation. In the LLC allograft model, p-CA treatment suppressed tumor growth and vascular density, increased pericyte coverage, reduced tumor hypoxia, and enhanced CD3+ T-cell infiltration and tumor cell apoptosis.In summary, p-CA is a natural compound that functionally suppresses VEGF-driven DLL4-NOTCH1 signaling in endothelial cells, exhibiting strong anti-angiogenic effects and promoting functional vascular normalization, resulting in marked tumor suppression and enhanced antitumor immunity in vivo. These findings suggest that p-CA warrants further investigation as an anti-angiogenic compound for cancer therapy.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Tumor-induced manipulations of myelomonocytic differentiation have been widely reported. Here, we describe the elicitation of a tumor-supportive cell type in a T lymphoma model in mice. We observed that the development of T lymphoma coincided with the appearance of a lymphoma-associated monocytic cell type (LAM) of host origin accompanied by a diminished dendritic cell (DC) population. RNA-sequencing and cytometric analyses revealed that LAMs shared markers with both DCs and with resident macrophages, most closely resembling monocyte-derived DCs (moDCs). The numbers of T lymphoma cells were negatively affected by reducing LAMs suggesting a helper function of LAMs for tumor growth. LAMs expressed Notch ligands, and treatments of lymphoma-carrying mice with Notch signaling-inhibitors LY3039478 and DAPT selectively decreased expansions of T lymphomas with or without Notch1 mutations, respectively. Mature LAMs did not proliferate in the periphery. Instead, their expansion resulted from altered myelomonocytic differentiation in the bone marrows of lymphoma-carrying mice with increases in common monocyte/DC precursors but with reduced granulocyte, monocyte and DC precursor populations. These data suggest that developing T lymphomas are capable of reprogramming monocyte/DC differentiation to increase the numbers of a tumor-promoting DC type, attract it to tumor locations and may engage in Notch ligand-dependent signaling to support lymphoma survival.
Substance use disorders (SUD) involving ketamine, cocaine, and alcohol present significant clinical challenges, often characterized by high relapse rates and limited pharmacological options. This case report details a 30-year-old male with a five-year history of severe polysubstance dependence, including daily intranasal ketamine use (2-3 g/day), cocaine, and alcohol, comorbid with recurrent depressive disorder. Despite conventional psychiatric treatment, the patient experienced severe cravings and sought ibogaine-assisted treatment. The patient underwent a structured 13-day residential program in Mexico, receiving an 800 mg ibogaine HCl flood dose (10.1 mg/kg), followed by two supplementary booster doses of 300 mg (3.8 mg/kg) under continuous medical and ECG monitoring. Following treatment, the patient reported an immediate cessation of cravings for all substances. Over approximately 17 months of follow-up including a medically supervised fractionated ibogaine intervention approximately 11 months after the initial treatment, serial toxicology and psychometric assessments were consistent with continued abstinence from ketamine, cocaine, alcohol and other previously misused substances, and significant improvements in depression (PHQ-9: 0-3), anxiety, and quality of life (WHOQOL-BREF: 55 to 71). This report represents the first longitudinally documented case of sustained abstinence in severe ketamine use disorder following ibogaine treatment, supported by serial toxicology and standardized psychometric outcomes. It adds objective, time-resolved evidence to a literature that has largely focused on ibogaine for opioid use disorder, and it highlights ketamine use disorder as a specific target for future controlled trials. The therapeutic outcome is hypothesized to arise from ibogaine's unique polypharmacology. This includes acute NMDA antagonism, which may disrupt compulsive circuits, as well as noribogaine's (the principal long-acting metabolite of ibogaine, with an elimination half-life of approximately 28-49 hours) kappa opioid receptor agonism and serotonin transporter inhibition, which stabilize reward pathways. Additionally, enhanced neuroplasticity via GDNF/BDNF expression may facilitate long-term behavioral changes. This case provides rare, rigorously documented evidence for ibogaine's potential in treating chronic ketamine dependence and highlights the urgent need for controlled clinical trials within regulated frameworks to further investigate its safety and efficacy.Copyright © 2026 Pérez Rosal, Faber and Backmund.
Effective treatments for post-stroke spasticity (PSS) remain limited, and the mechanism by which scalp acupuncture combined with exercise (SAE) alleviates PSS is not fully understood. This study investigated the effects of SAE in rats with PSS and explored whether SAE regulates synaptic plasticity through the PI3K/Akt pathway. A middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) rat model was established, and rats were randomly assigned to five groups: Blank, Sham, MCAO, SAE, and Baclofen. All interventions were administered for 7 consecutive days. Neurological function, cerebral infarct volume, histopathology, synaptic ultrastructure, and related protein expression were then evaluated. Compared with the MCAO group, SAE improved neurological deficits, reduced muscle hypertonia, decreased infarct volume, alleviated neuronal injury, increased synapse number, and improved synaptic morphology. SAE also upregulated glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), phosphorylated PI3K (p-PI3K), phosphorylated Akt (p-AKT), and synaptic proteins, including synaptophysin (SYN), postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD-95), and growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43). Immunofluorescence staining further suggested enhanced expression of SYN and p-Akt in the motor cortex after SAE treatment. These findings suggest that SAE may be correlated with the activation of PI3K/Akt signaling via upregulation of GDNF, thereby improving synaptic plasticity and alleviating PSS symptoms. This study investigated the effects of SAE in rats with PSS and explored the potential association between SAE intervention, PI3K/Akt pathway activity, and synaptic plasticity.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42545144 is a review article
Schizophrenia often features low-grade neuroinflammation. Because latent toxoplasmosis (LT) is more prevalent among individuals with schizophrenia, we tested whether LT yields a biomarker pattern resembling that reported in schizophrenia. We quantified 15 cytokines and 15 blood markers of brain injury in 65 LT-positive individuals and 103 matched LT-negative controls using multiplex immunoassays. Multivariate effects of infection, age, sex, and their interaction were assessed by MANCOVA and PERMANOVA. Effects on individual biomarkers were tested by partial Kendall correlation (controlling for age and sex). Differences in the internal correlation structure were evaluated with Mantel tests on dissimilarity matrices derived from partial correlations. LT was associated with higher KLK6, S100B, and TDP-43, and lower MIF; several other markers showed nonsignificant but sizable trends. Cytokines showed reduced IFN-γ, IL-1β, and MCP-1, and elevated IL-13 and IL-17 in the infected group. Sex-stratified analyses suggested stronger effects on brain-injury markers in women and on cytokines in men. Correlation structure also diverged: infected individuals exhibited more negative links between brain-injury markers and cytokines, whereas controls showed predominantly positive associations (Mantel r = 0.461, p = 0.043). The LT profile overlapped with schizophrenia in elevated KLK6 and S100B and, in men, reduced GDNF, but contrasted for MIF and for the overall cytokine pattern (no consistent IL-6/TNF-α elevation). LT entails neuroinflammatory and neuroimmune alterations that only partly recapitulate schizophrenia; the biomarker pattern and interrelationships differ, arguing against LT as the main driver of schizophrenia-related neuroinflammation.
This study aimed to investigate the mechanism by which Xinfeng Capsules(XFC), a traditional Chinese medicine preparation, ameliorates interstitial lung disease(ILD) in adjuvant arthritis(AA) model rats. It exerts the effect by regulating the adsorption of microRNA155(miR155) by metastasis-associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1(MALAT1), thereby ameliorating the abnormal expression of miR155 and subsequently modulating the neurogenic locus Notch homolog protein(Notch)-recombination signal binding protein for immunoglobulin kappa J region(RBP-Jκ) signaling pathway. An AA rat model was established, and after intragastric administration of XFC, pharmacodynamic evaluation was conducted on rats in each group, including arthritis index scoring, paw swelling measurement, pulmonary function test, and histopathological examinations of lung tissue and ankle joint synovium. ELISA was used to detect the levels of related inflammatory cytokines. RT-qPCR was performed to determine the expression levels of long non-coding RNA(lncRNA) MALAT1, miR155 and genes related to the Notch-RBP-Jκ signaling pathway, while Western blot was applied to examine the protein expression of ETS transcription factor-1(ETS-1) and RBP-Jκ. The results showed that, compared with the model group, XFC significantly improved pulmonary function, alleviated paw swelling, and inhibited fibrous hyperplasia and inflammatory cell infiltration in synovial and lung tissue of AA rats. It also reduced the serum levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin-1β(IL-1β) and interleukin-6(IL-6), thereby alleviating the systemic inflammatory responses. In addition, XFC ameliorated the aberrant expression of lncRNA MALAT1 and miR155, inhibited the transcription of Notch homolog 1(Notch1), Jagged canonical Notch ligand 1(Jagged1), nuclear factor of activated T cells cytoplasmic 1(NFATC1) and interferon regulatory factor 8(IRF8), and further promoted the protein expression of ETS-1 while suppressing RBP-Jκ protein expression. In summary, XFC may exert its effects by enhancing the roles of lncRNA MALAT1 as a molecular sponge to adsorb miR155, thereby inhibiting the aberrant expression of miR155, which in turn modulates the overactivation and transcription of the Notch-RBP-Jκ signaling pathway, suppresses the articular inflammatory response and ameliorates ILD lesions in AA rats.
This study aimed to explore the mechanism by which psoralen regulates the neurogenic gene homologous protein(Notch)/zinc-finger transcription factors(Snail) pathway to inhibit liver metastasis of colorectal cancer. SW480 cells were allocated into a blank control group, low-, medium-, and high-concentration psoralen groups, and a high-concentration psoralen + Notch activator(Jagged1) group. The cell migration, invasion, mRNA levels of matrix metalloproteinase(MMP)-2, MMP-9, epithelial cadherin(E-cadherin), neural cadherin(N-cadherin), and protein levels of Notch1 and Snail were measured. Mice were assigned into a normal group, a model group, low-, medium-, and high-dose psoralen groups, a 5-fluorouracil(5-FU) group, and a high-dose psoralen + Jagged1 group, with 12 mice in each group. Liver metastasis in mice was examined via in vivo imaging. The liver weight, number of surface nodules, liver tissue pathology, and the above mRNA and protein levels were examined. The safety of psoralen was evaluated. The results showed that compared with the blank control group, psoralen decreased the scratch healing rate, number of invasive cells, mRNA levels of MMP-2, MMP-9, and N-cadherin, and protein levels of Notch1 and Snail, while increasing the mRNA level of E-cadherin in a concentration-dependent manner. In animal experiments, compared with the model group, the low-, medium-, and high-dose psoralen groups and the 5-FU group showed alleviated pathological damage in the liver tissue, reduced region of interest(ROI) values of liver fluorescence area, liver weight, number of surface nodules, mRNA levels of MMP-2, MMP-9, and N-cadherin, and protein levels of Notch1 and Snail but increased mRNA level of E-cadherin. Moreover, psoralen functioned in a dose-dependent manner. Jagged1 reversed the inhibitory effect of high-dose psoralen on liver metastasis of colorectal cancer in mice. Psoralen did not cause significant toxicity to hematopoietic, liver, or kidney functions at the tested doses. In conclusion, psoralen may inhibit liver metastasis of colorectal cancer by suppressing the Notch/Snail pathway.
Although cullin-family E3 ubiquitin ligases regulate diverse oncogenic pathways, the role of CACUL1 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains poorly characterized.We performed pan-cancer expression and survival analysis using TCGA and GEO databases, validated findings through immunohistochemistry, and conducted functional studies in HCC cell lines using CRISPR-mediated CACUL1 knockout. Transcriptome sequencing, functional assays (CCK-8, wound-healing, transwell invasion), and single-cell RNA-sequencing were performed to elucidate mechanisms.Pan-cancer analysis identified CACUL1 overexpression in HCC and gastric cancer (P < 0.001), with prognostic significance in 16 tumor types, including HCC (log-rank P < 0.01). CACUL1 expression independently predicted poor HCC prognosis (multivariable Cox, P < 0.05) and correlated with advanced clinicopathological features and reduced immune checkpoint expression. CACUL1 knockout inhibited HCC cell proliferation and migration but not invasion, with transcriptomic analysis revealing PI3K/AKT signaling pathway enrichment. Co-culture experiments demonstrated that CACUL1 promotes M2 macrophage polarization through Notch1 suppression, with pharmacological Notch inhibition phenocopying this effect.CACUL1 functions as a dual-axis oncogenic driver in HCC through enhanced tumor cell proliferation associated with PI3K/AKT signaling and immune evasion via Notch1-dependent macrophage polarization, positioning it as a candidate prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Tan, Wang and Kong.
Stem cell based approaches are increasingly studied as models for understanding neurodegenerative diseases. Despite progress, a unified mechanistic understanding of human iPSCs to neural commitment remains incomplete, due to variability in methodologies and experimental conditions, highlighting the need for a more standardized mechanistic framework. This study investigates the transcriptional landscape and regulatory mechanisms underlying the differentiation of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) towards neural commitment using three orthogonal methodologies across four scRNA seq datasets. In brief, each dataset was processed through a standard Seurat pipeline followed by identification of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) via the Wilcoxon rank-sum test. The significant transcription factors (TFs) were cross validated against the human TF catalogue and ranked accordingly. We identified 15 TFs up-regulated across datasets, and 54 TFs upregulated in three out of four datasets. Among these, ASCL1 emerged as the top candidate. The downregulation of LIN28A and SOX2 is consistent with silencing of the pluripotency network. The second part of the study involved the construction of a co -expression network through a consensus of the four datasets. The network yielded 24 co-expression modules which prioritised hub transcription factors of neural commitment. Module trait correlations were computed with WGCNA, identifying NCAM1 module as top hub. RTN regulon interference and master regulator analysis was applied as a third analysis method. The intersection resulted in identification of LCOR, MEIS3 and EBF1 as the top intramodular hub genes regulators. Current study offers a comprehensive map of key transcriptional dynamics and regulatory nodes involved in iPSC-to-NSC differentiation. This study offers insights into neural development and identifies prioritised candidates for experimental follow-up.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) hold promise for spinal cord injury (SCI) repair, yet their limited neuronal conversion efficiency restricts therapeutic outcomes. Therefore, this study investigated the role of En2 in regulating the neuronal differentiation of BMSCs and its therapeutic potential in SCI. Here, we demonstrate that Engrailed 2 (En2) markedly enhances the neuronal differentiation of BMSCs and promotes functional recovery after SCI. En2 overexpression increases TUJ1⁺ and MAP2⁺ neuronal populations in vitro, while transcription factor prediction and experimental validation identify ASCL1 as a key downstream target. Silencing ASCL1 significantly impairs En2-induced neuronal differentiation and reduces nuclear β-catenin levels, indicating that En2 regulates BMSC neurogenesis through the ASCL1/β-catenin axis. In vivo, En2-overexpressing BMSCs delivered via HAMA hydrogel survive, differentiate into neurons, improve tissue preservation, and enhance locomotor recovery in rats with SCI, as confirmed by histology, immunofluorescence, BBB scoring, and CatWalk analysis. These findings reveal a previously unrecognized regulatory mechanism whereby En2 drives the neuronal commitment of BMSCs and highlight a promising gene-enhanced stem cell strategy for spinal cord injury repair.
Peripheral nerve injuries often result in prolonged skeletal muscle denervation, leading to progressive atrophy, fibrosis, neuromuscular instability, and loss of regenerative capacity before axons can reinnervate distal targets. Here, we developed a non-viral strategy using tissue nanotransfection (TNT) to deliver the neurogenic transcription factor cocktail Ascl1 , Brn2 , and Myt1l ( ABM ) directly to denervated skeletal muscle. In vitro , ABM -transfected myoblasts sustained expression of the reprogramming factors, acquired neuron-like morphologies, upregulated neuronal markers including Tuj1, Map2, and Syp, and exhibited electrophysiological properties consistent with membrane excitability. RNA sequencing confirmed broad activation of neurogenic transcriptional programs, with enrichment of pathways associated with neuronal fate commitment, neuron differentiation, axon guidance, synaptogenesis, and developmental signaling. In a mouse model of sciatic nerve transection, TNT enabled localized ABM expression in denervated gastrocnemius muscle. ABM -TNT treatment accelerated resolution of denervation-associated fibrillation potentials and showed trends toward improved twitch and tetanic torque, compound muscle action potential amplitudes, and muscle mass preservation. Transcriptomic profiling of treated muscles 5 weeks after injury revealed distinct gene expression programs enriched for muscle regeneration, neuromuscular organization, trophic support, extracellular matrix remodeling, angiogenesis, myogenesis, and metabolic adaptation. Network analyses further identified activation of neurogenic regulators, neurotrophic signaling, and vascular-support pathways. These findings establish TNT-mediated ABM delivery as a non-viral platform for inducing neurogenic and myoprotective programs in denervated muscle, suggesting a potential strategy to preserve muscle viability during the prolonged interval required for peripheral nerve regeneration.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is among the highest incidence malignancies in men, with high rates of inevitable resistance development, relapse, and mortality. Castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) continued to pose substantial therapeutic challenges, highlighting the urgent need for effective treatment options. This study assessed the marine cembranoid sarcophine activity against the progression and recurrence of the metastatic CRPC (mCRPC) in mouse xenograft models. Protein and phosphorylation levels were assessed by immunoblotting and mRNA expression by qPCR and RNA sequencing. The in vivo efficacy was evaluated through tumor progression over 3 weeks followed by primary tumor excision and recurrence monitoring over an 8-week course. Sarcophine significantly reduced the mCRPC CWR-R1ca tumor volume by 74.1% and suppressed the epigenetic regulators EZH2 and SMYD2; lineage plasticity factors ASCL1 and BRN2; Wnt/stemness signaling markers β-catenin and LGR6; AKT total expression and activation; and invasion-associated proteins TRPC4 and MMP2 in primary tumors. Sarcophine effectively prevented the mCRPC locoregional recurrence, as well as lung and spleen distant recurrences, and effectively reduced recurrence in other organs. Transcriptomics-RNA-Seq analysis of primary tumors identified 2697 downregulated and 3534 upregulated genes, indicating broad transcriptional reprogramming following sarcophine treatments. These findings demonstrate coordinated suppression of multi-oncogenic pathways and validate the therapeutic potential of sarcophine to control mCRPC.
Cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury (CIRI) usually has a high mortality and disability rate, and inflammatory stimulation is an important risk factor for CIRI. ISL LIM Homeobox 1 (ISL1) is involved in the regulation of inflammatory response, and its role in CIRI progression has not been reported. Here, we established an animal model of transient middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion (tMCAO/R) and found that ISL1 was up-regulated in the peri-infarct cortex of tMCAO/R mice (log2FC = 4.7, adj. p < 0.01) and improved neurological dysfunction and reduced infarct size. At the same time, we found that ISL1 suppressed the expression of proinflammatory markers in the peri-infarct cortex. Consistently, in an oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R)-induced microglial HMC3 cell model, ISL1 overexpression significantly curtailed the inflammatory response, as evidenced by reduced iNOS and CD16/32 expression. Mechanistically, dual-luciferase and ChIP assays confirmed that ISL1 promotes the transcriptional activation of Stanniocalcin 1 (STC1) by enhancing H3K4me3 enrichment at its promoter region. Furthermore, GST pull-down analyses suggested that this transcriptional regulation is likely mediated through the physical interaction between ISL1 and WDR5, which may recruit the MLL complex to facilitate H3K4me3 deposition. Collectively, our findings indicate that the ISL1-WDR5-H3K4me3 axis contributes to the upregulation of STC1, thereby attenuating neuroinflammation and CIRI-induced brain injury.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Although olfactory dysfunction (OD) is common worldwide, there is insufficient information about its pathophysiology and treatment. Alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (α-MSH) has anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective properties and has been suggested to promote neurogenesis. This study investigated whether α-MSH improves regeneration, inflammatory responses, trophic factor expression, and olfactory behavior in a rat model of intranasal zinc sulfate (ZnSO4) induced peripheral OD. Therefore, male Sprague Dawley rats were assigned to Control, OD, α-MSH, and OD+α-MSH groups and evaluated at days 4 and 21. Olfactory function was assessed using buried food and odor discrimination tests at baseline, after induction, and before euthanasia. Olfactory epithelium (OE) thickness and immunoreactivity for ASCL1, GAP-43, OMP, NGF, BDNF, TNF-α, and IL-10 were analyzed in the OE, olfactory bulb (OB), subventricular zone (SVZ), and hippocampal subgranular zone (SGZ), together with SVZ and SGZ neurogenesis markers (Nestin, ASCL1, DCX, NeuN). ZnSO4 caused a marked reduction in OE thickness and OMP positivity, with increased ASCL1 and GAP-43 at both time points, confirming injury induced regeneration. α-MSH produced limited histological recovery at day 4 but promoted partial restoration of OE thickness and OMP immunoreactivity by day 21 and improved olfactory performance. SVZ neurogenesis markers were unchanged. In the OB, OD increased NeuN + cells, while α-MSH normalized NeuN and partially restored TNF-α and IL-10 expression by day 21. In the SGZ, α-MSH decreased ASCL1+ cells at day 21 without altering other markers. These findings indicate that α-MSH promotes recovery by modulating inflammation and epithelial maturation. It shows promise as a treatment for impaired olfaction.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Human carcinomas often gain aggressive characteristics and escape cell-type specific treatment regimens through cryptic shifts in lineage states. However, the underlying mechanisms that govern lineage plasticity in carcinomas are undefined. Here in this study, we found that PAX5, a neural/lymphatic transcription factor, contributed to neuroendocrine (NE) lineage transition. PAX5 was highly expressed in aggressive human NE carcinoma cells and tissues but not in non-NE cancer cells and tissues. Deletion of Pax5 in Rb1fl/fl;Trp53fl/fl mice caused a reduction of tumor vessels, loss of NE morphologic features and decreased expression of ASCL1, NCAM, and SYP, whereas ectopic expression of PAX5 in CC10-rtTA;TetO-hEGFRex19del/T790M mice adenocarcinomas and in LNCAP prostate cancer xenografts induces an angiogenic microenvironment and NE morphology. Importantly, antiangiogenic drugs reduced NE features of Rb1fl/fl;Trp53fl/fl tumors and blocked PAX5-induced NE transformation. These studies demonstrate an essential role of angiogenic microenvironment in transition/maintenance of NE lineage, suggesting that targeting PAX5 and its downstream signaling may modulate lineage transitions responsible for treatment failure in both SCNCs and adenocarcinomas.
It is well established that the early stage of mechanical unloading in both humans and animals is characterized by a decline in the activity of the key cellular energy sensor, AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). This decline triggers signaling pathways that drive myosin phenotype remodeling and muscle atrophy. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the reduction in AMPK activity under these conditions remain poorly understood. We hypothesized that elevated activity of protein kinase D1 (PKD1) could contribute to the decline in AMPK activity during the initial stage of rat hindlimb unloading. The present study demonstrates that the suppression of upregulated PKD1 activity via a specific inhibitor (CRT0066101) during 24-hour unloading results in the restoration of AMPK activity in the rat soleus muscle. Thus, we have shown for the first time the contribution of PKD1 to the regulation of AMPK activity in the mammalian postural muscle during the initial stage of hindlimb unloading.© 2026. Pleiades Publishing, Ltd.
Kidney stone disease (KSD) is multifactorial, and the genetic basis is poorly understood among the East Asian population. This study aims to elucidate comprehensive genetic factors associated with KSD.We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) on Taiwanese Han Chinese individuals from the Taiwan Biobank to investigate genetic predispositions to KSD. A total of 108,483 participants were included, of whom 7,635 reported having KSD. A phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) leveraging the National Health Insurance Research Database was used to verify GWAS findings and explore disease associations. We also assessed individual genetic risk for KSD using a polygenic risk score (PRS).Our analysis identified significant associations with KSD at single-nucleotide polymorphisms rs1481012 (odds ratio = 1.13, p = 5.53 × 10-11) and rs12872074 (odds ratio = 1.16, p = 4.77 × 10-17) on chromosomes 4 and 13, respectively. We pinpointed ABCG2, DGKH, and a novel locus PKD2. Biological pathways, including protein dimerization and CD4+ T-cell regulation, were identified in gene-set analysis. PheWAS confirmed the association of these lead variants with calculus of kidney and various phenotypes. PRS reached an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.97 on the discovery sample.This comprehensive study highlights the significant genetic contributors to KSD in an East Asian population. Our findings underscore the potential of using a national health database to validate our analyses and reveal novel disease correlations, which supported immune dysregulation in disease pathogenesis. PRS highlights the contribution of genetic variants to KSD risk and suggests potential for future clinical application, although validation in independent populations will be required to determine its predictive utility.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Fibrotic remodeling of extracellular matrix is a central driver of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) progression since early stages of the disease. Unfortunately, it cannot be assessed with currently available methodologies before irreversible structural and functional decline, creating a diagnostic blind spot that hinders accurate early risk stratification and management. Here, we report the development of Gd-hProCA32.Collagen, a collagen -targeted protein MRI contrast agent that enables precision molecular MRI (pMRI) of early fibrosis by directly imaging collagen type I deposition in vivo before conventional laboratory and imaging methods detect changes in kidneys and liver of Pkhd 1 PCK/PCK (PCK) rats and Pkd2 mutant mice. Gd-hProCA32.Collagen, used at 10-fold lower dose, outperformed the widely clinically used agent gadobutrol (Gadovist), detecting approximately 2.8-fold greater total renal cyst volume (∼8,500 vs ∼3,000 mm³, p<0.0001) and 1.5-fold higher total cyst count (∼245 vs ∼160, p<0.0001), with superior T1W and T2W kidney AUC (p<0.01 and p<0.001) and preferential sensitivity to small and medium cysts. Signal enhancement in kidneys and liver correlated strongly with histological collagen burden quantified by Sirius red staining, whereas Gadovist showed no meaningful correlation. Gd-hProCA32.Collagen also enabled in vivo visualization of previously undetectable changes resembling radial striations at sites of microcyst cluster-adjacent microfibrosis and sustained delayed MRI enhancement due to specific collagen binding. These results reveal a previously inaccessible subclinical fibrotic phase of cystic kidney and liver disease and establish collagen-targeted pMRI as a strategy for early noninvasive detection and spatial mapping of multi-organ extracellular matrix remodeling when conventional biomarkers remain non-discriminating.We report a first-in-class collagen-targeted MRI contrast agent with Precision molecular MRI that noninvasively reveals a previously inaccessible subclinical fibrotic phase of polycystic kidney disease across kidney and liver, overcoming limitations of current diagnostic methodology.
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is the most common genetic kidney disease worldwide, characterized by progressive cyst growth and inflammation, yet effective targeted therapies remain limited. Here we show that TMEM16A and MCP-1, key mediators of cyst-lining epithelial expansion and inflammatory macrophage recruitment respectively, are consistently upregulated in cyst-lining collecting duct (CD) epithelia across murine, porcine, and human ADPKD models. In human ADPKD patient cells, although individual silencing of TMEM16A or MCP-1 transcripts reduced cyst growth, combined silencing produced superior therapeutic efficacy, establishing the rationale for evaluating dual-target delivery. To achieve dual gene silencing in the kidneys, we delivered Tmem16a and Mcp -1 siRNA using peptide amphiphile micelles (PAMs), an ultrasmall nanoparticle platform that enables efficient renal targeting. To redirect siRNA-loaded PAMs to CD epithelia, we functionalized their surface with a CD-targeting peptide (CDM), which enabled preferential accumulation in cyst-lining CD epithelia. In an inducible Pkd1 -deficient mouse model, co-delivery of CDMs loaded with Tmem16a and Mcp-1 siRNA reduced kidney enlargement, cystic burden, tubular injury, and macrophage infiltration, with efficacy exceeding non-targeted siRNA delivery at equivalent doses. CDM demonstrated enhanced uptake in primary human ADPKD patient-derived CD cells and dual gene silencing reduced target gene expression and cyst expansion, establishing translational relevance. These findings establish CD peptide-functionalized micelles as a route to cell-type-selective RNAi in the kidney, delivering siRNA to cyst-lining CD cells. Furthermore, because both targets, TMEM16A and MCP-1 , are transcribed within CD cells, our siRNA-loaded CD-targeting micelles silence two drivers of cyst expansion, and their simultaneous suppression represents an effective therapeutic strategy for ADPKD.
Increased matrix stiffness is a biomechanical feature of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) that functions as an important promoting factor driving tumor progression. Characterization of the mechanosensors and the underlying downstream mechanisms driving HCC could help identify potential treatment strategies. In this study, we developed a standard procedure for screening and identifying mechanosensors, revealing two HCC mechanosensors, SDC4 and PKD2. These two mechanosensory pathways collaboratively mediated matrix stiffness-promoted DNA damage repair. Specifically, SDC4 and PKD2 modulated matrix stiffness-increased BANF1 nuclear translocation through increasing PP2A assembly and activity. Subsequently, nuclear BANF1 promoted the formation of MRN complex and phosphorylation of its downstream effectors to enhance DNA damage repair. These findings not only expand the theoretical understanding of matrix stiffness-regulated DNA damage repair but also offer a screening/identification approach for mechanosensors in cancer.
Biliary atresia (BA) is a neonatal fibroinflammatory cholangiopathy of infancy and the most common indication for pediatric liver transplantation. We aimed to define the molecular mechanisms responsible for differences in the rate of disease progression among children with BA.We performed spatial transcriptomics (ST) analysis on frozen liver tissue at transplant from 14 children: BA with survival with native liver (SNL) <2 years (BA1, n=3), BA with SNL >2 years (BA2, n=4), non-BA cholestasis (n=4), and non-diseased donors (n=3). Transcriptional signatures were compared between patient groups by tissue region (scar, hepatocyte, cholangiocyte). Findings were validated in larger patient cohorts that included BA samples at diagnosis.ST analysis of patients with BA1 showed the most aggressive disease phenotype, characterized by reduced hepatocyte zonation, low expression of homeostatic metabolic signatures, and increased scar heterogeneity enriched for pathways including extracellular matrix remodeling, interferon response, and leukocyte activation. Notably, genes involved in SOX4 hepatocyte-to-cholangiocyte reprogramming were most enriched in patients with BA1. Liver immunohistochemistry with in situ mRNA hybridization showed that patients with BA at diagnosis had increased SOX4 quantification as compared with patients with BA at transplant. Lastly, previously published liver bulk RNA-sequencing data demonstrated higher SOX4 gene-set expression in patients with BA at diagnosis with SNL <2 years.Children with BA and worse outcomes exhibit increased SOX4 gene-set expression at diagnosis with greater loss of hepatocyte zonation and immune-driven scar heterogeneity at transplant. Further mechanistic studies are needed to determine whether SOX4-associated biliary reprogramming contributes to maladaptive reparative processes in BA.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. on behalf of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) accounts for 5-10% of prevalent end-stage kidney failure (ESKD). ADPKD cysts result from a loss of sufficient functional expression of PKD1/Polycystin-1 (PC1) in approximately 80% of families. Kidney disease severity correlates with the extent to which PC1 dosage is reduced below a critical level, and evidence suggests therapeutic benefit from increasing PC1 expression in these conditions. Upstream open reading frame (uORF) translation can reduce translation of a protein's coding sequence. Ribosome profiling data and bioinformatic predictions suggested the presence of conserved PKD1 uORFs, so we sought to explore their biological role. We generated luciferase reporters and two humanized PKD1 5'UTR mouse models with or without single nucleotide edits removing uORF start codons ("delta-uORF") to define active uORFs and test their impact on PC1 translation. PKD1 uORF start codons can robustly initiate translation and delta-uORF conveys a 2-4-fold increase in PC1 protein expression and resultant prevention of kidney cysts in Dnajb11 as well as in Pkd1 missense models. PKD1 uORF1-blocking steric antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) substantially increase PC1 expression in vitro. PKD1 uORFs play an important role in the low basal expression of wild-type PKD1, and their inhibition represents an opportunity to therapeutically increase PC1 translation in polycystic kidney and liver disease resulting from reduced dosage of PC1.
Polycystic kidney disease (PKD) arises from mutations in cilia-associated genes, such as PKD1 and PKD2, expressed in renal epithelial cells, leading to progressive kidney dysfunction and end-stage kidney disease (ESKD). PKD patients exhibit significant heterogeneity in disease progression, largely due to genetic and environmental modifiers. Like patients, mouse models of PKD also exhibit significant heterogeneity with regards to the gene mutated, age of disease onset, and rate of disease progression. To elucidate the cellular and molecular consequences of these variables, we constructed an integrated single-cell RNA sequencing atlas across mouse models of PKD, mapping changes in cell type composition, gene expression, and intercellular signaling networks across the whole atlas and within individual models. Across models, single cell RNA sequencing (scRNAseq) data revealed increased Spp1 (osteopontin) expression and signaling from PKD-enriched clusters. Global deletion of Spp1 in Pkd1RC/RC mice resulted in a modest reduction in cyst severity and improved kidney function. From these studies, we created a freely available, searchable website (https://bmblx.bmi.osumc.edu/scPKD/) that can be used to identify cross- and intra-model changes in gene expression, guiding researchers to new therapeutic targets for treating PKD.
Adeno-associated virus (AAV) is a small ssDNA satellite virus that receives wide attention due to its popularity as a safe and effective gene therapy vector. The AAV cell entry receptor (AAVR) for most serotypes is a glycoprotein containing five polycystic kidney disease (PKD) domains with which AAV interacts. AAV serotypes can be classified into three groups: those that interact primarily with PKD1, those whose interactions with PKD2 are stronger, and AAV4-like serotypes whose transduction is AAVR-independent. A phylogenetic analysis of AAVR and paralog KIAA0319 revealed AAVR amino acid variability in the region of PKD1 that is bound by AAV. We hypothesized that the substitution, in all cat-like animals, of a glutamate at a site that is an arginine (R353) in human AAVR may interfere with the binding of clade H AAVs that interact exclusively with PKD1. Analysis of PKD1 mutations, including ELISA, shows that an R353E substitution of glutamate for arginine affects the binding of the clade H AAVs that interact primarily with PKD1.
Despite improvements in and access to clinical genetic testing, many patients with classic phenotypes remain without a molecular diagnosis. Such cases may reflect variants in noncoding regions or complex alleles made up of disparate sequence variants. In this article, we report a patient with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease caused by a deep intronic de novo single-nucleotide substitution forming a dinucleotide variant, with an adjacent common single-nucleotide variant (formerly single-nucleotide polymorphism) inherited from an unaffected parent. Although neither variant alone was predicted to be pathogenic, together as a dinucleotide variant, they created a novel splice donor site that activated a pseudoexon within intron 16 of the PKD1 gene.Genome sequencing was paired with transcriptome sequencing to evaluate the dinucleotide variant within intron 16 of PKD1.Evaluation of RNA from patient cells confirmed the inclusion of a 114-bp pseudoexon and an in-frame premature termination codon into the PKD1 messenger RNA transcript. This case identified a rare scenario in which the combination of 2 independently predicted benign nucleotide substitutions immediately adjacent to one another generated a pathogenic allele.This case highlights the diagnostic utility of genome sequencing coupled with RNA sequencing to clarify the effects of a deep intronic variant, confirming a molecular diagnosis for a patient with a clear clinical diagnosis who had undergone years of inconclusive testing. Furthermore, this case cautions that similar events may underlie unsolved cases across other genes and disorders.© 2026 The Authors.
Infrared Small Target Detection (ISTD) is crucial for applications such as traffic monitoring and maritime surveillance. However, it remains highly challenging due to weak target signals and the absence of rich texture information, often resulting in low detection accuracy. Existing deep learning-based ISTD methods typically struggle to balance the trade-off between modeling long-range dependencies and avoiding feature oversmoothing. To this end, we propose RSFNet, a retention-based network with spatial-frequency joint enhancement for ISTD. RSFNet introduces a bidirectional 2D decay-retention attention mechanism into the vision Transformer (ViT) framework, which effectively suppresses background noise while capturing long-range dependencies. In addition, we design a Spatial-Frequency Joint Enhancement Module (SFE) to facilitate the transfer of salient target features from the encoder to the decoder. SFE integrates spatial and frequency domain features to facilitate global-local information interaction. Extensive experiments conducted on multiple publicly available ISTD datasets demonstrate that RSFNet significantly outperforms state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods in both detection accuracy and training efficiency, with a nearly 32% reduction in training time.Copyright: © 2026 Tan et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Transition-age youth with disabilities experience disproportionately higher rates of unemployment compared to their non-disabled peers. To address this disparity, states fund schools and agencies to implement pre-employment transition services (Pre-ETS), which can include job interview training. Virtual Interview Training for Transition-Age Youth (VIT-TAY) is a web-based job interview skills training tool implemented across 10 states, reaching thousands of transition-age youth (now referenced as TAY) with disabilities. While previous research has demonstrated VIT-TAY's effectiveness in improving job interview skills and increasing access to competitive employment for TAY (or students) with disabilities in schools, the net economic benefit for schools adopting this tool remains unclear. Hence, this study conducted a limited cost-benefit analysis utilizing data from 41 teachers and 314 TAY with disabilities. Study results suggest that a one-time investment of $314 per student in VIT-TAY was associated with a $241 increase in mean monthly student income six months following initial use of the intervention. The results suggest that implementing VIT-TAY for TAY with disabilities may yield a net positive economic benefit for the schools implementing this training tool.
This study proposes a novel enhancement to the Conformer architecture for epileptic seizure identification by replacing the standard Vision Transformer (ViT) with the Swin Transformer. The proposed Swin-Conformer model leverages the hierarchical patch merging and shifted-window self-attention mechanisms of the Swin Transformer to better capture both local electrophysiological patterns and long-range temporal dependencies in electroencephalogram (EEG) signals. To handle the significant class imbalance inherent in epileptic EEG data, a weighted focal loss function is employed during training. The model is evaluated on the CHB-MIT dataset through stratified 10-fold cross-validation and validated on the independent Bonn EEG dataset. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed model achieves accuracy of 99.24%, specificity of 99.55%, and sensitivity of 98.47% on the segment-based evaluation, as well as an event-based sensitivity of 99.50%, outperforming the original Conformer and state-of-the-art baseline methods. Ablation studies confirm that the performance gains originate from the Swin Transformer's hierarchical multi-scale feature representation and efficient local-global attention mechanism. Statistical analysis confirms that the improvements are statistically significant ([Formula: see text]).
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) eradication is increasingly compromised by antibiotic resistance, particularly to clarithromycin (CLA) and fluoroquinolones (FQs). Culture-based and molecular susceptibility testing remain resource-intensive and inaccessible in many settings. Whether routine hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) histopathology encodes indirect signatures of resistance has not been explored.We developed a weakly supervised deep learning framework to predict phenotypic H. pylori resistance directly from gastric biopsy whole-slide images (WSIs). Patches were filtered using vision-language models (VLMs; Qwen3-VL and MedGemma) performing two zero-shot classification tasks-grading patch image quality and identifying gastric surface or gland-neck epithelium-based solely on visible histo-morphological features. Retained patches were encoded with VIRCHOW2, a histopathology-specific vision foundation model (ViT-H/14, pretrained on 3.1 million WSIs), and aggregated via cross-attention for slide-level prediction. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-confirmed resistance phenotypes served as ground truth in a multicenter cohort of 755 patients.In the independent test set (n = 151), the framework achieved an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) of 0.903 for CLA resistance and 0.959 for FQs resistance. At the default threshold (0.5), sensitivity was 85.2% for CLA and 98.1% for FQs, supporting use as a screening tool. Threshold optimization by the Youden index improved specificity to 95.9% for CLA and 93.9% for FQs, enabling rule-in risk stratification. Decision curve analysis confirmed net clinical benefit across a broad range of threshold probabilities.Routine H&E-stained gastric biopsies contain probabilistic morphological correlates of H. pylori resistance phenotypes that deep learning can exploit. This approach provides complementary decision support for resistance risk stratification, particularly in resource-limited settings, pending prospective validation.© 2026 Xiong et al.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cause of cancer mortality despite widespread colonoscopy screening. Colonoscopy effectiveness, which can reduce CRC risk by 90%, depends largely on adenoma detection rate (ADR), a metric strongly influenced by mucosal inspection quality during withdrawal. However, ADR miss rates remain as high as 26% due to incomplete inspection. Although simulation-based training (SBT) improves procedural skills, physical simulators lack objective assessment and feedback on inspection quality. This study aimed to develop an automated machine-learning model (ML) to objectively assess colonoscopy inspection performance and identify feedback to improve ADR.A Vision Transformer (ViT)-based ML model was developed to automatically recognize three inspection techniques during SBT required for effective inspection: clear lumen view, lateral wall, and obscured (fold) inspection. Model performance was evaluated using accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 score. The validated model was applied to videos from experts (n = 5), intermediate (n = 5), and novice residents (n = 7) performing withdrawal on a physical simulator embedded with silicone polyps. The model quantified time spent in each technique and surrounding polyp detection. Polyp detection rate (PDR) was quantified based on number of polyps detected.The model achieved high accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 score. Greater inspection time in obscured regions was significantly associated with higher PDR (r = 0.50, p = 0.041). Compared with novices, experts spent more time inspecting with a clear lumen view (p = 0.039) and deeper obscured views (p = 0.017), demonstrated higher PDR, and devoted more time to obscured regions before or after polyp detection.The ViT ML model accurately recognizes key inspection techniques and objectively differentiates inspection performance across expertise levels using time-based metrics and PDR. This enables objective assessment and targeted feedback-such as highlighting uninspected, obscured regions within physical SBT, with the potential to improve inspection performance and ADR.© 2026. The Author(s).
Human facial emotion recognition (FER) is a vibrant research field. This research proposes a novel, biologically inspired hybrid FER framework that uniquely connects event-driven Spiking Neural Networks (SNNs) with deep learning, specifically a Spike-based Support Vector Machine (S-SVM), which is designed for its event-driven processing and energy efficiency. The article proposes a novel SNN-based framework for FER that extracts robust image features using a Vision Transformer (ViT). Spikes are generated from the features using the rate-and-threshold encoding technique. The core algorithmic novelty lies in the integration of Leaky Integrate-and-Fire (LIF) and Quadratic Integrate-and-Fire (QIF) neurons, which are used in S-SVM, creating a highly optimized decision boundary in the spike domain. The goal is to determine which neuron performs best, as confirmed by the CK+ dataset. The same technique was validated on RAF-CE, a unprocessed dataset derived from real-world events and movie scenes. The approach was validated on the CK+ dataset, achieving 99.14% and 99.94% accuracy for the QIF and LIF neurons, respectively. For the compound emotions in the unprocessed dataset, which are hard to distinguish, the accuracy rates achieved with QIF and LIF neurons are 78.87% and 98.91%, respectively. In the FER system, the LIF neuron with an S-SVM classifier performs better than the LIF neuron. This hybrid design's capacity to provide cutting-edge FER accuracy while also enabling previously unheard-of energy efficiency gains of 99.52% for CK+ and 99.60% for RAF-CE when compared to traditional deep learning models is its primary significance.Copyright © 2026 Sekar and Nersisson.
Scaling laws describe how model performance improves as the amount of training data increases, and recent theories such as the zeta law suggest that scaling behavior is influenced by the eigenspectrum of the model's latent representation. Here, we evaluated whether the distribution of discriminative signals across spectral modes predicts the future scaling behavior, for MRI transformers trained for disease classification. We trained three supervised 3D vision transformers (ViT3D, MINiT, and NIT) for Alzheimer's disease classification using 2,822 training scans from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI); we compared their encoder spectra with that of a frozen self-supervised DINO ViT-B/16 encoder adapted to 3D MRI. The supervised models learned highly concentrated representations, with 90-96% of CLS-token variance captured by a single principal component, whereas DINO distributed signal across many latent directions. Via spectral expansion of the Mahalanobis signal, we found that supervised training concentrated disease information into a single dominant mode, while self-supervised training produced a richer spectral geometry with higher effective rank and discoverability. This led to different scaling behavior: supervised models exhibited flatter AUC( N ) curves, yet DINO continued to improve as sample size increased, gaining 11.0 percentage points from N=50 to N=2,822. Overall, the spectral distribution of the discriminative signal, for these different encoder types, influenced how much performance remained discoverable as sample size increased. Distributed representations may retain signal across many latent modes and continue to improve with additional data, whereas concentrated representations tend to exhaust most of the discoverable signal at much lower sample sizes.
Deep learning models for medical image classification typically rely on millions of parameters or extensive pretraining, limiting deployment in resource-constrained settings. We investigate whether a hybrid quantum-classical architecture can achieve competitive diagnostic performance with extreme parameter efficiency and superior stability compared to lightweight classical counterparts.We propose the hierarchical quantum discrete cosine transform (H-QDCT), a lightweight pipeline combining classical patch-based preprocessing with quantum frequency-domain feature extraction. Images are partitioned into patches, amplitude-embedded into quantum states, and transformed via a quantum DCT that reorganizes information by spatial frequency. A hierarchical variational ansatz processes structural (low-frequency) and textural (high-frequency) components in disjoint qubits subspaces before global fusion. We evaluate H-QDCT on six clinically binarized MedMNIST datasets under grayscale constraints against both heavy and lightweight classical baselines.H-QDCT achieves competitive performance with only 1726 parameters, exceeding a 99.98% reduction compared to ResNet-18 (11.2M parameters). On PneumoniaMNIST, the model attains an AUC of 0.90, approaching the 0.93 of pretrained ResNet-18. Crucially, H-QDCT demonstrates superior robustness in data-scarce regimes: While the lightweight vision transformer (Tiny-ViT) collapsed to the majority class on DermaMNIST (F1 =0.00 ) and BloodMNIST (F1 =0.06 ), H-QDCT retained learnability on BloodMNIST (F1 up to 0.22) with stable convergence. Beyond binary screening, the architecture extends natively to multi-class differential diagnosis (from K=2 to K=9 ) without mode collapse, and on PneumoniaMNIST and PathMNIST its compact encoder surpasses a from-scratch ViT-B/16 ( ∼ 86 M parameters) in macro-F1 while using under 1,000 trainable parameters. The architecture operates entirely on grayscale inputs, confirming its reliance on morphological semantics rather than color bias.H-QDCT demonstrates that quantum spectral feature extraction achieves clinically meaningful classification with orders-of-magnitude parameter reduction. By mitigating the convergence instability inherent in small-scale classical transformers, H-QDCT establishes a robust design principle for compact, frequency-aware medical diagnostics on near-term quantum hardware.© 2026. CARS.
Reliable brain tumor detection in CT remains challenging due to low soft-tissue contrast, skull base complexity, and imaging artifacts. This study evaluates whether continuous neural representation learning improves classification performance and interpretability for CT-based brain tumor detection. We performed a comparative evaluation of coordinate-based neural models, neural operators, and transformer-based vision models using a skull base CT dataset from Gazi University Faculty of Medicine. The dataset includes 200 patients and 40,000 slices (12,000 tumor-positive, 28,000 tumor-negative). An automated multi-stage slice selection framework was developed to extract three anatomically consistent skull base slices per patient using similarity-based ranking and anatomical validation. Ten models were evaluated, including Neural Fields, Implicit Neural Representations, DeepONet, HyperNetworks, FunCNets, Rational Neural Networks, Fourier Neural Networks, and ViT-Base/Small/Large. Neural Fields achieved the best performance with 98.90% accuracy, 98.90% sensitivity, 98.90% specificity, 0.978 MCC, and 0.990 AUC. FunCNets ranked second overall while DeepONet achieved the highest sensitivity but lower overall balance. Transformer-based models underperformed compared to neural representation approaches. Statistical analysis confirmed significant performance differences with Neural Fields significantly outperforming competing methods. LIME analysis showed that Neural Fields focused on clinically relevant lesion regions while reducing influence from skull base artifacts. Continuous neural representations, particularly Neural Fields, provide superior accuracy and robustness for CT-based brain tumor classification compared to transformer and operator-based models. The findings demonstrate that neural field-based learning offers both high diagnostic performance and improved interpretability, supporting its potential for clinical decision-support in challenging skull base CT analysis.Copyright © 2026 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Imitation learning in complex, unstructured environments remains challenging due to the difficulty of grounding perception in physically meaningful representations and the need to model multimodal action distributions. Existing approaches often rely on unstructured pixel-level feature encodings or stochastic latent-variable decoders, which can lead to brittle attention in cluttered scenes. In this work, we present a novel integration of detector-based visual representations with conditional diffusion modeling (DINO + CDP) for real-world robotic imitation learning. Our framework utilizes a DINO object detection transformer to extract spatially-grounded object-query embeddings that serve as the conditioning signal for a diffusion-based policy. A primary contribution of this work is the systematic quantification of how scene complexity-measured via image entropy-affects robotic policy performance. By comparing rigid-object baselines with complex biological plant scenes, we demonstrate that organic morphology induces a measurable increase in pixel-level uncertainty that degrades standard pixel-centric models. Our results show that DINO + CDP mitigates this degradation by grounding action generation in stable object-level features. We evaluate our approach using a fully real-world manipulation dataset collected without simulation or synthetic pre-training. To isolate the impact of our architectural choices, we conduct a comparative study within a unified framework against convolutional (CNN-MLP), transformer-patch (ViT), and latent-variable (DETR + CVAE) variants. Experimental results in a robotic-arm biocell setup demonstrate that object-query-conditioned diffusion significantly improves task success rates, produces smoother trajectories, and exhibits superior robustness to high-entropy visual inputs, establishing a scalable pathway for imitation learning in challenging agricultural domains.Copyright © 2026 Kasu and Um.
Circadian clocks underlie daily rhythms in physiology by coordinating temporal patterns of gene expression and protein function throughout the body. At the core of this system in mammals is CLOCK/BMAL1, a ubiquitously expressed heterodimeric transcription factor complex that orchestrates tissue-specific circadian gene expression. The basis for this specificity remains unclear, but tissue-specific interactions at chromatin could provide one. Here we used chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled to mass spectrometry to map CLOCK/BMAL1-associated protein complexes on chromatin in mouse liver, kidney and lung. We detected 1,510 associated proteins, most of which were tissue-specific and not explained by protein abundance. Among these, we identified the homeodomain transcription factors PROX1, HNF1B and HOXA5 as tissue-enriched interactors that bind BMAL1, co-occupy most BMAL1 genomic sites and establish organ-restricted circadian transcription. Our findings demonstrate that tissue-specific transcription factors confer cellular identity on the core clock, thereby contributing to organ-specific patterns of rhythmic gene expression.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to identify trajectories of multimorbidity following acute myocardial infarction (AMI), using explainable temporal machine-learning methods, and assess their clinical, prognostic, and biological significance.Dynamic Time Warping k-means clustering was applied to post-AMI diagnostic sequences from 12 701 UK-Biobank participants. Latent Dirichlet Allocation characterised cluster themes. Multiclass classifiers (CatBoost, XGBoost, random forest, logistic regression) trained on pre-AMI diagnoses and demographics predicted trajectory membership, with SHAP interpretability. SMART scores and Cox models evaluated 5-year mortality; Phenotype-Wide Association (PheWAS) and Reactome pathway enrichment were used to identify associated biological mechanisms.Three trajectories of multimorbidity were identified: acute cardiorenal-respiratory with metabolic disease (ACUTE-CARD; 63.4%), cardiometabolic disease with arrhythmic-ischemic burden (CARDIOMIX; 13.5%), and smoking-related multisystem multimorbidity (SMO-CARD; 23.1%). XGBoost achieved the highest discrimination (AUC-ROC 0.906; 95% CI, 0.895-0.916), with CatBoost showing comparable performance (AUC-ROC 0.900; 95% CI, 0.889-0.910). SMO-CARD had the highest 5-year mortality (43.9%). The established SMART cardiovascular risk score remained the dominant predictor of mortality while the identified trajectories provided complementary prognostic signals; these associations were weaker after full adjustment for potential confounders with each profile displaying distinct genetic and pathway signatures.The SMART score outperformed in capturing mortality risk, whereas the trajectories complement it by revealing nuanced clustering of risk factors across organ systems and in identifying trajectory-specific intervention priorities.Explainable temporal modeling of EHR data reveals clinically interpretable, biologically grounded multimorbidity trajectories after AMI that complement established risk scores and provide a reproducible approach to mechanistic phenotyping and precision care.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Medical Informatics Association.
This study examines the psychological mechanisms through which belief in state war propaganda relates to combat motivation among Russian soldiers during the war in Ukraine. Using a cross-sectional survey of 1,060 Russian prisoners of war, we examined the relationship between belief in official propaganda narratives and two key outcomes: voluntary surrender and self-reported intentions to re-enlist. Results revealed that stronger belief in propaganda was associated with a lower likelihood of surrendering voluntarily and higher intentions to re-enlist upon release. Mediation analyses identified perceived legitimacy of the "Special Military Operation" (SMO) as the primary psychological pathway, such that only perceived legitimacy statistically accounted for the association between propaganda beliefs and both outcomes in our models. Contrary to expectations, identity fusion with the "Russian World" ideology and dehumanization of Ukrainians did not exhibit significant relationships in the mediation models once covariates were accounted for. These findings suggest that propaganda's association with combat motivation may primarily be explained by soldiers' perceptions of the war's legitimacy rather than by identity-based or dehumanizing beliefs. The study offers empirical insights on propaganda's link to combat motivation via legitimacy, informing narrative interventions in deradicalization and conflict psychology.
Secondary lymphedema, characterized by localized tissue swelling caused by lymphatic damage or dysfunction, remains a major clinical challenge that compromises quality of life. Current physical therapies provide only temporary relief, underscoring the need for effective regenerative strategies. Here, we report the fabrication of a micropatterned, small-diameter fibrous artificial lymphatic vessel incorporating hyaluronic acid (HA) via electrospinning to enhance lymphatic fluid transport. The engineered scaffold exhibits optimized mechanical properties and elicits favorable cellular responses through HA-mediated biochemical cues. Lymphatic endothelial cells (LEC) cultured on the scaffold show increased expression of lymphangiogenesis-related markers, including Prox1 and LYVE-1, accompanied by AKT activation and increased VEGF-C/VEGFR3-associated marker expression. The topographical features of the scaffold were also associated with altered YAP localization and increased lymphatic endothelial marker expression. In vivo implantation of the scaffold in a rat lymphedema model reduced ankle swelling and lymphatic retention across the surgically disrupted region toward an anatomically preserved drainage basin. Collectively, these findings suggest that HA-integrated fibrous lymphatic scaffolds represent a promising strategy for lymphedema treatment by synergistically engaging biochemical and biomechanical pathways associated with lymphatic repair and functional fluid transport.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Exercise intolerance, reflected by reduced peak oxygen uptake (V˙O2peak), is a hallmark feature of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). Impairments along the oxygen cascade, including central hemodynamics, ventilatory efficiency, and peripheral factors, have been described, but their relative contributions remain incompletely defined.This cross-sectional analysis included baseline data from the HIT-HF trial. V˙O2peak and ventilatory efficiency were assessed by cardiopulmonary exercise testing. Stroke volume was measured using impedance cardiography, heart rate via electrocardiography, total hemoglobin mass (tHbmass) by carbon monoxide rebreathing, muscle oxygen saturation (SmO2) by near-infrared spectroscopy, and leg power by countermovement jump testing. Associations with relative and absolute V˙O2peak were examined using multivariable linear regression adjusted for age, sex, and body fat mass. Missing data were handled by multiple imputations.Of 46 patients, 43 were included in the final analysis [mean age: 73 (10) years, BMI: 25.6 (4.3) kg/m2, 65% female]. In multivariable models, leg power showed the strongest positive association with relative V˙O2peak (β = 0.35, 95% CI: -0.20 to 0.89), whereas leg fat-free mass showed the strongest association with absolute V˙O2peak (β = 0.57, 95% CI: 0.21-0.92). Stroke volume and heart rate showed smaller associations, whereas SmO2, tHbmass, and ventilatory efficiency showed trivial associations (β between -0.1 and 0.1).In HFpEF, peripheral muscle function was more strongly associated with exercise capacity than central hemodynamics or ventilatory efficiency.© 2026 Schoch, Kröpfl, Gasser, Infanger, Hanssen, Wick, Prechtl, Dieterle and Schmidt-Trucksäss.
Continuous hypoxic treadmill training increases the physiological load of aerobic exercise, but it remains unclear whether baseline aerobic fitness influences short-term adaptation. This study compared the responses of healthy men with lower and higher initial aerobic fitness to four weeks of continuous treadmill training performed in normobaric hypoxia equivalent to a simulated altitude of 2500 m.Twenty-two healthy adult men were classified into lower- group (LF) and higher-fitness groups (HF) according to baseline treadmill graded exercise test performance. All participants completed the same four-week hypoxic treadmill training program and the same pre- and post-intervention tests, including a graded treadmill test with cardiorespiratory and oxygenation monitoring and a Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test Level 1 (Yo-Yo IR1).Both groups improved after training, but the changes were consistently larger in the LF group. Compared with the HF group, the LF group showed larger percentage improvements in relative VO 2peak (+8.5% vs. +0.7%), peak treadmill speed (+9.9% vs. +1.6%), time to exhaustion (+10.4% vs. +2.3%), VT2 speed (+14.0% vs. +2.0%), percentage of VO 2peak at VT2 (+7.5% vs. +1.2%), and Yo-Yo IR1 distance (+23.7% vs. +4.2%). Selected oxygenation variables at VT2 and during early recovery changed in the same direction, whereas minimum SpO2 and minimum SmO2 changed little.Four weeks of continuous hypoxic treadmill training were associated greater improvements in aerobic and threshold-related outcomes in men with lower initial aerobic fitness. The oxygenation outcomes provide descriptive physiological information only and should not be interpreted as evidence of hematological adaptation.Copyright © 2026 Zhou, Zhu, Zhang and Zhou.
Signaling receptors can exit cilia either by retrieval back into the cell or by secretion in extracellular vesicles (EVs), a process known as ectocytosis. The mechanisms that govern ectocytosis remain poorly understood. Here, we leverage quantitative proteomic profiling to identify the Hedgehog signaling receptor Smoothened (SMO) as a major cargo of cilia-derived EVs. Surprisingly, ligands that promote ciliary accumulation of SMO strongly suppressed its packaging into EVs, indicating that ectocytosis selectively packages specific conformational states of SMO. We further find that SMO packaged into EVs is extensively modified with K63linked ubiquitin chains. Preventing SMO ubiquitination or selectively removing K63-linked ubiquitin chains from SMO markedly reduced its secretion into EVs and caused SMO accumulation within cilia. Together, these results identify K63-linked ubiquitin chains as a sorting signal for ciliary ectocytosis and indicate that ubiquitin-dependent packaging of inactive SMO contributes to the dynamic redistribution of SMO during Hedgehog signaling.
Lacteal motion can be visualized in vivo, but quantitative analysis remains difficult because intravital intestinal imaging is affected by motion, focal instability, and baseline fluorescence variability.We developed an intravital imaging workflow for quantitative analysis of lacteal contractility in Prox1-EGFP rats. Lacteals were segmented by region-of-interest analysis, and fluorescence signals were extracted frame by frame. Signals were normalized as percent deviation from mean clip intensity. Contractility was assessed from normalized traces, with acetylcholine used as a positive control. Matched 30 and 10 s analysis windows were compared.Mean-normalized signals provided a more comparable readout than raw intensity across clips acquired under variable intravital conditions. The workflow detected the expected increase in lacteal contractile behavior after acetylcholine in paired experiments and resolved progressive augmentation in a serial time-course experiment. Compared with 10 s analysis, 30 s recordings yielded a more coherent and interpretable amplitude-based readout.This study establishes a practical intravital workflow for quantifying lacteal contractility in vivo and defines key analytical considerations for live intestinal imaging, including normalization strategy, window selection, and image-quality control.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Supernumerary teeth are common congenital dental anomalies resulting from disrupted epithelial-mesenchymal interactions during tooth development. Although Hedgehog signaling is known to regulate tooth development, its temporal requirement for tooth number determination remains elusive. To investigate the role of early epithelial Hedgehog signaling, we conditionally deleted Smo in the dental epithelium using Pitx2-Cre, which initiates recombination at E10.5, prior to the onset of K14-Cre activity. SmoPitx2Cre mutant mice developed two supernumerary mandibular incisors together with defective ameloblast differentiation and disrupted enamel formation. BrdU labeling revealed significantly increased cell proliferation in the lingual cervical loop, with no changes in apoptosis. In situ hybridization showed reduced expression of Wnt inhibitors Dkk1 and Sostdc1, accompanied by upregulation of the Wnt target gene Lef1, indicating aberrant activation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway in SmoPitx2Cre incisors. Treatment with SHH in vitro upregulated Dkk1 and Sostdc1 expression, confirming that Hedgehog signaling positively regulates these Wnt inhibitors. Moreover, the SmoPitx2Cre mutant mice exhibited decreased expression of Fgf3, Sp6, Dlx2, and Msx2, genes implicated in ameloblast differentiation and dental patterning. Together, these findings demonstrate that epithelial Hedgehog signaling is required during early odontogenesis to establish normal tooth patterning through coordinated regulation of Wnt signaling and epithelial-mesenchymal communication, while simultaneously promoting ameloblast differentiation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Chordin is a cysteine-rich protein which acts as a regulator of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling in the extracellular matrix. Acting in concert with twisted gastrulation (TWSG1), chordin works as an antagonist of BMP signaling by binding tightly to the growth factor and is a vital component of the network of interactions that establish developmental signaling gradients. Chordin is known to interact with BMP ligands via its four von-Willebrand factor type C domains, but the function of the large central four CHRD domains were previously unknown. Here we show that these domains interact strongly with sulfated glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) and provide evidence for the location of the binding site using X-ray crystallographic analysis combined with mutagenesis and biophysical techniques. Additionally, we report the first recombinant expression and purification of the complete functional chordin, TWSG1, BMP2, BMP7 complex which was used to demonstrate that the four CHRD domains are largely redundant with respect to the role of chordin as an inhibitor of BMP ligands. We therefore propose that the four CHRD domains of chordin have relevance in the diffusion and localization of chordin-TWSG1-BMP complexes at the tissue and organismal level, mediated by their interaction with GAGs or proteoglycans.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In Atlantic halibut (Hippoglossus hippoglossus) aquaculture, egg and larval quality remain major bottlenecks. Most transcriptomic and proteomic studies compare freshly fertilized eggs of good versus poor quality, assuming early molecular differences explain hatching success. However, many lethal phenotypes arise only after the mid-blastula transition (MBT), suggesting that early comparisons may overlook key developmental processes.We performed stage-resolved RNA sequencing of Atlantic halibut embryos spanning unfertilized egg (UF), cleavage (8C, 16C), blastula (BL), 25% epiboly (25 EB), and blastopore closure (50 degree-days, 50 dd). Differential expression analysis (DESeq2 with LFC shrinkage), Gene Ontology (GO) overrepresentation (PANTHER, REVIGO), and curated axis-patterning gene sets from zebrafish orthologs were used to map transcriptional dynamics.Minimal transcriptional change occurred during cleavage (UF-16C), dominated by maternal transcripts. A pronounced transcriptional shift emerged at MBT (16C→BL), marked by upregulation of canonical developmental pathways (Wnt, BMP, Notch) and axis-specification genes (e.g., bmp2b, chrd, wnt8b, fgf8a). These pathways remained active through gastrulation (BL→25 EB), alongside enrichment of morphogenetic processes such as mesoderm formation and left-right symmetry. By 50 dd, expression shifted toward lineage differentiation programs involving neurons, muscle, and cranial skeleton. Axis-regulator dynamics showed that dorso-ventral (D-V) patterning is initiated by maternal factors but reinforced by zygotic cascades, whereas anterior-posterior (A-P) patterning is primarily zygotic.Our results demonstrate that the decisive transcriptional programs underlying axis formation and organogenesis are activated from MBT onward. These findings imply that comparisons limited to unfertilized or early cleavage stages cannot capture the biology determining embryo viability. Stage-resolved analyses encompassing MBT and gastrulation are therefore essential for identifying transcriptomic markers of egg and larval quality in halibut.Copyright © 2025 Niepagen, Bertolini, Berg, Tomkiewicz and Kjørsvik.
Cytokines participate in regulating the immune response of lymphocytes. Interleukin 2 (IL-2) is the main modulator of T lymphocyte development, homeostasis, and function, whereas interleukin 7 (IL-7) regulates the development and homeostasis of immune cells and plays a crucial role in the maintenance of memory cells. The study aims to assess the blood IL-2 and IL-7 concentration in relation to the obtained cellular and humoral response in adults, six months after vaccination against COVID-19.We measured the concentration of IL-2 and IL-7 with ELISA, CoV2-IgG with an indirect chemiluminescence test, and the levels of IFN-γ with interferon gamma release assay (IGRA) post SARS-CoV-2 antigen stimulation. The study group (n = 76; F = 66, M = 10) was divided into 41 individuals, who did not report any chronic disorder (ChrD-Neg), and 35, who did (ChrD-Pos).ChrD-Pos group presented higher IL-7 compared to ChrD-Neg (p = 0.023). Negative correlations were observed in the entire study population between IL-2 and age (R = -0.252, p = 0.028), as well as between IL-7 and IFN-γ (R = -0.295, p = 0.010). We found a positive correlation between IL-2 and IL-7 concentrations in the entire study population (R = 0.305, p = 0.007) and the ChrD-Pos group (R = 0.358, p = 0.035), and people with a positive IGRA result (R = 0.359, p = 0.005).The interaction of IL-2 and IL-7 may be important for achieving post-vaccination immunity, especially in adults with chronic diseases. Age is a factor modifying the post-vaccination response (decreased IL-2), whereas IL-7 may be an important factor in achieving a satisfactory post-vaccine response in people with chronic diseases.
Chromatin-associated RNAs have important regulatory functions and can promote the formation of spatial compartments in the nucleus. But their conjugated genomic loci and numerous roles in the genome remain largely unknown. Further, we described an efficient method for mapping site-specific chromatin-associated RNA-DNA interactions followed by paired-end-tag sequencing (ChRD-PET), based on chromatin immunoprecipitation and RNA-DNA proximity ligation. A pipeline was also developed for ChRD-PET data analysis and get high-confident RNA-DNA interactions.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Chromatin-associated RNAs (caRNAs) have been increasingly recognized as key regulators of gene expression and genome architecture. A few technologies, such as ChRD-PET and RedChIP, have emerged to assess protein-mediated RNA-chromatin interactions, but each has limitations. Here, we describe the TaDRIM-seq (targeted DNA-associated RNA and RNA-RNA interaction mapping by sequencing) technique, which combines Protein G (PG)-Tn5-targeted DNA tagmentation with in situ proximity ligation to simultaneously profile caRNAs across genomic regions and capture global RNA-RNA interactions within intact nuclei. This approach reduces the required cell input, shortens the experimental duration compared to existing protocols, and is applicable to both mammalian and plant systems. Key features • A multi-omics sequencing strategy. • Compatible with mammalian and plant systems. • Profiling of epigenome, RNA-DNA, and RNA-RNA interactomes.©Copyright : © 2025 The Authors; This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC license.
The zinc finger transcription factor PRDM14, part of the PR domain containing protein family, is critical for mammalian primordial germ cell (PGC) specification, epigenetic reprogramming and maintaining naïve pluripotency in stem cells. However, PRDM14's role in other species is not well understood. In chicken, PRDM14 is broadly expressed in the early embryo, before becoming restricted to the forming neural plate, migratory PGCs, and later, in the adult testes. To investigate the role of PRDM14 we generated two independent targeted chicken lines and bred homozygous knockout embryos. Strikingly, we found that gastrulation was disrupted in PRDM14-/- embryos, which lacked a definitive primitive streak. Transcriptomic and in situ hybridisation analyses revealed a broad loss of anterior primitive streak marker genes, coupled with downregulation of the multifunctional antagonists CHRD and CER1, and expansion of the NODAL expression domain. Further analysis of PRDM14-/- embryos revealed PGCs were still specified but significantly reduced in number, and PRDM14-/- PGCs could not be propagated in vitro. Knockdown studies in vitro confirmed that PRDM14 is essential for PGC survival and antagonises FGF-induced somatic differentiation, similar to PRDM14's role in mammalian stem cells. Taken together, our results show that in chicken, PRDM14 plays a multifunctional and essential role during embryonic development.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Buffalo is a globally important livestock species, but its reproductive performance is relatively low than cattles. At present, dominant follicle development specific process and mechanistic role of follicular growth related genes in water buffaloes are not well understood. Therefore, we comprehensively performed transcriptomics of granulosa cells and oocytes from different-sized follicles in water buffalo to identify key candidate genes that influence follicle development and diameter, and further explored the potential regulatory mechanisms of granulosa cells and oocytes in the process of water buffalo follicle development.In this study, we found918 granulosa cell transcripts and 1401 oocyte transcripts were correlated in follicles of different diameters, and the expression differences were significant. Subsequent enrichment analysis of the co-expressed differentially expressed transcripts identified several genes targeted by long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) and associated with follicular development. Notably, the upregulation of BUB1 regulated by MSTRG.41325.4 and interactive action of SMAD2 and SMAD7 might have key regulatory role in follicular development. Additionally, we also detected key differentially expressed genes that potentially influence follicular hormone metabolism and growth, like ID2, CHRD, TGIF2 and MAD2L1, and constructed an interaction network between lncRNA transcripts and mRNAs.In summary, this study preliminarily revealed the differences in gene expression patterns among buffalo follicles of different sizes and their potential molecular regulatory mechanisms. It provides a new perspective for exploring the mechanism of buffalo follicular dominance and improving buffalo reproductive performance.© 2024. The Author(s).
Fungal pathogens often secrete numerous effectors to interfere with and/or suppress plant immunity to promote their infection. Watermelon Fusarium wilt, caused by the soil-borne fungus Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. niveum (Fon), is one of the devastating diseases that severely affect the watermelon industry. Here, we report the function of a candidate effector protein, FonCHRD, in Fon. FonCHRD harbors a chordin (CHRD) domain of unknown function and has a signal peptide with secretion activity. FonCHRD shows a relatively high expression level in Fon marcoconidia and is inducible by watermelon root tissues. Phenotypic analysis of the targeted deletion mutant revealed that FonCHRD plays roles in vegetative growth, asexual reproduction, and conidial morphology of Fon, while it is not involved in spore germination as well as cell wall, oxidative and salt stress responses. Deletion of FonCHRD impaired the ability to colonize and spread within host plants, significantly reducing its virulence on watermelon. FonCHRD is distributed across multiple compartments of plant cells but can target to the apoplast space in plants. FonCHRD inhibits the INF1- and Bcl2-associated X protein-triggered cell death and defense gene expression in transiently expressed Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. These findings suggest that FonCHRD is essential for Fon pathogenicity by modulating invasive growth and spreading abilities as well as by suppressing plant immune responses.© 2024. The Author(s).
Early recognition and indicated prevention is a promising approach to decrease the incidence of Major depressive episodes (MDE), targeting the patients during their clinical high-risk state of MDE (CHR-D). The identification of a set of stressors at the CHR-D increases the success of indicated prevention with personalized early interventions. The study evaluated stressors in the early phase of depression, developed on the basis of a patient survey on stressors.Sixty-eight inpatients (ICD10: F3x.xx) with a reported high risk state for major depressive episode (CHR-D) were included in the current study. Stressors during CHR-D were retrospectively explored using a semi-structured clinical interview supplemented by open-ended questions. A qualitative explorative content analysis was provided to identify a pattern of stressors during the prodromal phase of the patients, based on the patient's perspective. A frequency analysis was performed for the evaluation of the prevalence of reported source of stress.All patients reported stressors in the prodromal phase of depression. Results demonstrates that patients with depressive disorder typically report multiple stressors, with the most common number being four. First, 18 stressors-groups were identified during coding. Interpersonal conflicts and disappointments in close relationships were most frequently reported stressors during the prodromal phase at 44.1%. The second most frequent stressor mentioned was the high qualitative or quantitative demands at work (38.2%). The third frequent source of stress was changes in close relationships and in family relationships (33.8%). Based on the categories of stressors described in the patient survey during the prodromal phase we suggested a model of stressors in CHR-D during the prodromal phase of the MDE.The identification of a set of stressors at the early stage of MDE may increase opportunities for early intervention. In everyday clinical practice, preventive psychiatry needs clinical and adapted instruments for recording stressors in today's society. This knowledge is necessary in order to develop precisely indicated prevention for depressive disorders.Copyright © 2024 Meisenzahl, Schultze-Lutter, Stegmüller, Schulte-Körne, Greimel, Klingele, Dannlowski, Hahn, Romer, Romanos, Deserno, Theisen, Kujovic, Ruhrmann, Forstner and Wege.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) prevent autoimmunity and contribute to cancer progression. They exert contact-dependent inhibition of immune cells through the production of active transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1). However, the absence of a specific surface marker makes inhibiting the production of active TGF-β1 to specifically deplete human Tregs but not other cell types a challenge. TGF-β1 in an inactive form binds to Tregs membrane protein Glycoprotein A Repetitions Predominant (GARP) and then activates it via an unknown mechanism. Here, we demonstrated that tumour necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 3 interacting protein 3 (TRAF3IP3) in the Treg lysosome is involved in this activation mechanism. Using a novel naphthalenelactam-platinum-based anticancer drug (NPt), we developed a new synergistic effect by suppressing ATP-binding cassette subfamily B member 9 (ABCB9) and TRAF3IP3-mediated divergent lysosomal metabolic programs in tumors and human Tregs to block the production of active GARP/TGF-β1 for remodeling the tumor microenvironment. Mechanistically, NPt is stored in Treg lysosome to inhibit TRAF3IP3-meditated GARP/TGF-β1 complex activation to specifically deplete Tregs. In addition, by promoting the expression of ABCB9 in lysosome membrane, NPt inhibits SARA/p-SMAD2/3 through CHRD-induced TGF-β1 signaling pathway. In addition to expose a previously undefined divergent lysosomal metabolic program-meditated GARP/TGF-β1 complex blockade by exploring the inherent metabolic plasticity, NPt may serve as a therapeutic tool to boost unrecognized Treg-based immune responses to infection or cancer via a mechanism distinct from traditional platinum drugs and currently available immune-modulatory antibodies.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Cranioectodermal dysplasia (CED) is a rare autosomal recessive ciliopathy characterized by craniofacial, skeletal, and ectodermal anomalies. Significant phenotypic heterogeneity often results in clinical overlap with other skeletal dysplasias, including Robinow syndrome. In consanguineous populations, the presence of multiple rare variants can further complicate the molecular diagnosis. This study aimed to clarify the genetic basis of a complex syndromic presentation in a consanguineous Saudi family exhibiting features suggestive of both disorders using an integrated phenotypic, genomic, and computational approach.Exome sequencing was performed on two affected siblings, followed by Sanger sequencing for the familial segregation analysis. Detailed phenotypic evaluation was combined with structural and bioinformatics analyses, including in silico pathogenicity prediction tools, three-dimensional protein modeling, protein-protein interaction analysis, and molecular docking to assess the structural and functional impact of candidate variants.Exome sequencing identified a homozygous missense variant in IFT122 gene (c.94G > A; p.Gly32Arg), associated with cranioectodermal dysplasia 1, and a heterozygous frameshift variant in DVL3 gene (c.1949_1950del; p.His650Profs*60), associated with Robinow syndrome. Segregation analysis excluded the DVL3 variant as the primary cause, while the IFT122 variant segregated with the phenotype in an autosomal recessive manner. Computational analyses demonstrated that the p.Gly32Arg substitution affects a highly conserved residue and is consistently predicted to be deleterious. Structural modeling revealed the disruption of local hydrogen bonding, increased solvent accessibility, and reduced protein stability. Protein-protein interaction and molecular docking analyses further indicated altered interactions with key IFT-A components, including TTC21B, IFT140, TULP3, and IFT43, suggesting impaired intraflagellar transport complex integrity and ciliary protein trafficking.This study identifies a novel homozygous IFT122 (c.94G > A; p.Gly32Arg) variant underlying CED1, thereby expanding the molecular spectrum of IFT122-related ciliopathies. These findings emphasize the value of integrating phenotypic, genomic, segregation, and structural analyses to resolve diagnostically challenging cases, particularly in consanguineous populations. Further functional studies are warranted to confirm this molecular mechanism.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Genetics & Genomic Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Multiple morphological abnormalities of the sperm flagella (MMAF) is a major cause of male infertility, but identified gene variants can only explain about 60% of clinical cases. Here, dynein axonemal intermediate chain 4 (DNAI4) is identified as an essential regulator of sperm flagellum morphogenesis. RT-PCR and western blot analyses indicate that expression of DNAI4 is enriched in murine testes. Dnai4 deletion in mice causes male-specific infertility due to oligoasthenoteratospermia with MMAF. Electron microscopy analyses revealed that DNAI4 deficiency resulted in an abnormal ultrastructure of sperm flagella, including disorganized mitochondrial sheaths, outer dense fibers and '9+2' axonemes, and missing inner dynein arms (IDA) and outer dynein arms. The IDA component DNAH10 was remarkably reduced in testes and sperm tails of Dnai4 knockout mice. Immunoprecipitation demonstrated an interaction between DNAI4 and the intraflagellar transport protein IFT144 within the testes. Other IFT-A members, including IFT140, IFT122 and IFT121, were downregulated in sperm tails following Dnai4 deletion. Taken together, these findings establish DNAI4 as an essential regulator of sperm flagellum assembly and mammalian spermiogenesis, operating through the regulation of IDA assembly and retrograde intraflagellar transport.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Bladder exstrophy and epispadias complex (BEEC) is one of the most severe congenital malformations of the urogenital tract, significantly impacting continence, sexual function, and renal function. To date, the only recurrent genetic aberration identified is the 22q.11.2 microduplication, but several candidate regions and genes including components of the WNT signaling pathway have been proposed. This study aimed to identify additional genes contributing to the pathogenesis of BEEC and to verify previously suggested candidate genes. We performed trio-based whole genome sequencing on 19 individuals with BEEC and their unaffected parents; of those, five carried earlier reported microdeletions. The genome data was also filtered in silico for variants in 204 candidate genes selected from databases, publications, and in-house findings. Variants were prioritized based on allele frequency and predicted functional impact. In 8 of the 19 trios, our findings highlight members of the ADGR-gene family as novel candidate genes for BEEC, alongside other implicated genes such as TRANK1, CSNK1E, IFT122, SDK1, SDK2, and KIF19 and propose two more CNVs as risk factors for BEEC; on chromosome regions 1p36 and 16p11.2. This study identifies novel candidate genes for BEEC within the ADGR gene family. The results also further implicate a complex molecular background of BEEC.© 2026 The Author(s). American Journal of Medical Genetics Part A published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Spermiogenesis requires extensive molecular and structural remodeling to produce motile sperm. Mutations in the testis-specific RNA methyltransferase NSUN7 are associated with defective fibrous sheath, impaired sperm motility, and male infertility. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here, we performed proteomic profiling of sorted, elongated, and round spermatids, as well as mature spermatozoa from Nsun7 knockout mice. We showed that NSUN7 is present at all stages of spermiogenesis and is most abundant in round spermatids, which corresponds to the formation of the flagellum and fibrous sheath assembly. Loss of NSUN7 altered the abundance of proteins essential for dynein arm assembly (PIH1D3, CCDC103, CCDC40), intraflagellar transport (IFT122), and fibrous sheath organization (AKAP3, AKAP4, ROPN1L). We also showed that the previously detected impaired retention of cytoplasm in elongated spermatids may be caused by plectin accumulation. Interestingly, no statistically significant changes were found in mature sperm proteomes upon Nsun7 inactivation. Our findings support a model in which NSUN7 primarily stabilizes protein complexes and coordinates flagellar assembly. This indicates that NSUN7 is a critical regulator of spermiogenesis, and its malfunction is a contributing factor to male infertility.
Objective: To investigate the clinical characteristics of infantile cholestasis caused by IFT122 gene variants and the molecular mechanism underlying its impact on primary cilia. Methods: The clinical data of an infant with cholestasis from the Children's Hospital of Fudan University in September 2022 were retrospectively analyzed. The whole-exome sequencing was performed to identify candidate variants, which were validated by Sanger sequencing in the family. Immortalized cell lines were generated using lentiviral infection, followed by immunofluorescence staining to assess the impact of the variants on primary cilia. Intergroup comparisons were performed using the independent sample t-test and Mann-Whitney U test. Results: The proband was a 4-month-old male infant presenting with jaundice, distinctive facial features, and sagittal craniosynostosis. Blood biochemistry indicated elevated direct bilirubin, total bile acids, and transaminases, with markedly increased γ-glutamyltransferase (GGT). Liver pathology demonstrated giant cell hepatitis with cholestasis and bile duct dysplasia. Genetic analysis identified compound heterozygous variants in IFT122 (NM_052989.3) gene c.88G>C (p.Ala30Pro) and c.240G>C (p.Trp80Cys), which co-segregated with the disease in the family. Immunofluorescence analysis demonstrated that the IFT122 gene compound heterozygous missense variants not only significantly reduced the proportion of cilia-positive cells but also led to aberrant ciliary localization of ADP-ribosylation factor-like protein 13B (ARL13B).In addition, ciliary deposition with phosphatidylinositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase type Ⅳ (INPP5E) was reduced. All differences were statistically significant (all P<0.05). Conclusion: The compound heterozygous missense variants in IFT122 gene not only impair ciliogenesis but also disrupt the ciliary localization of ARL13B and INPP5E, ultimately resulting in high-GGT infantile cholestasis.
Cilia are thin extensions on the cells of eukaryotic organisms. They are formed by a special protein transport mechanism - the intraflagellar transporter (IFT). The IFT consists of two proteins: complex A and complex B. Mutations in the genes of the IFT-A complex (IFT43, IFT121, IFT122, IFT139, IFT140, and IFT144) lead to the development of skeletal ciliopathies. These include Sensenbrenner, Jeune, and short-rib polydactyly syndrome [1,2]. We report two cases of different ciliopathies in a non-related family; both parents are heterozygous carriers of a pathogenic mutation in the IFT122 gene.Thieme. All rights reserved.
ObjectiveTo investigate how intraflagellar transport protein 122 (IFT122) regulates murine embryonic palate mesenchymal cell (mEPMC) proliferation via the Sonic Hedgehog (Shh) pathway and its dependency on primary cilia integrity, elucidating mechanisms underlying cleft palate pathogenesis.DesignIntraflagellar transport protein 122 was silenced in E14.5-derived mEPMCs using lentiviral shRNA. Primary cilia morphology (immunofluorescence), Shh signaling components (Smo, Gli3 via qPCR/Western blot), and proliferation markers (CCK-8 assay, Proliferating Cell Nuclear Antigen [PCNA], Cyclin D1) were analyzed. Rescue experiments employed the Smoothened agonist (SAG) to activate Shh signaling.Main Outcome MeasureCilia incidence and length; Smo/Gli3 mRNA and protein expression; Gli3A/Gli3R ratio; cell proliferation rates (OD values, PCNA, Cyclin D1); SAG-mediated rescue effects.ResultsIntraflagellar transport protein 122 knockdown reduced cilia incidence (10.2% vs 2.4%, P < .01) and length (7.8 μm vs 3.4 μm, P < .01), impaired Smo trafficking (mRNA↓42%, protein↓50%), suppressed Gli3A/Gli3R ratio (↓62%), and inhibited proliferation (PCNA/Cyclin D1↓40%-60%, P < .01). Smoothened agonist partially restored Smo expression (↑1.8×), Gli3 activation, and proliferation (P < .05), confirming cilia-dependent Shh regulation.ConclusionIntraflagellar transport protein 122 maintains primary cilia structure to enable Shh-driven mEPMC proliferation. Its deficiency disrupts cilia integrity and Shh signaling, linking ciliary dysfunction to cleft palate. Partial rescue by SAG validates the mechanism, highlighting therapeutic potential for targeting cilia-Shh axis defects.
Pathologic bidirectional interactions between the extracellular matrix (ECM) and cells within the human trabecular meshwork (hTM) contribute to ocular hypertension. An in vitro model is needed to study these cell-matrix interactions and their effect on outflow homeostasis. This study aimed to determine whether pathogenic ECM derived from dexamethasone (DEX)-treated hTM cultures induces clinically relevant glaucoma-like changes in healthy hTM cells at the transcriptional level. Corneoscleral rims from non-glaucoma donors were used to isolate primary hTM cells after validation according to the consensus recommendations for TM culture. Normal hTM cells (n = 5) were plated on a coverslip and treated with 100 nM DEX or ethanol for four weeks. These cultures were then decellularized, plated with primary hTM cells, and allowed to grow for another 72 h. RNA was extracted from these hTM cells for stranded total RNA-Seq. Sequencing libraries prepared using the Zymo-Seq RiboFree Total RNA library kit were pooled and sequenced using Illumina NovaSeq 6000. After quality control, sequence reads were aligned to the human genome build hg19. Differential expression (DE) analyses were performed using paired multi-factorial ANOVA. The expression of several DE genes associated with glaucoma (ANGPTL2, PDE7B, C22orf23, COL4A1, ADAM12, IFT122, SEMA6C) was validated using EvaGreen-based Droplet Digital PCR (ddPCR) assays. Gene ontology analyses of the DE genes were performed using the PANTHER and NDEx IQA databases, and functional analyses were performed with the DAVID Bioinformatics software. Using a cutoff of p-value <0.05 and fold change ≥2.0, our differential analysis identified 267 up- and 135 down-regulated genes in DEX-induced ECM-treated cells compared to the control. These differentially expressed genes were found to play a significant role in pathways such as cytokine and oxidative stress-induced inflammation, integrin signaling, matrix remodeling, and angiogenesis. These findings were further supported by previously performed proteomics studies using the same model. Using ddPCR, we validated the expression of seven genes associated with the risk of primary open-angle glaucoma. These results not only provide support for the pathogenic ECM model of steroid-induced glaucoma, but also demonstrate that the pathologic changes induced by this model are indeed found at the transcriptional level. These findings further demonstrate that matrix changes significantly influence cell expression profiles, which enable further understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying glaucomatous changes in the TM. However, future studies with a larger and more diverse set of samples and longer time points are needed to confirm the utility of this model for mechanistic studies.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) are extensively utilized in varieties of products and tend to accumulate in the human body including umbilical cord blood and embryos/fetuses. In this study, we conducted an assessment and comparison of the potential early developmental toxicity of perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), undecafluorohexanoic acid (PFHxA), heptafluorobutyric acid, perfluorooctanesulfonate (PFOS), perfluorohexanesulfonate, and perfluorobutyric acid at noncytotoxic concentrations relevant to human exposure using models based on human embryonic stem cells in both three-dimensional embryoid body (EB) and monolayer differentiation configurations. All six compounds influenced the determination of cell fate by disrupting the expression of associated markers in both models and, in some instances, even led to alterations in the formation of cystic EBs. The expression of cilia-related gene IFT122 was significantly inhibited. Additionally, PFOS and PFOA inhibited ciliogenesis, while PFOA specifically reduced the cilia length. Transcriptome analysis revealed that PFOS altered 1054 genes and disrupted crucial signaling pathways such as WNT and TGF-β, which play integral roles in cilia transduction and are critical for early embryonic development. These results provide precise and comprehensive insights into the potential adverse health effects of these six PFAS compounds directly concerning early human embryonic development.
A 27-year-old multiparous woman conceived her fetus naturally. Early second-trimester ultrasound showed short extremities with systemic subcutaneous edema. The pregnancy was artificially terminated at 19 weeks of gestation because of the abnormalities based on the parents' wishes. The parents desired whole-exome sequencing to detect a causative gene using the umbilical cord and the parents' saliva. Compound heterozygous variants (NC_000003.11(NM_052989.3):c.230 T > G/NC_000003.11(NM_052985.4):c.1178A > T) were identified. We described a fetus with a novel compound heterozygous variant in IFT122. The phenotype of this case was severer than of other types of cranioectodermal dysplasia.© 2024 Japanese Teratology Society.
Chromosomal structural-variant (CSV)-associated conditions, or genomic disorders (GDs), remain a diagnostic challenge. Our cohort included 26 individuals with severe unselected phenotypes associated with simple CSVs, as well as two clinically unaffected individuals. Long-insert short-read (LI-SR) and short-insert whole-genome sequencing (SI-WGS) were applied to capture the full spectrum of structural and small sequence variants, complemented by whole-blood transcriptome profiling in 12 individuals. Genome-wide, pathway-stratified, and candidate gene-based phenotype-overlap analyses, together with pathway enrichment analysis, were performed to define the spectrum of pathogenic variants and underlying molecular mechanisms, thereby enabling comprehensive phenotype-genotype correlations and to assess the diagnostic yield and suitability of the applied WGS technologies within a genome-first personalized genomic-medicine (PGM) framework. Among disease-causing genes, eight were affected by gene disruption or position effects leading to autosomal dominant (AD) neurodevelopmental GDs, six were identified in individuals with benign simple CSVs with AD conditions caused by small sequence variants, and one case was attributed to a digenic combination of distinct variant types. Candidate disease-associated genes included FLT1 (RASopathies), SSBP3 (chromatinopathies), the ARL14EP-DT/FSHB locus, and position-effect-affected genes ZC4H2 and EDA2R, supported by phenotypic, transcriptomic, and pathway enrichment data. This integrative PGM approach-combining WGS, transcriptomic profiling providing orthogonal functional evidence, and detailed phenotyping-improves diagnostic yield, shortens the diagnostic odyssey, facilitates functional genome annotation, and enables the identification of previously unreported disease associations. These findings support SI-WGS as a first-tier diagnostic strategy for SV-associated conditions and highlight its potential utility in prenatal diagnosis and personalized medicine.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41727299
Prenatal detection of bilateral clubfoot should prompt a systematic evaluation for associated anomalies, particularly sacral defects and other lower-limb malformations. Arthrogryposis must also be considered in the differential diagnosis. Importantly, prenatal imaging should be complemented by postnatal assessments, which may, as in the present case, uncover a misdiagnosis with major implications for future pregnancies. This case report illustrated how detailed postnatal investigations led to the revision of an initial diagnosis of caudal regression syndrome to the final, exceptionally rare diagnosis of Wieacker-Wolff Syndrome. Such diagnostic correction carries substantial consequences for genetic counseling. Wieacker-Wolff syndrome, also referred to as intellectual disability, developmental delay, and contractures syndrome, is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by arthrogryposis and intellectual disability. It is inherited in an X-linked manner, either dominant or recessive, and is caused by pathogenic variants in the ZC4H2 gene.Copyright © 2025, Nicoletti et al.
De novo variants (DNs) are sporadically occurring variants found in an offspring but absent in both parents. DNs most commonly arise in the germline and are not under selective pressure; therefore, they may be enriched for disease-causing alleles. In fact, DNs have been implicated in multiple rare genetic disorders. Cleft palate (CP) is a craniofacial congenital anomaly occurring in ∼1 in 1,700 live births. Genome-wide association studies have found fewer than a dozen CP-specific loci, while exome and targeted sequencing studies in family-based and case-control cohorts often lack statistical power to conclusively identify causal variants. We therefore hypothesized that CP probands would be enriched for protein-altering DNs, which may explain the relative dearth in discovery. A complicating factor in understanding CP, however, is its phenotypically heterogeneous nature. As such, we aggregated sequence data for 818 trios with CP representing a combination of subtypes and isolated and syndromic presentations. We identified global enrichment of protein-altering DNs (1.48, p = 1.28 × 10-28) and exome-wide-significant (p < 1.3 × 10-6) gene-specific enrichment for SATB2, MEIS2, COL2A1, ZC4H2, EFTUD2, KAT6B, and ANKRD11. We found a statistically significant higher enrichment of protein-altering DNs in syndromic (1.70, p = 6.95 × 10-26) versus nonsyndromic (1.31, p = 8.51 × 10-8) probands but no differences between subtypes. We explored differences in gene-specific enrichment, finding some unique to syndromic probands (ZC4H2) or nonsyndromic probands (IRF6), as well as some shared between groups (SATB2). Altogether, we show that DNs are a contributor to CP risk and that combined analysis can enhance our ability to find genetic associations that would otherwise be undetected.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The ZC4H2 gene is the site of congenital mutations linked to neurodevelopmental and musculoskeletal pathologies collectively termed ZARD (ZC4H2-Associated Rare Disorders). ZC4H2 consists of a coiled coil and a single novel zinc finger with four cysteines and two histidines, from which the protein obtains its name. Alpha Fold 3 confidently predicts a structure for the zinc finger but also for similarly sized random sequences, providing equivocal information on its folding status. We show using synthetic peptide fragments that the zinc finger of ZC4H2 is genuine and folds upon binding a zinc ion with picomolar affinity. NMR pH titration of histidines and UV-Vis of a cobalt complex of the peptide indicate its four cysteines coordinate zinc, while two histidines do not participate in binding. The experimental NMR structure of the zinc finger has a novel structural motif similar to RANBP2 zinc fingers, in which two orthogonal hairpins each contribute two cysteines to coordinate zinc. Most of the nine ZARD mutations that occur in the ZC4H2 zinc finger are likely to perturb this structure. While the ZC4H2 zinc finger shares the folding motif and cysteine-ligand spacing of the RANBP2 family, it is missing key substrate-binding residues. Unlike the NZF branch of the RANBP2 family, the ZC4H2 zinc finger does not bind ubiquitin. Since the ZC4H2 zinc finger occurs in a single copy, it is also unlikely to bind DNA. Based on sequence homology to the VAB-23 protein, the ZC4H2 zinc finger may bind RNA of a currently undetermined sequence or have alternative functions.
Cerebral palsy (CP) is a permanent movement or postural disorder due to non-progressive injury to the developing brain, with recent research suggesting a genetic contribution in many patients. This study aimed to investigate the genetic etiology of CP in Slovene children without a previously suspected genetic cause or with prior negative genetic testing.All children born after 2003 from the Slovenian National Registry of Cerebral Palsy (SRCP) without an established genetic diagnosis were invited to participate in this cross-sectional study. Whole exome sequencing (WES) was conducted, followed by analysis of 110 CP-associated genes. Thirteen patients underwent additional family segregation by Sanger sequencing. Genetic findings were classified according to the ACMG guidelines.The study included 136 children, of whom 68 (50%) were male. Spastic CP was identified in 85% of the participants, dyskinetic in 13%, and ataxic in 2%. Gross Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS) levels varied, with the majority (36%) classified as level I. Pathogenic variants, likely pathogenic variants, or 'de novo' variants of unknown significance (VUS) were identified in nine children (6.6%) in ATL1, CTNNB1, DYRK1, KMT2A, PROC, SPAST, ZC4H2, and ZSWIM6. Among these nine children, two had normal brain Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and three had an unsuspicious medical history.This study identified plausible, possible, or definite genetic etiologies in a cohort of children with CP. Apart from the exclusion of individuals with a previously established genetic diagnosis, no other selection criteria were applied, allowing for an inclusive assessment of genetic contributions within this population. With the advent of personalized medicine and genetic treatment, understanding the genetic underpinnings of CP is crucial for targeted therapy.Copyright © 2025 Arkar Silan, Trebše, Kovač, Rogac, Troha Gergeli, Šket, Bregant, Neubauer, Peterlin and Osredkar.
The maintenance of excitatory synaptic activity is crucial for cognitive function and genetic mutations are responsible for the pathogenesis of related brain disorders. However, the roles of these pathogenic factors in synaptic dysregulation and cognitive malfunction are still poorly understood. In this study, a conditional knockout mouse model lacking ZC4H2-an X-linked gene implicated in ZC4H2-associated rare disorder (ZARD) -in forebrain excitatory neurons is generated and these mice exhibit cognitive malfunction, recapitulating the intellectual disability manifestation of ZARD. Mechanistically, ZC4H2 harbors a protein interaction network with key excitatory synaptic regulators and ZC4H2 interacts directly with AMPA receptors (AMPARs) and regulates their ubiquitination at the postsynaptic sites, thereby maintaining AMPARs protein stability and synaptic expression. ZC4H2 deficiency specifically and aberrantly increases AMPAR-mediated excitatory synaptic transmission and impairs synaptic plasticity of long-term potentiation. More importantly, pharmacological treatment with perampanel, an AMPAR-specific antagonist, successfully restores the excitatory synaptic activity and cognitive function of ZC4H2-deficient mice. Together, we establish that ZC4H2 is a postsynaptic regulator for AMPARs and excitatory synaptic activity and highlight that the dysregulation of these biological processes is a crucial etiology underlying ZARD-associated intellectual disability.
Hereditary spastic paraplegias (HSPs) are genetically and clinically heterogeneous, slowly progressive neurological disorders characterized by primary involvement of the corticospinal tracts. The early-onset forms of HSP (EO-HSP) are often defined as "cerebral palsy mimics" since symptoms begin in infancy and manifest as spastic di- or tetraplegia and possible neurodevelopmental disorder. The rarity and heterogeneity of these disorders make their diagnosis challenging. In this single-center study, we focus on the outcomes and diagnostic detection rate of EO-HSP patients from a cohort of 104 consecutive HSP cases. The discussion highlights the genetic variability in cases of EO-HSP that tested positive through a series of molecular analyses, particularly those requiring further investigation via whole exome sequencing (WES). This approach has shed light on the etiopathogenetic role of 19 variants across 10 different genes (COQ4, FOXG1, GRIN2B, HPDL, LRP2, RBMX, SPART, TBCD, ZBTB11, and ZC4H2) in 14 patients with complex EO-HSP. Notably, most of these genes are not conventionally classified as HSP-related or included in the SPG classification on the Online Mendelian Inherited in Men (OMIM) catalog. We emphasize the importance of detailed genotype-phenotype correlations and the diagnostic potential of a highly specialized translational approach in clinically selected cases lacking molecular confirmation, thereby expanding our understanding of the genetic variability of EO-HSP.Copyright © 2025 European Paediatric Neurology Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
To provide a comprehensive clinical and genetic characterization of individuals with arthrogryposis multiplex congenita (AMC), focusing on the distribution of genetic etiologies across the neuromuscular spectrum and comparing myogenic and neurogenic subtypes.A total of 105 individuals with AMC were clinically and genetically evaluated in a single-center study. Participants were stratified based on the primary site of involvement, and further classification was performed for neuromuscular cases into neurogenic and myogenic subtypes. Genetic diagnoses were made through using a range of next-generation sequencing techniques, including exome sequencing (42 individuals), gene panel testing (40 individuals), genome sequencing (24 individuals), and targeted-gene testing in selected cases. In most individuals who underwent genome sequencing, this was preceded by exome or gene panel testing.Of the 105 individuals, 4 were classified as Amyoplasia and 1 as FARAD. Among the remaining 100 cases, 81 (81%) presented with neuromuscular AMC, with defects involving motor neurons/peripheral nerves (52%, 42/81), neuromuscular junctions (7%, 6/81), and skeletal muscle (41%, 33/81). A genetic diagnosis was achieved in 55% (55/100) of the entire cohort and in 58% (47/81) of individuals with neuromuscular AMC. The most frequently implicated genes were TTN (16%, 9/55), CHRNG (10.9%, 6/55), PIEZO2 (9.1%, 5/55), ZC4H2 (9.1%, 5/55), DYNC1H1 (7.2%, 4/55), MYH3 (5.4%, 3/55), and RYR1 (5.4%, 3/55). Diagnostic yield varied significantly between subgroups, with 84.6% (33/39) of myogenic AMC cases genetically resolved, compared to 33.3% (14/42) of neurogenic cases. TTN was the most common gene in myogenic AMC, while ZC4H2 and DYNC1H1 were predominant in neurogenic AMC.This study provides a detailed phenotypic and genetic characterization of neuromuscular AMC, highlighting the most frequently affected genes and their associated phenotypes. The findings underscore the challenges in diagnosing a significant proportion of cases, especially within the neurogenic subgroup, and emphasize the importance of integrating detailed phenotypic data with genetic analysis to enhance diagnosis, prognosis, and management of family expectations.© 2025 The Author(s). Annals of Clinical and Translational Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Neurological Association.
ZC4H2 is an X-linked gene that has emerged as critical for neural development, synaptic functioning, and gene regulation. We present an 11-month-old male who was evaluated for bilateral congenital vertical talus identified in the newborn period. Exome sequencing identified a hemizygous, missense variant in ZC4H2, NM_018684.4:c.196C>T p.(Leu66Phe), that affects the same amino acid residue as a previously reported, pathogenic ZC4H2 variant, c.197T>A p.(Leu66His). The variant was inherited from his mother, who had camptodactyly of the fifth fingers, and was also present in the maternal uncle who carried a diagnosis of cerebral palsy. The pathogenic missense variant in this family is located in the coiled-coil domain of the ZC4H2 protein. Although data remain scarce, missense variants in this domain may be associated with a milder, ZC4H2-associated rare disorder (ZARD) phenotype.© 2025 Garg, Zhang, Hartmann and Slavotinek.
best4 + cells are a recently described vertebrate intestinal epithelial cell type. best4 + cells are altered in inflammatory bowel disease and colorectal cancer, suggesting that stimulation of their homeostatic replenishment may have therapeutic potential. However, the development and function of best4 + cells remain unclear. Since mice lack best4 + cells, we established zebrafish as a tractable in vivo model to observe, manipulate, and remove best4 + cells in an organismal context. We dissected best4 + cell developmental regulation in vivo from birth to differentiation and specialization, focusing on factors conserved in best4 + cells across vertebrates. Lineage tracing demonstrated that best4 + cells arise from secretory progenitors, where Notch/Dll4 signaling mediates a decision between best4 + and enterochromaffin cells by triggering meis1b expression. Following specification by meis1b, pbx3a spatially diversifies best4 + cells, which develop regional heterogeneity in gene expression, intracellular pH, and function. In vivo live imaging and removal of best4 + cells showed that best4+ cells sense luminal pH changes and extend dynamic luminal and stromal projections, but are not required to restore global luminal pH after challenge. Altogether, this study experimentally delineates best4 + cell developmental regulation and develops a genetic toolkit to examine their function in vivo, both of which will aid investigating how best4 + cells are altered or can be restored during disease.Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Osteoarthritis (OA) involves cartilage degradation and subchondral bone alterations, yet the mechanisms of chondro-endothelial crosstalk remain unclear. Stress-sensitive Piezo1 and SP1/Angptl7 signaling may play key roles in this process. This research aimed to investigate whether Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-BB regulates chondro-endothelial crosstalk via Piezo1-mediated SP1/Angptl7 inhibition.Single- and multiple-cell-component organoids (chondrocytes SW1353 and endothelial HMEC-1) were constructed using high-throughput 3D culture. Organoids were treated with MIA to induce OA-like changes, followed by PDGF-BB with or without Yoda1 (Piezo1 activator) or Angptl7. In vivo, OA was induced in rats by intraarticular MIA injection, and PDGF-BB or sodium hyaluronate (SH)-PDGF was administered. Histology and immunofluorescence were used to assess F-actin formation, Piezo1 activation, SP1 phosphorylation, Angptl7 and VEGF/Notch/DLL4 expression.PDGF-BB inhibited F-actin formation and reduced Piezo1 activation in OA chondrocytes. It suppressed SP1 phosphorylation and Angptl7 expression, downregulating VEGF/Notch/DLL4 signaling and reducing endothelial invasion in organoids. These effects were partially reversed by Yoda1 and fully reversed by Angptl7. In vivo, PDGF-BB and SH-PDGF attenuated cartilage degeneration and reduced Piezo1 activation, SP1 phosphorylation, and Angptl7 expression.PDGF-BB alleviates OA by inhibiting SP1/Angptl7-mediated chondro-endothelial crosstalk, partially via stress-sensitive Piezo1 regulation through cytoskeletal remodeling. Multiple-cell-component organoids provide a valuable in vitro model for studying cartilage pathophysiology.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Cheng, Li, Zhang, Zhu and Cai.
Neddylation is highly activated in many human cancers and may serve as a therapeutic target for clinical treatment. However, it remains unclear regarding the role of neddylation in tumor angiogenesis. Here, we demonstrate that the neddylation E2 enzyme UBE2M is upregulated in tip cells and is essential for tumor vascular sprouting. We show that UBE2M-mediated neddylation of STAT1 enhances its phosphorylation and promotes the transcription of DLL4. This elevated DLL4 expression in tip cells activates Notch signaling in adjacent stalk cells, thereby maintaining the tip-stalk cell balance and ensuring organized vascular patterning. Consequently, endothelial-specific deletion of UBE2M reduces DLL4 expression, leading to excessive but non-productive sprouting due to uncontrolled tip cell formation and lack of stalk cell support, which ultimately suppresses tumor growth. Importantly, targeting endothelial neddylation potently sensitizes various tumors to anti-VEGF therapy. Together, our findings unveil UBE2M as a key regulator of angiogenic signaling and identify it as a promising anti-angiogenic target in cancer.
EphrinB2 and its receptor EphB4 have been reported to play a crucial role in the development of the cardiovascular system, and the process of coronary artery disease (CAD) is closely related to angiogenesis. The aim of this study is to identify and analyze the therapeutic value of the EphrinB2/EphB4 signaling pathway and angiogenesis-related biomarkers.The CAD chip data (GSE42148) was used for differential analysis to identify differently expressed genes (DEGs). Key module genes associated with CAD were identified using WGCNA. Machine learning and expression validation were executed for screening biomarkers. In addition, the biological functions of biomarkers were explored using enrichment analyses. Finally, the diagnostic and therapeutic value of biomarkers was explored through immune infiltration analysis and drug prediction.Totally, 927 DEGs were identified in CAD and control groups. A total of 1,605 key CAD-related module genes were obtained for subsequent analyses. Then, PTX3, DLL4, and CITED4 were identified as biomarkers. Enrichment analysis suggested that three biomarkers were associated with allograft rejection. Analysis of 28 immune cell infiltrates revealed that CD56dim natural killer cell, eosinophil, mast cell, and MDSC etc. were significantly different between CAD and control groups. Finally, small-molecule drugs, notably simvastatin and calcitriol, were predicted and validated via molecular docking (binding energies < -6.0 kcal/mol) to have a potential therapeutic role in CAD by targeting PTX3 and CITED4, respectively.We obtained three EphrinB2/EphB4 signaling pathway and angiogenesis-related biomarkers (PTX3, DLL4, and CITED4) linked with CAD, which provide new references for the treatment of CAD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease characterized by synovial hyperplasia, inflammatory cell infiltration, and pathological angiogenesis, ultimately leading to progressive joint damage. Cold-inducible RNA-binding protein (CIRP) has been implicated in inflammatory responses; however, its role in RA-associated angiogenesis remains unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that CIRP gene knockout or pharmacological inhibition using C23 significantly attenuates arthritis severity and reduces synovial angiogenesis in adjuvant-induced arthritis models. In vitro experiments revealed that CIRP promotes human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) tube formation, migration, and invasion by upregulating the expression of C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) and Delta-like ligand 4 (DLL4). Notably, blocking extracellular CIRP with C23 inhibited CIRP-induced angiogenesis in HUVECs. Further investigations showed that Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) knockdown suppressed CIRP-induced angiogenesis in HUVECs, indicating that CIRP promotes angiogenesis through a TLR4-dependent mechanism. Subsequent mechanistic studies revealed that CIRP upregulates histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) expression via TLR4 in HUVECs. We therefore investigated the role of HDAC1 in CIRP-induced angiogenesis, and found that HDAC1 knockdown significantly inhibited this process. Moreover, CIRP promotes pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) nuclear translocation and suppresses PKM2 lactylation through the TLR4-mediated HDAC1 pathway. Furthermore, The PKM2 lysine 62 to arginine (K62R) mutant enhances PKM2 nuclear translocation and promotes angiogenesis. Taken together, these results suggest that HDAC1-mediated PKM2 delactylation modification regulates CIRP-induced angiogenesis in RA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In cartilage-related studies, the existing in vitro cartilage models often fail to simulate the complex pathophysiology involving a hypoxic microenvironment, abnormal intercellular mechanical stress (microstress), and pathological crosstalk between chondrocytes and vascular endothelial cells. he aim of this study was to develop and validate a novel, simplified multi-cell-component cartilage organoid model capable of mimicking these three key OA-related features in vitro, using readily available cell lines.Organoids were constructed using SW1353 chondrocytes and HMEC-1 endothelial cell lines within low-adhesion grid microchambers. A monosodium iodoacetate (MIA)-induced OA model was developed. Histological and immunofluorescence analyses of the organoids were conducted to examine markers of matrix metabolism, cytoskeletal and intercellular microstress, hypoxic microenvironment, and chondrocyte -endothelial crosstalk. The organoid features were compared with those of standard 2D cell cultures and in vivo cartilages.The multi-cell-component organoids successfully recapitulated critical in vivo features. They exhibited MIA-induced F-actin reorganization and PIEZO1 upregulation, developed a hypoxic core with elevated hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF-1α) levels, and formed an endothelial shell that invasively disrupted the chondrocyte core upon MIA treatment. This disruption was accompanied by the activation of vascular endothelial growth factor -NOTCH receptor 1 -delta-like ligand 4 (VEGF -NOTCH1 -DLL4) signaling, mirroring the pathological chondrocyte -endothelial crosstalk. Single-cell-component organoids simulated microstress-related changes but not hypoxia or chondrocyte -endothelial crosstalk.The multi-cell-component cartilage organoids constructed from tumor-derived cell lines using low-adhesion grid microchambers partially simulated intercellular microstress, hypoxic microenvironment, and chondrocyte -endothelial crosstalk, which was similar to that observed in cartilages in vivo. These organoids provide a new strategy for conducting cartilage-related studies in vitro.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Zhu, Li, Zhang, Cheng and Cai.
The TBX1 deletion is frequently observed in patients with tetralogy of Fallot (TOF), the most prevalent cyanotic congenital heart defect (CHD); however, the role of noncoding variants in its regulatory region remains unclear. We performed whole-genome sequencing (WGS) on a cohort of 428 patients diagnosed with TOF, which identified the presence of 22q11.2 deletion in 31 cases, including the TBX1 genomic region, as well as 7 functional noncoding variants in its enhancer (EnhTBX1). These findings accounted for a total of 9.81% (42/428) of TOF cases. We then knocked out EnhTBX1 (EnhTBX1-/-) in ES cells and utilized blood vessel organoids (BVOs) as a model to elucidate the mechanisms underlying outflow tract (OFT) vessel dysfunction. The EnhTBX1-/- BVOs exhibited significantly reduced TBX1 mRNA expression, leading to impaired angiogenesis, vessel regression with decreased pericyte coverage, and alterations in tight junction morphology. Mechanistically, we have identified TBX1 as a specific transcription factor for endothelial progenitor cells that influences their differentiation. The main targets of TBX1 are genes involved in angiogenesis-related pathways, such as DLL4 and TGFBR2, which have been reported to play crucial roles during OFT formation. Finally, rescue experiments with TBX1 overexpression not only reinstated the expression of aforementioned target genes but also recovered tight junction formation and enhanced pericyte coverage rate of EnhTBX1-/- BVOs. In conclusion, this study demonstrates the involvement of noncoding variants in the TBX1 enhancer in TOF pathogenesis, highlighting the feasibility of using organoids to decipher the underlying mechanisms of unconserved noncoding regions in developmental malformations.© 2026. Science China Press.
Sepsis remains a leading cause of death. Reverse migrated neutrophils, characterized as ICAM1hiCXCR1lo, have been recognized as a key driver of systemic inflammation and organ injury in sepsis. We discovered a distinct delta-like ligand 4-positive (DLL4+) subset of neutrophils that accumulate in the lungs, contributing to lung injury; however, the underlying mechanism is less understood. In sepsis, ICAM1hiCXCR1lo neutrophils, being hyperactive, are detrimental. Here, we investigated how DLL4+ neutrophils activate alveolar macrophages (AMs) to cause endothelial cell barrier disruption and promote neutrophil reverse migration. AMs were treated with DLL4+ neutrophils or recombinant mouse DLL4, and a disintegrin and metalloprotease (ADAM17) generated by AMs was assessed at both mRNA and protein levels. Conditioned medium was subsequently applied to pulmonary vascular endothelial cells (pVECs); junctional adhesion molecule-C (JAM-C) protein was detected by Western blot assays; and ICAM1hiCXCR1lo neutrophils were detected by flow cytometry. We demonstrate that during sepsis induced by cecal ligation and puncture (CLP), DLL4+ neutrophils interact with AMs via the Notch1 pathway, leading to increase of ADAM17 expression. ADAM17 decreased JAM-C on pVECs, causing endothelial barrier disruption and ICAM1hiCXCR1lo neutrophil generation. A small-molecule inhibitor of ADAM17 effectively preserved pulmonary endothelial barrier integrity and reduced ICAM1hiCXCR1lo neutrophil accumulation. Importantly, we have developed a novel DLL4-Notch1 inhibitory peptide (NDI) that effectively suppresses ADAM17 expression, restores JAM-C, and reduces ICAM1hiCXCR1lo neutrophil accumulation in sepsis. These findings identify DLL4+ neutrophils as critical inflammatory mediators that exacerbate systemic inflammation and worsen sepsis, and highlight the DLL4-Notch1-ADAM17 axis as a promising therapeutic target.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for Leukocyte Biology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC) is a common malignant tumor in otorhinolaryngology, with a high incidence rate and a tendency of lymph node metastasis. This study aims to systematically evaluate the expression of the transcription factor SOX4 in LSCC and its clinical relevance, clarify its impact on the biological behavior of tumors and potential molecular mechanisms, and provide a theoretical basis for diagnosis and treatment.Bioinformatics analysis was conducted based on the GEO dataset (GSE201777) to evaluate the expression of SOX4 and its clinical relevance; The expression of SOX4 in LSCC clinical tissues and cell lines was verified by qRT-PCR. SOX4 knockdown and overexpression cell models were constructed. Proliferation was evaluated by MTS and colony formation assays, migration and invasion were evaluated by scratch and Transwell assays, and apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry and TUNEL. The downstream effector molecules of SOX4 were screened by transcriptome sequencing and verified by functional recovery experiments. The association between SOX4 and tumor immune infiltration as well as drug sensitivity was explored by combining bioinformatics analysis. Ultimately, the effects of SOX4 on tumor growth and lymph node metastasis in vivo were evaluated in a xenograft mouse model.Bioinformatics and experimental data consistently showed that SOX4 was upregulated in LSCC and positively correlated with disease progression and lymph node metastasis. In vitro experiments have shown that knockdown of SOX4 significantly inhibits the proliferation, migration and invasion of LSCC cells, while overexpression of SOX4 promotes a malignant phenotype. Transcriptome and functional verification determined that PTBP2 is a downstream effector molecule of SOX4. The restored expression of PTBP2 can partially alleviate the inhibitory effect caused by SOX4 knockdown. Bioinformatics analysis further suggests that the SOX4/PTBP2 axis is associated with the tumor immune microenvironment and the sensitivity to several anti-cancer drugs. In vivo studies have shown that knockdown of SOX4 or administration of erlotinib significantly inhibited tumor growth and reduced the rate of lymph node metastasis.SOX4 promotes the growth and lymph node metastasis of LSCC by regulating PTBP2. The SOX4-PTBP2 axis may become a potential diagnostic and therapeutic target for LSCC.Copyright © 2026 Kong, Hao, Yang, Xin, Cao, Li, He and Wang.
Heart specialization involves nuclear programs; however, chamber-specific regulation of the nuclear proteome landscape remains unknown. In this study, we isolated the nucleus from four major anatomical regions of healthy mouse heart (fresh) and employed quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics to construct a comprehensive nuclear proteome landscape of left ventricle (LV, 2403 proteins), right ventricle (RV, 2242 proteins), left atrium (LA, 2368 proteins), and right atrium (RA, 1816 proteins). This led to the discovery of nuclear regional proteome signatures (ventricular signature, 297 proteins; atrial signature, 183 proteins) associated with oxidative metabolism and redox regulation, ferroptosis, extracellular-matrix remodeling, SUMO- and stress-responsive control and transcriptional regulation. Chamber-level analyses further identify distinct nuclear features in LV (120 proteins), LA (188 proteins), and RA (72 proteins). In addition, we defined conserved core nuclear proteome (230 proteins) shared across all anatomical regions, enriched for transcription-regulator complexes, nucleolar/ribosome-associated, RNA-processing, and chromatin-organization components. Within this core network, we report 78 transcription factors/co-factors and select nuclear, chromatin and RNA export-associated proteins, including 29 specific factors (e.g., Alpk3, Rbm14, Arglu1, Hmgb1, Myef2, Sf1) associated with the heart. Regionally, we verified spatial localization in heart of H2ac21 and Sun2 in LA and Ptbp2 in LV by immunofluorescence. This study provides insights into the chamber-resolved view of the nuclear proteome in the heart, establishes a framework for linking nuclear proteomic signatures to atrial and ventricular biology, unique features of the heart nuclear proteome landscape relative to other organs, and a baseline for studying nuclear remodeling in cardiac pathophysiology.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chronic oxidative stress is a major contributor to neuronal aging. Due to the lack of homologous recombination (HR) DNA damage repair, high oxygen consumption in neurons causes DNA damage accumulation with age, resulting in a decline in neuronal function, senescence-like phenotypes and onset of neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we identify increased PTBP1 as a stress-inducible negative regulator of neuronal gene expression and senescence-protectant genes. Oxidative stress robustly increases PTBP1 expression in ShSY-5Y differentiated neurons and primary mouse cortical neurons, coinciding with the loss of neuronal genes, including neuronal PTBP2 , and activation of stress-responsive genes. Knockdown of PTBP1 in fibroblasts reduces the expression of key senescence genes. Transcriptomic analyses revealed that PTBP1 overexpression results in coordinated shift in gene expression characterized by repression of neuronal commitment genes and activation of stress and senescence genes. Mechanistically, PTBP1 induction is regulated by stress induced CTCF binding at the PTBP1 promoter. Together, our findings suggest that alteration in levels of PTBP1 acts as a molecular switch between neuronal function and survival, providing insight into transcriptional adaptations associated with aging.Loss of PTBP1 in fibroblasts acts as a senescence protective gene xidative stress induces expression of PTBP1 , reducing neuronal function gene expression and activating stress and cell cycle genes Ectopic PTBP1 expression reprograms neuronal transcription, down-regulating cell fate commitment genes and activating a cell senescence program xidative stress induces PTBP1 and suppresses neuronal specific PTBP2 expression in primary cortical neurons.
Polypyrimidine Tract Binding Protein 2 (Ptbp2) binds to polypyrimidine clusters in pre-mRNA molecules and plays a vital role in alternative splicing, especially during neuronal development and maturation. Our study shows that Ptbp2 binds to the 3' UTR of DNA polymerase kappa (Polk), leading to its stabilization and increased expression. While Polk's role in DNA repair is known, its post-transcriptional regulation remains largely unclear. We observed a correlation between increased Ptbp2 levels and higher Polk expression in clinical samples of Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML). Knocking out Ptbp2 in CML cell lines and patient samples decreased Polk levels; when treated with hydroxyurea, these samples exhibited increased DNA damage, evidenced by long comet tails and elevated γH2AX foci, a DNA damage marker; however, re-expressing Polk in Ptbp2-KO cells restored the phenotype. Disruption of the DNA repair pathway is a hallmark of cancer and is closely linked to genomic instability. Polk was found to interact with MRE11 of the MRN complex, regulating the activation of the ATM-CHK2 signaling pathway. Cells with high levels of Ptbp2 and Polk showed increased sister chromatid exchanges and BrdU incorporation in ex vivo tests, while multinucleated cells with multipolar spindles appeared in in vivo tests. Our results confirm the key role of the Ptbp2-Polk-MRE11 axis in promoting genomic instability and supporting the survival of cells with higher malignancy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Damage following ischemic stroke is worsened by microglial activation and subsequent neuroinflammation. Polypyrimidine tract binding protein 2 (Ptbp2) can influence the chemotaxis and repolarization of cancer-related macrophages; however, its specific role in microglial polarization and the underlying mechanisms are not yet fully understood. This study aimed to elucidate the neuroprotective mechanisms of Ptbp2 and examine its effects on microglial activation, neuroinflammation, and glucose metabolism following cerebral ischemia. Mice model of ischemic stroke was developed using temporary middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO). Adeno-associated viruses were used for overexpression and knockdown in C57 mice, and microglial polarization, blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity, and glycolytic parameters in the peri-infarct cortex were evaluated. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed on mouse brain tissues. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, the mouse brain microvascular endothelial cell line bEnd.3 and BV2 microglial cell line were used. The protective effect of Ptbp2 on BBB integrity following stroke was evaluated by targeted overexpression and knockdown. We found that Ptbp2 overexpression reduced microglia-mediated neuroinflammation and BBB damage while inhibiting pathological glycolysis, according to findings from both in vitro and in vivo studies. Additionally, Ptbp2 level was significantly downregulated in patients with stroke compared to controls, and was inversely correlated with the severity of neural impairment. Our study unveils novel immunomodulatory mechanisms in stroke and highlights Ptbp2 and its regulatory network as potential therapeutic targets for stroke.© 2026. The Author(s).
Direct lineage reprogramming represents a promising strategy to convert somatic cells into neurons, offering regenerative potential. While transcription factor-based approaches have been extensively studied, the role of post-transcriptional regulation, particularly alternative splicing (AS), in neuronal fate acquisition remains poorly defined. Here, we demonstrate that the concurrent knockdown of the splicing regulator PTBP2 and the barrier protein p53 enhances the neuronal conversion of human retinal pigment epithelial (hRPE-19) cells when combined with ASCL1 and miR-9/9*-124 (AMnp). Transcriptomic and splicing analyzes reveal that PTBP2 depletion induces widespread AS changes, most notably promoting near-complete inclusion of exon 36 in the ANK2 gene, which encodes a key regulator of axon initial segment assembly. Functional and rescue assays confirm that loss of exon 36 significantly impairs neuronal induction, whereas re-expression restores neuronal conversion efficiency, establishing ANK2 isoform switching as a mechanistic requirement for reprogramming. Moreover, photoreceptor markers expression in AMnp-reprogrammed neurons suggests partial photoreceptor-like features potentially reflecting residual epigenetic memory, with chromatin remodeling potentially cooperating with splicing to influence subtype specification. These findings identify the PTBP2-ANK2 splicing axis as an isoform-specific molecular switch for RPE-to-neuron conversion, offering a strategy to enhance the precision and efficiency of neuronal reprogramming.© 2026 International Society for Neurochemistry.
Single-cell analysis has refined our understanding of cellular heterogeneity in glioma, yet RNA alternative splicing, a critical layer of transcriptome regulation, remains underexplored at single-cell resolution. Here, we present a pan-glioma single-cell alternative splicing analysis in both tumor and immune cells through integrating seven SMART-seq2 datasets of human gliomas to uncover overlooked isoform-level regulations shaping glioma progression and immune responses.Our analysis reveals lineage-specific alternative splicing regulation among glioma cellular states, with the most divergent alternative splicing landscapes observed between mesenchymal and neuronal-like glioma cells. Notably, this includes events in TCF12 exon 15 and PTBP2 exon 10, two key regulators of mesenchymal and neuronal transcriptomes. Inducing TCF12 exon 15 inclusion in glioma cells with a dCasRx-RBM25 system promotes neuronal gene expression, suppresses genes related to extracellular matrix organization, and enhances sensitivity to radiotherapy. Comparison of core and peripheral glioma cells highlights alternative splicing redox co-regulation of TPM1 and ACTN4, key genes involved in cytoskeletal organization. Further analysis of glioma-infiltrating immune cells reveals altered first exon usage of UGP2 in regulatory T cells and an association between MS4A7 alternative splicing in macrophages and clinical response to anti-PD-1 therapy.This study emphasizes the role of alternative splicing in glioma cellular heterogeneity, highlighting the importance of an isoform-centric approach to better understand the complex biological processes driving tumorigenesis.© 2025. The Author(s).
Comprehensive identification and profiling of antigens in serum immune complexes (ICs) is crucial for developing early diagnostic biomarkers for cancer. We therefore undertook this study to identify novel IC-derived autoantigens and autoantibodies in patients with breast cancer, and to evaluate their potential as new biomarkers.ICs were purified from serum with C1q and Protein A/G affinity capture. The isolated complexes were digested with papain and analyzed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Twelve candidate autoantibodies revealed by LC-MS/MS were first verified with a digital liquid chip method (DLCM) in baseline serum from 40 breast cancer patients and eight healthy controls. Five autoantibodies were then validated in independent cohorts of 33 breast cancer patients and 45 healthy controls, using DLCM.Autoantibodies targeting PF4, PSMB3, PRPF19, RTCB, SDHA, ENO1, PTBP2, PRDX6, ANP32A, VDAC1, MMP14 and HSPA4 were identified both purification methods. In the verification cohort, IgG autoantibodies against HSPA4, ENO1, PRDX6, PRPF19 and MMP14 were significantly increased in breast cancer patients with areas under the curve (AUCs) of 0.90, 0.89, 0.82, 0.78 and 0.77, respectively. Their combined panel discriminated breast cancer from controls with an AUC of 0.97. In the validation cohort, the same autoantibodies achieved AUCs of 0.79, 0.81, 0.73, 0.87, and 0.82, and the combination of these five autoantibodies yielded an AUC of 0.88.The autoantibodies identified from ICs can serve as effective serum biomarkers for breast cancer. Anti-HSPA4, anti-PRPF19, anti-ENO1, anti-PRDX6, and anti-MMP14 autoantibodies showed significant increases in breast cancer patients.Copyright © 2025 Zheng, Li, Peng, Tang, Liang, Wang, Dai and Tan.
Liver ischemia-reperfusion injury (LIRI) represents a significant cause of hepatic dysfunction, with glycine decarboxylase (GLDC) emerging as a crucial molecular marker. This study investigated how GLDC attenuates LIRI by inhibiting macrophage recruitment and activation through the polypyrimidine tract-binding protein 1 (PTBP1) and polypyrimidine tract-binding protein 2 (PTBP2). In LIRI, the excessive inflammatory response of macrophages exacerbates liver injury. Therefore, inhibiting macrophage recruitment and activation is one of the key strategies to alleviate LIRI. In the present study, we found that decreased GLDC expression promoted macrophage infiltration in the liver tissue of LIRI patients. The PTBP1 and Pyrimidine Receptor P2Y6 (P2RY6) play key roles in macrophage recruitment and activation, indirectly affecting macrophage function by regulating the activity of GLDC and ultimately alleviating LIRI. Additionally, it was shown that GLDC promotes the degradation of PTBP1 through the autophagy pathway, thereby inhibiting macrophage aggregation and activation. Overexpression of GLDC improves hepatic histopathology and reduces serum AST, ALT and inflammatory factor levels. Through comprehensive in vivo and in vitro studies, we establish that GLDC overexpression confers protection against LIRI, providing a solid theoretical foundation for developing novel therapeutic interventions targeting this pathway.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
RNA binding proteins play an important role in regulating alternative pre-mRNA splicing and in turn cellular gene expression. Polypyrimidine tract binding proteins, PTBP1 and PTBP2, are paralogous RNA binding proteins that play a critical role in the process of neuronal differentiation and maturation; changes in the concentration of PTB proteins during neuronal development direct splicing changes in many transcripts that code for proteins critical for neuronal differentiation. PTBP1 can compensate for the loss of PTBP2 in some developmental contexts but not others signifying the paralogs have distinct functions. How two highly structurally similar proteins regulate different sets of neuronal exons is unclear and if known, will reveal how gene families evolved to achieve tissue-specific splicing and in turn, gene expression patterns. Here, we incubated PTBP1 and PTBP2 under splicing reaction conditions containing neuronal WERI retinoblastoma nuclear extract and probed for interacting partner proteins and chemical modifications via mass spectrometry. Our results reveal key differences in the kinds of proteins and processes the paralogs associate with under these conditions. Our data also highlight the presence of novel and distinct chemical modifications on the paralogs when incubated with neuronal nuclear extracts. Collectively, our study suggests a role for chemical modifications in regulating PTBP function in neuronal vs non-neuronal cells.Copyright: © 2025 Sullivan et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Histone lactylation links lactate metabolism to chromatin regulation, but whether lactylation-program-associated transcriptional patterns delineate recurrent pan-cancer tumor states remains unclear.We integrated mRNA, lncRNA, and miRNA profiles from 9712 TCGA tumors across 33 cancer types with GTEx references, six GEO cohorts, IMvigor210, and an institutional clear-cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) cohort used for exploratory DIA-NN proteomic corroboration. Random-effects co-expression meta-analysis, multi-omics consensus clustering, regulon inference, immune deconvolution, TIDE, oncoPredict, and SHAP-based machine learning were applied. hsa-miR-431-5p was functionally evaluated as a proof-of-concept CS2-associated miRNA in bladder cancer models.LacCoEx-Atlas comprised 398,491 lactylation-related co-expression pairs across 24,667 RNA features under a random-effects framework (median I² = 88.6%). Consensus clustering identified two subtypes: CS2 showed glycolytic-mesenchymal-immune-excluded features, M2 macrophage enrichment, CD8⁺ T-cell depletion, elevated HDAC4/NSD3/KDM6B activity, and worse survival, whereas CS1 showed oxidative, sirtuin-active programs. CS2 had fewer predicted ICI responders (18.3% vs. 52.0%) and a lower observed ORR in IMvigor210 (15.3% vs. 24.0%). oncoPredict identified NU7441 as a hypothesis-generating CS2-associated sensitivity signal (Hedges' g = 1.17). DIA-NN proteomics in 50 ccRCC specimens provided exploratory support for CS2-associated hypoxia, ECM degradation, and metastasis programs. The 10-feature mRNA LARItools model achieved an apparent AUC of 0.9413, while a separate multi-omics model achieved 0.971; neither was independently validated. LARItools reproduced prognostic separation across six GEO cohorts. miR-431-5p promoted malignant phenotypes and EMT in bladder cancer cells, with concordant CMU4h expression findings.Lactylation-program-associated transcriptional patterns delineate a recurrent immune-excluded pan-cancer tumor state associated with adverse prognosis, reduced predicted immunotherapy responsiveness, exploratory single-cancer protein-level support, and testable DNA damage response-targeting hypotheses. LacCoEx-Atlas and LARItools provide open resources for lactylation-program-associated tumor-state stratification and future translational research.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The nonheme Fe-(II)/2-oxoglutarate (2OG)-dependent histone demethylase KDM6B (JMJD3) has demonstrated a capacity for diversity in the oxidative transformations of Nε-alkylated lysine residues in histone H3 peptides; however, the mechanisms of such dealkylations, compared with standard KDM-catalyzed demethylations, remain unexplored. We implemented molecular dynamics and quantum mechanics/molecular mechanics to investigate the catalytic strategies for the sequential oxidation reactions of KDM6B with different N-alkylated forms of lysine K27 in the H3 peptide chain, that is N ε, N ε-methyl ethyl lysine (Lys-(Me/Eth)) and N ε-isopropyl lysine (Lys-(iPr)). The results for sequential oxidations, which yield alcohol, aldehyde, and then carboxylic acid products, reveal that variations in the conformational positioning of different N-alkylated groups are enabled by second coordination sphere (SCS) interactions and long-range correlated motions. Specifically, access of the different N-alkylated groups to the reactive Fe-(IV)=O intermediate, leading to hydroxylation, is controlled by a network of SCS interactions, in particular involving N344 and Y239, which was also demonstrated by MD and QM/MM calculations on N344A and Y239A mutants. Subsequent oxidations of the alcohols to aldehyde and acid derivatives are also guided by the conformational positioning of the hydroxylated/aldehyde substituent. QM/MM calculations predicted regio- and chemo-selective oxidation can be initiated through hydrogen atom transfer involving σ- or π-mechanisms. The insights would guide experimental efforts to design Fe-(II)/2OG enzymes with non-native catalytic activities and altered substrate selectivity. Furthermore, the results reveal mechanistic features that can be leveraged to design biocatalytic platforms for the selective functionalization of peptide-based drugs.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42518135 is a review article
Castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) represents an aggressive stage of prostate cancer that develops following resistance to androgen deprivation therapy. Although androgen receptor (AR) signaling remains a central driver of disease progression, additional adaptive molecular mechanisms contribute to therapeutic resistance. Understanding the transcriptional programs underlying CRPC may facilitate the identification of novel biomarkers and therapeutic targets.RNA sequencing-based transcriptomic profiling was performed to compare a non-malignant prostate epithelial model (PNT2) with a CRPC model retaining AR expression (22Rv1). Differential gene expression analysis was conducted using DESeq2. Functional enrichment analyses were performed using Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses. Gene co-expression network analysis was applied to identify coordinated regulatory interactions. Clinical validation of candidate genes was performed using Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis 2 (GEPIA2), integrating datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) project.Transcriptomic comparison revealed extensive transcriptional remodeling associated with the castration-resistant phenotype. Several genes, including MALAT1, FASN, PARP1, SET, ENSG00000214719, and IGF1, were significantly dysregulated. Functional enrichment analyses demonstrated activation of metabolic processes, ribosome-associated pathways, nucleic acid binding functions, and PI3K-Akt signaling. Gene co-expression network analysis identified an AR-centered regulatory module involving PARP1, KDM6B, BAZ2A, RANGAP1, NFAT5, and MAP4. Clinical validation confirmed elevated expression of FASN, PARP1, SET, and ENSG00000214719 in prostate adenocarcinoma samples.Integrated transcriptomic and network analyses reveal coordinated metabolic, epigenetic, and DNA damage response pathways contributing to CRPC progression and identify potential combinatorial therapeutic vulnerabilities in advanced prostate cancer.Copyright 2026 Authors.
Chronic itch poses a significant clinical burden, with activation of the brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) pathway as a hallmark, though its transcriptional control remains unclear. We identify T-box transcription factor 20 (TBX20) as upregulated in skin of atopic dermatitis patients, with increased expression in NPR1+ keratinocytes. ChIP peak calling, ChIP-qPCR and dual-luciferase assays show TBX20 activates the NPR1 promoter. In mice, keratinocyte-specific TBX20 knockout (TBX20fl/fl; K14-Cre) reduces scratching, IL-4 and Oncostatin M levels, basophil markers, and decreases cutaneous NPR1 expression. TBX20 is also expressed in a subset of NPR1+ sensory neurons, and neuron-specific deletion similarly alleviates itch, basophil infiltration, and barrier dysfunction. RNA-seq identifies lipocalin-2 as a downstream effector of the TBX20-NPR1 axis, and its deletion reduces itch. Conversely, AAV-mediated TBX20 rescue exacerbates symptoms. Neuregulin 1 suppresses TBX20, attenuates IL-13-driven NPR1 signalling, and reduces itch. These findings define a TBX20-NPR1 axis as a critical regulator of chronic itch and skin dysfunction.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to investigate the role and mechanism of T-box transcription factor 20 (TBX20) in doxorubicin resistance in breast cancer cells. RNA-seq data from breast cancer samples in the TCGA database were analyzed. Lentiviral vectors were used to establish TBX20 overexpression and silencing models in MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 cells. Gene and protein expression were detected by qPCR and Western blot, respectively. Cell viability and the half-maximal inhibitory concentration of doxorubicin were measured using the CCK-8 assay. Apoptosis, migration, and invasion were analyzed by flow cytometry, wound healing assay, and Transwell assay. Mitophagy levels were assessed via immunofluorescence staining and western blotting. ChIP and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to validate the transcriptional regulation of ABCC1 by TBX20. Results showed that TCGA data analysis revealed a high expression of TBX20 in breast cancer tissues, which was positively correlated with ABCC1 expression. In MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 cells, TBX20 overexpression significantly enhanced cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and resistance to doxorubicin, while suppressing the expression of mitophagy-related proteins LC3-II/LC3-I, PINK1, and BNIP3. ChIP and dual-luciferase reporter assays confirmed that TBX20 directly binds to and activates the ABCC1 promoter. Silencing of ABCC1 or restoration of mitophagy by CCCP reversed TBX20 overexpression‑induced doxorubicin resistance. TBX20 enhances the resistance of breast cancer cells to doxorubicin by transcriptionally upregulating ABCC1 and is correlated with the suppression of mitophagy.Copyright: © 2026 Nie et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
To date, effective preventive and therapeutic strategies for early-stage bradyarrhythmia remain limited.We first calculated two well-established biological aging (BA) measures (Klemera-Doubal Method [KDM] and Phenotypic Age [PhenoAge]), with BA acceleration defined as the residual from regressing each BA measure on chronological age. Cox proportional hazards models were used to evaluate the effects of BA acceleration on bradyarrhythmia risk. We then conducted epigenetic Mendelian randomization (MR) and colocalization analyses to prioritize aging-related DNA methylation CpG sites for bradyarrhythmias.In the UK Biobank cohort of 298,214 individuals, per 1-SD increase in PhenoAge acceleration and KDM-BA acceleration were significantly associated with a 13% (HR = 1.13, 95% CI 1.11-1.15, P < 0.001) and 11% (HR = 1.11, 95% CI 1.09-1.13, P < 0.001) higher incidence of bradyarrhythmia. Epigenetic MR and colocalization analyses suggested that cg11410859 (SCN5A), cg18249173 (TBX20), cg07185587 (AKAP6), cg16555537 (TRIP6), cg10459018, cg03473532 (MKLN1), and cg13654588 (PRLHR) were associated with a reduced risk of bradyarrhythmias, whereas cg25286333 (RNF207) and cg02447380 (RAB42) were associated with an increased risk of bradyarrhythmias.In summary, our study elucidated the role of accelerated biological aging and underlying epigenetic modifications in bradyarrhythmia, providing novel insights into its prevention and treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Neuroblast cells play a pivotal role in adult neurogenesis. However, the detailed mechanisms underlying the acquisition of pluripotency or the process of differentiation remain unknown. Herein, the role of the AT-hook protein AKNA in regulating pluripotency and stemness in neuroblastoma cells is demonstrated through gene knockdown, immunofluorescence, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), localization of AKNA, signaling interactions, and transcriptional activity. AKNA was detected primarily in the nucleus during the induction of pluripotency and was retained in the cytosol by FAK signaling during differentiation. Loss of AKNA disrupts both the stemness and differentiation potential of neuroblastoma cells. In the nucleus, colocalization and physical association between AKNA and KDM6B promote H3K27me3 demethylation and subsequently H3K27ac deposition on the promoters of stemness genes, triggering their transcription. These findings establish AKNA as a critical regulator of neuroblast cell fate determinants in association with epigenetic modifiers and signaling pathways, offering potential targets for neuroblastoma therapies and regenerative medicine for neurodegenerative diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Colorectal cancer stem cells (CSCs) drive tumor progression through poorly understood metabolic-epigenetic crosstalk. Here, we identify mitochondrial RNA polymerase POLRMT as a key link connecting mitochondrial transcription to CSC maintenance. Clinically, POLRMT is overexpressed in colorectal cancer (CRC) tissues and correlates with poor prognosis. Genetic ablation or pharmacological inhibition of POLRMT suppresses CSC self-renewal and tumorigenicity across cell line-derived CSCs, CRC organoids, and xenograft models. Mechanistically, POLRMT deficiency triggers mitochondrial dysfunction, which unexpectedly elevates the demethylase KDM6B expression, α-ketoglutarate (α-KG) levels, and Dickkopf-1 (DKK1) expression, thereby transcriptionally silencing Wnt/β-catenin signaling and collapsing the CSC niche. Restoration of β-catenin rescues tumorigenicity in POLRMT-knockout (KO) cells, confirming the hierarchy of this signaling cascade. Crucially, POLRMT catalytic activity and mitochondrial localization are indispensable for sustaining this axis. Our work unveils POLRMT as a metabolic gatekeeper that licenses CSC plasticity through KDM6B-α-KG/H3K27me3-mediated chromatin remodeling, proposing the mitochondrial transcription machinery as a therapeutic target for dismantling the CSC hierarchy in CRC.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42457671
The prostate is one of the important androgen-dependent organs in the male reproductive system. Although its ability for local steroid hormone synthesis is recognized, the regulatory mechanisms, particularly the role of hormones and the seasonal steroidogenesis expression within the tissue, remain unclear. This study investigated the phenomenon in the seasonal breeder muskrat (Ondatra zibethicus) by comparing breeding (B) and non-breeding (NB) season prostates through histology, immunohistochemistry (IHC), RT-qPCR, and hormone assays. Anatomy shows that the prostate is markedly enlarged during the breeding season. Immunohistochemistry revealed a marked cellular compartmentalization: luteinizing hormone receptor (LHR), steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR), and Steroid 5-alpha-reductase 2 (SRD5A2) were predominant in epithelial cells, whereas cytochrome P450 family 11 subfamily A member 1 (P450scc) and steroid 17 alpha-hydroxylase (P450c17) were primarily localized to stromal cells. The gene expression of steroidogenesis pathway was coordinately upregulated in the breeding season, and largely downregulated in the non-breeding season, which was further validated at the protein level by Western blot analysis showing significantly higher expression of LHR, P450scc, SRD5A2, and androgen receptor (AR) in the breeding season compared to the non-breeding season. The prostate in the breeding season was contained higher levels of intra-tissue testosterone (T) and dihydrotestosterone (DHT). To investigate the underlying mechanism, we performed in vitro experiments using primary cultured muskrat prostate cells. Furthermore, in vitro experiments demonstrated that human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) treatment promoted the expression of LHR and steroidogenic enzymes, as well as elevated the secretion of T and DHT into the culture media. This induction was inhibited by the Protein Kinase A (PKA) inhibitor H89, which also abolished the HCG-induced increase in T and DHT secretion. H89 pre-treatment abolished the HCG-induced upregulation, confirming the presence of the LH-PKA pathway regulating steroidogenesis in the prostate. Taken together, our results reveal that LH-mediated activation of local steroidogenesis may regulate the seasonal growth of prostates in male muskrats.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
IDH-wildtype glioblastoma exhibits substantial biological heterogeneity despite current molecular classification. Although dynamic malignant cell states have been described, molecular features that position tumors along these states remain incompletely defined. We investigated whether ZIC3 expression identifies a transcriptional state associated with clinical outcome in IDH-wildtype glioblastoma.RNA sequencing and clinical data from The Cancer Genome Atlas glioblastoma cohort were analyzed after restriction to genomically confirmed IDH-wildtype tumors (n = 167). Survival analyses were performed in patients with available survival data (n = 161) using Cox proportional hazards regression and Kaplan-Meier analysis. Associations with MGMT promoter methylation, tumor microenvironment scores, differential expression, gene set enrichment, and single-cell RNA sequencing data were evaluated to characterize transcriptional programs associated with ZIC3 expression.Higher ZIC3 expression was associated with longer overall and progression-free survival and remained associated with a more favorable survival profile after adjustment for age, sex, radiotherapy, and temozolomide treatment. ZIC3 expression was not associated with MGMT promoter methylation or with ESTIMATE-derived stromal, immune, or composite scores. In the single-cell dataset, ZIC3-positive cells were more frequent in malignant tumor cells than in non-malignant cells. ZIC3-high tumors showed enrichment of neural lineage-associated and blood-brain barrier-related programs, whereas ZIC3-low tumors showed enrichment of hypoxia-related, glycolytic, and metabolic stress programs. Ordered heatmap analysis showed that lineage-associated genes and hypoxia-related genes varied inversely across tumors ordered by ZIC3 expression.ZIC3 expression appears to mark a developmental transcriptional axis in IDH-wildtype glioblastoma that links neural lineage-associated programs to hypoxia-adaptive tumor states.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
Although anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) is commonly used as prophylaxis against graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) following allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (alloSCT), there is considerable inter-patient variability in ATG exposure. The impact of ATG exposure in outcomes following reduced intensity conditioning (RIC)-alloSCT remains unknown. We explored the impact of post-transplant ATG exposure (PT-ATG-exp) in 68 adults with haematological malignancies undertaking first RIC-alloSCT with ATG (Thymoglobulin, total dose 4.5mg/kg, day -3 to -1 alloSCT). Post-transplant ATG exposure was determined by area under the curve (AUC) through analysis of sera collected at standardised timepoints. Post-transplant ATG exposure range was highly variable [46-420 arbitrary units (AU) per day/mL]. Day 0 ATG concentration and day 0-14 ATG AUC highly correlated with PT-ATG-exp (R = 0.93 and 0.99, respectively, P < 0.001). Using a Cox proportional hazards model, patients with PT-ATG-exp between 80-135 AU per day/mL had inferior 2-year GRFS compared to the remainder of the cohort [25% (95% CI, 11%-56%) vs 54% (95% CI, 40%-73%), P = 0.02; HR 2.01 (95% CI, 1.04-3.86, P = 0.04] due to higher incidence of grade III-IV acute GVHD [33% (95% CI, 16%-51%) vs 12% (95% CI, 4%-24%), P = 0.034; HR 2.95 (95% CI, 0.99-8.83, P = 0.05)]. Recipients with the highest PT-ATG-exp (quartile 4: 185-420 AU per ml/day) had the lowest incidence of grade III-IV acute GVHD (0% at 180-days) but also lowest median CD3+ chimerism (85%) and highest incidence of mixed donor chimerism (CD3+: 93% and CD3-: 33%) at day 100. In this analysis, PT-ATG-exp influenced post-transplant outcomes including GVHD incidence and donor chimerism following in RIC-alloSCT.Copyright © 2026 Koo, Davis, Ludford-Menting, Wong, Koldej and Ritchie.
This study aimed to investigate the associations between performance-based outcomes (walking, sit-to-stand, and stair climbing) and impairment-level measures one year after primary unilateral total knee arthroplasty (TKA) using an analytic framework that mitigates multicollinearity.Prospectively collected data were analyzed in a cross-sectional design. We included 142 patients who underwent primary unilateral TKA. The performance-based outcomes one year postoperatively were the 40 m fast-paced walk test (FPWT), 30 s chair stand test (CST), and 11-step stair-climbing test (SCT). Explanatory variables included age, sex, BMI, one-year postoperative muscle strength (bilateral quadriceps and hamstring strength), pain visual analogue scale (VAS) score, and knee flexion range of motion (ROM; SCT model only). We performed multivariate analyses using multiple linear regression and additionally applied ridge regression to mitigate multicollinearity. Relative importance was quantified using the Lindeman-Merenda-Gold (LMG) method.For the FPWT, the primary determinants were bilateral quadriceps strength, contralateral hamstring strength, and age, while sex and pain VAS scores were lower-importance contributors. For CST, bilateral quadriceps strength, age, and contralateral hamstring strength were the primary determinants, with BMI contributing secondarily. For SCT, contralateral quadriceps strength and age were the main determinants, whereas pain VAS score and knee flexion ROM were additional, lower-importance contributors.One year after TKA, bilateral quadriceps strength played a central role across all tasks. Walking and sit-to-stand performances were additionally associated with contralateral hamstring strength and age, whereas stair performance was influenced by pain control and adequate knee flexion ROM. These findings support personalized rehabilitation strategies that prioritize bilateral quadriceps strengthening and layer-task-specific requirements.© 2026 Saiki et al.
Synthetic CT (sCT) generation from cone-beam CT (CBCT) has emerged as a promising enabler for adaptive radiotherapy. While deep learning (DL) methods have demonstrated substantial improvements in image quality, their impact on proton beam therapy (PBT) dose calculation remains unclear, particularly for CBCT acquired on proton gantries, which are prone to increased artifacts and noise.&#xD;Approach: In this study, we evaluated sCT generation from proton gantry CBCT using a denoising diffusion probabilistic model (DDPM) and a cycle-consistent generative adversarial network (cycleGAN), and compared them against non-learning-based correction methods (corrected CBCT and virtual CT) implemented in a commercial treatment planning system. Image quality (mean absolute error, peak signal-to-noise ratio, normalized cross-correlation) and dosimetric accuracy (gamma passing rate, dose-volume histogram metrics) were assessed in head-and-neck (H&N) and lung cohorts using clinically approved PBT plans.&#xD;Main Results: All methods improved image quality compared to CBCT, with vCT achieving the best quantitative metrics (mean H&N MAE=36.3HU; lung MAE=39.9HU).However, image quality metrics did not correlate with dosimetric accuracy. In H&N cases, corrCBCT demonstrated inferior image metrics (MAE=52.7HU) but achieved mean GPR of 98.4%, comparable to vCT and superior to DL-based methods. In lung cases, DDPM-generated sCTs achieved the highest mean GPR of 93.6% despite not having the best image metrics (MAE=41.1HU). Dosimetric accuracy was highly sensitive to anatomical and Hounsfield Unit (HU) fidelity along beam paths, with beam angle significantly affecting GPR. DL-based methods effectively reduced artifacts but occasionally introduced anatomically inconsistent features that impacted dose calculation.&#xD;Significance: Improvements in conventional image quality metrics did not necessarily translate to improved dosimetric accuracy in PBT. Instead, accurate anatomical representation and HU fidelity along beam paths were critical determinants of dose agreement. These findings highlighted the limitations of global image-based evaluation alone and underscored the need for dosimetric validation frameworks for sCT commissioning in PBT.Creative Commons Attribution license.
Steroid 5α-reductase deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive condition caused by mutations in the SRD5A2 gene that leads to a severe virilisation deficit of the external genitalia in individuals with a 46,XY karyotype. Here we report an adult 46,XY person with clinically confirmed steroid 5α-reductase deficiency. Sanger sequencing revealed a compound heterozygous, maternal, pathogenic c.692A > G; p.(His231Arg) variant and a very rare paternal c.*66T > G variant in the 3'-UTR. RT-PCR products of individual's derived genital skin fibroblasts revealed that only the maternal variant is expressed while the paternal variant could not be detected. PacBio RNA Isosequencing revealed that the variant c.*66T > G introduces a new strong splice donor site 66 nt after the canonical stop codon that is spliced to an inverted Alu sequence located 15 kb downstream. In all paternal, but none of the maternal transcripts, we found a new exon junction 66 nt after the stop codon within the 3'-UTR. Mammalian transcripts with an intron excision site > 55 nt downstream from a termination codon are subject to degradation by the nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) pathway. We conclude that the pathogenic maternal variant, together with the NMD-triggered downregulation of the paternal allele, is causative for the observed SRD5A2 deficiency.© 2026. The Author(s).
The rapid proliferation of artificial intelligence (AI) tools in higher education has transformed the landscape of foreign language instruction, yet the mechanisms through which AI tool use shapes learners' affective and communicative engagement remain poorly understood. Drawing on social cognitive theory (SCT) and control-value theory (CVT), this study proposes and tests a moderated serial mediation model in which AI tool use predicts willingness to communicate (WTC) sequentially through AI self-efficacy and foreign language enjoyment (FLE), with foreign language anxiety (FLA) moderating the FLE-to-WTC link.Survey data were collected from 420 EFL undergraduates at two Chinese universities (Zhejiang and Shaanxi Provinces). Covariance-based structural equation modeling (CBSEM) with maximum likelihood robust (MLR) estimation in Mplus 8.8 was used.The model revealed excellent fit. AI tool use significantly predicted AI self-efficacy (β = 0.42, p < 0.001), which predicted FLE (β = 0.38, p < 0.001) and WTC directly (β = 0.21, p = 0.001); FLE predicted WTC (β = 0.33, p < 0.001). Bootstrapped mediation analyses (10,000 replications) confirmed a simple indirect effect via self-efficacy [β = 0.091, 95% CI (0.042, 0.152)] and a serial indirect effect via self-efficacy and enjoyment [β = 0.053, 95% CI (0.021, 0.098)]. FLA moderated the FLE-to-WTC pathway (β = -0.19, p = 0.002), and the index of moderated mediation was significant [IMM = -0.017, 95% CI (-0.038, -0.004)].These findings advance theoretical understanding of how AI tools cultivate positive affective trajectories and carry implications for emotionally responsive EFL pedagogy.Copyright © 2026 Xu, Wang and Feng.
Rho related BTB domain containing 1 (RhoBTB1) is highly expressed in placenta and functions to deliver protein targets to the Cullin-3 (CUL3) E3 ubiquitin ligase where they are targeted for ubiquitination and degradation. The targets of RhoBTB1 in placenta have not been identified. Using RNAscope, we show that RhoBTB1 is mainly expressed in syncytiotrophoblasts (SCT) in the human and mouse placenta. We employed ascorbate peroxidase 2-mediated targeted proteomics to identify RhoBTB1 binding proteins in immortalized human extravillous trophoblast (HTR8/SVneo) cells. We selected 9 RhoBTB1-interacting proteins to examine functionally. Two of these, S-Phase Kinase Associated Protein 2 (SKP2) and Rho GTPase-Activating Protein 29 (ArhGAP29), increased in abundance when Cullin activity was blocked by the neddylation inhibitor MLN4924 and co-immunoprecipitated with RhoBTB1. SKP2 increased in abundance in CRISPR-Cas9 HEK293 cells that lack CUL3, and in HTR8/SVneo cells after siRNA-mediated inhibition of RhoBTB1. SKP2 was ubiquitinated by a RhoBTB1- and CUL3-dependent mechanism providing evidence that its stability is regulated by RhoBTB1/CUL3. Like RhoBTB1, SKP2 is highly expressed in the placenta. Reanalysis of single cell RNA sequencing data sets revealed that SKP2 exhibits co-expression with RhoBTB1 in SCT precursor cells, SCTs, and cytotrophoblasts. These findings identify SKP2 as a RhoBTB1/CUL3 target in the placenta.© 2026 The Author(s). Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provides superior soft tissue contrast compared with CT and is essential for delineation of targets and organs at risk in brain radiotherapy. Because CT is traditionally required for dose calculation in radiation therapy, synthetic CT (sCT) generation from MRI has enabled the development of MR-only workflows. Prior studies have primarily focused on dosimetric equivalence between CT- and sCT-based treatment plans, with limited emphasis on practical implementation challenges encountered during clinical use.This study aimed to share clinical experience implementing an MR-only brain radiotherapy workflow, with a focus on practical challenges encountered.Twenty-eight patients underwent a dedicated MR simulation protocol for sCT generation in addition to standard-of-care planning CT simulation. MRI acquisition was performed using an immobilization mask with a dedicated head coil positioned over the mask. The sCT protocol consisted of four sequences: T1 VIBE Dixon, T2 SPACE, PETRA, and TOF-MRA. Clinical treatment plans generated using the planning CT (pCT) for photon therapy were recalculated on the corresponding sCT datasets.Twenty-eight patients were scanned, and 25 synthetic CT datasets were successfully generated. Nine sCT datasets required rigid re-registration because of inter-sequence patient motion. Findings were categorized into workflow-related sCT challenges, including inter-sequence motion, suboptimal coil placement, and external localization marker interference, and algorithm-related imaging artifacts, including HU misclassification at tissue/bone/air interfaces and sCT degradation in post-operative anatomy with surgical meshes.Clinical implementation of a brain MR-only workflow identified two major categories of challenge: workflow-related sCT perturbations and algorithm-related imaging artifacts. This distinction has important implications for mitigation strategies. Case-specific sCT review, structured eligibility screening, and prospective site commissioning are essential for safe clinical deployment. Practical commissioning and per-patient QA checklists are provided as supplementary materials.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Applied Clinical Medical Physics published by Wiley Periodicals, LLC on behalf of The American Association of Physicists in Medicine.
Synthetic CTs (sCT) were developed to provide electron density information for MR-only treatment planning. Some AI-based sCT generators have received FDA-clearance and better capture tissue heterogeneity through voxel-wise mappings to improve image guidance and dose calculation.To quantitatively characterize the image quality and geometric surrogate agreement of an FDA 510(k) cleared AI-based synthetic CT generator (TheraPanacea) for brain and prostate MR-only radiotherapy, using per-structure volumetric analysis, Hounsfield unit (HU) assessment, and multi-metric geometric evaluation.Paired CT/MR datasets from 20 brain and 20 prostate patients were retrospectively analyzed. sCTs were generated from T1w (brain) and T2w (pelvis) MR images acquired on the same day with identical immobilization. Auto-contours from TheraPanacea and MIM Contour ProtégéAI were compared against MIM Contour ProtégéAI contours on the reference CT. Bone was segmented via a fixed-threshold method. Evaluation metrics included contour volumes, cross-contour HU comparisons, centroid offsets, overlap and surface-based similarity metrics, and manual bony landmark measurements.Soft-tissue mean HU differences were <50 HU across both cohorts. Central ROIs showed <20 HU deviations, apart from heterogeneous bone and air-filled regions. Bony structures exhibited HU range compression in the sCT, where HU differences between the sCT and the reference CT differed by a maximum of 347 ± 14 HU in the femoral heads and 455 ± 50 HU in the sacrum. Global histograms confirmed HU range compression. Centroids shifted < 2 mm for all contours (brain A-P predominant, pelvis non-systematic). Boundary metrics showed MDA < 5 mm, and bony landmarks differed < 1 mm between the reference CT and the sCT. Small structures in the brain had inconsistent auto-segmentation, displaying different volumes and low Dice/JI scores. Dental implants in the sCT produced localized MR-like susceptibility artifacts. Within manual contoured implant ROIs, the mean HU values were underestimated by ∼9,000 HU relative to CT.TheraPanacea sCT demonstrated acceptable soft-tissue HU (± 50 HU) and geometric surrogate agreement (< 2-5 mm) relative to CT, with larger errors in cortical bone, air interfaces, and implants. Site-specific QA must verify bone HU compression, peripheral geometric agreement via landmark measures, and manually review small/high-contrast contours (optic nerves, cochleae, rectum). Institutional image and dosimetric validation, particularly with implanted devices, remains essential prior to clinical deployment.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Applied Clinical Medical Physics published by Wiley Periodicals, LLC on behalf of The American Association of Physicists in Medicine.
Considering the shared physiological mechanisms between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), it is plausible that certain compounds may exert therapeutic effects on both neurological disorders. This study aimed to employ in silico techniques to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of huperzine A (HA) as an alternative treatment for PD and AD.Molecular targets of HA and genes associated with AD and PD were identified from public databases. Gene Ontology analysis, metabolic pathway analysis, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction were performed to identify shared molecular targets. Molecular docking was performed to assess HA affinity for hub proteins and to compare it with that of drugs used to treat AD and PD.The results suggested that HA interacts with 77 molecular targets common to both diseases. Enrichment analysis revealed that proteins from these targets were involved in biological functions, such as serotonin and amine binding. Hub proteins (SRC, TP53, AKT1, and CASP3) were identified from the PPI network. Furthermore, molecular docking simulations showed favorable binding of HA to the hub proteins and adequate binding to the targets of standard drugs (MAOB and ACHE). On the other hand, molecular dynamics analyses were performed to compare the binding characteristics of HA with those of the control targets.HA may modulate SRC, CASP3, and AKT1, suggesting a pleiotropic mechanism underlying the association between AD and PD. These computational findings provide a rational basis for experimental validation by modulating signaling pathways implicated in inflammatory processes and inhibiting enzymes involved in neurotransmitter degradation.This study contributes to the understanding of the neuroprotective activity of HA in AD and PD. However, further in vitro and in vivo investigations are required to confirm the dual therapeutic potential of HA in the treatment of AD and PD.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Plastic additives are pervasive pollutants that readily leach into water, affecting human health; however, their toxicological risk assessment remains limited. This study used network toxicology to identify disease-associated common targets in plastic additives, including benzotriazole, bisphenol A, 2,4-Di-tert-butylphenol, mirex, diphenyl ether, bisphenol S, dibutyl phthalate, PFNA, and PFBS. The core targets identified using network toxicology for these plastic additives were AKT1, PTGS2, BCL2, ESR1, and GSK3B. In addition, an integrated in silico toxicity assessment of selected plastic additives using molecular docking, MM/GBSA analysis, and molecular dynamics simulation was performed to assess neurotoxicity, reproductive toxicity, and carcinogenic potential. Molecular docking revealed the high-scoring docked complexes as PTGS2-benzotriazole (-5.047 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol A (-5.264 kcal/mol), PTGS2-diphenyl ether (-5.078 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol S (-5.519 kcal/mol), PTGS2-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.565 kcal/mol), ESR1-benzotriazole (-5.339 kcal/mol), and ESR1-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.626 kcal/mol). The stability of highly interacting complexes was then assessed through MM/GBSA calculations and molecular dynamics simulations. A more negative ΔGBind score in MM/GBSA analysis indicated a stronger and more favourable interaction. In silico analysis of plastic additive-biological target interactions identified potential carcinogenic, reproductive, and neurological health hazards and revealed key molecular pathways underlying plastic additive-induced toxicity. Further in vitro/in vivo studies are required to validate these computational findings.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Gastric cancer (GC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, especially in advanced stages with limited treatment efficacy. Rhizoma Paridis (RPS), a traditional Chinese medicinal herb, has shown promising antitumor activity, yet its potential anti-GC mechanisms have not been systematically investigated.An integrated computational and experimental framework was established to explore the anti-GC activity and potential mechanisms of RPS. First, the active compounds of RPS and their corresponding targets were identified using UPLC, LC-MS analysis and machine learning (Ml)-driven data mining. Then, the key target genes were determined by the gradient boosting algorithms and their associations with GC were investigated by the deconvolution algorithms, unsupervised clustering and dimensionality reduction methods. Further, the potential compound-target interactions and the mechanism of RPS for treating GC were supported by the molecular docking, Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, in vivo and in vitro experiments.A total of 118 phytochemicals were identified from RPS, from which 40 candidate bioactive compounds and six hub genes, i.e., BAX, BCL2, VEGFA, KDR, CASP3 and CTNNB1 were prioritized. Functional enrichment analyses suggested that these targets were mainly associated with apoptosis, angiogenesis and Wnt/β-catenin-related signaling pathways. Transcriptomic, prognostic, immune infiltration and single-cell analyses further supported their relevance in GC. Docking and MD simulations indicated favorable binding stability between representative compounds and the key targets. Experimental studies demonstrated that RPS inhibited GC cell proliferation and tumor growth, accompanied by apoptosis-related and angiogenesis-associated molecular changes.RPS exhibits significant anti-GC activity and may exert its effects through the coordinated regulation of apoptosis-, angiogenesis- and Wnt/β-catenin-associated pathways. This study provides a systems-level framework integrating computational analyses with biological validation to investigate the pharmacological effects of complex herbal medicines and offers mechanistic insights into the anti-GC potential of RPS.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Histone lactylation is an epigenetic modification triggered by lactate produced during glycolysis. In cancer, histone lactylation can coordinate metabolic and epigenetic states to promote tumor development and progression. Here, we identified circ2891 as a driver of metabolic reprogramming and histone lactylation in colorectal cancer (CRC). In patients, circ2891 was aberrantly upregulated in tumors and correlated with poor outcomes. Elevated circ2891 potentiated aerobic glycolysis and lactate production in CRC cells, supporting enhanced cell proliferation and tumor growth. Mechanistically, circ2891 specifically interacted with the m6A reader FXR1 and facilitated its phase separation, which stabilized PGK1 and ENO1 mRNAs by enhancing the recognition of their m6A modification sites. Consequently, elevated PGK1 and ENO1 led to increased aerobic glycolysis and drove histone lactylation, thereby transcriptionally activating the RNA helicase DDX21 to promote CRC progression. Simultaneously targeting circ2891 and histone lactylation suppressed patient-derived organoid and xenograft tumor growth. Together, these findings show that circ2891 promotes CRC by stabilizing PGK1/ENO1 via phase separation of FXR1, boosting glycolysis and histone lactylation to activate expression of DDX21. Targeting circ2891 offers a promising therapeutic strategy enhancing clinical outcomes.
Researches on Tripterygium glycosides tablets (TGT) often overlook renal toxicity from prolonged use. Rubus chingii Hu (RCH) is beneficial to kidney health and has an unclear role in reducing nephrotoxicity. This study used UHPLC-Q Exactive HFX to identify Kaempferol, Hydroxygenkwanin, and Luteolin as key active components of RCH. Network pharmacology revealed RCH could protect the kidneys by modulating TNF, IL-17, NF-kappa B, and JAK-STAT pathways through targets such as BCL2, CASP3, TNF, SIRT1, EGFR, and MMP9. Biochemical and pathological studies show that TGT induces kidney injury in rats, while RCH improves kidney function and reduces inflammation and oxidative stress. Western blot confirmed that RCH could regulate the expression of TNF-α, cleaved caspase-3, and SIRT1 proteins. Transcriptomics and metabonomics reveal significant enrichment in metabolic pathways like glycerophospholipid metabolism and inflammation signaling pathways such as PPAR and JAK-STAT. After RCH treatment, most differential genes remain stable, but all 20 key metabolites are restored. Further analysis indicates that steroid hormone biosynthesis and the PPAR signaling pathway are vital for RCH's protective effects, as it regulates CYP1B1, CYP4A1, CYP4A3, EHHADH, HMGCS2, and PPARG genes, alleviating TGT-induced nephrotoxicity.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Triclosan (TCS), a compound ubiquitous in personal care products, is now a prevalent environmental contaminant across various ecosystems and has been detected in human tissue samples. Despite its prevalence and strong association with female infertility, the mechanisms by which TCS induces ovarian toxicity have not been thoroughly studied. This study employed an integrated approach combining network toxicology, molecular docking, transcriptomics, and cell experiments to systematically investigate the molecular mechanisms linking TCS to two core ovarian dysfunction diseases: polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and premature ovarian insufficiency (POI). The physicochemical properties and multi-organ toxicity of TCS were predicted using ADMETlab 3.0 and SwissADME. Following the retrieval of TCS, PCOS, and POI-associated targets from public databases, a PPI network was built to pinpoint central hubs. Subsequently, GO and KEGG enrichment analyses were conducted to delineate implicated biological pathways. Molecular docking was conducted to evaluate the binding affinity of TCS to core proteins. Transcriptomic analysis was performed on the ovarian granulosa cell line KGN exposed to 10 μM TCS, a concentration close to human exposure levels. Cell biology experiments were further employed to validate the findings. The network toxicology results indicated that TCS induces ovarian toxicity primarily by promoting apoptosis and triggering inflammatory responses. Key targets identified included AKT1, EGFR, TNF, IL6, and CASP3, which exhibited strong binding affinities, suggesting direct interactions. Transcriptomic analyses further confirmed disruptions in cytokine receptor binding and apoptosis pathways. Cell experiments confirmed that TCS exposure significantly promotes apoptosis and increases the production of inflammatory cytokines in two types of ovarian granulosa cell lines, SVOG and KGN. Overall, this study provides a conceptual framework for TCS-induced ovarian dysfunction and offers new insights for future research on the mechanisms underlying the ovarian toxicity of TCS.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Osteoporosis (OP) is a progressive skeletal disorder often exacerbated by pharmacological agents. Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), particularly esomeprazole, have been epidemiologically linked to OP, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear.This study mined over 55 million adverse event (AE) records from the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) between 2004 and 2024 to identify drug-related OP signals. Four statistical algorithms (ROR, PRR, BCPNN, EBGM) were applied for signal detection. Logistic regression was used to assess independent risk factors. Esomeprazole, the most frequently reported PPI, was further investigated using a network toxicology framework. Drug-target predictions, differential gene expression analysis, protein-protein interaction network construction, molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were conducted to explore potential molecular hypotheses.A total of 52 drugs showed potential OP-related reporting signals. Among PPI-associated OP-related reports, esomeprazole accounted for the largest proportion and was the only PPI with positive signals across all four algorithms. Logistic regression showed that esomeprazole, age, sex, and low body weight were associated with OP-related adverse event reporting. Time-to-onset analysis showed a median latency of 3.5 years. Network toxicology analysis identified 26 overlapping candidate genes between predicted esomeprazole targets and OP-related DEGs. GO and KEGG analyses highlighted bone-related pathways, including MAPK, Notch, and PI3K/AKT signaling. Protein-protein interaction network analysis identified CXCR4, AKT1, and CASP3 as candidate hub genes. Molecular docking and 100-ns MD simulations supported the binding plausibility and conformational stability of the predicted esomeprazole-target complexes.This pharmacovigilance and computational toxicology study suggests a notable association between esomeprazole and PPI-associated OP-related adverse event reporting. The identified targets and pathways, including CXCR4, AKT1, and CASP3, provide exploratory mechanistic clues and hypothesis-generating evidence. These findings may support individualized bone health risk assessment in long-term PPI users and provide a basis for future validation studies.Copyright: © 2026 Wang et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Lung cancer remains one of the leading causes of cancer-related mortality worldwide, and although Cytarabine (CYT) exhibits anticancer activity, its clinical application is often restricted by dose-dependent toxicity. In this study, we investigated the synergistic anticancer potential of the NCBI-registered probiotic Streptococcus thermophilus Ab.342 SH (GenBank accession no. PX426457) in combination with CYT against human lung adenocarcinoma A549 cells. Following molecular identification of the probiotic isolate, A549 cells were treated with different concentrations of bacterial cell-free supernatant (CFS), CYT, or their combination, while human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were used to evaluate selective cytotoxicity. Cell viability was assessed using the MTT assay, apoptosis-related gene expression was analyzed by qRT-PCR, and apoptotic cell death was confirmed by Annexin V-FITC/PI flow cytometry. The CFS alone reduced A549 cell viability in a dose-dependent manner without significant cytotoxicity toward HUVECs. CYT monotherapy exhibited an IC₅₀ of approximately 40 μg/mL, whereas combination treatment with S. thermophilus CFS (OD₆₀₀ = 1.2) reduced the IC₅₀ to 145 ng/mL, representing an approximately 276-fold dose reduction. Combined treatment significantly upregulated PTEN, BAX, CASP3, CASP8, CASP9, P53, P21, and FAS expression while suppressing AKT, mTOR, BCL-2, and IκB, accompanied by a marked increase in apoptotic cells. These findings demonstrate that S. thermophilus Ab.342 SH markedly enhances the anticancer efficacy of CYT while substantially reducing the required drug dosage, supporting the potential application of probiotic-based adjuvant therapy for safer and more effective lung cancer treatment.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Dapagliflozin shows variable renoprotective efficacy in patients with type 2 diabetic kidney disease (T2DKD). A retrospective clinical analysis confirmed marked interindividual variability in its urinary protein-lowering effects. To investigate the mechanism, drug affinity responsive target stability (DARTS) combined with quantitative proteomics was applied for target identification. Subsequent in vivo and in vitro validation suggested that GSK3β acts as a mediator of dapagliflozin-associated nephroprotection. Dapagliflozin directly bound and partially inhibited GSK3β, and GSK3β activity influenced podocyte protection. To translate findings into clinical relevance, a prospective trial was conducted. The GSK3B rs60393216 polymorphism was associated with urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio (UACR) reduction after dapagliflozin therapy. These findings suggest that GSK3β contributes to the renoprotective effects of dapagliflozin and that GSK3B polymorphisms may influence therapeutic responses in T2DKD.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a prevalent respiratory disease characterized by airflow limitation, with genetic factors playing a crucial role in its pathogenesis. Effective-component compatibility of Bufei Yishen formula Ⅲ (ECC-BYF Ⅲ) has been shown to effectively ameliorate COPD symptoms; however, its underlying molecular mechanism remains elusive.To investigate the intervention mechanism of ECC-BYF Ⅲ on COPD and identify hub genes.Using the GSEA method, which retains all gene information, and exhibits robustness under small-sample conditions as well as high statistical power, COPD-related pathways were identified. Among the genes contained in those pathways, hub genes were identified by protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, cytoHubba algorithm, etc. The reliability of the identified hub genes was validated by independent datasets, qRT-PCR in rats with COPD, HUVEC and MH-S cells, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations (MD), and surface plasmon resonance (SPR).Compared with COPD rats, ECC-BYF Ⅲ could ameliorate pathological changes and improve lung function. Then, utilizing the RNA-seq data from COPD rats, 106 disease related pathways were identified in the COPD group when contrasted with the control group (FDR < 0.05), of which 72 pathways were reversed after ECC-BYF Ⅲ intervention. Of the 3081 genes in those reversal pathways, 395 genes were differentially dysregulated in the COPD rat samples as opposed to the control samples (FDR < 0.05). Then, six genes (Gsk3b, Ctnnb1, Pten, Met, Pik3r3, and Erbb2) were identified by PPI network analysis, cytoHubba algorithm, and GeneCards database. Two hub genes (Ctnnb1 and Pik3r3) were well confirmed in independent datasets, the COPD rat model, HUVEC and MH-S cells, molecular docking, MD, and SPR.Two COPD hub genes were identified, and their regulation by ECC-BYF Ⅲ was demonstrated. Our results might provide a basis for the study of the mechanism of COPD, and its prevention and treatment guided by traditional Chinese medicine.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has a poor prognosis and limited treatment options. This study investigated the role and mechanism of Jiedu Xiaozheng Yin (JXY) in HCC using network pharmacology and in vivo/in vitro experiments. Active components of JXY and their potential therapeutic targets for HCC were identified via network pharmacology. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed to identify core targets, and bioinformatics analysis confirmed their association with HCC. LC-MS/MS was used to isolate major components, which were then subjected to molecular docking with core targets. The effects of JXY on HCC were further validated through in vivo and in vitro experiments. Analysis of 171 core target genes was performed using PPI network screening and enrichment analysis. Quercetin was identified as the primary active component of JXY. Molecular docking confirmed its interaction with CYP1A2, which is overexpressed in HCC tissues. In vivo, JXY and quercetin significantly increased CYP1A2 and PTEN expression, while decreasing p-PI3K and p-Akt levels in HCC-bearing mice, thereby suppressing tumor growth and lung metastasis and promoting apoptosis. In vitro, both JXY and quercetin inhibited HCC cell proliferation and migration. CYP1A2 knockdown partially reversed, while its overexpression enhanced, these inhibitory effects. Quercetin, the main active component of JXY, upregulates CYP1A2 to promote PTEN expression, thereby inhibiting the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway and suppressing HCC progression.© 2026. The Society for In Vitro Biology.
Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) are expanding treatment options in endometrial carcinoma, but the distribution of actionable surface targets across histologic, molecular, and genomic subgroups remains incompletely defined.This single-institution retrospective tissue microarray (TMA) study included 312 endometrial carcinomas: 158 endometrioid and 154 serous tumors. Trophoblast cell-surface antigen 2 (TROP2) was quantified by histochemical score (H-score); human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) was assessed using endometrial carcinoma-specific and gastric/DESTINY-PanTumor02 criteria; and folate receptor alpha (FRα) positivity was defined as ≥75% viable tumor cells with ≥2+ membranous staining. Molecular class was assigned using a hierarchical DNA polymerase epsilon (POLE)-mutant, microsatellite instability/mismatch repair-deficient (MSI/MMRd), p53-abnormal, and no specific molecular profile (NSMP) classifier. Tumor mutational burden (TMB) and recurrent genomic alterations were analyzed in relation to biomarker expression.TROP2 was broadly expressed, with median H-scores of 280 in endometrioid and 200 in serous carcinomas. HER2 gastric-score 2+/3+ expression and FRα positivity were enriched in serous versus endometrioid carcinoma (22.5% vs 8.9% and 20.1% vs 4.4%), restricted to FIGO grade 3 tumors, and concentrated in p53-abnormal disease. FRα positivity was absent in POLE-mutant and MSI/MMRd tumors. HER2 2+/3+ expression correlated with erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (ERBB2) alterations, whereas FRα-positive tumors were enriched for TP53 alterations and showed lower frequencies of ARID1A and PTEN alterations. Triple-negative TROP2/HER2/FRα tumors were uncommon (6/308, 1.9%).TROP2 is broadly expressed in endometrial carcinoma, whereas HER2 and FRα define a more restricted high-grade, serous/serous-like, p53-abnormal compartment, supporting biomarker-informed ADC development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Gestational hypertension (GH) remains a major cause of maternal and fetal morbidity. miR-498 has been implicated in vascular dysfunction, yet its role and mechanism in GH remain unclear.Clinical serum samples from 106 GH patients and 82 healthy pregnant controls were collected to detect circulating miR-498 expression and analyze its correlation with clinical parameters. The dual-luciferase reporter assay was applied to confirm the direct binding between miR-498 and PTEN. All in vitro functional experiments, including CCK-8 proliferation assay, Transwell migration and invasion assays, were conducted exclusively in HUVECs.Hsa-miR-498-5p (miR-498) was significantly downregulated in serum of GH patients and presented favorable diagnostic performance. Circulating miR-498 levels were negatively correlated with systolic blood pressure and neonatal birth weight, while positively correlated with gestational age. Mechanistically, miR-498 directly targeted PTEN. miR-498 overexpression enhanced the proliferative, migratory and invasive capacities of HUVECs, and ectopic PTEN overexpression could reverse these cellular phenotypes.Downregulated miR-498 aggravates endothelial dysfunction and facilitates GH progression via inhibiting PTEN/AKT signaling. This study identifies circulating miR-498 as a promising non-invasive diagnostic biomarker and reveals a vascular-specific regulatory axis for GH.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Early-onset, rapidly progressive, markedly asymmetric, or otherwise atypical scoliosis should prompt evaluation for an underlying genetic etiology. Variants in phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) are associated with macrocephaly and a broad spectrum of developmental phenotypes; however, their clinical relevance to severe atypical scoliosis remains infrequently described. This case highlights the potential diagnostic value of genetic evaluation in patients with atypical scoliosis accompanied by abnormal head growth.A 13-year-3-month-old boy presented with scoliosis that was first recognized at 9 years of age and subsequently progressed markedly. He exhibited early-onset, rapidly progressive, markedly asymmetric scoliosis accompanied by macrocephaly.Exome sequencing identified a heterozygous PTEN missense variant, NM_000314.8:c.276C>A (p.D92E), classified as pathogenic. Parental testing showed wild-type alleles in both parents, supporting a de novo origin. The overall findings were consistent with severe, rapidly progressive atypical scoliosis accompanied by macrocephaly and a de novo PTEN variant.Because the family declined surgical treatment, multimodal conservative management was initiated, consisting of a Chêneau brace worn for 21 hours per day, physiotherapeutic scoliosis-specific exercises for 2 hours per day, and adjunctive manual therapy.During the 12 months of follow-up, no further radiographic progression was observed, and the trunk appearance remained relatively stable. No major treatment-related adverse events were reported.Early genetic evaluation should be considered in patients with scoliosis characterized by early onset, rapid progression, marked asymmetry, and atypical curve patterns, particularly when accompanied by macrocephaly. A de novo PTEN variant may provide an important diagnostic clue in such cases. For patients with severe scoliosis harboring a PTEN variant who decline surgery, multimodal conservative treatment may serve as a bridging strategy to achieve short-term curve stability, while continued multidisciplinary assessment, genetic counseling, and long-term surveillance for potential PTEN-related manifestations remain essential.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42564966
Pleomorphic giant cell carcinoma (PGCC) of the prostate is an extremely rare and aggressive malignancy with limited treatment options. We present a case report of metastatic PGCC patients treated with 177Lu-PSMA-617 radioligand therapy (Pluvicto) after progression on standard therapies. Both patients had PSMA-avid tumors on imaging. Molecular profiling revealed mutations in hallmark tumor suppressors including TP53, RB1, and PTEN. Both patients initially experienced partial radiographic response, in which one patient achieved stable disease for 9 months posttherapy. These findings suggest that PSMA-radioligand therapy may be a reasonable treatment for PGCC patients, but underscore the need for additional therapeutic options.Copyright © 2026 John Y. Kwon et al. Case Reports in Urology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564319 is a review article
The tumor immune microenvironment influences non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) progression and therapy response. Programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) is a key biomarker for immune checkpoint blockade, yet the genomic correlates of its expression status require elucidation.We analyzed 97 advanced lung adenocarcinoma patients, (13 cases-all from the PD-L1-unknown subgroup-excluded due to insufficient sequencing quality, leaving 84 cases for downstream analyses) categorized by PD-L1 expression (positive: n=32; negative: n=45; unknown: n=20). Genomic profiling was performed using a 95-gene targeted NGS panel. Analyses included mutational profiling, pathway enrichment (GO/KEGG), gene interaction patterns, and genomic complexity.The cohort was predominantly metastatic (99.0%). Dominant mutations were in EGFR(43.80%), TP53(38.02%), and KRAS(11.57%). PD-L1-positive tumors more frequently harbored EGFRE746_A750del, while TP53 mutations were enriched in PD-L1-negative cases. Somatic interaction analysis revealed significant EGFR/TP53 co-occurrence in PD-L1-positive tumors and TP53/RB1 co-occurrence in negative tumors. GO analysis showed PD-L1-positive tumors were enriched for kinase-related functions, reflecting a distinct EGFR-driven biology characterized by a striking 59.26% prevalence of EGFR mutations. KEGG analysis indicated immune pathway enrichment in this subgroup, supporting an oncogene-induced immune phenotype frequently synergized by TP53 co-alterations. In contrast, PD-L1-negative tumors correlated with co-mutation-prone, metabolism-oriented profiles and immune suppression. Mutual exclusivity patterns differed: in PD-L1-positive tumors, EGFRmutations were mutually exclusive with KRAS/NRAS/HRASmutations, suggesting a single dominant driver. PD-L1-negative tumors displayed more co-occurring alterations (e.g., TP53 with STK11 or PTEN). Furthermore, 24% of PD-L1-positive tumors had multiple concurrent alterations, a proportion significantly higher than in PD-L1-negative tumors (8%; P<0.05).This study delineates distinct genomic landscapes associated with PD-L1 expression. PD-L1-positive status is linked to an immune-active, kinase-signaling-driven phenotype with mutually exclusive drivers. PD-L1-negative status correlates with a more immunosuppressive, co-mutation-prone, and metabolism-oriented profile. These findings provide molecular insights into immune heterogeneity and may inform tailored combination therapies.Copyright © 2026 Huang, Yao, Zhang, Song, Wang, Zhao, Ji, Zhu, Zhao and Zhang.
Glioblastoma (GBM) remains lethal despite maximal therapy. The adult subventricular zone (SVZ), a neural stem-cell niche, has been implicated as a potential site of origin, yet the identity and functional properties of putative GBM origin-like cells (GBM-OCs) within the SVZ remain unclear. An SVZ-restricted somatic mutation mouse model (Cre-induced EGFRvIII expression with Trp53 and Pten disruption) was established and mouse SVZ-derived cells were prospectively isolated for functional and molecular profiling. Self-renewal, multipotency, invasive potential and tumour-initiating capacity were assessed relative to control SVZ cells and matched tumour-derived tumourspheres. Whole-genome and RNA sequencing defined genomic and transcriptional alterations during early progression. Mouse GBM-OCs exhibited self-renewal and multilineage differentiation and initiated tumours only after re-implantation into the SVZ (11/29, 38%), whereas direct striatal implantation failed (0/25, 0%), indicating context-dependent tumorigenic potential associated with the SVZ microenvironment. In contrast, tumour-derived tumourspheres retained tumorigenic capacity upon implantation into both the SVZ and the striatum. During progression from mouse GBM-OCs to tumours, whole-chromosome and arm-level aneuploidies accumulated. In patients with GBM, multi-region single-nucleus RNA sequencing of tumour-free SVZ, matched tumours and tumour-free cortex identified rare neural stem cell-like, astrocyte-like and oligodendrocyte precursor-like SVZ populations transcriptionally aligned with GBM programmes. These cells showed single-nucleus RNA-inferred chromosome 7 gain and/or chromosome 10 loss signals, with concordant low-frequency copy-number alterations in the SVZ detected by exome sequencing and enriched in matched tumours. Together, these findings support the presence of SVZ-resident stem or progenitor-like populations with early GBM-associated features, consistent with putative GBM-OCs, and highlight the SVZ niche as a potential target for early detection and niche-informed therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Disulfidptosis is a form of regulated cell death triggered by disulfide stress resulting from glucose starvation. The capacity to evade disulfidptosis is crucial for tumour cells to withstand glucose-limited environments. Here we demonstrate that OGDH, a rate-limiting enzyme in citric acid cycle, is critical for conferring resistance to disulfidptosis. High expression of HSPA9 in melanoma protects OGDH from glucose deprivation-induced oxidative inactivation, thereby ensuring OGDH-generated succinyl-CoA for METTL3 succinylation. Succinylated METTL3 recognizes m6A modification on NRF2 mRNA to license NRF2 translation, TrxR1 expression and subsequent evasion of disulfidptosis. Combined suppression of HSPA9 and glucose uptake inhibits melanoma growth in mouse models. In patients with melanoma, expressions of HSPA9 and OGDH negatively correlate with the disulfidptosis signature and are associated with an unfavourable clinical prognosis. Therefore, our findings not only highlight the dependence of melanoma cells on the HSPA9-OGDH-METTL3-NRF2 axis for disulfidptosis evasion, but also propose a combined intervention strategy for melanoma therapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) is a key epigenetic regulator implicated in tumor progression; however, its expression pattern and subcellular localization across different stages of endometrial carcinogenesis remain incompletely characterized. This study evaluated EZH2 expression in two biologically distinct endometrial carcinoma cell lines (Ishikawa and MFE-319) and in archived human endometrial tissues representing proliferative and secretory endometrium, hyperplasia, and Type I and Type II endometrial carcinomas. Histopathological evaluation was performed using hematoxylin and eosin staining. EZH2 expression was assessed by immunocytochemistry and Western blot analysis in the cell lines and by immunohistochemistry in tissue specimens, while apoptosis was evaluated by TUNEL assay in tissue samples. MFE-319 cells demonstrated significantly higher EZH2 expression than Ishikawa cells (H-score: 352.9 ± 78.9 vs. 137.6 ± 31.5, p < 0.0001), and Western blot analysis confirmed the same direction of change. Among tissue specimens, the highest EZH2 immunoreactivity was observed in Type II endometrial carcinoma (366.0 ± 63.7), with significantly higher expression than proliferative endometrium (231.5 ± 59.3), secretory endometrium (190.5 ± 52.4), and hyperplasia without atypia (261.0 ± 56.9), whereas no significant differences were detected among several intermediate histopathological groups. Nuclear localization of EZH2 became more prominent in atypical hyperplasia and carcinoma tissues. Apoptotic indices were significantly higher in both Type I and Type II carcinomas than in normal endometrium and hyperplasia groups, representing an association with increased EZH2 expression rather than evidence of a direct mechanistic relationship. These findings demonstrate that EZH2 expression differs across histopathological categories of endometrial lesions, with the highest expression observed in Type II endometrial carcinoma. The observed predominance of nuclear EZH2 in atypical hyperplasia and carcinoma further supports its association with aggressive tumor biology, although additional functional and clinicopathological studies are required to establish its clinical and biological significance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
This study aims to investigate the expression and function of DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs) and histone methyltransferase EZH2 in regulating the expression of thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor (TSHR) and fibrotic markers by orbital fibroblasts from Graves' ophthalmopathy (GO) patients.DNMTs mRNA levels were measured in orbital fibroblasts from healthy controls (control orbital fibroblasts), active GO fibroblasts, and inactive GO fibroblasts (iGOFs). TSHR and other fibrotic markers were measured in iGOFs treated with platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-BB and decitabine (a DNMT inhibitor) or DZNep (an EZH2 inhibitor) or small interfering RNA by RT-qPCR or Western blotting.DNMT1 and DNMT3A mRNA expressions were significantly higher in active GOFs compared with iGOFs and control orbital fibroblasts. Among all DNMTs, DNMT1 expression was at the highest levels. Upon PDGF-BB stimulation, DNMT1 and DNMT3A mRNA levels in iGOFs were significantly induced. Decitabine significantly inhibited PDGF-BB-induced cell viability and TSHR mRNA levels in iGOFs, whereas DNMT1 silencing partly reduced TSHR protein. Because a positive correlation between DNMT1 and EZH2 expression in iGOF was observed, the regulatory role of EZH2 on TSHR expression was also investigated. DZNep slightly decreased TSHR mRNA expression in iGOFs and iGO orbital tissue, whereas EZH2 silencing partly affects TSHR expression.This study demonstrates that DNMT1 is the major DNMT during the active stage of GO. Moreover, DNMT1 is inducible upon PDGF-BB stimulation in iGOFs, suggesting an important role of PDGF-BB and DNMT1 during an active stage of GO. Our findings also highlighted that the inhibition of DNMT or EZH2 potentially suppressed TSHR mRNA expression, suggesting potential therapies targeting DNMT/EZH2 in controlling GO progression.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42561611 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42557096
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42555104
A significant proportion of gastric diffuse large B-cell lymphoma with mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue [DLBCL(MALT)] and without MALT ('pure' DLBCL) can be resolved by Helicobacter pylori eradication (HPE). Gastric MALT lymphoma is an indolent lymphoma derived from memory B cells in the marginal zone. In the present study, we aimed to explore the origin of large cells in HPE-responsive gastric DLBCLs (complete remission after HPE). We investigated gastric lymphoma biopsies from 31 patients with HPE-responsive DLBCLs [15 'pure' DLBCLs, 16 DLBCL(MALT)s]. We used the Hans algorithm (CD10, BCL-6, and MUM1) to define the origins of germinal center B cell (GCB) and non-GCB. To further ascertain the cellular origin, 11 'pure' DLBCLs were examined using an Agilent whole-human genome microarray. Eleven DLBCLs [eight with 'pure' DLBCL and three with DLBCL(MALT)] were also assessed using Lymph2Cx. Specific GCB markers, including BACH2, AID, and BCL2 rearrangement and enhancer of zeste 2 polycomb repressive complex 2 subunit (EZH2) codon 641 mutations, were evaluated in 31 patients with HPE-responsive gastric DLBCLs. According to the Hans algorithm, 53% (8/15) of gastric 'pure' DLBCLs and 50% (8/16) of DLBCL(MALT)s were of the GCB phenotype. Gene expression assays revealed that five of six patients with 'Hans' GCB had GCB genetic signatures, whereas four of five patients with 'Hans' non-GCB had activated B-cell genetic signatures. The Lymph2Cx assay revealed the GCB subtype in seven of eight patients with 'Hans' GCB. The expression patterns of BACH2 (p = 0.005) and AID (p = 0.038) closely correlated with the 'Hans' GCB phenotype. BCL2 rearrangements and EZH2 codon 641 mutations were detected in 44% (7/16) and 13% (2/16) of patients with 'Hans' GCB, respectively. In another cohort of 29 HPE-unresponsive gastric DLBCLs [19 'pure' DLBCLs and 10 DLBCL(MALT)s], we found a close association between the 'Hans' GCB subtype and the GCB subtype as determined by the Agilent whole-human genome microarray and Lymph2Cx in lymphoma cells of these patients. In conclusion, more than half of HPE-responsive large cell lymphoma cases in the stomach were of GCB origin. © 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.© 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552079 is a review article
Myeloid/lymphoid neoplasms with tyrosine kinase fusions are rare but important because many are highly sensitive to targeted therapy. PDGFRB rearrangements are well-established drivers, whereas TPM3 is an exceptionally rare fusion partner.We performed longitudinal analysis of an elderly patient with hypereosinophilia, integrating morphology, cytogenetics, PDGFRB break-apart FISH, whole-transcriptome RNA sequencing, optical genome mapping, targeted myeloid DNA sequencing and exploratory fusion-specific RT-qPCR.A balanced t(1;5)(q21;q33) with PDGFRB rearrangement in 70% of nuclei was identified at diagnosis. RNA sequencing detected an in-frame TPM3 exon 8-PDGFRB exon 11 fusion, and optical genome mapping confirmed the balanced rearrangement. Low-dose imatinib induced durable haematologic and cytogenetic remission of the fusion-driven eosinophilic component. Serial DNA sequencing identified diagnostic ASXL1, EZH2 and low-level SRSF2 abnormalities that persisted during remission, followed by acquisition or expansion of SETBP1, CSF3R, ETNK1 and a distinct SRSF2 variant during late neutrophilic progression, without re-emergence of the PDGFRB rearrangement.TPM3::PDGFRB is a rare but actionable PDGFRB fusion. Durable suppression of the fusion-positive eosinophilic component was followed by a late CNL-like neutrophilic phase. The clonal relationship between these phases remains unresolved. Integrated longitudinal fusion testing and myeloid mutational profiling are therefore essential to characterize disease complexity.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Recurrent mutations in splicing factors (SFs) have been established as crucial drivers of tumorigenesis in several types of blood cancer and are also common in a variety of solid tumors. Mutations change the RNA-binding preferences of SFs, promote global splicing alterations, and often generate erroneous mRNAs that are then degraded by nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD). Consequently, several critical genes linked to hematopoiesis are dysregulated, leading to blood cancer. Although the field has progressed considerably in identifying aberrant genes and affected pathways, effective therapies have not yet emerged. To address this key gap, we instigated a gene-specific targeted strategy by unlocking the regulatory network. As a proof of concept, we scrutinized a tumor suppressor gene, EZH2, which is a bona fide target in SRSF2 mutated cancer. We precisely defined splicing cis-elements in EZH2 transcripts and illustrated the dynamic choreography of regulatory proteins in the entire splicing and NMD catalytic pathways. We then designed antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) targeting important regulatory sites. Our lead ASO successfully corrects aberrant splicing and NMD, restores the expression and function of EZH2, and partially rescues hematopoietic defects and cellular properties. Our study demonstrates that ASO pharmacology is an actionable strategy for clinical development, challenging the existing paradigms in SF mutated cancers.© 2026 Islam et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
We aimed to investigate drug response of sodium-glucose transport protein-2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) in multiple myeloma (MM), as SGLT2i have potential favorable effects on conditions related to MM.We conducted a pharmacoepidemiologic study with a US nationwide health insurance claim data using Cox models to investigate the comparative risk of MM between SGLT2i exposure and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors (DPP4i) exposure. Additionally, we conducted differential gene expression analysis with drug responses in cell lines.We observed SGLT2i compared with DDP4i exposure was associated with a reduced risk of MM in the general population (hazard ratios [HRs] ≤ 0.37, p < 0.001); and subpopulations defined by age, gender, race, deficiency anemia, renal failure, obesity, normal weight, and patients with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (HRs ≤ 0.49, p ≤ 0.032). Moreover, we revealed 450 and 660 unique differentially expressed genes (DEGs) associated with SGLT2i and DPP4i, respectively. We identified that MM-associated DEGs were significantly enriched in unique DEGs of SGLT2i compared with DPP4i (odds ratio = 2.0, p = 0.03). We found consistent DEGs between SGLT2i vs. control and normal vs. MM patients (e.g., AKT1, PHLPP2, CFD, FBLN2 proteasome genes, etc.) that regulate cell cycle, ubiquitination-proteasome system (UPS), and cell adhesion activities. SGLT2i showed potential beneficial effects in preventing MM, which could be due to SGLT2-mediated tumor-suppressing activities for MM from various aspects.SGLT2i is associated with a lower risk of MM in patients with diabetes.© 2026 The Author(s). European Journal of Haematology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42501454 is a review article
Tubulinopathies encompass a clinically and neuroradiologically diverse group of neurodevelopmental disorders caused by mutations in genes encoding tubulins and microtubule-associated proteins. This study aims to delineate the extensive phenotypic and genotypic spectrum within a pediatric cohort.We conducted a multicenter retrospective analysis of 15 pediatric patients from 12 unrelated families with genetically confirmed tubulinopathies across five tertiary centers in Turkey. Clinical data, seizure profiles, and neuroradiological findings were systematically evaluated.Genetic analysis identified 12 distinct pathogenic variants across seven genes (TUBA1A, TUBB2A, TUBB2B, TUBB3, TUBB4A, TUBG1, TUBGCP2), including four novel variants. The most prevalent clinical features included microcephaly (93.3%), global developmental delay (86.7%), and epilepsy (73.3%). Notably, one patient with TUBB2A-related tubulinopathy experienced a probable sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP). Movement disorders were observed in 33.3% of the cohort, including dystonia and mirror movements. Neuroradiological assessment revealed corpus callosum anomalies (76.9%) and cortical malformations (76.9%) as the most frequent findings. Furthermore, we identified a rare case of TUBGCP2-related tubulinopathy presenting with cystic leukomalacia, expanding the known radiological spectrum.Our findings underscore the profound genetic and phenotypic heterogeneity of tubulin-related disorders. The identification of rare variants and specific complications, such as SUDEP, highlights the necessity for comprehensive clinical monitoring and standardized management guidelines to optimize outcomes for this complex patient population.© 2026. Fondazione Società Italiana di Neurologia.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42450248 is a review article
Membrane-associated RING-CH 1 (MARCH1) is an E3 ubiquitin ligase that functions as an oncogene in colorectal cancer, but its role in rectal adenocarcinoma (READ) remains unclear. This study aimed to explore the effects of MARCH1 phase separation-mediated PHLPP2 ubiquitination on READ progression.MARCH1 expression was analyzed in normal and READ cell lines (SW480 and HT-29). The intrinsically disordered region (IDR) of MARCH1 was identified using Predictor of Natural Disordered Regions (PONDR), and an IDR point-mutant recombinant protein was generated. Lentiviruses were used to knock down MARCH1 or express IDR-mutant MARCH1 (MARCH1-MUT) in HT-29 cells. MG132 was used to inhibit the proteasome. Quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), Western blot, and immunoprecipitation were utilized to determine gene expression, protein, and ubiquitination levels. Cell proliferation and migration were assessed using cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and transwell assays. MARCH1 phase separation was evaluated using droplet formation, fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP), and immunofluorescence assays.MARCH1 was highly expressed in READ cells. MARCH1 knockdown increased PHLPP2 protein levels in HT-29 cells. Additionally, MARCH1 knockdown inhibited cell proliferation and migration. PONDR analysis predicted an IDR in MARCH1, spanning amino acid residues 128-254. MARCH1 underwent phase separation both in vitro and in cellulo, whereas its IDR mutation disrupted this process. MARCH1-MUT increased PHLPP2 protein levels while decreasing its ubiquitination levels. Notably, MG132 treatment led to an increase in PHLPP2 protein levels in HT-29 cells transfected with MARCH1-WT. Moreover, MARCH1-MUT inhibited cell proliferation and migration.Phase separation of MARCH1 promotes the proteasomal degradation of PHLPP2 via ubiquitination, thereby facilitating READ progression.© AME Publishing Company.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42438210 is a review article
Varicocele is a leading cause of male infertility, primarily manifesting as asthenozoospermia. The underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear, and the potential role of protein lactylation in this condition is unknown.We performed a comprehensive lactylome analysis using data-independent acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry on paired sperm samples collected from patients with varicocele-associated asthenozoospermia before and after treatment. Differential lactylation analysis and bioinformatic enrichment analyses were conducted.Disrupted lactate metabolism was observed in asthenozoospermic sperm, with decreased intracellular L-lactate and elevated seminal plasma L-lactate. This was concomitant with a global reduction in protein lactylation, particularly in the sperm midpiece and tail. Lactylome profiling identified 2,699 lactylation sites on 1,216 proteins. Comparison of pre- and post-treatment samples revealed 133 differentially lactylated proteins, which were significantly enriched in pathways critical for sperm motility, including glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, microtubule-based movement, and flagellar assembly. Notably, lactylation abundance of key proteins (TEKT3, AKAP4, TUBA1A, AKAP3, TUBB4B) were significantly downregulated.This study presents an initial characterization of the protein lactylation landscape in human sperm, revealing​ its alteration in the context of varicocele-associated asthenozoospermia. The findings suggest that dysregulation of the lactate-lactylation axis correlates with impaired sperm motility, potentially through concurrent alterations in energy metabolism and flagellar structure. This correlation underscores specific lactylation events that warrant future mechanistic investigation.Copyright © 2026 Cao, Liu, Nie, Zhu, Liu, Zhou, Ma, Liu and Qin.
Syncytin-2, a human endogenous retrovirus-derived fusogen, is essential for placental syncytiotrophoblast formation by mediating trophoblast cell-cell fusion. While Syncytin-2 shares structural similarities with viral envelope proteins, the molecular mechanisms underlying its receptor recognition and membrane fusion remain poorly characterized, largely due to the lack of in vitro reconstitution systems. Here, we established an in vitro reconstitution system to investigate the initial steps of Syncytin-2-mediated membrane fusion. We purified Syncytin-2 and its receptor MFSD2A and confirmed their interaction through co-immunoprecipitation and pull-down assays. Both proteins were successfully reconstituted into liposomes and exhibited specific tethering dependent on the receptor-fusogen interaction, which is the first committed step of fusion. This study provides an in vitro reconstitution of a placental fusogen-receptor pair, establishing a powerful platform for dissecting the molecular mechanism of syncytin-mediated cell-cell fusion and shedding light on understanding placenta development at the molecular level.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Age-related breakdown of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is associated with cerebrovascular and neurodegenerative diseases, yet its underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we find that BBB leakage begins in midlife and is driven primarily by increased endothelial caveolar transcytosis rather than tight junction disruption. AAV-mediated knockdown of caveolin-1 or restoration of Mfsd2a expression reduces endothelial vesicle formation and BBB leakage in aged mice. Transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1, originating from both brain and systemic circulation, increases with aging and directly suppresses Mfsd2a transcription via the Tgfbr2-Smad2/4 signaling in brain microvascular endothelial cells, thereby promoting caveolar transcytosis and BBB leakage. Endothelial-specific Tgfbr2 knockout or pharmacological inhibition of TGF-β signaling reduces endothelial caveolar transcytosis and BBB leakage and attenuates neurological dysfunction in aged mice. These findings identify TGF-β1-induced endothelial transcytosis as a central mechanism underlying age-related BBB breakdown and offer potential therapeutic targets for preserving brain health in age-related neurovascular disorders.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42555659 is a review article
Depression is a highly recurrent psychiatric disorder characterized by persistent low mood, anhedonia, and sleep disturbances. The clinical diagnosis of depression currently relies primarily on clinical interviews and standardized assessment scales, lacking objective biological markers. This increases the risk of misdiagnosis and missed diagnosis, while also limiting the precise differentiation of disease subtypes and the individualized prediction of treatment response. Identifying reliable biomarkers has therefore become a major research focus. This study, based on bioinformatics analysis of the GEO database, found that fibroblast growth factor 13 (FGF13) was significantly reduced in the serum of patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). FGF13 belongs to the fibroblast homologous factor (FHF) family and is enriched in neurons of the brain, where it regulates neuronal excitability and synaptic plasticity. However, the role of FGF13 in depression remains unclear. Based on the results of the bioinformatics analysis, experimental validation demonstrated that Fgf13 expression was significantly reduced in corticosterone (CORT)-induced PC12 and SH-SY5Y cells, as well as in the hippocampus of chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) rats, as shown by qRT-PCR and Western blot analyses. Functional experiments demonstrated that FGF13 overexpression enhanced the expression of synaptic plasticity-related proteins (Syn, PSD95, BDNF) and anti-apoptotic protein (Bcl-2), while suppressing pro-apoptotic proteins (Bax, Cleaved-caspase-3) and activating the PI3K/AKT pathway. These effects were markedly reversed by treatment with the PI3K inhibitor LY294002. Furthermore, FGF13 overexpression improved neuronal apoptosis and morphological damage in the hippocampus of CUMS rats. Serum ELISA analysis revealed significantly reduced FGF13 levels in patients with depression. Logistic regression analysis showed a negative association between FGF13 expression and depression risk, while ROC analysis demonstrated good diagnostic performance (AUC = 0.936). Collectively, these findings suggest that FGF13 participates in the pathogenesis of depression by regulating synaptic plasticity and neuronal apoptosis and may serve as a promising biomarker and potential therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42449712 is a review article
BackgroundOvarian cancer remains one of the most lethal gynecological malignancies, largely due to delayed diagnosis and limited effectiveness of current biomarkers. Identifying candidate biomarkers through integrated gene expression analysis may enhance understanding of OC biology and support future diagnostic and prognostic investigations.MethodsFour microarray datasets were retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus and analyzed using the limma package in R to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) through a bidirectional filter (|log2FC| ≥ 1.2). Overlapping DEGs across all four datasets were subjected to Gene Ontology and KEGG pathway enrichment analyses. Protein-protein interaction networks were constructed using the STRING database, and hub genes were identified by consensus across three centrality algorithms in Cytoscape. Prognostic significance was evaluated using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis via GEPIA2; diagnostic performance was assessed using Youden Index-based ROC analysis; and external validation was performed using an independent dataset.ResultsA total of 209 overlapping DEGs were identified, yielding 35 hub genes. Functional enrichment analysis implicated cell cycle dysregulation, metabolic reprogramming, and extracellular matrix remodeling as central biological processes. TRIP13, FGF13, and LYVE1 were significantly associated with overall survival, while ALDH1A1, GATA6, and WNT5A were associated with disease-free survival. KDR demonstrated the highest diagnostic accuracy, and external validation confirmed the generalizability of the diagnostic findings.ConclusionThis study identifies a panel of candidate diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers in ovarian cancer, providing a molecular framework for future experimental validation and translational investigation.
Angiogenesis is a tightly regulated process essential for both development and disease, yet the role of fibroblast growth factor 13 (FGF13) in vascular remodeling has remained unclear. Here, we identify FGF13 as a key negative regulator of physiological and pathological angiogenesis. Using endothelial cell-specific knockout and overexpression mouse models, combined with retinal vascularization assays, hindlimb ischemia and myocardial infarction models, and in vitro endothelial cell functional assays, we demonstrate that loss of FGF13 enhances, whereas its overexpression impairs, neovascularization. Mechanistically, FGF13 binds to the PAS domain of HIF-1α and facilitates its interaction with RACK1, leading to oxygen-independent degradation of HIF-1α and suppression of downstream angiogenic signaling. Importantly, adenoviral overexpression of HIF-1α reverses the inhibitory effects of FGF13, confirming its essential role in mediating FGF13-driven angiogenic regulation. These findings reveal FGF13 as a critical endothelial-intrinsic brake on angiogenesis and suggest its potential as a therapeutic target in ischemic vascular disease.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is one of the leading causes of disability worldwide and significantly increases the risk of premature death and other diseases. Astrocyte loss is a key pathological hallmark of MDD, yet the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we identify fibroblast growth factor 13 (FGF13) as a critical regulator of astrocyte apoptosis in depression, which is closely associated with depression-like behaviors in mice. In depressive models, FGF13 expression is markedly reduced, particularly in astrocytes, accompanied by astrocyte apoptosis in the hippocampal region and decreased synaptic protein levels in the nervous system. Astrocyte-specific knockout of FGF13 induces astrocytic apoptosis, exacerbates inflammatory levels, and aggravates depression-like behaviors in mice. In contrast, astrocyte-specific overexpression of FGF13 significantly attenuates both astrocyte apoptosis and inflammation, and effectively ameliorates depression-like behaviors. Mechanistically, FGF13 directly binds to JIP2 protein, inhibits its activity, and subsequently blocks the downstream JIP2-JNK signaling pathway, thereby suppressing Bax/Bcl-2-mediated astrocyte apoptosis. These findings reveal a key mechanism by which FGF13 regulates astrocyte death in depression and highlight its potential as a therapeutic target for MDD, offering new insights for the development of antidepressant drugs targeting astrocytes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Dysregulation of Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2) contributes to cancer. Of its catalytic subunits, Enhancer of Zeste (EZH) 1 and EZH2, EZH2 mutations are extensively studied, but the role of EZH1 in cancer remains largely unexplored. Here, we investigate the thyroid cancer-associated EZH1Q571R mutation and uncover a mechanism that extends beyond catalytic gain of function. Using biochemical, single-molecule, epigenomic, and transcriptomic analyses, we demonstrated that EZH1Q571R significantly enhances chromatin compaction and stimulates PRC2-EZH1 catalytic activity, thereby rewiring PRC2-chromatin interactions. This altered engagement enables PRC2 activity within H3K36me2-marked chromatin typically refractory to H3K27 methylation, leading to widespread epigenetic and transcriptional reprogramming. Notably, enhanced chromatin compaction is observed with EZH1Q571R but not with the corresponding EZH2Q570R mutation, indicating an EZH1-specific mechanism. Functionally, EZH1Q571R accelerated tumor growth in vivo and induced pronounced micronuclei formation ex vivo, reflecting aberrant chromatin compaction and genome instability. Together, our study demonstrates that EZH1Q571R promotes a permissive epigenomic landscape for the progression of follicular thyroid cancer.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) silences MHC class I antigen presentation across cancer types, yet the role of its core scaffolding subunit SUZ12 in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) immune phenotypes remains poorly characterized.We integrated bulk transcriptomics from three cohorts, scRNA-seq (137,976 cells), mouse spatial transcriptomics (5980 spots), Mendelian randomization, colocalization, DepMap CRISPR dependency, tissue microarray immunofluorescence, and siRNA knockdown.Meta-analysis identified 43 of 45 PcG genes significantly upregulated in PDAC (FDR < 0.05); SUZ12 was consistent across all three cohorts (log2FC = 0.95, FDR = 9.5 ×10^-19). A three-gene classifier (EZH1, RBBP7, RBBP4) achieved AUC = 0.855. Single-cell analysis revealed positive PRC2-MHC-I co-expression in epithelial cells (rho = 0.37), corroborated by mouse spatial transcriptomics (rho = 0.83). SUZ12-high epithelial cells lost acinar identity (PRSS1 log2FC = -6.63) and gained proliferative programs. Prior TMA immunofluorescence showed SUZ12-PD-L1 protein co-expression; siRNA knockdown reduced proliferation and migration. MR for SUZ12 was underpowered (one instrument, non-significant); colocalization returned PP.H4 = 0.023. PHC2 showed a protective association (OR = 0.45, p = 0.010).PcG complex genes are broadly dysregulated in PDAC. SUZ12 upregulation marks an epithelial state characterized by acinar identity loss, proliferative remodeling, and PRC2-MHC-I co-expression, supported by prior protein-level and functional data. Germline genetic analyses were negative or underpowered, and direct mechanistic validation remains needed.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Cytohesin-4 (CYTH4), an ARF guanine nucleotide exchange factor, remains unknown in RCC pathogenesis. We report that CYTH4 was dramatically upregulated in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) and following ccRCC progression. CYTH4 was strongly associated with ccRCC's immune-suppressive features and stratified ccRCC poor outcome. From CYTH4's network/NW, a multigene panel, SigCYTH4NW, was derived. In retrospective studies, (1) SigCYTH4NW effectively predicted ccRCC's inferior prognosis, was strongly associated with the well-validated poor risk ccB signature in four independent ccRCC cohorts (n = 1132), was significantly upregulated in ccB compared to ccA (favorable risk) tumors, was robustly correlated with an immune checkpoint signature (SigIC), and was predominantly expressed in tumor-associated macrophages, and (2) SigCYTH4NW effectively predicted poor prognosis and correlated with SigIC across 21 other cancer types. CYTH4 was expressed at low levels in 786-0 ccRCC cells; its stable expression promoted 786-0 cell proliferation in vitro and xenograft formation in vivo. CYTH4 bound PPP1R9B, which maintains pRb's hypophosphorylation. 786-0 CYTH4 cells displayed intensive pRb hyperphosphorylation, suggesting that CYTH4 enhances cell proliferation partially by pRb inhibition. Gene expression profiling by RNA-seq revealed a 786-0 CYTH4 network that was relevant to primary ccRCC, particularly in the aspect of immune evasion. Collectively, this study supports CYTH4's promoting ccRCC.
Metastasis contributes to treatment failure and poor prognosis of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) patients. The 5'-3' exoribonuclease 2 (XRN2) is related to the pathogenesis and progression of various malignancies through its roles in transcription termination and metastasis promotion, but its function in ESCC remains unclear. Bioinformatic analysis showed that XRN2 was significantly overexpressed in ESCC tissues and was identified as a risk factor for ESCC patients. The analysis of our own cohort confirmed that XRN2 expression was overexpressed and significantly correlated with cancer stage in patients (P = 0.0100). Gain- and loss- of function analyses revealed that XRN2 promoted ESCC cell growth, migration and invasion capabilities, as well as experimental lung colonization foci. Interestingly, we found that the RNA level of XRN2 was upregulated by the RNA-binding protein polypyrimidine tract binding protein 3 (PTBP3). Specifically, PTBP3 bound to CUUUC motifs of the 3'UTR of XRN2, prolonging the half-life of XRN2 RNA. PTBP3 was found to be significantly overexpressed in ESCC, where its expression level correlated with tumor stage (P = 0.0164) and tumor size (P = 0.0495), positioning it as a risk factor for ESCC patients. PTBP3 upregulation promoted ESCC cell growth, migration, and invasion in vitro and in vivo. Notably, knockdown of XRN2 reversed the tumor promotion effects induced by PTBP3 overexpression. Collectively, our data reveal a novel function of XRN2 in ESCC metastasis and the critical roles of the PTBP3/XRN2 axis in ESCC metastasis, highlighting its promise as a novel therapeutic target in ESCC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Descending cortical control plays a critical role in shaping neuropathic pain. However, how specific circuits within the insular cortex (IC), a critical cortical hub that integrates the sensory and affective dimensions of pain, contribute to this process remains poorly understood. Here, we show that posterior IC glutamatergic (pICGlu) neurons are selectively and contralaterally activated in a chronic constriction injury (CCI) model and bidirectionally regulate pain sensitivity, whereas anterior IC glutamatergic (aICGlu) neurons preferentially mediate CCI-induced anxiety-like behaviors. Circuit mapping revealed that pICGlu neurons project to rostral ventromedial medulla GABAergic (RVMGABA) neurons, particularly a Slc32a1+/Penk- subpopulation, which in turn innervate spinal dorsal horn GABAergic (DHGABA) interneurons. Consistent with this organization, pathway-specific manipulations demonstrated that activation of the pIC-RVM-DH circuit enhances nociceptive hypersensitivity, whereas its inhibition alleviates CCI-induced allodynia. Together, these findings identify a previously uncharacterized pICGlu-RVMGABA-DHGABA circuit that mediates the sensory dimension of neuropathic pain and provides a circuit-level framework for descending cortical control of pain hypersensitivity.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain.
We report a case of Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) complicated by bilateral Coats-like exudative vasculopathy with exudative retinal detachment and neovascular glaucoma (NVG).A 10-year-old boy noticed decreased visual acuity and was referred to our clinic. He had a history of retinitis pigmentosa, renal dysfunction, obesity, and a delay in mental development at 4 years of age. Genetic testing confirmed BBS with compound heterozygous variants detected in the BBS2 gene. His visual acuity was light perception in both eyes, and the intraocular pressure (IOP) was 14 mmHg in the right eye and 35 mmHg in the left eye. Fundus examination revealed severe exudative changes in both eyes with vitreous hemorrhage in the left eye. In the right eye, fluorescein angiography showed limited retinal vascular circulation and a nonperfused peripheral area in the equatorial region with multiple sites of neovascularization. Panretinal photocoagulation was performed on the right eye, and vitrectomy was performed on the left eye for the NVG. The left eye had proliferative membranes throughout the periphery. Postoperatively, the IOP of the right eye was elevated accompanied by iris rubeosis. Aflibercept was injected Intravitreally and lens-sparing vitrectomy was performed on the right eye with additional endophotocoagulation. One month later, the visual acuity remained at light perception in both eyes. The IOP was well controlled with topical medication at 18 mmHg for the right eye and 20 mmHg for the left eye.The Coats-like exudative lesions associated with eyes with the BBS2 gene variants and retinal vascular occlusion likely led to the NVG.© 2026 The Authors.
Inherited retinal diseases (IRDs) may present as an isolated ocular condition or as part of multisystem disorders, such as Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS). Several BBS-related manifestations are age-dependent and variably expressed. Therefore, patients with early or subtle extra-ocular features may be incorrectly diagnosed as having non-syndromic IRD. There are two diagnostic frameworks for BBS: a phenotype-based, Beales-derived approach and a genotype-first approach, as recommended by the InterEuropean Reference Networks (ERNs) criteria. Here, we aimed to conduct comprehensive evaluations of patients with IRD carrying BBS-related variants.Nineteen patients from nine Jordanian families initially diagnosed with non-syndromic IRD underwent detailed ophthalmic evaluation and molecular testing. Post-genetic testing, participants underwent targeted reverse phenotyping to reveal potentially overlooked syndromic features.Ophthalmic assessment revealed a spectrum ranging from advanced IRDs to phenotypes inclining toward rod-cone, cone-rod, and macular dystrophies. Molecular testing identified potential causative variants in BBS-related genes known to cause both isolated IRD and BBS, namely, CFAP418, BBS2, BBS1, BBS5, and CEP290. A splice donor variant in CFAP418 was the most frequent in our cohort (numbers [n] = 3/9 families), followed by a missense variant in BBS2 (n = 2/9 families). These findings prompted genotype-guided reverse phenotyping, which uncovered previously unrecognized multisystemic involvement. BBS-related major and minor features were discovered across the cohort. The extraretinal major features included obesity (n = 16 patients), polydactyly (n = 7 patients), renal anomalies (n = 7 patients), genitourinary abnormalities (n = 4 patients), and intellectual disability (n = 4 patients). Using Beales-derived criteria, 11 patients met the threshold for BBS. Under ERNs genotype-first recommendations, 18 patients reached the BBS diagnostic limit.Wide intra- and inter-familial clinical variability was observed, even among patients with the same variants in CFAP418 and BBS2. Furthermore, applying genotype-guided diagnostic criteria reclassified multiple patients who did not meet the traditional Beales-based clinical criteria as having BBS. These findings demonstrate that a genotype-first approach can detect patients with unrecognized BBS and facilitate appropriate clinical surveillance, genetic counseling, and management. To our knowledge, this is the first study from Jordan to integrate molecular testing with reverse phenotyping in patients carrying BBS-related genotypes. Importantly, we present the most comprehensive extra-retinal characterization of patients with CFAP418, so far.Copyright © 2026 Azab, Aburizeg, Al-Slaimieh, Naser Aldeen, Hyasat, Alrefae, Albooz, AlAref, Alrefae, Obeidat, Hadidy, Abu-Ameerh, Al-Bdour, Maswadi and Al-Nawaiseh.
A complex structural variation on chicken chromosome 27 is the causal mutation for the muffs and beard (Mb) phenotype. The Mb variant region contains copy number variations in several genes important for nervous system development, including HOXB8, HOXB7, and SMARCE1. However, it was previously unknown whether genes in this region are expressed in the brain or influence neural development. In this study, we collected embryonic brain tissues from Beijing-You Mb and non-Mb chickens at different developmental time points. RT-qPCR revealed that SMARCD2, HOXB8, SMARCE1, and KRT222 were highly expressed in Mb chicken brains. HOXB8 showed stable differential expression after day 15 and had the highest fold change among all differentially expressed genes (DEGs). RNA-seq of 19-day brain tissue indicated that DEGs were enriched in neural development processes such as synaptic assembly, signal transduction, chemical synaptic transmission, and neurotransmitter regulation. Several key neural development genes were also differentially expressed, providing a biological basis for developmental difference. Neurotransmitter analysis further revealed significant differences in glutamate and GABA levels. HOXB8, an important regulator of neural development, showed widespread mRNA expression in brain sections, especially in cortical tissues, and its homeobox domain is evolutionarily conserved. Overexpression of HOXB8 in chicken embryo primary brain cells significantly regulated multiple neural development-related genes, including AGT, SLC32A1, SLC18A2, RPS20, RPL35A, SLC6A11, and RLN3. In conclusion, this study is the first to show that genes within the Mb region are highly expressed in chicken embryonic brain tissue and mediate differences in neural development-related gene expression and neurotransmitter content, with HOXB8 as a key candidate. These findings open a new avenue for research on the Mb variant in neural development, and future work should further investigate neurological and behavioral differences in Mb chickens.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
MEIOC and its two partners, RBM46 and YTHDC2, function as posttranscriptional regulators to promote mitotic-to-meiotic transition in mammalian germ cells. However, the molecular mechanism underlying target mRNA selection and degradation by MEIOC complex is largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that exogenously expressed RBM46/MEIOC/YTHDC2 binds to Rad21 and Meioc 3'UTR and targets these transcripts for degradation in cultured somatic cells. YTHDC2 stabilizes MEIOC through inhibiting its ubiquitination, and the coiled-coil domain of MEIOC mediates its association with YTHDC2 and RBM46. The target mRNA is required for the interaction of RBM46 with YTHDC2. Moreover, MEIOC recruits XRN2 in the cytoplasm as the likely ribonuclease. We propose that MEIOC is a critical component that recruits RNA binding proteins for target mRNA selection and XRN2 for RNA degradation, and regulates the complex activity by modulating its mRNA and protein stability.© 2026 The Author(s).
The loss in segmental inhibitory GABAergic tone plays the key role in the development of spinal injury-induced muscle spasticity. We use a subpial segment-targeted delivery of adeno-associated virus vector(s) expressing GAD65 (glutamic acid decarboxylase-65) and VGAT (vesicular GABA transporter) transgenes in rats with spinal transection-induced spasticity. In treated animals, a significant suppression in spasticity was seen at 5-8 weeks after treatment. Naive rats, pigs, and non-human primates (NHPs) injected with human equivalent dose of treatment vectors and surviving for 3 weeks to 4.5 years showed normal motor function and pinch-evoked response. A significant increase in the number of VGLUT2 terminals co-expressing GAD65 and VGAT protein in vector-injected segment was seen. This corresponded with the presence of transgene-specific rat Gad2 or human GAD2 and rat Slc32a1 or human SLC32A1 mRNA signal. No spinal toxicity was noted in NHPs at 4.5 years post vector delivery. Analysis of peripheral organs (liver, spleen, and skeletal muscle) showed minimal or no detectable transgenes in pigs and NHPs. These data demonstrate that a single-time-point spinal-segment-targeted subpial delivery of GAD65/VGAT transgenes is effective in suppressing spinal injury-induced spasticity and has a favorable long-term safety profile as defined by normal neurological function and histopathology in naive pigs and NHPs.Copyright © 2026 The American Society of Gene and Cell Therapy. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Transfer RNAs (tRNAs) are dynamically regulated by RNA modifications. The conserved TRMT6/61A catalyzes m 1 A ( N 1-methyladenosine) deposition at position 58. While TRMT6/61A dysregulation is linked to human diseases, its downstream processing consequences and molecular surveillance mechanisms remain unclear. Here we demonstrate that TRMT6/61A installs m 1 A on precursor tRNAs prior to processing. Utilizing a dTAG rapid depletion system, we show that acute loss of TRMT6/61A swiftly reprograms the human tRNAome. Although elongator tRNA fluctuations are buffered by isodecoder redundancy, hypomethylated tRNA iMet is selectively and rapidly degraded by the exoribonuclease XRN2, reducing global protein synthesis and activating ATF4 expression. Furthermore, m 1 A 58 is a prerequisite for tRNA end processing; its absence leads to the aberrant accumulation of unprocessed pre-tRNAs and disrupted tRNA-derived fragment (tRF) populations. Mechanistically, TRMT6/61A facilitates in vitro RNase Z cleavage, likely by promoting proper pre-tRNA folding. Lastly, XRN2 inhibition rescues tRNA iMet levels and reverses growth defects, identifying the XRN2-mediated surveillance of tRNA iMet as a primary driver of the cellular pathology. Collectively, our results uncover a pivotal role for TRMT6/61A-dependent m 1 A in human tRNA maturation and define the molecular checkpoints essential for translational homeostasis.
Liver fibrosis (LF) is a progressive chronic liver disease characterized by excessive accumulation of extracellular matrix, which is primarily driven by the abnormal activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors have been reported to inhibit HSC activation, while solute carrier family 32 member 1 (SLC32A1), a GABA transporter protein, is speculated to be involved in LF regulation, although its specific role and underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the role of SLC32A1 in HSC activation and LF progression, as well as to elucidate its downstream regulatory mechanisms. Our results showed that SLC32A1 levels were elevated in LF patients. In vivo experiments demonstrated that SLC32A1 knockout alleviated CCl4-induced LF in mice. In vitro studies revealed that SLC32A1 was specifically upregulated in TGF-β1-stimulated LX-2 cells (HSCs), but not in THLE-2, THP-1, or LSECs. SLC32A1 overexpression exacerbated LX-2 activation and fibrosis, while its knockdown reversed TGF-β1-induced effects. Mechanistically, SLC32A1 promoted GABA and glycine exocytosis in LX-2 cells. However, neither exogenous nor endogenous GABA/glycine affected the reduced activation mediated by SLC32A1 knockdown, prompting investigation into alternative pathways. Among 55 differentially expressed genes, PAI-1 showed the largest difference. Critically, PAI-1 overexpression reversed the decrease in activation and fibrosis induced by SLC32A1 knockdown. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that downregulation of the SLC32A1-mediated PAI-1 pathway, rather than the GABA pathway, attenuates HSC activation and LF, highlighting SLC32A1 as a potential novel therapeutic target for LF.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42125992
Phosphorylation, carried out by kinases, is a pivotal mechanism for all cell signal transduction pathways. In eukaryotic cells, Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases (MAPK) form modules with three kinases (MAPKKK, MAPKK, and MAPK) that are sequentially activated, participating in multiple signaling mechanisms. The second kinase forming a typical module is called MAP kinase kinase (MAPKK or MKK), which receives the signal from MAPKKK and transmits it to MAPK. The Arabidopsis thaliana genome has 10 MKKs and they are classified into four different groups (A, B, C, and D). To date, several aspects of the MKK functioning are known, but there is little information about MKK expression in plant tissues. Here, each MKK upstream region was fused to the UidA reporter, and these pMKK1-10:UidA constructions were used to reveal the MKK expression patterns in the tissues of the seedlings during their early development. This experimental expression analysis was complemented with a detailed bioinformatic analysis focused on identifying the cis-regulatory elements present in these upstream promoter regions.
Interaction with microbes can reprogram metabolism and alter nutrient availability in plant cells. How metabolic changes modulate immune responses remains unknown. Here, we show that sugar-sensing O-glycosylation of immune-signaling kinases mediates metabolic regulation of immunity. Under sugar-replete conditions, the MAP kinase kinases (MKK4 and MKK5), key components of pattern-triggered immunity (PTI), are glycosylated with O-GlcNAc and O-fucose on their activation loops, blocking their phosphorylation by upstream kinases and thereby restricting PTI. Pathogen infection or sugar starvation reduces O-glycosylation of MKK4/5 and enhances immune signaling; these effects are reversed by GDP-fucose treatment, demonstrating that reduced sugar availability decreases O-fucosylation and enhances immune signaling in infected cells. Chemical inhibition of O-fucosylation enhances immunity and pathogen resistance in both Arabidopsis and tomato. Our findings establish O-glycosylation of MKKs as a metabolic rheostat that fine-tunes immune responses according to sugar availability during plant-microbe interactions, providing a new strategy for improving crop health.
Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a rare autosomal recessive ciliopathy with multisystem involvement, including retinal dystrophy, obesity, polydactyly, renal anomalies, hypogonadism, and cognitive impairment. Early diagnosis is often delayed due to gradual symptom onset. The revised diagnostic criteria for BBS, considering molecular diagnosis, ensures diagnostic certainty.We report a case of a 15-year-old girl born out of a nonconsanguineous marriage with delayed puberty, progressive vision loss, and obesity. Family history revealed similar symptoms in her 3 younger siblings. All four fulfilled diagnostic criteria for BBS. Whole exome sequencing in the index case and Sanger sequencing in the other 3 siblings identified a pathogenic homozygous 1 base pair deletion in exon 3 of the MKKS gene (p.Ser236Ter), confirming BBS type 6.BBS is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous disorder. Genetic confirmation aids early diagnosis, enabling timely intervention and multidisciplinary management to alleviate the burdensome complications.This case highlights the importance of early recognition and genetic confirmation in BBS, even in the background of nonconsanguinity. Early diagnosis can improve quality of life and long-term outcomes.© 2025 American Association of Clinical Endocrinology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by a wide range of symptoms and clinical signs. The aim of the current work is to provide a comprehensive overview of the clinical and genetic features of BBS patients, with a focus on ophthalmological manifestations.In a retrospective analysis at the University Eye Hospital Bonn, data from 18 patients with a molecular genetically confirmed diagnosis of BBS were analyzed. In addition to the medical history, clinical examination included multimodal imaging, the collection of functional data and molecular genetic diagnostics.17 patients (17/18; 94%) presented typical retinal changes consistent with retinitis pigmentosa (RP) and 1 patient (1/18; 6%) showed a central cone-rod dystrophy without peripheral changes. In addition, other nonophthalmological symptoms and clinical signs, such as limb abnormalities (9/18; 50%), obesity (7/18; 39%), urogenital tract abnormalities (7/18; 39%) and neurological symptoms (8/18; 44%) were noted. Molecular genetic analyses revealed disease-causing variants in several BBS genes, including the BBS1 (Bardet-Biedl syndrome)1 gene (9), BBS10 (3), BBS7 (1), BBS12 (1) and the MKKS (McKusick-Kaufmann syndrome) gene (2). The average time between the onset of the first ophthalmological symptoms and the final genetic diagnosis was 15 years (median 10 years, range 1-36 years).This study emphasizes the importance of an interdisciplinary approach in the diagnosis and treatment of BBS patients. The clinical heterogeneity of BBS can lead to diagnostic delays. Early diagnosis enables appropriate genetic counseling, monitoring of disease progression, individualized treatment initiation and exploration of potential therapeutic interventions.© 2025. The Author(s).
Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS, OMIM 209900) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by a broad spectrum of clinical features including renal anomalies, learning disabilities, postaxial polydactyly, retinal dystrophy, obesity, and hypogonadism. BBS is a heterogeneous syndrome, both genetically and clinically. To date, genetic variants in more than 28 genes have been associated with this syndrome and its subtypes. Most previous studies on BBS have failed to show clear genotype-phenotype correlations. In order to investigate the spectrum of genetic variation among Iranian BBS patients, 9 subjects from 9 different families with clinically diagnosed BBS were included in this study. Following informed consent, we applied exome sequencing (ES) to the proband and their parents. We next performed Sanger sequencing to validate the identified variants. ES successfully detected four known variants: two in the BBS9 gene, c.2014C > T (p.Gln672Ter) and c.1789 + 1 G > A, one variant in the BBS10 gene (c.728_731del; p.Lys243Ilefs*15), and one variant in the MKKS gene (c.515_516del; p.Glu172Alafs*19). ES also detected two new variants in the BBS7 gene, c.880G > C (p.Gly294Arg) and c.719G > A (p.Gly240Asp), one new variant in the CEP290 gene, c.5159C > G (p.Thr1720Arg), and one new variant, in the TTC8 gene, c.462_465del (p.Ser155Glufs*20). In addition, ES identified one novel homozygous deletion of exon 16 in the BBS9 gene. Among the clinical manifestations observed, obesity and polydactyly were the most common findings. Our findings further support the high heterogeneity of BBS: by discovering known, new, and novel pathogenic variants. We expand the mutational spectrum of BBS-related genes and contribute to the understanding of this multisystem disease.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a rare nonmotile ciliopathy characterized by retinal dystrophy, polydactyly, obesity, genital anomalies, renal dysfunction, and learning difficulties. The objectives were to describe the retinal, oral, and metabolic characteristics relevant to adults with BBS as well as the prevalence of genetic variants.A cross-sectional study of 30 adults with BBS (15 males, 15 females, mean age 39.8 ± 13.6 years) was recruited from a single centre for rare disorders in Norway. Participants attended a one day hospital visit including medical (blood pressure, body mass index), ophthalmological and oral examinations. Blood samples were collected and genetic analyses were performed.Age at diagnosis varied from one year to 30 years. The incidence of overweight/obesity, hypertension, kidney disease, and diabetes mellitus was 82%, 67%, 27%, and 23%, respectively. All had retinitis pigmentosa. Prior to the study, 14 participants (47%) had confirmed extinguished electroretinography. Eleven participants were examined with electroretinography during the study period, and all had extinguished electroretinography. 50% perceived light, 23% saw hand motion, and one participant did not perceive light. Oral anomalies were identified in 77% of the participants, including abnormal palates (58%), crowded teeth (50%), and small teeth (60%). A genetic cause was identified in all participants, most commonly in BBS1 (n = 11) and BBS10 (n = 9). Other variants were found in BBS5, BBS7, BBS9, and MKKS. In addition to exon-located variants, a novel deep intronic variant causing mis-splicing was identified in BBS7.A multidisciplinary examination is important for proper management of BBS. The genotype and phenotype of this sample were heterogeneous, including kidney failure, genital anomalies and obesity. Genome sequencing increased the likelihood of identifying the genetic cause. In BBS populations, the patients will benefit from testing or reanalysis, preferably with genome sequencing, including searching for deep intronic variants.© 2025. The Author(s).
Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK/MPK) cascades are pivotal and highly conserved signaling modules widely distributed in eukaryotes; they play essential roles in plant growth and development, as well as biotic and abiotic stress responses. With the development of sequencing technology, the complete genome assembly of rice without gaps, T2T (Telomere-to-Telomere)-NIP (version AGIS-1.0), has recently been released. In this study, we used bioinformatic approaches to identify and analyze the rice MPK kinases (MKKs) based on the complete genome. A total of seven OsMKKs were identified, and their physical and chemical properties, chromosome localization, gene structure, subcellular localization, phylogeny, family evolution, and cis-acting elements were evaluated. OsMKKs can be divided into four subgroups based on phylogenetic relationships, and the family members located in the same evolutionary branch have relatively similar gene structures and conserved domains. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) revealed that all OsMKKs were highly expressed in rice seedling leaves. The expression levels of all OsMKKs were more or less altered under exogenous hormone and abiotic stress treatments, with OsMKK1, OsMKK6, and OsMKK3 being induced under almost all treatments, while the expression of OsMKK4 and OsMKK10-2 was repressed under salt and drought treatments and IAA treatment, respectively. In this study, we also summarized the recent progress in rice MPK cascades, highlighted their diverse functions, and outlined the potential MPK signaling network, facilitating further studies on OsMKK genes and rice MPK cascades.
The calcium-dependent protein kinase CPK28 regulates several stress pathways in multiple plant species. Here, we aimed to discover CPK28-associated proteins in Arabidopsis thaliana. We used affinity-based proteomics and identified several potential CPK28 binding partners, including the C7 Raf-like kinases MRK1, RAF26, and RAF39. We used biochemistry, genetics, and physiological assays to gain insight into their function. We define redundant roles for these kinases in stomatal opening, immune-triggered reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, and resistance to a bacterial pathogen. We report that CPK28 associates with and trans-phosphorylates RAF26 and RAF39, and that MRK1, RAF26, and RAF39 are active kinases that localize to endomembranes. Although Raf-like kinases share some features with mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinases (MKKKs), we found that MRK1, RAF26, and RAF39 are unable to trans-phosphorylate any of the 10 Arabidopsis mitogen-activated protein kinase kinases (MKKs). Overall, our study suggests that C7 Raf-like kinases associate with and are phosphorylated by CPK28, function redundantly in stomatal opening and immunity, and possess substrate specificities distinct from canonical MKKKs.© 2024 The Author(s). New Phytologist © 2024 New Phytologist Foundation.
Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs/MPKs) are pivotal regulators in many stress-signaling pathways in plants. The dual phosphorylation of the TXY motif by MAP kinase kinases (MKKs) is essential for activating MAPKs. Here, we reveal a mechanism for MAPK activation that bypasses the need for MKKs. We identified rice (Oryza sativa) calcium-dependent protein kinase 5 (OsCPK5) and OsCPK13 as positive regulators in salt stress tolerance. These kinases are essential for the full activation of OsMPK3 and OsMPK6 in response to elevated sodium levels, with both OsMPK3 and OsMPK6 also acting as positive regulators in rice salt tolerance. Biochemical analysis demonstrated that OsCPK5/13 directly interact with and activate OsMPK3/6 by phosphorylating the TXY motif in vitro and in vivo. Additionally, we have discovered that OsCPK5/13 relocate from the cell membrane to the nucleus in response to salt stress. This process relies on their N-terminal myristoylation and a calcium-dependent phosphorylation event within the N-terminus. Our results elucidate a MAPK activation pathway in rice that is independent of traditional MKK-mediated phosphorylation, highlighting the crucial roles of OsCPK5 and OsCPK13 in directly phosphorylating and activating OsMPK3/6, which are important for rice tolerance to salt stress.© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society of Plant Biologists.
An Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade composed of YODA (YDA)-MKK4/MKK5-MPK3/MPK6 plays an essential role downstream of the ERECTA (ER)/ER-LIKE (ERL) receptor complex in regulating stomatal development in the leaf epidermis. STOMAGEN (STO), a peptide ligand produced in mesophyll cells, competes with EPIDERMAL PATTERNING FACTOR2 (EPF2) for binding ER/ERL receptors to promote stomatal formation. In this study, we found that activation of MPK3/MPK6 suppresses STO expression. Using MUTE and STO promoters that confer epidermis- and mesophyll-specific expression, respectively, we generated lines with cell-specific activation and suppression of MPK3/MPK6. The activation or suppression of MPK3/MPK6 in either epidermis or mesophyll cells is sufficient to alter stomatal differentiation. Epistatic analyses demonstrated that STO overexpression can rescue the suppression of stomatal formation conferred by the mesophyll-specific expression of the constitutively active MKK4DD or MKK5DD, but not by the epidermis-specific expression of these constitutively active MKKs. These data suggest that STO is downstream of MPK3/MPK6 in mesophyll cells, but upstream of MPK3/MPK6 in epidermal cells in stomatal development signaling. This function of the MPK3/MPK6 cascade allows it to coordinate plant epidermis development based on its activity in mesophyll cells during leaf development.© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society of Plant Biologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
This study aimed to identify transcript isoforms of protein-coding genes with potential relevance to the malignant transformation of gut mucosa.Colon cancer cell lines (HCT116, DLD1, SW620) and immortalized cells derived from healthy gut epithelium (HCEC-1CT) were cultured as spheroids and subjected to RNA sequencing to profile both canonical and non-canonical transcripts. The resulting data were compared with prior bioinformatics study findings that analyzed RNA-seq datasets from 473 patient-derived tumor and 417 non-tumor colon tissue samples.Among 375 transcripts previously reported as significantly dysregulated in colon (39 up-regulated and 336 down-regulated), 32 transcripts displayed expression patterns in colon cell lines consistent with those observed in patient tissues (4 up-regulated and 28 down-regulated). In silico characterization of these molecules revealed that all of them exhibited at least 1 feature commonly associated with RNAs possessing regulatory functions, such as coding truncated protein isoform, exosomal localization, or enrichment in repetitive elements. The most prominently dysregulated transcripts with consistent expression profiles across both datasets were NTMT1-204 (up-regulated in cancer) and BLOC1S6-218 and DCTN1-205 (both down-regulated in cancer). The remaining 343 transcripts did not show consistent expression patterns in the cell lines, suggesting their dysregulation in patient-derived tissues may be due to the stromal or microenvironmental factors absent in vitro.In summary, this comparative transcriptomic analysis identified 32 transcript isoforms, comprising 2 canonical and 30 non-canonical transcripts, that may play regulatory roles in colon carcinogenesis and warrant further investigation in the context of gut epithelial cell biology.© The Author(s) 2025.
We conducted a transcriptomic analysis to examine cerebellar transcriptional changes in a mouse model of chronic intermittent alcohol exposure.We established a mouse model of chronic intermittent alcohol exposure and conducted a cerebellar transcriptomic analysis. After identifying differentially expressed genes, we analyzed pathway enrichment using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes and Gene Ontology. We subsequently constructed a protein - protein interaction network and screened for key genes whose expression levels were validated by real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction.We identified 212 differentially expressed genes. The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) pathway was the pathway with the most significant differential expression in the model of chronic intermittent alcohol exposure. Bloc1s6, Gsk3b, Ppard, and Napb were identified as key target genes. The PPAR pathway and these four target genes may be involved in the mechanisms underlying cerebellar dysfunction induced by chronic alcohol exposure and may also contribute to the development of increased alcohol preference.The PPAR pathway and four target genes (Bloc1s6, Gsk3b, Ppard, and Napb) may contribute to cerebellar dysfunction and increased alcohol preference induced by chronic alcohol exposure. These findings could help identify potential therapeutic targets for chronic alcohol exposure and alcohol preference and support further investigation into the underlying mechanisms involved.
Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome (HPS) is a rare disease inherited in the autosomal recessive mode, including 11 clinical genetic subtypes. They are associated with impaired function of the BLOC protein complex (Biogenesis of Lysosome-related Organelles Complexes), and the subunits of the AP-3 complex (adaptor protein complex). Each has its own clinical features, but they are all characterized by albinism, bleeding disorder, and visual abnormalities. Eleven patients from eight unrelated families with an incoming diagnosis of albinism were examined and novel and previously described genetic variants in HPS1, HPS6, and BLOC1S6 genes (types HPS1, HPS6, and HPS9) were found. To determine the optimal therapy and recommendations for further follow up, it is necessary to consider the entire clinical spectrum and genetic polymorphism of the disease. An interdisciplinary approach, combined with the use of non-routine diagnostic techniques such as RNA analysis, is essential for achieving accurate diagnoses in certain complex cases.
Hermansky-Pudlak Syndrome (HPS), a rare autosomal recessive disorder, is characterized by oculocutaneous albinism, bleeding diathesis, and sometimes severe lung problems and inflammatory bowel disease. Symptoms include skin and hair pigmentation variations, along with visual impairments. Variants in eleven genes encoding protein complexes essential for membrane trafficking and intracellular endosomal transport pathways underlie various recognized HPS subtypes. This study focuses on HPS-9, a subtype of Hermansky-Pudlak Syndrome caused by a variant in the BLOC1S6 gene, which is a subunit of the BLOC1 complex. In this study, a novel Copy Number Variation (CNV) in the aforementioned gene in an Iranian family is reported. The study aims to better understand the etiology of HPS-9 symptoms by identifying and confirming the variant and determining whether the gene is expressed despite the deletion. There have only been five reports of this syndrome in the literature thus far. Our novel CNV represents a significant contribution to understanding the genetic basis of HPS-9.This study investigates a male patient presenting with albinism. Whole Exome Sequencing (WES) identified a homozygous deletion of approximately 350 bp using CNV analysis. The deletion affects the intronic region of the BLOC1S6 gene, causing uncertainties in defining the exact boundaries due to WES limitations. Primer walking and GAP-PCR techniques were used to define the deletion boundaries. Subsequent assessments of this variant across other family members helped identify homozygous affected members and heterozygous carriers. The absence of BLOC1S6 expression in the affected individual was confirmed through Real-time PCR experiments. These findings underscore the importance of understanding the implications for the patient's healthcare and potential therapeutic approaches.This study introduces a case of Hermansky-Pudlak Syndrome Type 9 (HPS-9) caused by a homozygous deletion in the BLOC1S6 gene. We identified an approximately 7-kb deletion encompassing exon 1 and the intronic region of the gene. The absence of BLOC1S6 expression, confirmed via Real-time PCR, highlights the importance of studying the pathogenicity of the deletion and its impact on the patient's health. Our findings contribute to the sparse knowledge on HPS-9 and underscore the need for further exploration into the genetic causes of this rare disorder.© 2024. The Author(s).
Skin color is highly variable in Africans, yet little is known about the underlying molecular mechanism. Here we applied massively parallel reporter assays to screen 1,157 candidate variants influencing skin pigmentation in Africans and identified 165 single-nucleotide polymorphisms showing differential regulatory activities between alleles. We combine Hi-C, genome editing and melanin assays to identify regulatory elements for MFSD12, HMG20B, OCA2, MITF, LEF1, TRPS1, BLOC1S6 and CYB561A3 that impact melanin levels in vitro and modulate human skin color. We found that independent mutations in an OCA2 enhancer contribute to the evolution of human skin color diversity and detect signals of local adaptation at enhancers of MITF, LEF1 and TRPS1, which may contribute to the light skin color of Khoesan-speaking populations from Southern Africa. Additionally, we identified CYB561A3 as a novel pigmentation regulator that impacts genes involved in oxidative phosphorylation and melanogenesis. These results provide insights into the mechanisms underlying human skin color diversity and adaptive evolution.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
A single-center study was conducted on 120 patients with inherited disorders of primary hemostasis followed at our hematological center. These patients presented a variety of bleeding symptoms; however, they had no definitive diagnosis. Establishing a diagnosis has consequences for the investigation of probands in families and for treatment management; therefore, we aimed to improve the diagnosis rate in these patients by implementing advanced diagnostic methods. According to the accepted international guidelines at the time of study, we investigated platelet morphology, platelet function assay, light-transmission aggregometry, and flow cytometry. Using only these methods, we were unable to make a definitive diagnosis for most of our patients. However, next-generation sequencing (NGS), which was applied in 31 patients, allowed us to establish definitive diagnoses in six cases (variants in ANKRD26, ITGA2B, and F8) and helped us to identify suspected variants (NBEAL2, F2, BLOC1S6, AP3D1, GP1BB, ANO6, CD36, and ITGB3) and new suspected variants (GFI1B, FGA, GP1BA, and ITGA2B) in 11 patients. The role of NGS in patients with suspicious bleeding symptoms is growing and it changes the diagnostic algorithm. The greatest disadvantage of NGS, aside from the cost, is the occurrence of gene variants of uncertain significance.
We and others previously showed that extracellular ATP (eATP) is implicated in epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT). However, the mechanisms by which eATP induces EMT and ATP's relationship to TGF-β, a well-known EMT inducer, are largely unclear. Also, eATP-induced EMT has never been studied at transcriptomic and metabolomics levels. Based on our previous studies, we hypothesized that eATP acts as a specific inducer and regulator of EMT at all levels in cancer cells. RNAseq and metabolomics analyses were performed on human non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) A549 cells treated with either eATP or TGF-β. Bio-functional assays, such as invasion, intracellular ATP, cell proliferation, cytoskeleton remodeling, and others were conducted in NSCLC A549 and H1299 cells to validate changes observed from RNAseq and metabolomics studies. In the RNAseq study, eATP significantly enriched expressions of genes involved in EMT similarly to TGF-β after 2 and 6 hours of treatment. Samples treated with eATP for 2 hours share 131 upregulated EMT genes with those of TGF-β treated samples, and 42 genes at 6 hours treatment. Eleven genes, with known or unknown functions in EMT, are significantly upregulated by both inducers at both time points, have been identified. BLOC1S6, one of the 11 genes, was selected for further study. eATP induced numerous EMT-related changes in metabolic pathways, including cytoskeleton rearrangement, glycolysis, glutaminolysis, ROS, and individual metabolic changes similar to those induced by TGF-β. Functional bioassays verified the findings from RNAseq and metabolomics that eATP EMT-like changes in A549 and H1299 cells similarly to TGF-β. BLOC1S6 was found to be implicated in EMT. In these studies, eATP-induced EMT, at all levels examined, is similar but non-identical to that induced by TGF-β, and functions in such a way that exogenous addition of TGF-β is unnecessary for the induction. The study of BLOC1S6 further verified its potential roles in EMT and the RNAseq analysis results. All these strongly indicate that eATP is a multi-functional and multi-locational inducer and regulator of EMT, changing our thinking on how EMT is induced and regulated and pointing to new directions for inhibiting EMT in cancer.Copyright © 2022 Evers, Song, Shriwas, Greenbaum and Chen.
Oculocutaneous albinism (OCA) is a group of heterogeneous genetic diseases characterized by a reduction or complete lack of pigmentation in the hair, skin, and eyes. It is associated with reduced visual acuity, nystagmus, photophobia, and strabismus. OCA type 1 (OCA1) and type 2 (OCA2) are caused by mutations in the tyrosinase (TYR) and OCA2 genes, which are responsible for most cases of OCA. The present study aimed to identify the mutational spectra of 18 southwest Chinese probands with OCA.We used a skin disease-targeted panel to sequence more than 400 genes, including 23 genes (TYR, OCA2, AP3B1, BLOC1S3, BLOC1S6, C10orf11, DTNBP1, FRMD7, GPR143, HPS1, HPS3, HPS4, HPS5, HPS6, LYST, MC1R, MITF, MLPH, MYO5A, RAB27A, SLC24A5, SLC45A2, TYRP1) associated with syndromic and non-syndromic albinism. The targeted panel was applied to 18 patients from southwest China, nine (50%) patients were diagnosed with OCA1, and nine (50%) were diagnosed with OCA2. Our data indicate that OCA1 and OCA2, the most common subtypes, probably have the same prevalence in southwest China. In total, we identified 26 variants in TYR and OCA2 from 18 OCA cases using the NGS technology, including 24 variants presented in the Human Gene Mutation Database Professional (HGMD) and two novel variants, c.559_560insCATTATTATGTGTCAAATTATCCCC in TYR and c.1514 T > C in OCA2, which have not been previously reported. According to the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) classification, c.559_560insCATTATTATGTGTCAAATTATCCCC (p.G190Cfs*12) is classified as a pathogenic variant, and c.1514 T > C (p.F505S) is evaluated as a likely pathogenic variant.Two novel variants were identified which will expand the mutational spectra of TYR and OCA2. The results of the present study may have implications for genetic counseling, carrier screening, and clinical management of the disease.© 2022. The Author(s).
Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome 9 (HPS-9) is a recessive disorder caused by BLOC1S6 gene. There are only four variants identified from four HPS-9 patients so far. Here, we reported the first HPS-9 patient in a Chinese population. He had brownish-yellow hair, white skin, brown irises with visual acuity, photophobia and nystagmus. Two novel variants, c.148G>T (p.Glu50*) and c.351dupT (p.Ile118Tyrfs*10) in BLOC1S6 gene were identified by whole-exome sequencing (WES). Absence of platelet dense granules was found by whole-mount platelet electron microscopy and Western blotting assays showed the destabilized BLOC-1 subunits. He had recurrent bruising and was found to have abnormal brain waves by electroencephalogram, but did not develop thrombopenia, immunodeficiency or other symptoms reported in other HPS-9 patients. This is the first case report of BLOC-1 mutation in a Chinese population and our findings expand the mutational spectrum of HPS genes.© 2021 Japanese Dermatological Association.
Prostate cancer is a prevalent disease with diverse tumor characteristics that complicate treatment. The integration of spatial patterns from prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT), pathology and expanding genomic data represents a groundbreaking advancement in histo-imaging genomics. The aim of this study was to elucidate the internetwork mapping between genetic biomarkers and PSMA PET/CT imaging in prostate cancer patients.mRNA sequencing and clinical data from 433 prostate cancer patients were retrieved from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Differential gene expression between the Gleason score (GS) > 7 and GS ≤ 7 groups was analyzed. Feature selection was performed following the univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses. A GS predictive model was developed using multivariate logistic regression. Additionally, local samples and images from 27 patients were collected. PSMA PET/CT imaging was performed before radical prostatectomy, and mRNA sequencing of prostate cancer lesions was conducted using next-generation sequencing. Differentially expressed genes identified from the TCGA dataset were subsequently analyzed for correlations with PET-related metrics in the local dataset by utilizing Pearson correlation analysis.Out of the TCGA dataset, 174 genes exhibited differential expression. After feature selection, 53 genes remained. In the local dataset, ten genes (EFNA2, CACNA1I, CA1, MYBPC3, CYP1A1, TLCD3B, LRTM2, GBX2, SPSB4, and GDF3) demonstrated significant associations with PET-related metrics. When comparing the differential expression of genes between the GS>7 and GS≤7 groups, six genes (STMN2, CYP1A1, THRSP, LIPC, GBX2, and SPSB4) in the GS>7 group and eight genes (FBXL16, KLK14, DIRAS2, TERB2, PRAME, UTS2B, UGT2B15, and LINC02798) in the GS≤7 group were significantly correlated with PET-related parameters.This study identified genetic markers significantly correlated with PSMA PET/CT imaging features in prostate cancer patients. These findings may provide a valuable foundation for optimizing prostate cancer diagnostic procedures and tailoring therapeutic approaches based on genetic and imaging biomarkers.© 2026. The Author(s).
BACKGROUND: Prostate adenocarcinoma (PRAD) has substantial recurrence after primary treatment, and reliable prediction is clinically needed. We integrated clinical, genomic, and transcriptomic data to identify recurrence-associated genes, characterize their tumor microenvironmental context, and develop a prognostic model. METHODS: Gene expression and clinical data were obtained from TCGA (training; n = 145) and the GEO dataset GSE54460 (validation; n = 106). Single-cell RNA-seq data were analyzed to resolve gene expression across cell types. Immune infiltration was estimated using ssGSEA and the ESTIMATE algorithm, and cell–cell communication was assessed with CellChat. Recurrence-associated genes were identified by univariate Cox regression, and a LASSO Cox model was used to construct and externally validate the risk score. RESULTS: Pathological T stage, N stage, Gleason score, and TP53 mutation were linked to higher recurrence risk. We identified six risk genes (AMH, CRYBA2, CTHRC1, EFNA2, BMP6, ARHGDIG) and two protective genes (CKMT2, IP6K3) and built a risk-score model that discriminated against PFS in the training and validation cohorts. Single-cell analysis localized CTHRC1 predominantly to a fibroblast subpopulation characterized by upregulated midkine (MDK) signaling and extensive intercellular communication. Drug–gene correlation screening nominated decitabine, tegafur, calusterone, EMD-1204831, and ARQ-680; expression of several risk genes positively correlated with CTLA4, suggesting testable sensitivity to checkpoint blockade. CONCLUSIONS: Clinical variables together with transcriptomic features—particularly a CTHRC1-high fibroblast program—associate with PRAD recurrence. The externally validated risk score and the stromal context of CTHRC1/MDK provide testable avenues for prognosis and therapeutic exploration.
Uveal melanoma (UVM) is a rare cancer that represents the second most common melanoma (after the cutaneous) and the most common primary intraocular malignancy in adults. Despite recent advances in the understanding of UVM pathogenesis, its prognosis remains unchanged, with half of patients dying because of liver metastasis. Erythropoietin-producing human hepatocellular receptors (EPHs) constitute the largest known family of tyrosine receptors, and, along with their ligands, EFNs, regulate key physiological processes and are implicated in cancer pathogenesis. In this study, we used open-access web bioinformatics platforms to explore and analyze big datasets provided by The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) UVM cohort of patients. We profiled the genomic alterations present in a subset of UVM patients, highlighting a likely pathogenic deep deletion of EPHA7. Survival analysis showed that overexpression levels of EPHA4, EPHA5, EPHA8, EPHB2, and EFNB2 are significantly associated with poor overall survival. Additionally, high expression levels of EPHA4, EPHA5, EPHA7, EPHA8, EPHB2, EFNA2, and EFNB2 correlate with reduced progression-free interval and disease-free survival. Finally, we identified the EPHs (EPHA2, EPHA4, EPHA8, and EPHB4) and EFNs (EFNA1, EFNA3, EFNA4, and EFNB2) that are significantly overexpressed in the aggressive epithelioid histological subtype and revealed that the majority of EPHs/EFNs are overexpressed in metastatic disease. In conclusion, our results highlight that a subset of EPHs and EFNs may be associated with worse clinical outcomes (EPHA4, EPHA5, EPHA7, EPHA8, EPHB2, EFNA2, and EFNB2), and an aggressive histological subtype (EPHA2, EPHA4, EPHA8, EPHB4, EFNA1, EFNA3, EFNA4, and EFNB2). The potential correlation of these genes with clinicopathological parameters of UVM need to be evaluated and validated with bioinformatic and experimental approaches in well-characterized cohorts of UVM patients.
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a complex and heterogeneous disease. Emphysema-predominant and non-emphysema predominant COPD are two major disease subtypes capturing important aspects of COPD heterogeneity. Molecular differences between these COPD subtypes are unknown.We assessed plasma proteomic associations (using SomaScan) with emphysema-predominant vs. non-emphysema predominant COPD subtypes in COPDGene; replication of significant associations was performed in SPIROMICS. We performed pathway analyses on COPD subtype plasma proteomic associations and used weighted gene correlation network analysis to find COPD subtype-associated protein correlation networks. We tested previously reported COPD genetic variants for association with COPD subtypes and COPD subtype-associated proteomic biomarkers.One hundred and twenty-four proteins were significantly associated with COPD subtypes in COPDGene, with 64 proteins (65 SOMAmers) validated in SPIROMICS. Higher correlations were observed between proteomic biomarkers with greater expression levels in non-emphysema predominant participants with COPD. Cell adhesion, collagen-containing extracellular matrix, and epithelial mesenchymal transition were biological pathways enriched for COPD subtype proteomic associations. One COPD subtype-associated correlation network module was identified, including highly connected proteomic biomarkers like PXDN and EFNA2. We observed significant genetic effects on COPD subtypes for rs2579762 in LRMDA and on COPD subtype-associated proteomic biomarkers including sRAGE and Ganglioside GM2 Activator.We identified and replicated multiple plasma proteomic biomarkers associated with emphysema-predominant vs. non-emphysema predominant COPD. Pathway analyses, correlation-based network analyses, and genetic association analyses of these proteins may provide insight into the molecular heterogeneity of COPD.National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NIH).Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
During the formation of the auditory system in mammals, spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs) form ribbon-type synapses with hair cells in the cochlea to establish the first "sensorineural" component of sound transduction. Ahead of synapse formation in the cochlea, the SGNs undergo migration and extension with developing Schwann and otic mesenchyme cells to form radial bundles, fasciculated groups of nerve fibers found between the SGN somata and hair cells. Thus far, reports have shown that Eph/Ephrin signaling is important for the formation of radial bundles. Here, we show that EPHRIN-A1 and -A2 are broadly expressed in the developing cochlea during periods of SGN peripheral axon extension. Confronting spiral ganglion explants with either EPHRIN-A1- or -A2-Fc in vitro promoted neurite extension and reduced fasciculation. EPHRIN-A1- or -A2-Fc treatments also led to increased levels of phosphorylated ERBB2 immunoreactivity in Schwann cells, suggesting a role for developing glia. Loss of Efna1 and Efna2 in mouse models led to approximately a 25 % reduction in SGN peripheral axon extension, an effect that was maintained into adulthood. Overall, the data presented here indicate that EPHRIN-A1 and -A2 are important for normal patterns of cochlear innervation in that they serve as positive growth factors for developing radial bundles, possibly by stimulating Schwann cells.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Due to the highly heterogeneous and immunosuppressed tumor microenvironment (TME), pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PAAD) has limited therapeutic options and an abysmal prognosis. Ephrin A 1-5 (EFNA1-5) have been shown to regulate tumorigenesis and metastasis in various cancers, but its role in PAAD remains unclear.We comprehensively analyzed EFNA gene expression levels in pan-cancer and PAAD using the GEPIA and HPA databases. Then, we assessed the prognostic value of EFNA1-5 using the Kaplan-Meier plotter and nomogram model. Further exploration of the association of EFNA1-5 with clinicopathological features of PAAD used information from the UALCAN database, and the TIMER dataset was used to reveal the correlation between EFNA1-5 and the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) of pancreatic cancer. In addition, cBioPortal Databases, GSEA, and GSCALite were used to explore gene changes, protein interactions, and biological functions. Finally, the oncogenic effect of EFNA5 was verified in vivo and in vitro.The expression levels of EFNA1-5 were significantly upregulated in PAAD. The expression of EFNA1/3/4/5 were significantly associated with overall survival (OS) and relapse-free survival (RFS) in PAAD patients. The high expression of EFNA2-5 were related to poor clinical features, such as higher tumor stage or grade and a wider range of lymph node metastasis. EFNA1-5 were closely associated with immune cell infiltration, CAFs, and MDSCs expression. Furthermore, EFNA5 is an independent risk factor for poor prognosis in PAAD patients, and it can promote the malignant progression of pancreatic cancer in vitro and in vivo.Differential expression of EFNA1-5 is associated with TIME in pancreatic cancer, predicts different survival outcomes, and maybe a novel prognostic marker reflecting an immunosuppressive state and a potential therapeutic target.© 2025 Li et al.
Hypopharyngeal cancer (HPC), originating from the hypopharyngeal mucosa, is associated with a poor prognosis. Extracellular matrix (ECM) stiffness is closely linked to tumor progression and patient outcomes. This study aimed to investigate the effects of matrix stiffness and to identify molecular markers relevant to HPC prognosis, with the goal of improving clinical outcomes.Immunohistochemical analysis and cervical enhanced computed tomography (CT) data were used to evaluate correlations among CT values, matrix stiffness, and prognosis, and to develop a prognostic model for HPC. Cell culture models with varying matrix stiffness were established using polypropylene hydrogel. Western blotting, colony formation, EDU incorporation, and Transwell assays were employed to assess the effects of matrix stiffness on proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). High-throughput sequencing identified differentially expressed genes in HPC cells cultured on matrices of differing stiffness. Gene editing, in vivo subcutaneous tumorigenesis studies, and Western blotting were performed to elucidate the molecular mechanisms by which high matrix stiffness influences HPC progression and the role of ephrin A2 (EFNA2) in proliferation, migration, and EMT.Arterial phase CT values were positively correlated with matrix stiffness. Increased matrix stiffness was associated with lymph node metastasis, diminished therapeutic response, and poorer prognosis. Furthermore, metastatic lymph nodes in HPC patients exhibited higher CT values than those in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma. A high-stiffness ECM promoted proliferation, migration, and EMT in HPC cells. Mechanistically, a stiff ECM enhanced EFNA2 expression, thereby promoting proliferation, migration, EMT, and tumor growth in vivo.EFNA2 and elevated matrix stiffness jointly contribute to the malignant phenotype in HPC. EFNA2 may represent a potential therapeutic target for managing HPC progression induced by high matrix stiffness.
Proteomic profiling offers an expansive approach to biomarker discovery and mechanistic hypothesis generation for LV remodelling, a critical component of heart failure (HF). We sought to identify plasma proteins cross-sectionally associated with left ventricular (LV) size and geometry in a diverse population-based cohort without known cardiovascular disease (CVD).Among participants of the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA), we quantified plasma abundances of 1305 proteins using an aptamer-based platform at exam 1 (2000-2002) and exam 5 (2010-2011) and assessed LV structure by cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) at the same time points. We used multivariable linear regression with robust variance to assess cross-sectional associations between plasma protein abundances and LV structural characteristics at exam 1, reproduced findings in later-life at exam 5, and explored relationships of associated proteins using annotated enrichment analysis. We studied 763 participants (mean age 60 ± 10 years at exam 1; 53% female; 19% Black race; 31% Hispanic ethnicity). Following adjustment for renal function and traditional CVD risk factors, plasma levels of 3 proteins were associated with LV mass index at both time points with the same directionality (FDR < 0.05): leptin (LEP), renin (REN), and cathepsin-D (CTSD); 20 with LV end-diastolic volume index: LEP, NT-proBNP, histone-lysine N-methyltransferase (EHMT2), chordin-like protein 1 (CHRDL1), tumour necrosis factor-inducible gene 6 protein (TNFAIP6), NT-3 growth factor receptor (NTRK3), c5a anaphylatoxin (C5), neurogenic locus notch homologue protein 3 (NOTCH3), ephrin-B2 (EFNB2), osteomodulin (OMD), contactin-4 (CNTN4), gelsolin (GSN), stromal cell-derived factor 1 (CXCL12), calcineurin subunit B type 1 (PPP3R1), insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R), bone sialoprotein 2 (IBSP), interleukin-11 (IL-11), follistatin-related protein 1 (FSTL1), periostin (POSTN), and biglycan (BGN); and 4 with LV mass-to-volume ratio: RGM domain family member B (RGMB), transforming growth factor beta receptor type 3 (TGFBR3), ephrin-A2 (EFNA2), and cell adhesion molecule 3 (CADM3). Functional annotation implicated regulation of the PI3K-Akt pathway, bone morphogenic protein signalling, and cGMP-mediated signalling.We report proteomic profiling of LV size and geometry, which identified novel associations and reinforced previous findings on biomarker candidates for LV remodelling and HF. If validated, these proteins may help refine risk prediction and identify novel therapeutic targets for HF.© 2024 The Author(s). ESC Heart Failure published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Society of Cardiology.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301464
The objective of this study was to investigate the genetic diversity, population structure and whole-genome selection signatures of Luxi cattle to reveal its genomic characteristics in terms of meat and carcass traits, skeletal muscle development, body size, and other traits.To further analyze the genomic characteristics of Luxi cattle, this study sequenced the whole-genome of 16 individuals from the core conservation farm in Shandong region, and collected 174 published genomes of cattle for conjoint analysis. Furthermore, three different statistics (pi, Fst, and XP-EHH) were used to detect potential positive selection signatures related to selection in Luxi cattle. Moreover, gene ontology and Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes pathway enrichment analyses were performed to reveal the potential biological function of candidate genes harbored in selected regions.The results showed that Luxi cattle had high genomic diversity and low inbreeding levels. Using three complementary methods (pi, Fst, and XP-EHH) to detect the signatures of selection in the Luxi cattle genome, there were 2,941, 2,221 and 1,304 potentially selected genes identified, respectively. Furthermore, there were 45 genes annotated in common overlapping genomic regions covered 0.723 Mb, including PLAG1 zinc finger (PLAG1), dedicator of cytokinesis 3 (DOCK3), ephrin A2 (EFNA2), DAZ associated protein 1 (DAZAP1), Ral GTPase activating protein catalytic subunit alpha 1 (RALGAPA1), mediator complex subunit 13 (MED13), and decaprenyl diphosphate synthase subunit 2 (PDSS2), most of which were enriched in pathways related to muscle growth and differentiation and immunity.In this study, we provided a series of genes associated with important economic traits were found in positive selection regions, and a scientific basis for the scientific conservation and genetic improvement of Luxi cattle.
Lung cancer seriously threatens human health. To explore the molecular mechanism of 20(S)-Protopanaxadiol (PPD) on human non-small cell lung cancer cells, we investigated the transcriptional profile of PPD-treated NCI-H1299 cells. Cell proliferation, cell cycle, and apoptosis were detected using cell counting kit-8 and flow cytometry, respectively. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between PPD-treated and untreated cells were determined using RNA sequencing and bioinformatic analysis. Protein phosphorylation was detected using Western blotting. Data of mRNA expression profiles of lung cancer were from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and analyzed using R software version 4.3.1. PPD showed an inhibitory effect on the proliferation of NCI-H1299 cells and induced apoptosis. There were 938 upregulated genes and 466 downregulated genes in PPD-treated cells, and DEGs were primarily enriched in the MAPK signaling pathway. The detection of phosphorylation revealed that the phosphorylation of ERK and p38 MAPK was significantly reduced in PPD-treated cells. Further comparison of PPD-regulated DEGs with clinical data of lung adenocarcinoma demonstrated that most downregulated genes in tumor tissues were upregulated in PPD-treated cells or vice versa. Two PPD-downregulated genes HSPA2 and EFNA2 were associated with patients' overall survival. Therefore, PPD could inhibit NCI-H1299 cells by affecting gene expression and regulating ERK and p38 MAPK pathways.
The observational association between obesity and atrial fibrillation has been well-established. However, its causal mediators underlying this association remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the causal relationship between body mass index (BMI), as well as potential mediating factors underlying this association, using Mendelian randomization (MR). Genetically predicted BMI was significantly associated with an increased risk of atrial fibrillation (inverse-variance weighted odds ratio [OR] = 1.350, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.268-1.436, P < .001). Sensitivity analyses using multiple methods yielded consistent results, and no evidence of directional pleiotropy was detected after outlier correction. A total of 91 inflammatory cytokines and 4907 plasma proteins were included as potential mediators. Among the screened mediators, SLIT2 exhibited a significant inverse mediating effect on the association between BMI and atrial fibrillation (OR = 1.019, 95% CI = 1.005-1.034), accounting for 7% of the total effect. These results suggest that higher BMI is associated with reduced SLIT2 expression, which in turn increases the risk of atrial fibrillation. In contrast, ANGPTL3 showed a significant positive mediating effect (OR = 1.010, 95% CI = 1.003-1.017), accounting for 3.64% of the total effect, indicating that elevated BMI increases ANGPTL3 levels, thereby further increasing the risk of atrial fibrillation. This MR study provides genetic evidence supporting a causal association between obesity and atrial fibrillation and suggests that SLIT2 and ANGPTL3 may be involved as mediators linking obesity-related inflammation and lipid dysregulation to atrial fibrillation susceptibility. First, a 2-sample MR analysis was conducted using genome-wide association studies meta-analysis of European ancestry to estimate the causal effect of genetically proxied BMI on atrial fibrillation. Subsequently, inflammatory cytokines and plasma proteins were considered as candidate mediators, with their cis-protein quantitative trait locus used as instrumental variables. The inverse-variance weighted method was applied as the primary MR approach, while MR-Egger, weighted median, weighted mode, MR-Pleiotropy Residual Sum and Outlier, and leave-one-out methods were used for sensitivity analyses. Shared causal variants were further evaluated using false discovery rate correction and colocalization analysis within a ± 500 kb window (PPH4 > 0.75).Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42397141 is a review article
CircRNAs have emerged as critical regulators in various types of cancer. Neural invasion (NI) refers to a process whereby cancer cells infiltrate into the surrounding nerves and has been shown to predict poor prognosis in gastric cancer (GC). Accumulating evidence has suggested that tumor NI is a symbiotic relationship between cancer and nerves, which leads to the growth advantage for both. However, the involvement of circRNAs in the nerve-cancer cell crosstalk remains to be elucidated. In this study, downregulation of circSLIT2 expression was validated in GC tissues, especially in NI-positive GC tissues. Reduced circSLIT2 predicts poor prognosis in GC patients. CircSLIT2 inhibits the migration and neural invasion of GC cells both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanically, a novel peptide (SLIT2-284aa) translated by circSLIT2 was identified. SLIT2-284aa facilitates SLIT2/ROBO1 signaling via binding and inducing the ROBO1 membrane localization. Moreover, SLIT2-284aa enhances the association between ROBO1 and RhoGDI1, which suppresses RhoGDI1 phosphorylation and further reduces the release and activation of RhoA. Our work uncovers a novel circRNA-encoding peptide and a previously unknown SLIT2-284aa/ROBO1/RhoGDI1/RhoA signaling pathway that suppresses cell migration and neural invasion in GC, which provides a new prospect to understand the underlying biological mechanism of the nervous system in GC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Diabetes mellitus-induced erectile dysfunction (DMED) is a common and debilitating vascular-neurogenic complication of diabetes. The poor responsiveness of DMED patients to phosphodiesterase type-5 inhibitors underscores the need for therapies capable of restoring both endothelial integrity and cavernous nerve function. The Slit2/Roundabout (Robo) pathway, a conserved regulator of axon guidance and vascular remodeling, is well positioned to coordinate neurovascular repair; however, its involvement in DMED remains largely undefined.Single-cell RNA sequencing from embryonic genital tubercle to postnatal stages was used to map fibroblast-endothelial-neuronal signaling and identify Slit2 as a key secreted ligand. Diabetic and control mouse corpus cavernosum tissues were analyzed for endothelial and neuronal Slit2-Robo1/4 activity. In vitro, recombinant Slit2-N was applied to cells under high glucose to assess proliferation, migration, tube/sprout formation, and neurite outgrowth; Robo1/4 knockdown tested receptor dependency. In vivo, AAV-Slit2 was delivered intracavernously to diabetic mice, with erectile function assessed by sodium-nitroprusside perfusion and electrostimulation, and structural remodeling evaluated by endothelial, neural, and fibrosis markers.Single-cell profiling identified Slit2 as a fibroblast-derived developmental cue for corpus cavernosum morphogenesis. Diabetic mice exhibited markedly reduced endothelial and neuronal Slit2-Robo signaling. Slit2-N restored angiogenic and neuroregenerative functions in vitro under high glucose, enhancing endothelial activity and neurite growth; all effects were lost after Robo1/4 silencing. In vivo, AAV-Slit2 re-established local Slit2 signaling, improved penile perfusion and erectile responses, enhanced endothelial proliferation and nerve regeneration, and reduced fibrosis, indicating substantial neurovascular recovery.Slit2/Robo signaling is a key regulatory axis disrupted in DMED. Local restoration of Slit2 via AAV delivery drives synchronized neurovascular regeneration and effectively rescues erectile function in diabetic mice. These findings establish Slit2 as a promising therapeutic target for reversing the underlying pathophysiology of DMED rather than merely providing symptomatic relief.© 2026 The Author(s). Andrology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of American Society of Andrology and European Academy of Andrology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42311159 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42306688 is a review article
Contactin-6 (CNTN6) is a membrane protein that belongs to the contactin subgroup of the immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily. Substantial evidence supports a significant role of its encoding gene, CNTN6, in neurodevelopment and psychiatric disorders, including autism spectrum disorders and schizophrenia. Further studies are required to clarify the role of CNTN6 in the etiology of these disorders. Here, we show that the first three Ig domains of the extracellular region of CNTN6 compete with Robo2 for binding to the leucine-rich repeat (LRR) domain of Slit2 and inhibit Slit-Robo signaling, thereby regulating neurite outgrowth in cortical neurons. The repulsive effect of Slit2 on the migration of GABAergic neurons was attenuated by the interaction between CNTN6 and Slit2, both in vitro and ex vivo. Male mice deficient in Cntn6 exhibited a significant reduction in the number of calbindin-positive GABAergic neurons in the motor cortex. Cntn6-null male mice also exhibited impaired social recognition and disrupted self-grooming behavior. These findings suggest that CNTN6 inhibits Slit-Robo signaling and modulates the migration of a subset of GABAergic neurons, thereby contributing to the development of autism-related behaviors associated with CNTN6 dysfunction.© 2026. Center for Excellence in Brain Science and Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Pancreatic islets regulate blood glucose homeostasis. Although islet architecture is stable under homeostatic conditions, increased metabolic demand drives compensatory islet expansion. In mice, islets are organized as a β cell core surrounded by a mantle of α and δ cells. The formation of islet architecture during development requires expression of Roundabout receptors 1 and 2 (Robo1/2) in endocrine cells and of Slits 2 and 3 (Slit2/3) from islet-extrinsic sources. Furthermore, expression of Robo2 in endocrine cells is required to maintain islet architecture in the adult mouse. However, the cellular sources of Slit2/3 in the adult pancreas and their expression dynamics during islet expansion remain unknown. Here, we identify distinct stromal populations, including fibroblasts and pericytes, as well as neurons within intrapancreatic ganglia, as the sources of Slit2/3. We further show that Slit3 expression is increased in Ob/Ob mice, and that SLIT2 expression is elevated in stromal cell populations of humans with type 2 diabetes. The expression of neither Slit2 nor Slit3 was affected by deletion of Robo2 in β cells. Together, these findings define the cellular origins of Slit2/3 and their expression dynamics in the adult pancreas, supporting a potential role for Slit signaling in the diabetic islet microenvironment.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) presents complex challenges in treatment and prognosis. This study aims to elucidate the role and mechanism of FYN in colorectal cancer progression and its potential as a prognostic marker.The expression of FYN in colorectal cancer and adjacent tissues was assessed using qPCR and Western blot analyses, complemented by data from The Human Protein Atlas and Kaplan-Meier Plotter databases. The regulatory effects of FYN on Slit2 expression via the mTOR pathway were explored through genetic manipulation in various colorectal cancer cell lines. Additionally, the impact of FYN expression on properties of tumor-associated endothelial cells (TAECs) was investigated through co-culture experiments. The m6A methylation modulated FYN expression was evaluated by analyzing the effect of METTL3 on FYN mRNA stability.FYN was significantly upregulated in colorectal cancer tissues, correlating positively with tumor size, stage, and metastasis. High FYN expression was associated with poor survival outcomes. Regulatory effects of FYN on Slit2 expression via the mTOR pathway were evident. Enhanced FYN expression facilitated endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndMT), angiogenesis, and compromised barrier function in TAECs. METTL3 was found to stabilize FYN mRNA through m6A methylation, influencing FYN expression and downstream effects on Slit2 via the mTOR pathway.FYN plays a crucial role in colorectal cancer progression, influencing tumor growth, metastasis, and patient prognosis through the regulation of Slit2 expression and TAECs properties. METTL3-mediated m6A methylation of FYN mRNA is a key mechanism in maintaining FYN stability, suggesting potential therapeutic targets in colorectal cancer treatment.© 2026 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Chemotherapy-induced alopecia (CIA) is a frequent and distressing adverse effect of cytotoxic cancer therapy that significantly affects patients' quality of life, yet its cellular mechanisms remain incompletely understood and effective pharmacological interventions are limited. Here, we combined single-cell RNA sequencing with in vivo mouse models and ex vivo human hair follicle organ culture to systematically characterize the cellular ecosystem underlying CIA. Our results demonstrate that CIA is not solely caused by apoptosis of rapidly proliferating epithelial cells but represents a coordinated multicompartmental dysfunction within the hair follicle niche. Cyclophosphamide treatment induces profound suppression of ribosomal biogenesis, cytoplasmic translation, mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, and Wnt-associated regenerative programs in hair matrix cells, indicating a functional metabolic arrest preceding overt epithelial cell loss. In parallel, dermal fibroblasts undergo inflammatory and stress-associated reprogramming accompanied by activation of IL-1, TNF, IL-6, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition signaling pathways. Chemotherapy also disrupts epithelial-mesenchymal communication through reduced expression of critical niche factors including FGF7, FGF10, and Slit2. Topical venlafaxine and its active metabolite desvenlafaxine preserved follicular architecture, suppressed apoptosis, and restored hair shaft elongation in both mouse CIA models and human hair follicle organ culture. At single-cell resolution, venlafaxine reversed epithelial translational shutdown, reactivated differentiation and Wnt signaling programs, and attenuated fibroinflammatory remodeling, thereby restoring paracrine niche signaling and matrix cell proliferation. Collectively, these findings redefine CIA as a disorder characterized by coordinated epithelial functional arrest and dermal inflammatory remodeling and identify venlafaxine as a potential pharmacological strategy to mitigate chemotherapy-associated hair loss.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558461 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557144 is a review article
We present in this work a direct, effective, and selective way to synthesize methylbenzofuran heterocycles or O-alkylated hydroxyacetophenone derivatives, with potential anticancer activity. The reaction pathway is one-step, is thermally controlled, and takes place both under microwave (MW) irradiation and conventional thermal heating (TH). Under MW irradiation, the reactions have certain benefits in terms of better yields, significantly reduced solvent consumption and reaction time, decreased energy consumption, and could be considered environmentally friendly. All 25 benzofuran derivatives and their intermediates were tested against 55 cancer cell lines at a single concentration of 10 μM. The anticancer assay revealed that the O-alkylated hydroxyacetophenones are more active compared to methylbenzofurans, with a very good lethality against the majority of the 55 tested cell lines. Among the tested compounds, the hydroxyacetophenones 3aa and 3cb demonstrated the best anticancer profile and were subjected to the subsequent five-dose antiproliferative assay. These compounds were active at low micromolar concentrations against the leukemia SR cell line, the breast cancer MDA-MB-468 cell line, the melanoma MDA-MB-435 cell line, and the colon cancer HCT-15 cell line. QSAR simulations of the ADMET properties of the compounds showed promising drug-like profiles for 3aa and 3cb, with very good selectivity for tumor cells and good physicochemical properties. The in-silico ADMET study predicted high gastrointestinal absorption, moderate to high water solubility, and good oral bioavailability for the tested compounds. The in-silico molecular docking studies indicate VEGFR-2 and CSF1R as possible binding sites for our compounds.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are key components of the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) and represent attractive therapeutic targets to enhance antitumor immunity. However, systemic TAM-depletion strategies targeting colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R) are associated with the risk of off-target toxicity due to the depletion of macrophages in healthy tissues. Here, we investigated the potential of near-infrared photoimmunotherapy (NIR-PIT) as a strategy for selective, photo-induced elimination of TAMs. The Fab fragment of an anti-CSF1R antibody was conjugated with the photosensitizer IRDye 700DX (IR700), and the therapeutic effects of the conjugate were evaluated in a murine cancer model. Upon NIR light irradiation, Fab-IR700 significantly suppressed tumor growth and improved overall survival of the tumor-bearing mice. Notably, repeated NIR-PIT cycles enhanced therapeutic outcomes and induced durable anticancer effects, as indicated by the rejection of reimplanted cancer cells. Flow cytometry and histological analyses confirmed TAM depletion and significant alterations in the intra-tumoral immune cell populations posttreatment. Overall, CSF1R-targeted NIR-PIT can effectively eliminate TAMs without systemic toxicity, thus presenting a promising strategy to remodel the TME toward an antitumor state and synergize with other immunotherapies against refractory tumors.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Microglia play a pivotal role in the pathophysiology of ischemic stroke, with substantial microglial demise occurring following cerebral ischemia. This study examined whether colony-stimulating factor 1 (CSF-1) and interleukin-34 (IL-34), ligands of the colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R) critical for microglial survival, promote microglial proliferation and ameliorate outcomes after ischemic stroke. In a mouse model of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), endogenous CSF-1 levels showed dynamic changes within the first 24 h post-ischemia. Administration of CSF-1, but not IL-34, significantly improved neurological outcomes and reduced infarct volume. CSF-1 treatment was associated with a less reactive microglial morphology and an anti-inflammatory, homeostatic microglial phenotype. In vitro, CSF-1 enhanced Ki67 expression in oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD)-exposed microglia, while decreasing pro-inflammatory cytokine production and excessive phagocytosis of neuronal debris. Conditioned medium from CSF-1-treated microglia and co-culture experiments further indicated that increased microglial numbers contribute to reduced OGD-induced neuronal apoptosis. Collectively, these findings suggest that CSF-1 fosters a neuroprotective microglial phenotype during acute ischemia, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic agent to mitigate ischemic brain injury through modulation of microglial proliferation and inflammatory responses.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Sleep fragmentation disrupts physiological homeostasis, including thermoregulation, metabolism, and immune signaling; however, cellular mechanisms that stabilize core body temperature and sleep architecture during disrupted sleep remain poorly understood. Microglia are the resident immune cells of the central nervous system and play a central role in integrating neuroimmune signaling with hypothalamic regulation of thermoregulation and sleep-wake control. We tested the hypothesis that microglia are required to maintain both thermoregulatory and sleep stability during physiological sleep and when sleep is disrupted. Male and female C57BL/6J mice (n = 128) were implanted with telemetry devices for continuous core body temperature monitoring and maintained on either a control diet or diet containing the CSF1R-inhibitor PLX5622 (PLX) to pharmacologically deplete microglia. Body temperature and sleep-wake behavior were assessed across a two-week depletion period and during a subsequent 7-day sleep fragmentation paradigm. Hierarchical models were used to quantify the effects of microglial depletion (via diet), sex, and time-of-day (light/dark period). Microglial depletion produced sex- and diet-dependent alterations in both thermoregulation and sleep measures. PLX increased body temperature in females early during the depletion period, after which body temperature normalized and subsequently declined to pre-PLX baseline values. In contrast, PLX minimally influenced outcome metrics in males. During sleep fragmentation, microglial depletion induced time-of-day-specific hypothermia in males and females during the dark and light periods, respectively. Notably, microglial depletion dissociated components of sleep in a sex-dependent manner: Total sleep time increased in females, whereas males exhibited reduced sleep-wake transitions, suggesting increased sleep consolidation and therefore distinct regulation of sleep quantity versus stability. Across experimental conditions, body temperature was a strong nonlinear predictor of sleep, with higher temperatures (>35°C) associated with substantially reduced total sleep time (5-10 min reduction for every 1℃ increase), particularly during the dark (active) period. These findings collectively support that microglia contribute to thermoregulatory processes and sleep stability in a sex-dependent manner, supporting a role for microglia in coordinating physiological homeostasis. Together, our results support a neuroimmune framework in which microglia may help coordinate thermoregulation and sleep, as microglial depletion was associated with dysregulation of both processes.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), one of the most aggressive forms of solid tumors, is characterized by extensive fibrosis and an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) that limits therapeutic efficacy. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), especially those with a pro-tumor, M2-like phenotype, contribute to immune evasion and fibrosis via TGF-β signaling and CSF-1R-mediated recruitment. Using two orthotopic PDAC models that differ in stromal composition and baseline CSF-1R expression (KPC4662.5 and Pan02), we evaluated whether therapeutic response to macrophage-targeting strategies is context dependent. Consistent with established studies, highly fibrotic KPC4662.5 tumors exhibited elevated Arg1, α-SMA, TGF-β1, and CSF-1R expression relative to Pan02 tumors. In high fibrotic, CSF1RHigh KPC4662.5 tumors, dual targeting of CSF-1R and the immunosuppressive molecule indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO), via PLX3397 and IDO-targeting Salmonella, respectively, significantly reduced tumor burden but showed no combination advantage in CSF1RLow tumors. The lack of therapeutic efficacy with CSF-1R inhibitor monotherapy in PDAC models has previously been attributed to polymorphonuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cell (PMN-MDSC) infiltration following treatment. This combination therapy altered intratumoral immune cell composition by decreasing PMN-MDSCs and increasing effector T cell subsets. These findings identify tumor fibrosis and CSF-1R expression as potential biomarkers of response to combined CSF-1R and IDO inhibition and support biomarker-guided immunotherapeutic strategies in PDAC.Copyright © 2026 Avsharian, Loganathan, Ebelt, Ruggiero-Ruff, Salcido, Inal, Nair and Manuel.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a major cause of cancer-related mortality, particularly in patients with advanced disease. Although colony stimulating factor 1 (CSF1) has been implicated in tumor progression, its role in CRC remains unclear. In this study, we showed that CSF1 was significantly upregulated in CRC tissues and cell lines, and that high CSF1 expression was associated with adverse clinicopathological features and poorer patient outcomes. Functional assays demonstrated that CSF1 promoted CRC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and xenograft tumor growth. Importantly, CSF1 also suppressed ferroptosis, as evidenced by reduced reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, lipid peroxidation, malondialdehyde (MDA) production, and Fe2+ levels after CSF1 overexpression, whereas CSF1 knockdown produced the opposite effects. Mechanistically, CRC cells secreted CSF1, as confirmed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and expressed colony stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R), supporting a tumor-cell-intrinsic autocrine CSF1/CSF1R signaling mechanism. This autocrine signaling activated the Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (JAK/STAT3) pathway, while blockade of CSF1R or inhibition of JAK/STAT3 signaling reversed CSF1-induced malignant phenotypes and ferroptosis resistance. Further rescue experiments showed that Ferrostatin-1 (Fer-1) alleviated ferroptosis induced by CSF1 knockdown or JAK/STAT3 inhibition. In addition, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) overexpression upregulated glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 3 (ACSL3), linking STAT3 activation to anti-ferroptotic effector regulation. Collectively, these findings identify a tumor-cell-derived CSF1/CSF1R-JAK/STAT3 autocrine signaling axis that promotes CRC progression by suppressing ferroptosis, providing a potential therapeutic target for overcoming ferroptosis resistance in CRC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) frequently metastasizes to lymph nodes, yet how tumor-intrinsic biomechanical cues influence nodal immune environments remains unclear. Here, we identify solid stress, generated during tumor expansion, as a key driver of pre-metastatic niche formation in tumor-draining lymph nodes (TDLNs). Using murine models with defined solid stress levels, we show that high-stress tumors induce early TDLN remodeling characterized by fibroblast activation and accumulation of immunosuppressive S100a8⁺ myeloid cells. Single-cell and spatial transcriptomics reveal that Col1a1⁺ fibroblasts upregulate STAT3 and YAP-dependent chemokines (CCL2, CSF1), establishing a fibroblast-myeloid signaling axis that supports myeloid recruitment and suppresses CD8⁺ T cell infiltration. Functional blockade of CCR2, CSF1R, STAT3, or YAP disrupts fibroblast-myeloid co-localization, restores antigen-presenting cell populations, and enhances CD8⁺ cytotoxic T cells activity, leading to reduced lymph node metastasis and improved survival. Mechanistically, chromatin accessibility and ChIP assays reveal direct binding of p-STAT3 and YAP at inflammatory enhancer elements in fibroblasts under mechanical strain. Cross-species spatial transcriptomic analysis confirms the inverse association between Col1a1⁺ fibroblast density and CD8A⁺ T cell presence in human LUSC tissues. Our findings uncover a mechano-immune circuit whereby tumor-derived solid stress activates fibroblast-STAT3/YAP signaling to remodel TDLNs into immunosuppressive, metastasis-permissive niches. Targeting this biomechanical axis offers a promising strategy to intercept early lymphatic dissemination in LUSC.© The author(s).
Background/Objectives: Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is an aggressive lymphoma and one of the most common hematological neoplasia. Entropy is a statistical measure of randomness that characterizes the texture of an input image and measures tissue complexity. Methods: Image processing and computer vision analysis were performed on a series of 114 diagnostic DLBCL cases and 44 reactive lymphoid tissues stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E). Histological entropy was measured to differentiate between reactive lymphoid tissue and DLBCL and predict clinical evolution. At protein level, immunohistochemistry analyzed Ki67, LMO2, MYC, MDM2, CDK6, E2F1, BCL2, CASP8, MYOB, TP53, cPARP, cCASP3, ISY1, TNFAIP8, CSF1R, CD163, PD-L1 and IL-10 markers. Gene expression analysis using the NanoString nCounter PanCancer Immune Profiling Panel was performed in 29 cases. Results: In comparison with reactive lymphoid tissue, DLBCL was characterized by lower entropy (7.32 ± 0.16 vs. 6.82 ± 0.44, respectively; p < 0.001). Within the DLBCL diagnostic category, higher entropy was associated with poor overall survival and death events within the first 2 years (hazard-risk = 2.4, p = 0.004) and lower entropy with a moderate and more favorable outcome (hazard-risk = 0.4, p = 0.004). High entropy was also correlated with ECOG performance status ≥ 2, lower protein expression of apoptosis markers of cPARP and cCASP3, and upregulation of specific immuno-oncology genes such as STAT3, BTK, CASP8, CD47, VCAM1, and MYD88. The prognostic value of entropy was independent of the international prognostic index (IPI), Epstein-Barr virus (EBER), and cell of origin (Hans). Conclusions: The histological evaluation of entropy is useful for the differential diagnosis of reactive lymphoid tissue and DLBCL and is a predictive factor of DLBCL prognosis.
Regulatory restrictions on fluorinated ski waxes have recently been introduced in professional winter sports to mitigate environmental contamination by per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). However, field evidence demonstrating their environmental effectiveness remains limited. This study presents a before-after field investigation evaluating changes in pollution following the International Biathlon Union's ban on fluorinated ski waxes, implemented for the 2023/2024 season. PFAS occurrence, distribution, and temporal trends were assessed in multiple environmental matrices (snowmelt, surface water, and soil) at an international skiing and biathlon venue in Nove Mesto na Morave (Czech Republic). Sampling was conducted before the ban (2022/2023 Biathlon World Cup) and after its implementation (2023/2024 Biathlon World Championships). Targeted analysis of 42 PFAS by UHPLC-MS/MS revealed matrix-specific contamination patterns. Snowmelt and soils were dominated by long-chain perfluoroalkyl carboxylic acids (C8-C18 PFCAs), with maximum ∑PFCA concentrations of 1,187 ng/L and 160 ng/g dry weight, respectively, whereas surface waters contained higher proportions of short-chain PFCAs (C4-C7), with concentrations reaching up to 42 ng/L. Following the implementation of the ban, median ΣPFAS concentrations in snowmelt decreased by approximately 90%, with significant differences among sampling campaigns. These findings provide field-scale evidence supporting reduced PFAS inputs associated with ski waxing activities following the ban. In contrast, PFAS concentrations in surface waters remained elevated, suggesting continued mobilization of legacy contamination from historically impacted soils. These findings demonstrate the effectiveness of regulatory restrictions on fluorinated ski waxes while highlighting the persistence and delayed release of legacy PFAS in winter sports environments.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Athletes are advised to take an individualized approach when adjusting training and recovery to their menstrual cycle (MC), due to potential variation in the effect of the MC on training, recovery, and performance.To investigate the effect of MC phase, defined based on literature and symptom occurrence/severity, on recovery measures and performance in an elite female ski jumper.A world-class female ski jumper collected data on her MC, MC-related symptoms, recovery measures (resting heart rate and heart rate variability), and performance. The MC was divided into menstrual bleeding (MB), days 1 to 5; premenstruation (PM), 1 to 4 days before the start of the next MC; and mid-phase (MP), the remaining days. Ski jumping results were recalculated to adjust for wind points and take-off speed to get a physical performance score (Spp). Data are reported as median (interquartile range).MC length was 24 days (20-26), and symptom severity of depressive and physical symptoms was highest during the last 2 days of the cycle. Resting heart rate was 45 (43-47) beats/min in MB, 47 (45-48) beats/min in MP, and 48 (45-49) beats/min in PM. Heart rate variability was 78 (67-82) ms in MB, 70 (65-76) ms in MP, and 74 (67-85) ms in PM. Performance data in normal hill and large hill followed somewhat opposite patterns, with a potentially better performance in normal hill and worse in large hill during PM.Recovery measures and performance in individual athletes can be influenced by MC phase, with these seemingly being most influenced by cycle-related symptoms.
To report a case of paracentral acute middle maculopathy (PAMM) after physical exertion and to explore possible underlying microvascular mechanisms.A 42-year-old Caucasian man presented with a persistent, unilateral, painless paracentral scotoma that appeared after an intense ski session seven days earlier. His medical history included an 11-year course of migraine with aura and recurrent transient scotomas in either eye, lasting from minutes to days, often triggered by fatigue, exertion, or altitude. At presentation, best-corrected visual acuity was 1.6 Snellen equivalent bilaterally (20/12), with unremarkable slit lamp and fundoscopy examination. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) revealed a focal hyperreflective band in the inner nuclear layer of the right eye, consistent with PAMM. Fundus autofluorescence revealed a hyperautofluorescent spot in the same area. Microperimetry confirmed a localized scotoma in the corresponding area. At follow-up, clinical examination before and after moderate exertion (90 minutes of cycling) showed no new scotomas or clinical abnormalities. However, en face OCT angiography (OCTA) of the deep capillary plexus revealed multifocal variations in capillary density, with some areas demonstrating reduced perfusion after exercise.PAMM is an OCT finding of focal retinal ischemia associated with various vascular disorders. Migraine has also been reported as a risk factor. In this case, physical exertion may have contributed to transient hemodynamic changes, potentially unmasking an underlying retinal microvascular vulnerability. The multifocal post-exercise decrease in perfusion on OCTA despite stable symptoms emphasizes the dynamic, subclinical nature of microvascular injury.Multimodal imaging combining structural and functional assessment is critical for the early detection of ischemic retinal events, even in patients without classic vascular risk factors.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc.
For many people with knee osteoarthritis, alpine skiing is an important form of physical activity that improves their quality of life. However, pain and perceived instability can limit participation. While it is recognized that ski preparation affects performance, the impact of specific gliding surface preparation on pain and functional stability in patients with knee osteoarthritis has not yet been scientifically examined. This pilot study examined whether preparing the base of carving skis professionally could alleviate subjective symptoms and improve knee function while skiing.Six patients (n = 6) with clinically diagnosed gonarthrosis were included in the uncontrolled pilot study. Before and after the targeted ski preparation intervention, the participants completed standardized patient-reported outcome measures, using the International Knee Documentation Committee score. The intervention involved optimizing the preparation of the ski gliding surfaces and edges. Pre- and post-intervention scores were statistically compared to assess changes in pain, function, and perceived stability.Targeted ski base preparation was associated with improved patient-reported pain and subjective stability while skiing. Functional outcome measures also improved after the intervention. The International Knee Documentation Committee (IKDC) score increased from 58.54 ± 17.66% pre-intervention to 85.37 ± 14.95% post-intervention (p = 0.043). The estimated median paired difference was 31.7% (95% CI, 7.3% to 45.1%), indicating enhanced knee function after the intervention. This corresponded to a large effect size (rank-biserial r = 0.86) and exceeded the minimal clinically important difference for the IKDC, with five of six participants improving and none deteriorating.The professional and targeted preparation of carving ski gliding surfaces was associated with improvements in patient-reported pain and functional stability in this exploratory pilot study. Given the uncontrolled design and small sample, these observations should be regarded as hypothesis-generating and require confirmation in adequately powered, controlled trials. These findings highlight the potential value of sport-specific equipment adaptations as a complementary approach to conventional therapies. Further studies with larger sample sizes are required to confirm these results and evaluate the long-term effects.
Aortic dissection (AD) is a catastrophic cardiovascular syndrome with an in-hospital mortality of more than 90%. We previously identified oxidative inactivation of sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase 2 (SERCA2) at cysteine 674 (C674) as a driver of aortic smooth muscle cell (ASMC) phenotypic switching. However, its causal impact on autophagic flux and AD remains unresolved. SERCA2 C674S mutant knock-in (SKI) mice, human AD specimens, and primary ASMCs were subjected to quantitative proteomics, histopathology, and autophagy flux assays. Interventions included Ca2+ chelation (BAPTA-AM), endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress inhibitor 4-phenylbutyrate, mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor rapamycin, redox modulator Tempol, calcineurin inhibitor cyclosporine A, peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) agonist pioglitazone, and SERCA2 agonist [6]-gingerol. Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated in β-aminopropionitrile (BAPN)-induced AD. Human AD specimens and SKI aortas displayed suppressed autophagy within the tunica media. SERCA2 dysfunction activated PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling pathway, reduced TFEB and Rab7, and impaired autophagosome-lysosome fusion in ASMCs. These defects were rescued by BAPTA-AM, 4-phenylbutyrate, rapamycin, Tempol, or [6]-gingerol, but not by calcineurin or pioglitazone. In vivo, rapamycin and [6]-gingerol restored medial autophagy, suppressed ASMC synthetic phenotype, lowered AD incidence and severity, and preserved medial integrity in BAPN-treated SKI mice. In conclusion, oxidative SERCA2 inactivation evokes cytosolic Ca2+ overload, couples ER/oxidative stress to mTOR hyper-activation, and blunts autophagic flux, thereby establishing a self-amplifying loop that precipitates AD. We define a previously unrecognized SERCA2-Ca2+-mTOR-autophagy axis as a guardian of aortic wall homeostasis and establish autophagy rebalancing and SERCA2 activation as mechanistically grounded therapeutic strategies against AD.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
The analysis of alpine skiing technique is characterized by a gap between the qualitative, experience-based language of practitioners and the quantitative but often isolated measures used in science. Previous research has typically focused on single biomechanical variables (e.g. joint angles), which do not fully capture the whole-body movement patterns described by practitioners (e.g. forward - backward lean). This study aimed (I) to develop a framework that enables objective, quantitative measurement of skiing technique directly aligned with practitioners' descriptions, and (II) to explore its sensitivity by comparing curricular milestones (basic parallel, parallel dynamic and race carving technique) and differences between national education systems. Full-body kinematics of expert ski instructors were recorded with inertial measurement units (IMUs) as they performed instructed extremes of technique elements. Principal component analysis (PCA) of these datasets generated principal component (PC) vectors, which serve as quantitative scales for lateral tilt, horizontal movement, upper-body rotation, and vertical movement. Projecting runs onto these vectors provided objective scores that confirmed known differences between basic parallel and race carving turns, and revealed different upper-body rotation strategies between Austrian and German ski instructors. The framework bridges scientific and practical perspectives and offers a transferable tool for technique evaluation in skiing and other sports.
During Ski mountaineering (SkiMo), athletes are exposed to multiple environmental stressors, notably cold temperatures and reduced oxygen availability. However, how athletes thermoregulate under such conditions remains unknown.This observational study investigated the thermal response of elite SkiMo athletes exercising under cold/windy conditions at altitude. Core (Tcore) and skin (Tskin) temperature were continuously recorded in 11 elite and 2 national SkiMo athletes (10 males, 3 females) during simulated races performed at an altitude of 2600m above sea level using ingestible electronic pills and Tskin sensors placed on the chest, arm, thigh, shin and hand, respectively. Each athlete completed four 15-minute uphill skiing runs at 85-90% HRmax, each separated by a 2-3-minute downhill ski back to the starting position. Heart rate and speed were continuously recorded. Ambient temperature ranged from -8.3 °C to 1.3 °C, with wind chill temperatures reaching -11 °C.Tcore significantly increased from baseline (37.4 ± 0.2 °C) to warm-up (38.2 ± 0.2 °C, p ≤ 0.001). Thereafter, 46% of athletes maintained their Tcore (+0.2 ± 0.3 °C, p=0.225), with a peak of 39.4 °C in one athlete, while the remaining 54% showed a decrease of 0.8 ± 0.5 °C (p=0.003; minimum 36.5 °C). Tskin largely decreased on all locations (all p<0.001), reaching lowest mean temperatures on the hand (21.2 ± 2.5 °C) and thigh (22.3 ± 2.7 °C). Changes in Tcore and Tskin were not related to uphill speed.SkiMo performed under cold and hypoxic conditions clearly lowers Tskin of elite athletes, especially at the extremities. Contrarily, we observed a high inter-individual variability in Tcore responses, showing that half of athletes were unable to maintain their Tcore despite high exercise intensities, whereas the other half increased their temperatures. The observation that some athletes increased whereas others decreased their Tcore suggests differences in net heat balance, with some having a positive heat balance (heat gain) and others a negative heat balance (heat loss).Copyright © 2026 Dünnwald, Schobersberger, Köck, Pitsiladis, Verdoukas, Gunga and Racinais.
Nonsyndromic cleft lip and palate (NSCLP) is a complex, multifactorial condition for which only about 25% of the genetic contribution has been identified. Although more than 60 genetic loci have been associated with NSCLP, a large portion of its heritability remains unexplained. Rare variants-often with stronger functional effects-are believed to account for some of this missing genetic risk. In this study, short-read whole-genome sequencing data from 786 NSCLP cases and 2149 controls were analyzed to identify genes enriched for rare protein-coding variants. Gene-based association testing, meta-analysis, functional prioritization, and effect-size estimation revealed several novel NSCLP candidate genes and confirmed associations with previously reported genes. The four novel candidate genes with the strongest association evidence were SCT, MALRD1, GPR156, and MYOCOS, all with p-values < 10⁻⁴. Replication of known genes was most robust for ARHGAP29, FGF8, SKI, and TP63. Pathway analyses showed significant enrichment of these genes in neuroactive ligand-receptor interactions, MAPK signaling, and other signal transduction pathways. Precise estimates of the risks conferred by the identified rare variants showed a substantial increase in NSCLP risk, with odds ratio point estimates between 2 and 4. These results provide strong support for a polygenic inheritance model in NSCLP, in which certain genes contribute varying levels of risk.© 2026. The Author(s).
Winter sports such as skiing, snowboarding, and sledding rank among the most popular recreational activities in developed countries, yet they also represent a  significant source of traumatic injuries, including fatal cases. The combination of high speeds, altered stability, hard surfaces, the movement of other participants, and the presence of mechanized equipment on slopes creates a  high-risk environment for injuries. Despite technological advancements in protective gear, the incidence of severe injuries remains alarmingly high, with head and spinal injuries predominating in terms of severity. The article analyzes two case reports of fatal injuries in minor individuals (aged 8 and 9) during recreational skiing. Although the injury mechanisms differed, both cases share a common factor - non-adherence to the principles of safe conduct on ski slopes. The study emphasizes the importance of continuous education, the individual responsibility of each slope participant, the selection of appropriate safety equipment, and adherence to safe conduct rules. A multidisciplinary analysis of these tragic events underscores the need for intensive prevention, interdisciplinary cooperation, and awareness-raising activities aimed at minimizing risks not only in children's but also in adult skiing.
Mountain bike terrain parks have become increasingly popular, particularly at ski resorts where chairlifts transport riders uphill to enjoy downhill cycling. These parks feature trails of varying difficulty with artificial obstacles designed for jumps and stunts, which contribute to a unique pattern of injuries. This retrospective epidemiological study analyzed mountain biking injuries in two bike parks in western Austria during the summer seasons of 2023 and 2024. The bike parks are located within two major ski resorts, where lifts transport riders and their bikes uphill. Injury data were systematically documented by bike patrols using an online reporting tool, while exposure data (number of biker visits and number of downhill rides) from one of the bike parks enabled the calculation of an injury rate. A total of 274 injured riders (81.8% male, mean age 30.2 ± 14.6 years), predominantly from Germany (65%), were recorded. Most injuries occurred between Friday and Sunday, primarily between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m., with over 90% occurring during downhill cycling and 15% during the first ride of the day. Falls due to rider errors accounted for 77.4% of injuries, while 20.8% were linked to jump landings. The shoulder/clavicle region was the most frequently injured site (33.7%), followed by the upper extremities (26%) and the head/face region (17%). Fractures were the most common diagnosis, accounting for 52% of cases. Approximately one-quarter of injured riders required helicopter evacuation. The calculated injury rate was 4 injuries per 1000 visits or 6 injuries per 10,000 rides. In conclusion, injuries in bike parks predominantly affect men and are more frequent on weekends. Falls during downhill cycling are the leading cause, with fractures and injuries to the shoulder/clavicle region being the most common. These findings highlight the need for targeted prevention strategies and optimized emergency services to improve safety in bike parks.© 2026 the Author(s), licensee AIMS Press.
To characterise a Thai patient with a para-Bombay phenotype associated with homozygosity for a variant FUT1 allele and explore the underlying mechanism of reduced enzymatic activity.The para-Bombay phenotype is a rare red blood cell phenotype characterised by absent or markedly reduced ABH antigens on erythrocytes, with preserved expression in secretions, typically resulting from FUT1 mutations affecting α1,2-L-fucosyltransferase 1 (α1,2FucT1).Serological testing was performed using standard methods. ABO, FUT1 and FUT2 genotypes were determined by whole-exome and Sanger sequencing. Structural modelling of the FUT1 variant was conducted using AlphaFold3 and ChimeraX, and functional effects were predicted using ProtVar.Serology identified a para-Bombay Bh phenotype with anti-HI and autoantibodies. Genotyping revealed homozygosity for ABO*B.01, FUT1 c.658C>T (p.Arg220Cys; rs574691621; FUT1*01W.09), and FUT2 c.390C>T (a silent variant, p.Asn130). Structural modelling suggested that the p.Cys220 substitution does not alter overall protein conformation or stability but may impair substrate binding and local intermolecular interactions.This report presents the first Thai case of para-Bombay Bh phenotype associated with homozygosity for the weakened FUT1*01W.09 allele. In silico modelling predicted that the variant impairs α1,2FucT1 activity and substrate binding without compromising protein stability, supporting safe transfusion practice.© 2026 British Blood Transfusion Society.
Nephronophthisis is a rare genetic disorder affecting the kidneys and is one of the leading causes of end-stage kidney disease in children. The Bombay blood group is an extremely rare blood type that poses serious clinical challenges, particularly when managing patients with chronic kidney diseases. This report described a 3-year-old female patient who presented with severe anemia and kidney impairment, which progressed to end-stage kidney disease. During blood grouping, she was unexpectedly identified as having the Bombay phenotype, complicating her anemia management. Genetic testing revealed two novel pathogenic variants: one in the NPHP2 gene, associated with nephronophthisis, and another in the FUT1 gene, which is responsible for the Bombay blood group. The child received treatment involving fluid restriction and diuretic infusions. However, she subsequently progressed to end-stage kidney disease with significant fluid overload and required peritoneal dialysis. Anemia management was achieved through intravenous iron and erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (erythropoietin), eliminating the need for blood transfusions. This case underscores the rare coexistence of nephronophthisis and the Bombay blood group alongside novel mutations, highlighting the critical need for early genetic diagnosis and intervention. It also emphasizes the complexities of managing patients with such rare blood types, which complicate potential transfusion options.Copyright 2026 Authors.
The mechanisms responsible for pulmonary fibrosis remain incompletely understood. This study investigated the effect of alpha1,2-fucosylation deficiency on bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis using wild-type C57BL/6J mice and Fut1/Fut2/Sec1 triple-knockout mice deficient in alpha1,2-fucosylation. Mice were treated with bleomycin, and lung tissues and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) were collected on Day 7 and Day 14. DFTKO mice showed improved survival and attenuated histological lung injury and collagen deposition compared with WT mice. BALF samples were analyzed by TMT 10-plex quantitative proteomics using 18 individual samples, with three biological replicates per genotype/time-point group. Differentially expressed proteins were prioritized using combined criteria of fold change ≥1.2 or ≤0.83, P < 0.05, and VIP score >1. In WT mice, multiple bronchoalveolar lavage proteins were elevated 7 days after bleomycin treatment, including 1) proteins involved in lipid metabolism, antimicrobial defense and inflammation: BPIFA2 (FC = 25.04, VIP = 1.22, P = 0.01), APOA1(FC = 8.37, VIP = 1.23, P = 0.02), C1QTNF5(FC = 7.72, VIP = 1.20, P = 0.049), SERPINA3N(FC = 6.64, VIP = 1.22 P = 0.4); 2) proteins involved in TGF-beta and extracellular matrix signaling: FST(FC = 14.28, VIP = 1.23, P = 0.02), BGN(FC = 13.58, VIP = 1.20, P = 0.02), TIMP1(FC = 10.72, VIP = 1.21, P = 0.04), VCAN(FC = 9.04, VIP = 1.21 P = 0.00008); 3) Collagens: COL5A1(FC = 9.63, VIP = 1.22 P = 0.01), COL5A2(FC = 7.09, VIP = 1.19 P = 0.03). Several proteins involved in detoxification of reactive oxygen species (ROS) were found to be decreased 7 days after bleomycin treatment: SELENBP1(FC = 0.18, VIP = 1.22, P = 0.02), GLRX5(FC = 0.18, VIP = 1.23, P = 0.02), UQCRC1(FC = 0.17, VIP = 1.23, P = 0.0005). In the Day 7 comparison between DFTKO and WT mice, proteins related to DNA damage repair, genome stability, wound healing, and tissue remodeling were increased in DFTKO mice, including H3C1 (FC = 3.66, VIP = 1.68, P = 0.03), SSBP1(FC = 2.96, VIP = 1.78, P = 0.0004), HMGA1(FC = 2.84, VIP = 1.60, P = 0.01), HDGFL3(FC = 3.97, VIP = 1.66, P = 0.01) and CEACAM1(FC = 2.93, VIP = 1.65, P = 0.006). These data suggest α1,2-fucosylated glycans as potential therapeutic targets for pulmonary fibrosis. Lack of alpha1,2 fucosylated structures attenuates bleomycin-induced lung fibrosis, while exact mechanisms will be focus of our future study.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Airway epithelial barrier dysfunction is a central feature of asthma pathogenesis, yet the molecular mechanisms by which post-translational modifications regulate epithelial integrity remain incompletely understood. Fucosylation has emerged as a potential regulator of epithelial homeostasis across mucosal tissues.We sought to investigate whether epithelial fucosylation contributes to allergen-induced barrier dysfunction and airway inflammation and to define their underlying mechanisms.Fucosylation levels were assessed in saliva from children with asthma using mass spectrometry. Air-liquid interface epithelial cultures were used to assess barrier function by transepithelial electrical resistance, tight junction protein expression and cytokine release. Transcriptomic analyses were performed to identify dysregulated fucosylation pathways. Fut1 was selectively inhibited in vivo and in vitro using intratracheally delivered AAV6-encoded shRNA. Downstream targets were also evaluated by RNA sequencing.Fucosylation was significantly increased in saliva from children with asthma and in allergen-exposed mouse airways. Pharmacologic inhibition of fucosylation preserved epithelial barrier integrity, maintained junctional organization and reduced allergen-induced epithelial cytokine release. Transcriptomic profiling identified fucosylation as a major upregulated pathway, with increased expression of Fut1, Fut2, Fut7 and Fut9. Epithelial-specific Fut1 knockdown attenuated Th2-driven inflammation, preserved epithelial junctional architecture and suppressed alarmin release. Integrated analyses revealed 56 Fut1-dependent genes enriched in cell-adhesion pathways, including Cdh12, App, Ank3 and Cd9. Fut1-CDH12 protein interaction was confirmed by immunoprecipitation, and FUT1-dependent induction of CDH12 disrupted epithelial junctional organization and barrier function.These findings identify the FUT1-CDH12 axis as a previously unrecognized epithelial mechanism promoting barrier dysfunction and allergic airway inflammation in asthma.© 2026 European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42244375
The α-1,2-fucosyltransferase, FUT1, plays a central role in blood type determination, the establishment of the gut microbiota, and cancer progression. Using high-throughput analysis, we mapped the miRNA regulatory landscape of FUT1 and found that miRNAs bidirectionally regulate this enzyme. Validation of miRFluR assay results across multiple cell lines confirmed that both upregulatory and downregulatory miRNA interactions affect endogenous FUT1 and its enzymatic product, α-1,2-fucosylation. Inhibitors of endogenous miRNA impacted both enzyme and glycan levels, underscoring the biological impact of bidirectional miRNA regulation. Upregulatory binding sites (miR-200c-5p and miR-361-3p) and the downregulatory binding site (miR-29c-5p) identified in this work all displayed noncanonical binding. Notably, miRNAs upregulating FUT1 are depleted in various cancers, aligning with observations that loss of α-1,2-fucosylation is a hallmark of esophageal cancer, melanoma biogenesis, and metastasis. Furthermore, integration of our previous work with the current results indicates that the loss of miR-200c has a strong correlation with the loss of α-1,2-fucosylation during epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. Together, these results identify miRNAs as key regulators of FUT1 and demonstrate that bidirectional miRNA control of glycosyltransferases can reshape cell-surface glycosylation with important implications for cancer biology.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
F18 enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) causes post-weaning diarrhea in nursery pigs, with susceptibility determined by a polymorphism in the α(1,2)-fucosyltransferase (FUT1) gene at nucleotide M307, where FUT1-M307A/A pigs are deemed F18 resistant and FUT1-M307G/A and FUT1-M307G/G pigs are deemed F18 susceptible to bacterial attachment. This post hoc analysis evaluated the effect of FUT1 genotype on disease susceptibility following F18 ETEC challenge over 3 experiments. It was hypothesized that FUT1 susceptible pigs (G/G and G/A) would incur greater F18 attachment than FUT1 resistant pigs (A/A). In Exp. 1 and 2, 194 pigs (5.79 ± 1.02 kg BW; 12% FUT1-M307G/G, 52% FUT1-M307G/A, 36% FUT1-M307A/A) were allocated to pens (6 pigs/pen), and half were orally inoculated with ∼1 × 109 CFU/mL F18 ETEC on d 10 (d-post infection [dpi] 0). Individual pig body weights (BW) were recorded on dpi -10, 0, 5, 12, and 28 to calculate growth rates. In Exp. 3, 18 individually housed pigs (5.68 ± 0.51 kg BW; 6% FUT1-M307G/G, 65% FUT1-M307G/A, 29% FUT1-M307A/A) were inoculated on d 10 (dpi 0) with ∼1 × 107-109 CFU/mL and euthanized at dpi 5 for collection of ileal tissue and digesta to evaluate ileal F18 ETEC attachment, cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) abundance, and F18 gene abundance. From dpi 0 to 5, growth rates were reduced by 58.9% and 62.2% in FUT1-M307G/A and FUT1-M307G/G pigs, respectively, compared with unchallenged controls, whereas FUT1-M307A/A pigs growth rates were unaffected (P < 0.0001). Over the entire post-infection period (dpi 0-28), growth rate and mortality did not differ between genotypes or F18 ETEC challenge (P > 0.10). Ileal F18 attachment tended to be greatest in G/G pigs compared with G/A and A/A pigs (2.6%, 1.2%, 0.1, respectively; P < 0.10). Ileal CFTR abundance was greater in G/G relative to G/A and A/A pigs (3.1%, 1.1%, 0.3%, respectively; P < 0.05). Ileal F18 gene abundance tended to be highest in G/G pigs (21.7) compared with G/A (18.0) and A/A (12.7) pigs (P < 0.10). In conclusion, FUT1 genetic polymorphisms G/G and G/A can increase susceptibility to F18 ETEC infection, warranting further investigation into interactions with other intestinal microbes, and representing a promising target for genetic selection.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society of Animal Science.
Bombay (Oh) blood group individuals are typically transfused with Bombay group red blood cells because transfusion with other blood groups can lead to life-threatening hemolysis. The mutations in the FUT1 gene prevent the expression of the H antigen on red blood cells.A 35-year-old man presented with severe anemia (hemoglobin, 4.8 g/dL) and was transfused with 3 units of O RhD-positive packed red blood cells at an outside hospital without adverse reaction. One month later, his blood group at our center was revealed as O RhD positive with panagglutination in reverse grouping. Anti-H lectin was negative, and crossmatch with O RhD-positive units showed strong incompatibility, indicating Bombay phenotype.Molecular testing revealed FUT1 c.725T>G homozygosity and FUT2 deletion. Concurrent evaluation revealed plasma cell leukemia with extensive bone marrow infiltration, which may explain the transient immunosuppression and no hemolysis. Bombay-compatible units were procured through the Rare Donor Registry and transfused safely, allowing initiation of chemotherapy.This case highlights that the absence of a transfusion reaction cannot exclude a true Bombay phenotype, underscoring the importance of molecular confirmation. It also emphasizes the timely coordination with donors and rare donor registries, ensuring the availability of compatible blood for patients with rare blood types.© The Author(s) (2026). Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pathology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
The para-Bombay phenotype is characterized by H antigen deficiency and the natural production of antibody against the I and H antigens (anti-IH), some of which are occasionally clinically significant. It genetically results from the presence of two non-functional FUT1 alleles coupled with at least one functional FUT2 allele. We present the serological and molecular characterization of a para-Bombay phenotype case, which led to the identification of a novel FUT1 allele.A sample from a blood donor was identified as a result of a discrepancy between forward and reverse typing. This sample subsequently underwent serological typing for A, B and H antigens in accordance with the American Association of Blood Banks Technical Manual. Furthermore, Sanger sequencing and nanopore sequencing were employed to analyse the ABO, FUT1 and FUT2 genes.The donor was found to have an H-deficient phenotype and the presence of anti-IH. Sanger sequencing identified an ABO*A1.01/ABO*O.01.02 genotype. Nanopore sequencing showed a compound heterozygous state in FUT1, represented by the FUT1*01W.09 allele and a novel FUT1 allele carrying the c.[35C>T;133_136dupCGCC] variant. The FUT2 genotype was determined as FUT2*01/FUT2*01W.02.01.This study identifies a novel FUT1 allele characterized by the c.[35C>T;133_136dupCGCC] variant that impairs H antigen expression on red blood cells, thereby contributing to the understanding of FUT1 allele diversity.© 2026 International Society of Blood Transfusion.
Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) strains expressing F4 and F18 fimbriae are major causes of neonatal and post‑weaning diarrhea in swine. Although epithelial maturation influences susceptibility in vivo, its impact on ETEC-host interactions remains poorly defined. This study characterizes the genomic diversity, virulence traits, and antibiotic resistance profiles of emerging F18 ETEC isolates using whole-genome sequencing and a differentiated porcine intestinal cell model.Six ETEC genomes: three F18 strains (3EC1, 27EC1, 3247EC), a porcine F4 strain, human ETEC H10407, and the historical F18 strain E. coli Nysø were analyzed by comparative genomics for virulence factors, toxin genes, and antimicrobial resistance (AMR) determinants. Genome sequences were submitted to the Type (Strain) Genome Server (TYGS) for whole genome-based taxonomic classification. Antibiotic susceptibility was phenotypically confirmed by microdilution and disk diffusion assays. Adhesion assays were performed using IPEC‑1, IPEC‑J2, and Caco‑2 cells conditioned to Early (6 days post‑confluence, DPC), Mid (9 DPC), and Late (16 DPC) maturation states. Expression of F18‑binding receptors (FUT1, FUT2) was quantified by RT‑qPCR.IPEC‑1 cells exhibited significantly higher FUT1 and FUT2 expression than IPEC‑J2, corresponding to approximately two‑fold stronger adhesion by most F18 isolates. Strain 3EC1 showed a distinct adhesion peak at 9 DPC, approaching F4 levels, while F4 and H10407 consistently displayed the highest adhesion across all models. Phylogenetic analysis placed 27EC1 and 3247EC in a clade with the F4 strain, whereas 3EC1 clustered with human H10407 and the ancestral E. coli Nysø strain. Comparative genomic analysis revealed substantial heterogeneity among F18 strains in fimbrial loci, flagellin, lipopolysaccharide biosynthesis genes, and AMR genes. Strain 3EC1 uniquely carried stx2e, and 3EC1 and 3247EC were positive for non‑classical EAST1 variants. All F18 isolates encoded hlyE and were β‑hemolytic. Strain 3247EC harbored the largest AMR gene repertoire (28 resistance genes), with all three F18 isolates demonstrating resistance to multiple antibiotic classes.The IPEC‑1/IPEC‑J2 maturation model recapitulates age‑dependent susceptibility to ETEC, driven by FUT1/FUT2 expression levels. The co-occurrence of strong adhesion capacity, stx2e, and extensive antimicrobial resistance in F18 strains underscores the evolution in virulence and the public health relevance of AMR surveillance in swine. This integrated genomic and cell-based platform provides a refined model for studying porcine ETEC pathogenesis and informing the development of targeted intervention strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) screening lacks specificity, particularly within the 4-10 ng/mL diagnostic gray zone, leading to unnecessary prostate biopsies and overtreatment. Here, we developed and validated a streamlined urine DNA methylation assay for non-invasive prostate cancer (PCa) detection and biopsy decision-making. Tissue-based Methylated DNA Immunoprecipitation Sequencing (MeDIP-seq) was integrated with large-scale public methylome cohorts to identify PCa-specific hypermethylated regions. Candidate markers were further refined by targeted bisulfite sequencing (TBS) and translated into quantitative PCR (qPCR) assays using post-prostatic massage urine samples. In a retrospective development cohort of 348 participants, stepwise marker selection and logistic regression modelling generated a compact two-gene methylation assay comprising ADD3_2 and GSX2_2. The model was then evaluated in an independent prospective multicenter cohort of 200 participants. The assay achieved robust diagnostic performance, with areas under curve (AUC) of 0.86 in the development cohort and 0.91 in the validation cohort, while maintaining specificity above 90%. Performance was preserved in the PSA gray zone and for clinically significant PCa (csPCa). Decision curve analysis (DCA) indicated that integrating this tool could safely avert approximately 55% of unnecessary biopsies without compromising cancer detection. This simple qPCR-based two-gene urine methylation assay provides a scalable, cost-effective and non-invasive complement to PSA-based PCa screening.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565395 is a review article
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a multisystemic disorder that manifests through motor and non-motor symptoms. Motor dysfunction results from the degeneration of dopamine-producing neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Increasing evidence suggests that synapse dysfunction precedes neuronal loss by years. Still, early synaptic alterations in PD remain poorly understood. Here, we integrate literature meta-analysis and multi-omics with biochemical, imaging, and electrophysiological measurements in Lrrk2 mouse models and human iPSC-derived neurons lacking LRRK2. We demonstrate that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) activates LRRK2 in differentiated SH-SY5Y cells and primary mouse neurons, reshaping the LRRK2 interactome toward a network of actin cytoskeleton-related proteins. Gene-ontology analyses of both literature-curated LRRK2 interactors and phospho-proteome from striatal tissues with elevated LRRK2 activity highlight synapse-actin remodeling as major affected pathways. We further observed that loss of LRRK2 impairs BDNF signaling and alters postsynaptic density architecture. Young Lrrk2 knockout mice display structural alterations in dendritic protrusions, a phenotype that normalizes with age. In human iPSC-derived neurons, LRRK2 knockout affects maturation and BDNF-dependent regulation of spontaneous synaptic activity. Taken together, our study discloses a critical role of LRRK2 in BDNF-dependent synaptic modulation and identifies the synaptic actin cytoskeleton as a convergent site of LRRK2-associated pathophysiological processes in PD.© 2024, Tombesi et al.
In mammals, the postnatal increase in cardiac workload coincides with the loss of cardiomyocyte proliferative capacity, rendering adult cardiomyocytes permanently post-mitotic. Whether reducing load can restore regenerative potential in the adult heart remains unknown. Here we use a heterotopic heart transplantation model, in which the donor heart is vascularized but nonpumping, to show that mechanical unloading induces adult cardiomyocyte proliferation, revealed by Ki67-based and MADM (mosaic analysis with double markers) lineage tracing. Applying heterotopic transplantation to infarcted hearts to achieve mechanical unloading similarly promoted regeneration within peri-infarct regions. Single-nucleus RNA sequencing of unloaded hearts identified enhanced epicardial-cardiomyocyte communication via the NRG1-ERBB4-STAT3 axis. Epicardial Nrg1 deletion blocked STAT3 activation and cardiomyocyte proliferation. CUT&Tag revealed STAT3 directly upregulates H6pd in cardiomyocytes, boosting pentose phosphate pathway activity to supply nucleotides and reducing equivalents for proliferation. These findings delineate a mechanotransductive pathway linking epicardial signals to cardiomyocyte cell-cycle re-entry, providing a framework for leveraging unloading to promote cardiac regeneration.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Chromosome 4q12 rearrangements are recurrent in hematologic malignancies, most frequently involving PDGFRA. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) is routinely used for detecting 4q12 rearrangements. This study aimed to clarify 4q12 rearrangements misdiagnosed by FISH and explore the transcriptomic profile of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with CHIC2 rearrangements.Fluorescence in situ hybridization with a PDGFRA/CHIC2/FIP1L1 probe set detected 4q12 rearrangements. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) characterized fusion transcripts and compared transcriptomic profiles between CHIC2-rearranged AML and NPM1-mutated controls, identifying differentially expressed genes and enriched pathways. Previously reported PDGFRA-independent 4q12 cases were reviewed.RNA sequencing of 2 AML cases with FISH signals suggestive of PDGFRA rearrangement identified CHIC2 fusions instead: a novel CDK6::CHIC2 and a known ETV6::CHIC2. Integrating our cases with a systematic literature review, we identified 41 hematologic neoplasms with PDGFRA-independent 4q12 rearrangements, of which 38 (92.7%) were AML. The 4q12 breakpoints most frequently involved CHIC2 (27 cases, 65.9%), followed by GSX2, SCFD2, and intergenic regions. Among 15 cases assessed by both FISH and molecular methods, FISH misclassified 9 (60.0%; 9/15) as PDGFRA rearranged; subsequent molecular testing revealed rearrangements of genes adjacent to PDGFRA (eg, CHIC2, GSX2) or intergenic regions. Transcriptomic profiling of CHIC2-rearranged AML revealed a distinct expression signature with 492 differentially expressed genes, including PDGFRA upregulation. Pathway analysis showed significant enrichment for cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction and JAK-STAT signaling (false discovery rate <0.05).Molecular methods such as RNA-seq are effective for resolving cryptic 4q12 rearrangements in cases where FISH falsely suggests PDGFRA involvement. The distinct transcriptional profile of CHIC2-rearranged AML suggests dysregulated cytokine signaling and JAK-STAT activity in its pathogenesis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pathology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Mitophagy is vital for preventing cerebral ischemia-reperfusion (CI/R) injury. Naringin, a flavanone glycoside, reduces CI/R injury by blocking harmful mitophagy induced by peroxynitrite (ONOO⁻). Our earlier studies identified that mitochondrial calcium (mtCa2+) efflux stabilizes mitochondrial endosymbiosis and initiates protective mitophagy. However, it is unclear whether and how naringin inhibits harmful mitophagy in association with mtCa2+.This study aimed to examine the influence of the S-nitrosylated dynamin-related protein 1 (SNO-DRP1)/leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2)/mitochondrial calcium uniporter (MCU) pathway on harmful mitophagy, which is inhibited by naringin in CI/R injury.To validate the hypotheses, a transient middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion (tMCAO/R) model in rats and oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R)-induced PC12 cells were used to investigate the effects of naringin. Specifically, linsidomine hydrochloride (SIN-1) was used to enhance SNO-DRP1, whereas spermine (Spm) was used to activate MCU. Mitochondrial fragmentation was assessed by measuring the average mitochondrial diameter via transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and evaluating the protein levels of mitofusin 1 (MFN1) and dynamin-related protein 1 (DRP1) through western blotting (WB). The SNO-DRP1 formation was determined by a biotin switch assay. The extent of SNO-DRP1-mediated excessive mitophagy was examined by quantifying the number of autophagosomes using TEM and assessing the colocalization of translocase of the outer mitochondrial membrane complex subunit 20 (TOMM20)-DRP1-3-NT and 3-NT-DRP1-LC3 via immunofluorescence (IF). The interaction between SNO-DRP1 and LRRK2 was confirmed using co-immunoprecipitation and IF colocalization. MtCa2+ overload induced by MCU was evaluated by analyzing MCU protein levels, measuring mtCa2+ fluorescence intensity following Rhod-2 AM treatment, and assessing the opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore. The mitochondrial reactive oxygen species and mitochondrial DNA release were used to evaluate the mitochondrial endosymbiosis failure.Naringin exhibited a dose-dependent protective effect against CI/R injury in rats subjected to the tMCAO/R model. It effectively reduced mitochondrial fragmentation and SNO-DRP1-mediated mitophagy, attenuated the interaction between SNO-DRP1 and LRRK2, and decreased the protein level of MCU in the penumbra region of the cortex. SIN-1 and Spm counteracted the neuronal protection of naringin in OGD/R-induced PC12 cells. They also mitigated the impact of naringin on mitochondrial fragmentation, harmful mitophagy, and MCU-mediated mtCa2+ overload and mitochondrial endosymbiosis disruption. Notably, only SIN-1 reversed naringin's suppression of SNO-DRP1 formation and its interaction with LRRK2 in vitro.This study demonstrates that naringin reduces ONOO⁻-caused harmful mitophagy in CI/R injury by blocking the SNO-DRP1/LRRK2/MCU pathway, which helps prevent mitochondrial fragmentation and preserve mitochondrial endosymbiosis. This pathway may be among the mechanisms by which naringin exerts its protective effects.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
The A2 β-casein variant has gained considerable interest in the dairy industry due to proposed health related benefits, leading to an increasing frequency of the A2A2 genotype in dairy herds. Although the A1/A2 substitution in the β-casein gene (CSN2) does not directly affect gene regulation, previous transcriptomic studies have reported differences in mRNA isoform expression between A1A1 and A2A2 cows. Therefore, the objective of this study was to identify single nucleotide variants (SNVs) in A1A1 and A2A2 β-casein groups of cows using milk fat globule (MFG) RNA-seq data and to evaluate their predicted functional consequences. RNA sequencing was performed on MFG samples obtained from 14 lactating Holstein cows (A1A1, n = 7; A2A2, n = 7). Variants were classified according to their predicted effects as amino acid changing (AAC) variants, splice site effect (SSE) variants, or variants presenting both consequences. Additionally, variant data were integrated with previously reported mRNA isoform expression results, and only variants located in genes showing expression levels ≥ 0.2 FPKM were retained for further analysis. Candidate RNA-seq-derived variants differing between A1A1 and A2A2 β-casein genotype groups were identified in genes involved in mammary gland function and lactation, including mitochondrial function, lipid metabolism, vesicle trafficking and secretion, and RNA processing. Among the prioritised genes, A1A1 cows showed a greater representation of SNVs located in genes involved in mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (NDUFV2, NDUFAB1, COX7A2 and ATP5PF), while additional SNVs were identified in lipid metabolism-related genes (ACSL1, ATP10A and MFGE8). In contrast, A2A2 cows showed a greater representation of SNVs located in genes involved in lipid metabolism (LPIN1, FASN, SPTLC2 and ATP11B) and vesicle trafficking and secretion (SEC31A, LRRK2, DBNL, EIPR1 and ABCG2). Overall, these findings provide additional insight into the molecular differences detected between A1A1 and A2A2 groups of cows. Although the predicted functional consequences of the identified variants are currently based on in silico analyses, the novel SNVs reported here constitute a valuable resource for future studies investigating the biological consequences associated with selection for the A2A2 β-casein genotype in Holstein dairy cattle.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society of Animal Science.
To explore how vacuolar protein sorting 35 (VPS35) regulates astrocytic inflammation, impairs retinal endothelial function and drives early diabetic retinopathy (DR) neurovascular lesions in diabetic mouse model.A streptozotocin (STZ)-induced C57BL/6J diabetic mouse model was established. Retinal tissues were collected from 0 to 12wk after successful induction of diabetes. Protein expression levels of VPS35, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), excitatory amino acid transporter 2 (EAAT2), leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), and vascular endothelium-associated proteins were assessed by Western blotting (WB). The interaction between VPS35 and LRRK2 was verified by co-immunoprecipitation. Vascular leakage and astrocyte activation were evaluated by fundus fluorescein angiography and retinal flat-mount immunofluorescence staining. Primary astrocytes were cultured in vitro and subjected to high-glucose stimulation or VPS35 knockdown. Cell activation, expression of glutamate transport-associated proteins, and inflammatory cytokine expression were examined. Supernatant fluid from the primary astrocytes was applied to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) to assess cell migration, proliferation, and tube formation capacity. The expression of proteins related to the nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) pathway was also evaluated.In diabetic mice, retinal VPS35 protein expression exhibited a progressive decline beginning at 4wk post-diabetes onset, whereas GFAP protein expression increased significantly. By 8wk, marked astrocyte activation was observed, accompanied by retinal microvascular leakage and a reduction in vascular area. In vivo and in vitro experiments further confirmed that under high-glucose conditions, retinal VPS35 and EAAT2 protein levels were markedly decreased, while GFAP and LRRK2 protein levels were significantly elevated. Co-immunoprecipitation verified the physical interaction between VPS35 and LRRK2 in astrocytes. Finally, in vitro experiments demonstrated that both high-glucose stimulation and VPS35 knockdown led to astrocyte activation, upregulation of inflammatory cytokine expression, downregulation of EAAT2 and AMPA receptor subunit GLUA2, and upregulation of LRRK2. Treatment of HUVECs with supernatant fluid from these astrocytes enhanced cell migration but significantly inhibited cell proliferation and tube formation. WB analysis revealed markedly increased levels of NF-κB and phosphorylated NF-κB in the treated HUVECs.During early DR in mice model, decreased retinal VPS35 protein expression induces astrocyte-mediated inflammatory responses and glutamate transport dysfunction. Through the interaction between VPS35 and LRRK2, paracrine inflammatory cytokines subsequently activate the NF-κB signaling pathway in vascular endothelial cells, leading to endothelial dysfunction and further driving DR-associated neurovascular injury. This study provides novel insights into the pathogenesis of DR and highlights the potential of VPS35 as a target for early intervention in DR.International Journal of Ophthalmology Press.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is established for levodopa-responsive Parkinson's disease (PD), but the outcomes of DBS in rare genetic early-onset parkinsonism remain incompletely defined. While its efficacy is documented in monogenic forms of parkinsonism (e.g., LRRK2, Parkin, PINK1, and SNCA), clinical data regarding the safety and efficacy of DBS in carriers of the SYNJ1 mutation remain scarce.We report two patients with SYNJ1-related early-onset parkinsonism treated with bilateral DBS and place their outcomes in a single-center gene-listed EOPD DBS cohort. Case 1 carried a novel homozygous SYNJ1 c.1969A > G (p. Thr657Ala) missense variant and 46, XY disorder of sex development; GPi-DBS enabled the levodopa equivalent daily dose (LEDD) reduction from 775 to 300 mg/day, with improved dyskinesia and sleep, although motor fluctuations and neuropsychiatric symptoms persisted. Case 2 carried a SYNJ1 c.1627 + 13 T > A intronic variant; subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation (STN-DBS) reduced the LEDD from 955 to 605 mg/day and Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS-III) score from 51 to 32 at 1.5-year follow-up. In the contextual cohort, the median LEDD reduction after DBS was 35.2%. These observations support DBS as a feasible symptomatic strategy in selected genetic early-onset Parkinson's disease (EOPD) while emphasizing genotype-specific uncertainty.These cases illustrate heterogeneous clinical responses to DBS in patients with early-onset parkinsonism carrying SYNJ1 variants. DBS may provide symptomatic benefit in carefully selected patients, but the small sample size and variant-level uncertainty preclude conclusions regarding genotype-specific efficacy.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Zhang, Chen, Xu, Huang, Zhou and Zheng.
Variants in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are the most common genetic cause of Parkinson's disease, yet how these variants alter immune cell function remains unclear. Because LRRK2 is activated by lysosomal damage in macrophages, we investigated how the pathogenic G2019S variant affects macrophage responses to lysosomal damage. Here, we show that LRRK2 G2019S has an effect during lysosomal damage through kinase-dependent and kinase-independent mechanisms. Phosphoproteomic analysis revealed that lysosomal damage induces selective rewiring of LRRK2-dependent Rab GTPase phosphorylation, characterised by increased Rab12 phosphorylation and reduced Rab35 phosphorylation without global kinase hyperactivation. Strikingly, LRRK2 G2019S macrophages showed increased susceptibility to apoptosis following lysosomal damage. This increase in cell death occurred independently of the kinase activity, indicating a distinct kinase-independent role of LRRK2 in regulating cell survival. We generated isogenic induced pluripotent stem cells from patients carrying the LRRK2 G2019S variant and confirmed that LRRK2 G2019S macrophages are more susceptible to cell death in a kinase-independent manner. Together, our findings support a model in which the LRRK2 G2019S variant selectively changes the phosphorylation of Rab GTPases in macrophages and increases cell death after lysosomal damage in macrophages.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Anabolic and catabolic processes are coordinated by a conserved regulatory network, which includes the nutrient-sensing protein kinase mTOR complex 1 (mTORC1) and the insulin- and stress-responsive transcription factor FoxO. In a physiological setting, these regulators align growth, storage, reproduction, and aging with nutrient availability. Here, we identify transcription factor Spalt-related (Salr), previously implicated in organogenesis, as a negative regulator of growth and lipid storage in Drosophila melanogaster. Salr activates catabolic gene expression and restricts mTORC1-mediated cell growth in the Drosophila fat body. The genomic binding of Salr overlaps extensively with that of FoxO, and a similar convergence is observed for their mammalian homologs, SALL1 and FOXO1. Both Salr and FoxO are activated upon fasting, but respond to distinct cues: while FoxO displays transient activation and is responsive to AKT inhibition, Salr is activated in a slow and sustained manner through the integrated stress response. Once activated, Salr counters nuclear localization of FoxO. Taken together, we show that Salr and FoxO are growth-inhibitory transcription factors that act in a convergent manner to respond to nutrient stress through distinct cues.© 2026. The Author(s).
Microglia are brain-resident immune cells responsible for maintaining homeostasis, coordinating responses to injury and disease, and mediating regeneration. Upon activation, they undergo dynamic changes in morphology, gene expression, and function, reflecting the nature and context of the stimuli encountered. Although pharmacological modulation of microglia holds great promise for treating various neurological disorders, its development is hampered by a major translational roadblock: Human microglial cell lines commonly used in preclinical studies, as well as primary rodent microglia, substantially limit the translatability of results. Here, we aimed to generate microglia from human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) and to demonstrate their physiological responsiveness to the brain-endogenous, context-relevant ligand osteopontin (OPN).Microglia generated from two healthy hiPSC lines were stimulated with OPN, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), or their combination for 24 h and subsequently analyzed. Microglial identity and the expression of the phagocytic cell marker cluster of differentiation 68 (CD68) were determined by immunocytochemistry. Cell viability was assessed by propidium iodide (PI)/Hoechst staining, morphological activation was evaluated using Sholl analysis, and inflammatory gene expression changes were assessed by RT-qPCR.hiPSC-derived microglia acquired a native central nervous system (CNS)-specific immunophenotype, expressing the microglia-specific markers ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1 (IBA1), transmembrane protein 119 (TMEM119), PU.1, and Spalt-like transcription factor 1 (SALL1), while remaining negative for Myb and membrane-spanning 4-domains, subfamily A, member 7 (MS4A7) at the protein level. Exposure to LPS led hiPSC-derived microglia to adopt a rounded, process-retracted shape and to increase CD68 protein intensity, a surrogate marker of lysosomal and phagocytic activity, while downregulating the anti-inflammatory marker cluster of differentiation 206 (CD206) at the transcriptional level. OPN induced a distinct microglial functional state characterized by intermediate morphology, increased CD68 intensity, and reduced homeostatic gene expression, without eliciting robust inflammatory gene expression. Intriguingly, OPN prevented LPS-induced microglial cell death, and when hiPSC-derived microglia exposed to LPS were additionally treated with OPN, the morphological effects of LPS were reversed.OPN induced a distinct early response profile in hiPSC-derived microglia, characterized by intermediate morphological remodeling, increased CD68 intensity, and reduced homeostatic gene expression, without overt pro-inflammatory gene expression. These findings support the role of OPN as a physiological priming signal in microglia and highlight hiPSC-derived microglia as a model for studying regulators of microglial modulation.Copyright © 2026 Olschewski, Koenig, Nerone, Gross, Šarić, Vay, Schroeter, Fink and Rueger.
Retinoblastoma (RB) is the most prevalent intraocular malignant tumor in infants and young children, predominantly driven by the biallelic inactivation of the RB1 gene. Although multimodal treatment strategies have markedly improved the survival rates of pediatric patients, chemotherapy resistance, particularly carboplatin (CBP) resistance, remains a major clinical hurdle. In recent years, ferroptosis, an iron-dependent and lipid peroxide-driven form of programmed cell death, has garnered significant attention for its role in tumor drug resistance. This study investigates the functional mechanisms of the transcription factor Spalt-Like Transcription Factor 1 (SALL1) and its downstream target gene Microsomal Glutathione S-Transferase 1 (MGST1) in RB. Bioinformatics analysis revealed a significant upregulation of SALL1 in RB, accompanied by enhanced activity of its regulatory network. Experimental evidence from ChIP-qPCR and luciferase reporter assays indicated that SALL1 binds to the promoter region of MGST1 and enhances its promoter transcriptional output. Functionally, knockdown of SALL1 suppressed cell proliferation and induced ferroptosis, as evidenced by increased levels of lipid peroxidation, elevated malondialdehyde (MDA), and decreased glutathione (GSH) levels. These effects were reversible by the ferroptosis inhibitor Fer-1 or overexpression of MGST1. In the CBP-resistant cell line Y79-R, knockdown of SALL1 notably reduced the IC50, enhanced chemosensitivity, and promoted cell death, a phenotype that could be rescued by overexpression of MGST1. Mechanistically, the SALL1-MGST1 axis promotes RB cell survival and drug resistance by inhibiting lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis. This study is the first to elucidate that the SALL1-MGST1 axis mediates CBP resistance in RB through the regulation of ferroptosis, providing a novel therapeutic target for reversing drug resistance.Copyright: © 2026 Xiong et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Townes-Brocks syndrome (TBS) is a rare autosomal dominant disorder caused by pathogenic variants in SALL1. Although classically characterized by external ear anomalies, anorectal malformations, and thumb/radial defects, its expressivity is highly variable and mild presentations may be overlooked. We report a 7-year-old boy presenting for cosmetic correction of bilateral cup ear deformities. Initial hearing screening and renal ultrasonography showed no abnormalities, and no other anomalies were identified on clinical examination. Detailed history-taking and construction of a three-generation pedigree revealed that the patient's father and paternal grandfather had similar bilateral auricular deformities, suggesting autosomal dominant familial transmission. Genetic testing of the proband and father demonstrated a heterozygous frameshift variant in exon 2 of SALL1 (c.1949del; p.Gly650AlafsTer46). The proband and his father underwent corrective otoplasty and achieved satisfactory early cosmetic outcomes. This family illustrates that SALL1-related TBS can present as an apparently isolated auricular phenotype. Familial congenital cup ear deformity, even when encountered in a cosmetic setting, should prompt careful family history-taking, consideration of genetic evaluation, counseling, and longitudinal surveillance.© 2026 Chang et al.
Interspecies blastocyst complementation (BC) provides a promising approach to generate transplantable organs from pluripotent stem cells (PSCs). However, interspecies kidney generation has remained largely unsuccessful, particularly when using rat PSCs in mouse hosts. Here, we investigated multiple renal-deficient models (Sall1-, Ret-, and Osr1-knockouts [KOs]) through reverse BC (rBC) analyses. We identified Osr1-KO embryos as lacking both nephron progenitor and ureteric bud lineages, providing a vacant developmental niche for renal reconstruction. Injection of rat embryonic stem cells (ESCs) into Osr1-KO mouse blastocysts led to robust rat cell contribution and the formation of kidneys predominantly composed of rat in the vacant niche. These findings establish the Osr1-KO model as a permissive platform for interspecies kidney organogenesis and offer mechanistic insight into developmental compatibility underlying xenogeneic organ generation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2), a well-known methyltransferase, mediates histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27me3) and plays a critical role in various kidney diseases. Previous studies have demonstrated that EZH2 contributes to ischemia-reperfusion (I/R)-induced acute kidney injury (AKI). However, the specific role and regulation of EZH2 in renal I/R injury remain incompletely understood. This study provides a comprehensive analysis of EZH2's role and underlying mechanisms in renal ischemia-reperfusion injury. Inhibition of EZH2 reduces apoptosis and ameliorates I/R-induced AKI in both in vitro and in vivo models. Global gene expression analysis by RNA-seq and ChIP-seq reveals a marked upregulation of Spalt-Like Transcription Factor 1 (SALL1) and its involvement in the Wnt signaling pathway in EZH2-knockdown HK-2 cells. Mechanistically, Cancer Susceptibility Candidate 15 (CASC15) recruits EZH2 to the SALL1 promoter, where EZH2 catalyzes H3K27me3 modification. ChIP analysis further confirms the enrichment of EZH2 at the SALL1 promoter. Additionally, silencing of SALL1 exacerbates hypoxia-induced apoptosis in HK-2 cells through inactivation of β-catenin. In conclusion, CASC15 recruits EZH2 to the SALL1 promoter, where EZH2 mediates H3K27me3 modification to suppress SALL1, thereby regulating the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway in renal I/R injury. The CASC15/EZH2/SALL1 axis represents a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of AKI.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Townes-Brocks syndrome (TBS) is a rare autosomal dominant disorder caused by pathogenic variants in SALL1, classically defined by dysplastic ears, anorectal malformations, and thumb anomalies. Renal involvement is a major determinant of prognosis.We report a Serbian family with multiple members with TBS and molecular confirmation of a SALL1 familial nonsense variant (c.1509C>A, p. Tyr503Ter). Detailed phenotypic data were obtained from paediatric and adult medical records. Seven affected patients across three generations exhibited a remarkably consistent renal phenotype characterized by bilateral renal Hypodysplasia and chronic kidney disease (CKD), contrasted by variable extrarenal features. The proband developed CKD progressing to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in adolescence, requiring kidney transplantation. Her first male cousin (patient 2) presented with anal atresia, dysplastic ears, hypospadias, and congenital hypothyroidism, and currently has stable CKD stage II. Mother of patient 2 has CKD stage III with small hyperechogenic kidneys and proteinuria. The affected grandfather has ESRD and sensorineural hearing loss. Notably, none of the affected individuals fulfilled the complete classical triad of TBS.This family demonstrates intrafamilial phenotypic variability of TBS but with strikingly consistent renal involvement linked to a familial SALL1 variant. TBS should be considered in patients with congenital anomalies of the kidney and Urinary tract (CAKUT) even in the absence of typical limb or anorectal anomalies. Early molecular diagnosis enables appropriate surveillance and timely management of progressive kidney disease.© 2025 A Paripović et al., published by Macedonian Academy of Sciences and Arts.
Gastric cardia cancer (GCC) is an aggressive malignancy with poor prognosis, underscoring the need for better characterization of molecular alterations during early gastric cardia carcinogenesis. This study aimed to identify and validate tissue-based DNA methylation markers associated with early precancerous and neoplastic lesions of the gastric cardia. We integrated genome-wide DNA methylation data (850 K array) from 69 gastric cardia samples, including normal mucosa (n = 22), intestinal metaplasia (IM, n = 32), intraepithelial neoplasia (IEN, n = 7), and GCC (n = 8). Differential methylation analysis revealed stage-specific methylation patterns. Machine learning algorithms, including Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression and Random Forest, were used to refine candidate diagnostic biomarkers, followed by immunohistochemical validation of candidate gene expression in an independent cohort (n = 212). GCC progression showed increasing epigenetic dysregulation, with hyper-differentially methylated probes (DMPs) predominating in precancerous lesions (79.3-86.3%) and hypo-DMPs in GCC (87.7%). Hyper-DMPs were enriched in promoter-associated cytosine-phosphate-guanosine (CpG) islands (P < 0.001). Two DMPs, EDNRB_cg04390523 and SALL1_cg09016242, were consistently identified by both algorithms and showed good diagnostic accuracy (AUC = 0.947, 95% CI: 0.897-0.997) for distinguishing precancerous gastric cardia lesions and GCC from normal tissue in the integrated dataset. Consistent with methylation findings, EDNRB protein expression progressively decreased from normal to IM/IEN tissues (P < 0.001). This study identifies EDNRB and SALL1 promoter hypermethylation as promising tissue-based candidate biomarkers associated with early neoplastic transformation and provides a basis for further longitudinal and translational studies in gastric cardia precancerous lesions and cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Renal imaging suggests that congenital anomalies of the kidney and urinary tract (CAKUT) affect one in 200 of the population, and 20% have a monogenic cause. This study determined the population frequency of predicted pathogenic variants in six commonly affected CAKUT genes.HNF1B, SALL1, EYA1, PBX1, GATA3, and PAX2 variants were downloaded from gnomAD v.2.1.1 (n = 141,456) and the population frequency of predicted disease-causing variants calculated from the sum of structural, null, and predicted pathogenic missense changes in the overall cohort or from variants shared with ClinVar, HGMD, or LOVD. Population frequencies were also determined in constituent ancestries and, using our method and ClinVar assessments, in a replication cohort (gnomAD v.4.1, n = 807,162).The population frequency of disease-causing variants in these six genes in CAKUT lies between one in 249 (our strategy) and one in 1263 (ClinVar assessments) in the gnomAD v.2.1.1 database. More than half these variants were missense changes. Predicted pathogenic variants were commonest in African-Americans (one in 149) and least common in Ashkenazim (one in 864). The population frequency estimated from gnomAD v.4.1 lies between one in 372 (our strategy) and one in 1,762 (with ClinVar).These calculations suggest that monogenic causes of CAKUT due to variants in these six genes are likely more common than the previously calculated one in 1,000. The ClinVar results are underestimates since assessments were not available for structural, copy number and many missense changes. However, some disease-causing variants identified here will not result in clinical disease because of incomplete penetrance and variable expressivity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a major malignancy with high incidence and mortality, in part due to its diverse etiology and intratumoral heterogeneity, which contributes to drug resistance and frequent recurrence. SALL1 (Spalt-Like Transcription Factor 1), a zinc-finger transcription factor, was reported to function as a tumor suppressor in several cancers, including breast cancer and glioma, and accumulating evidence support its involvement in tumor biology. In this study, the role of SALL1 in HCC was examined.Public RNA and protein databases derived from human HCC were interrogated. Western blotting quantification of clinical HCC for SALL1 levels was carried out. Cell culture and xenograft studies were performed using genetically modified HCC tumor cells.As revealed by pubic RNA and protein database analysis and further western blotting quantification of clinical samples of HCC, SALL1 is decreased in human HCC. The effect of reduced SALL1 expression on the tumorigenic properties and transcriptional regulation in HCC was then examined. Knockdown of SALL1 in the HCC cell lines Huh7 and Hep3B, enhanced cell proliferation in vitro and accelerated tumor growth in a xenograft mouse model, suggesting that lower SALL1 expression increases cell proliferation and tumorigenesis in HCC. RNA-seq and ChIP analyses further identified three novel candidate target genes (SLC6A14, GABRG1, and AKR1B10), suggesting that SALL1 may exert a tumor-suppressive effect, at least in part, through negative regulation of these genes.These findings establish SALL1 as a possible tumor suppressor and provide new insights into the biological significance of SALL1 downregulation in HCC. SALL1 could be a candidate prognostic marker and a potential therapeutic target.
Early separation of atypical Parkinsonian syndromes (APS) from idiopathic Parkinson's disease (iPD) remains challenging. Given that many brain-biased circular RNAs (circRNAs) are stable and expressed in blood cells, peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) circRNAs were profiled in 140 individuals (iPD 43, MSA 35, PSP 19, healthy controls 43) using RT-qPCR across 46 a priori candidates. Group differences were analyzed using the Kruskal-Wallis test with FDR correction; clinical associations were examined using Bonferroni-corrected Spearman correlations with a bootstrap stability assessment; and discrimination was assessed using logistic regression with nested repeated cross-validation, calibration analysis, and ROC analysis. Six circRNAs differed across groups after FDR adjustment (SLC8A1_circ_0000994, MAPK9_circ_0001566, MGA_circ_0000591, AGTPBP1_circ_0007162, SFMBT2_circ_0000211, HIPK3_circ_0000284), with median levels lowest in iPD and highest in PSP. Internally cross-validated multi-marker panels achieved AUCs of 0.88 for PSP versus controls, 0.78 for PSP versus iPD, and 0.67 for MSA versus iPD. Several circRNAs, including non-differential ones, showed bootstrap-stable associations with cognitive, mood, working-memory, and praxis measures. ENCORI- and CircInteractome-based analyses placed the differentially expressed circRNAs within a shared RBP interaction landscape and identified modest but significant miRNA-target overlap. Findings indicate that PBMC circRNA patterns aid APS-iPD differentiation and align with clinical impairment within this cohort; external validation, longitudinal assessment, and mechanistic studies are needed to establish diagnostic performance and biological relevance.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Neurochemistry published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of International Society for Neurochemistry.
Homozygous mutations in the AGTPBP1 gene are associated with childhood-onset neurodegeneration and cerebellar atrophy (CONDCA). These mutations disrupt neuronal maintenance, leading to progressive motor and cognitive deficits. This case highlights the pathological findings and systemic complications in a 4.5-month-old boy with this rare genetic disorder.A 4.5-month-old boy presented with global developmental delay and progressively worsening floppiness of the body for the past 2 months. There was a history of similar illness in his previous sibling, who died at 2.5 months of age. The serum creatine kinase of the index child was mildly elevated. Antemortem muscle biopsy had revealed the presence of neurogenic atrophy. Peripheral blood count revealed persistent lymphopenia (ALC range: 1,270/μL to 2,482/μL). The child developed severe respiratory distress and succumbed to his illness at 5 months of age. The autopsy revealed the atrophy of cerebellar folia with a striking reduction of Purkinje and granular cells and preserved molecular layer. There was thinning of the corpus callosum and anterior horn cell degeneration in the spinal cord. Lung examination demonstrated fibrinous bronchitis, bronchiolitis, and pneumonia; a result of adenovirus infection confirmed by electron microscopy and PCR. The thymus was absent. Genetic testing identified a homozygous mutation in the AGTPBP1 gene (c2833C>T), confirming the diagnosis of CONDCA.This is the first autopsy description of CONDCA with detailed neuropathological evaluation. Although cerebellar atrophy is well known, this case reveals a wider neuropathological change and thymic aplasia in such patients. This case highlights the structural consequences of the AGTPBP1 gene-associated enzyme deficiency crucial for post-translational modifications of tubulin, resulting in the degeneration of specific sets of neurons and immune deficiency secondary thymic involvement.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Programmed cell death (PCD) governs tissue homeostasis and shapes tumor-immune interactions. In acute myeloid leukemia (AML), apoptosis evasion drives resistance and poor outcomes, yet the PCD landscape and the role of Coronin 1A (CORO1A) remain insufficiently defined.We integrated AML bone marrow single-cell RNA-seq (GSE154109) with bulk RNA-seq from TCGA (training) and GSE71014 (testing), and GTEx normal marrow. After batch correction, we profiled 3,524 PCD- related genes. Single-cell analyses (Seurat, Harmony) resolved hematopoietic and malignant populations; pathway activity was quantified by ssGSEA/GSVA. Survival modeling used a multi-algorithm framework (10 learners, 117 combinations). Immune features were inferred via IOBR; immunotherapy response via TIDE; drug sensitivity via OncoPredict. We analyzed DepMap AML cell lines (n = 29), correlating CORO1A CRISPR dependency (CERES) with CORO1A expression (log2 TPM) by Pearson's correlation in R. CORO1A function was tested by shRNA knockdown in HL-60 and THP-1 cells with CCK-8, Annexin V, and Western blot.Malignant cells and monocytes/macrophages showed higher PCD enrichment than lymphoid clusters. Malignant cells upregulated MYC/E2F targets, DNA repair, fatty acid metabolism, with attenuated interferon signaling. From 3,524 genes, we derived a five-gene prognostic signature-CORO1A and PECAM1 (risk), and CLEC11A, ITGA4, AGTPBP1 (protective)-via optimal LASSO plus stepwise Cox (mean C-index 0.72; TCGA 0.74; GSE71014 0.70). Discrimination was strong (AUCs: training 0.816/0.803/0.887 at 1/3/5 years; testing 0.711/0.765/0.749) and independent of age and sex. Risk score-associated transcripts were enriched for apoptosis, FoxO signaling, senescence, proteoglycans in cancer, and HTLV-1 pathways; GSEA indicated hematopoietic stemness and NRF2-upregulated programs. High-risk tumors had higher stromal/immune scores, lower purity, increased monocytes/macrophages/neutrophils, and reduced B/T/NK infiltration; the risk score correlated with cytokines (CXCR3, IL10, PF4, PPBP). TIDE predicted greater immunotherapy benefit in high-risk patients. OncoPredict suggested higher sensitivity in the high-risk group to 5-fluorouracil, PI3K-AKT-mTOR inhibitors (afuresertib, pictilisib, taselisib, dactolisib), and the MET inhibitor savolitinib. CORO1A was highly expressed in AML cell lines; knockdown reduced proliferation, decreased Bcl-2/Bax ratio by 1.5-fold, and increased apoptosis.Multi-omic integration of PCD-related genes delineates PCD-driven heterogeneity in AML and yields a robust five-gene prognostic model with therapeutic implications. CORO1A emerges as a potential apoptosis-associated oncogene that promoting AML cell survival.©2026 Yang et al.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a lethal malignancy with dismal prognosis, driven by limited early detection and rapid metastatic progression. Although ATP/GTP binding protein 1 (AGTPBP1) is frequently overexpressed in PDAC, its mechanistic role in PDAC progression remains undefined. This study demonstrates that AGTPBP1 functions as a critical oncogenic driver of PDAC by promoting proliferation and migration in PANC-1 and AsPC-1 cells. Gain-of-function experiments showed that AGTPBP1 overexpression significantly increased both mRNA and protein levels, accelerating cell growth, colony formation, wound closure, and Transwell migration. Mechanistically, AGTPBP1 activated the MAPK/ERK pathway through elevated ERK1/2 phosphorylation, and pharmacological inhibition of ERK phosphorylation using PD98059 abrogated both ERK phosphorylation and AGTPBP1-driven phenotypes, establishing ERK as an essential mediator. Furthermore, AGTPBP1 modulated MYLK expression: overexpression increased while knockdown decreased MYLK mRNA and protein levels, and rescue experiments restored MYLK, confirming causality. Immunohistochemistry revealed co-elevation of AGTPBP1 and MYLK in PDAC compared to adjacent normal tissues. Notably, ERK signaling modulated MYLK activity (phosphorylated MYLK) without altering MYLK expression, indicating that AGTPBP1 regulates MYLK at the transcriptional level, whereas ERK controls its post-translational activity. Collectively, AGTPBP1 promotes PDAC progression through a dual mechanism involving ERK-dependent proliferative signaling and ERK-independent MYLK upregulation, positioning both molecules as potential therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The role of ATP/GTP binding protein 1 (AGTPBP1), a cytosolic carboxypeptidase, in oncogenesis remains largely unexplored. Although we previously identified its tumor-promoting function in pancreatic cancer, its expression pattern, biological function, and underlying mechanisms in breast cancer remain elusive.AGTPBP1 expression and its clinical relevance in breast cancer were first assessed using public proteomic databases. Stable AGTPBP1 overexpression and knockdown models were established in the luminal A T47D and triple-negative MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cell lines to account for tumor heterogeneity. Malignant phenotypes were evaluated through a series of in vitro functional assays, including proliferation, colony formation, migration, and matrigel invasion assays. Mechanistic insights were gained by RNA-sequencing (with biological triplicates) and subsequent experimental validation, including rescue experiments.AGTPBP1 was significantly upregulated in breast cancer tissues. Functional studies demonstrated that AGTPBP1 overexpression markedly enhanced cell proliferation, colony formation, migration and invasion, whereas its knockdown suppressed these malignant behaviors. Transcriptomic profiling revealed that AGTPBP1 was critically involved in cell adhesion and cell-cell junction pathways. We identified envoplakin (EVPL), a core desmosomal protein, as a key downstream effector, whose expression was negatively regulated by AGTPBP1. Mechanistically, AGTPBP1-mediated repression of EVPL led to the activation of the ERK signaling pathway, as evidenced by increased phosphorylation of ERK1/2. Rescue experiments confirmed that EVPL overexpression attenuated AGTPBP1-induced malignant phenotypes and ERK activation.This study unveils a novel oncogenic role of AGTPBP1 in breast cancer. We delineate a previously unrecognized AGTPBP1/EVPL/ERK axis whereby AGTPBP1 drives tumor progression by simultaneously disrupting intercellular adhesion and activating pro-tumorigenic ERK signaling. Our findings propose AGTPBP1 as a potential therapeutic target for breast cancer intervention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41317263
Epidemiological and clinical observations suggest a substantial reduction in the risk and severity of diabetic retinopathy (DR) among individuals with myopia. However, the impact of myopia on DR and its underlying mechanisms remains unclear. Herein, by establishing a form-deprivation myopia (FDM) and lens-induced myopia (LIM) models in diabetic db/db mice, a significant reduction of retinal vascular lesions is identified in db/db mice after myopia modeling. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis further reveals elevated expression of Nervous system nuclear protein induced by axotomy 1 (Nna1) in Müller cells of db/db mice subjected to FDM compared to db/db alone, alongside decreased Nna1 expression in db/db compared to db/m mice. Knockdown of Nna1 in FDM-treated db/db eyes reverses the protective effects of myopia on DR. Transcriptomic profiling links reduced Nna1 expression to enhanced apoptotic and autophagic signaling pathways in Müller cells. Further in vivo and in vitro experiments confirm that Nna1 overexpression suppresses microtubule hyper-glutamylation, thereby reducing autophagy and apoptosis levels in Müller cells, and ameliorating DR progression. These findings suggest that Nna1 may play a key role in protecting Müller cells and maintaining the integrity of the neurovascular unit, thereby contributing to the protective effects of myopia in DR and representing a potential molecular target for early intervention and treatment of DR.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Infertility is a pervasive global health concern affecting millions of couples worldwide. Approximately 7% of the male population is infertile. Teratozoospermia, defined by > 96% abnormal sperm morphology, is a major cause of infertility often linked to genetic defects. In our previous study, we identified three AGTPBP1 mutations (p.Glu423Asp, p.Pro631Leu, and p.Arg811His) in teratozoospermia cases. AGTPBP1 is a key enzyme involved in regulating tubulin polyglutamylation and generating Δ-2 tubulin, a major structural component of the sperm tail and an essential structure for sperm head differentiation. However, functional proof of the impact of AGTPBP1 Arg811His on sperm head and tail impairment remained unestablished.Knock-in mice carrying the equivalent mutation, Arg791His (R791H) corresponding to the human mutation (R811H), in the Agtpbp1 gene were generated and analyzed for sperm morphological abnormalities.Sperm morphological evaluation revealed a significant increase in the proportion of morphologically abnormal sperm in the Agtpbp1R791H/R791H mice. Detailed morphological analysis revealed a significantly higher incidence of sperm head abnormalities and abnormal attachment of the head to the midpiece in the Agtpbp1R791H/R791H mice relative to wild-type controls. Further, sperm with head defects from Agtpbp1R791H/R791H mice exhibited abnormal accumulation of polyglutamylated tubulin within the sperm head. The mutant mice showed exactly the same morphological defects as seen in human patients and those displayed by mice lacking the complete carboxypeptidase A domain of AGTPBP1 but at a relatively lesser frequency.We conclude that the R791H mutation in the Agtpbp1 gene impairs sperm head and tail differentiation, resulting in sperm morphological defects.© 2025. The Author(s).
AGTPBP1 regulates microtubule stabilization through post-translational modification of alpha-tubulin. Mutations in the AGTPBP1 gene are associated with clinical phenotypes such as early postnatal cerebellar atrophy, ataxia, spasticity, and dystonia, highlighting its critical roles in both neurodevelopment and neurodegeneration. However, how AGTPBP1 affects neurite development and its function in dopaminergic neurons remains unclear. To investigate the role of AGTPBP1, we utilized both in vitro AGTPBP1 knockout (KO) cell models and zebrafish models. Our findings reveal that AGTPBP1 KO in cells leads to excessive neurite outgrowth and significantly increases expression of collapsin response mediator protein 2 (CRMP2). Additionally, AGTPBP1 KO results in mitochondrial dysfunction and a hyperdopaminergic state in differentiated neurons. In zebrafish, knockdown of AGTPBP1 caused reduced brain volume and impaired swimming behavior, indicating disrupted neurodevelopment and motor function. Given CRMP2's involvement in both cytoskeletal dynamics and mitochondrial activity, we tested lacosamide, a drug known to modulate CRMP2 expression and phosphorylation. Lacosamide treatment in vitro improved cell morphology and restored mitochondrial function, while in vivo, it rescued brain volume deficits and enhanced swimming performance in AGTPBP1-deficient zebrafish. In conclusion, AGTPBP1 knockout impairs neuronal differentiation, induces mitochondrial dysfunction, increases oxidative stress, and promotes a hyperdopaminergic state. Our study suggests that elevated CRMP2 expression may underlie the pathophysiology of cerebellar degeneration in AGTPBP1-related disorders. Targeting CRMP2 with lacosamide represents a promising therapeutic strategy for mitigating AGTPBP1-mediated neurodegeneration.© 2025. The Author(s).
AGTPBP1 is a cytosolic carboxypeptidase that cleaves poly-glutamic acids from the C terminus or side chains of α/β tubulins. Although its dysregulated expression has been linked to the development of non-small cell lung cancer, the specific roles and mechanisms of AGTPBP1 in pancreatic cancer (PC) have yet to be fully understood. In this study, we examined the role of AGTPBP1 on PC in vitro and in vivo.Immunohistochemistry was used to examine the expression of AGTPBP1 in PC and non-cancerous tissues. Additionally, we assessed the malignant behaviors of PC cells following siRNA-mediated AGTPBP1 knockdown both in vitro and in vivo. RNA sequencing and bioinformatics analysis were performed to identify the differentially expressed genes regulated by AGTPBP1.We determined that AGTPBP1 was overexpressed in PC tissues and the higher expression of AGTPBP1 was closely related to the location of tumors. AGTPBP1 inhibition can significantly decrease cell progression in vivo and in vitro. Moreover, the knockdown of AGTPBP1 inhibited the expression of ERK1/2, P-ERK1/2, MYLK, and TUBB4B proteins via the ERK signaling pathway.Our research indicates that AGTPBP1 may be a putative therapeutic target for PC.© 2024. The Author(s).
Glioblastoma (GBM) is an aggressive brain tumor characterized by rapid growth and infiltration. New therapies are desperately needed to improve GBM patient outcomes. Intra-tumoral heterogeneity is a common driver of failure for novel GBM treatments, and many preclinical studies rely on cell lines established from the tumor core. As a result, they fail to characterize the infiltrative tumor cells, which remain post-surgery and ultimately drive tumor recurrence.This study characterizes the membrane proteome of 3 patient-derived GBM cell lines isolated from the tumor invasive margin (GIN8, GIN28, and GIN31), which is a proxy for residual disease post-surgery. We combined plasma membrane protein analysis with total protein analysis using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry to uncover therapeutic targets most amenable for drug repurposing. Molecular docking analysis predicted specific binding pockets on the surface of key membrane proteins against which the top 10 approved drug candidates were screened based on their binding energy scores.Membrane proteins such as EDIL3, DYSF, ROBO1, SERPINE2, LOXL1, and CD70 were consistently significantly upregulated across GBM cell lines relative to healthy astrocyte controls, indicating potential functional roles in GBM progression. Molecular docking identified nilotinib (targeting LOXL1) and darifenacin (targeting SH3KBP1) as candidate drugs that can bind to identified membrane proteins. Nilotinib and darifenacin produced average IC50 values of 8.45 µM and 46.77 µM, respectively, in cell viability assays against GIN cell lines.These findings suggest that targeting membrane proteins offers promise for developing effective GBM therapies predicated on the most prognostically relevant intra-tumor region.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press, the Society for Neuro-Oncology and the European Association of Neuro-Oncology.
Identify genetic variants associated with amblyopia in African American (AFR) and Admixed American (AMR) ancestry groups, expanding upon a previous studies conducted in European ancestry.Retrospective ancestry-stratified genome-wide association study (GWAS) and gene-level rare variant association study (RVAS).Participants in the All of Us Research Program from AFR and AMR ancestry groups with whole genome sequencing available. Cases and controls were distinguished based on presence of ICD-9/10/SNOMED diagnosis codes for amblyopia in electronic health records. This yielded ancestry-stratified subsets of 269 cases and 71,585 controls of AMR ancestry and 366 cases and 79,460 controls of AFR ancestry.Stratified logistic regression models adjusted for age, sex, and the top 10 principal components of genomic ancestry. GWAS was limited to common variants (mean allele frequency or MAF > 1%) and RVAS was limited to rare variants with coding sequence-altering effects (MAF < 1%, exonic only, excluded synonymous variants) aggregated at the gene level using the SKAT algorithm. Downstream analyses of the significant variants were performed using KEGG and GO pathway analysis and STRING database queries for protein-protein interactions and gene-gene interactions.Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were determined to have genome-wide significance if p < 5e-8 in the GWAS and genes were determined to have significant association with amblyopia in the RVAS if p < 8.0 x 10-4.In the AMR GWAS, 245 unique SNPs mapping to 97 distinct loci were identified, notably within neurodevelopmental and axonal guidance genes, including ROBO1, SEMA4B, PTPRD, NRXN1, and CAMK2D. The AFR GWAS identified 11 significant variants corresponding to 6 loci mapping primarily to long-noncoding RNAs and pseudogenes. The AMR RVAS identified 15 genes, including axonal transport genes (KIF1B, KIF7) and growth factor signaling genes (EGF, ERBIN, and AKAP17A). The AFR RVAS identified a single gene, DLG2, which encodes the postsynaptic protein PSD-93, which promotes the closure of the sensitive period of neuroplasticity for vision in early childhood.Genetic risk architectures for amblyopia differ across ancestries but fundamentally converge on neurodevelopmental signaling, cortical synapse assembly, and sensitive period plasticity rather than ocular structural dynamics.Copyright © 2026 American Academy of Ophthalmology, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42498738
Although human papillomavirus-positive (HPV(+)) head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), particularly oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OPSCC), is generally associated with favorable outcomes, a subset of HPV(+) OPSCC remains resistant to chemoradiotherapy. We previously stratified clinical OPSCC cases using DNA methylome profiling and identified a significant correlation between elevated DNA methylation levels and favorable treatment response. To elucidate the molecular basis of this correlation, we performed integrated methylome analyses of 64 HPV(+) HNSCC cases in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and 29 HPV(+) OPSCC cases in our Chiba cohort. We identified 595 genes showing significantly higher DNA methylation in good responders in each cohort. Additionally, using HNSCC cell lines, we extracted genes that exhibited both high DNA methylation and decreased expression in cisplatin (CDDP) sensitive cells. Twelve genes were consistently hypermethylated across both clinical cohorts, among which two genes, ROBO1 and SULT4A1, showed statistical significance and effect size. Functional validation demonstrated that ROBO1 knockdown in unmethylated HNSCC cells significantly suppressed cellular growth (p < 0.05), and additional exposure to CDDP further synergistically reduced cellular growth (p < 0.05). Conversely, ROBO1 overexpression conferred resistance to CDDP. CDDP resistance in unmethylated HNSCC cells led to upregulation of ROBO1 expression, suggesting an inverse relationship between ROBO1 silencing and drug resistance. Mechanistically, ROBO1 suppression increased DNA damage and apoptosis following CDDP treatment. These indicate that DNA hypermethylation of ROBO1 causally correlates with better treatment response of HPV(+) HNSCC, and its chemosensitivity might be enhanced by silencing of methylation target genes.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Machine learning (ML) has the potential to revolutionize antibody design and selection, but its success depends on access to well-curated datasets of antibody-antigen interactions. We developed a synthetic Fab yeast display library optimized for seamless integration with ML processes, focusing on sequence diversity within the complementary determining region heavy chain CDRH3 loop. The library incorporates key sequence features derived from human B cell repertoires captured in a compact antigen recognition module (ARM) format. Built with the VH1-69 heavy chain and four light chains, the library was evaluated against ten human and murine cell surface antigens, including programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1), T cell immunoreceptor with immunoglobulin and immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibitory motif domains (TIGIT), and roundabout guidance receptor 1 (ROBO1). This approach yielded hundreds of antibodies with robust biophysical properties, some of which were validated by flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry. Furthermore, ML analysis identified additional antibodies for ROBO2 and PD-L2 from the aggregate sequencing data. The publicly available dataset establishes an ML-compatible framework designed to accelerate and streamline antibody discovery and development. A record of this paper's transparent peer review process is included in the supplemental information.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
ACOX1-sEDD is an ultrarare neurocutaneous disorder caused by gain-of-function variants in ACOX1, leading to excessive oxidative activity and multisystem injury. We report a male infant who, from the second week of life, developed a generalized erythematous desquamative greasy eruption with sparse dysplastic ocher-colored scalp hair, followed by recurrent bilateral corneal epithelial defects, progressive hypotonia, failure to thrive, and seizures with diffuse symmetric leukoencephalopathy on brain MRI. Metabolic testing showed elevated dicarboxylic acids and medium-/long-chain acylcarnitines despite normal very-long-chain fatty acids and classical peroxisomal biomarkers, and trio exome sequencing identified de novo ACOX1 c.710A>G (p.Asn237Ser) and ROBO1 c.572delG (p.Cys191fs) variants. Cutaneous disease resolved with topical 10% N-acetylcysteine and emollients, in conjunction with oral N-acetylcysteine and adjunctive antioxidant vitamin therapy, while ocular involvement improved with vitamin A ointment and autologous serum eyedrops, supporting early recognition of ACOX1-sEDD in infants with inflammatory ichthyosiform dermatitis and ocular-neurologic involvement and suggesting that additional neurodevelopmental variants may modify disease expression.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Rising drug resistance necessitates genomic selection to enhance parasite resistance in sheep. Copy number variations (CNVs) constitute structural genomic alterations that influence livestock traits by modifying gene dosage. This study aimed to identify candidate CNVs that differentiate between Haemonchus contortus-resistant and susceptible Rideau Arcott ewe lambs through comprehensive whole genome sequencing (WGS) analysis.Fecal egg count (FEC) analysis of 32 inoculated animals across five time points (days 21, 28, 35, 42, and 56 post-infection) identified 16 individuals with consistent extreme parasite response phenotypes. The resistant group (n = 9) showed a 10.5-fold lower FEC at day 21 post-infection and maintained 3- to 14-fold lower FEC (p < 0.05) across multiple time points than the susceptible group (n = 7). Consensus calling across CNVpytor, DELLY, and Manta algorithms yielded 22,184 high-confidence CNVs from WGS data at 6.75X genome coverage. These CNVs were consolidated into 3,751 CNV regions (CNVRs) encompassing 65.0 Mb (2.63%) of the sheep autosomal genome. Group-wise comparison identified 329 resistant-only and 133 susceptible-only differential CNVRs. The resistant group harboured 3.5-fold more gain category CNVRs and 13-fold more associated duplicated genes than susceptible animals. A 2.3 Mb duplication containing CLCA1 appeared exclusively in resistant sheep, which is associated with mucus production. Functional enrichment analysis also confirmed that calcium-gated chloride channel activity was exclusively in the resistant group, which is associated with regulating mucus production. Additional resistance-associated gain CNVRs encompassed LTC4S, ROBO1, RASGRP1, PRKCQ, and MBL2. Conversely, susceptible animals exhibited metabolic dysfunction potentially due to PIK3CA and AGXT duplications, with an enrichment of pathways associated with diabetic cardiomyopathy and prion disease. The study suggests associations between resistance-linked CNVRs and genes involved in mucosal barriers, immune cell trafficking, and T-cell responses. In contrast, susceptible group-linked CNVRs are associated with metabolic disruption, suggesting that metabolic disturbance is a key factor in susceptibility.The first WGS-based CNV analysis successfully identified novel structural variants distinguishing resistant from susceptible Rideau Arcott ewe lambs. The discovery of resistance- and susceptibility-specific gene duplications and metabolic pathways offers new targets for genetic selection. However, the candidate CNVRs warrant validation in larger populations for implementation in breeding programs aimed at improving parasite resistance.© 2026. The Author(s).
Feed behavior traits are directly linked to the sustainability of pig production. This study aimed to investigate the genetic basis of feeding behavior traits in Landrace and Yorkshire pigs, focusing on genomic regions, quantitative trait loci (QTL), candidate genes, and metabolic pathways associated with these traits.Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) were performed, followed by functional enrichment analyses and integrative bioinformatics approaches to identify biologically relevant genomic regions, candidate genes, and pathways associated with feeding behavior traits.Several candidate genes and transcription factors were identified, including STAT3, STAT5A, STAT5B, RARA, SMAD4, MYC, FOXP3, SP1, NOTCH1, and RXRA. In addition, strong candidate genes such as SLC22A2, CPAMD8, and NKX2-6 were highlighted as potentially influencing feeding behavior traits.These findings improve the understanding of the genomic architecture underlying feeding behavior traits and provide valuable insights for the development of more efficient breeding programs, contributing to improved animal production efficiency and welfare.Copyright © 2026 Gervásio, Brito, Araujo, Fanalli, Silva-Vignato, Rocha, Benfica, Fernanda de Oliveira, Felício Ament, Monteiro Moreira, Moncau-Gadbem and Mello Cesar.
Activation of oncogenes by hijacking immunoglobulin gene loci (IG) enhancers via chromosomal translocation is a common pathogenetic mechanism in B-cell malignancies, affecting 5-10% of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The oncogenic partners in many of these cases remain unidentified. Therefore, we conducted a comprehensive analysis of 144 CLL samples with IGH-translocation excluding IGH::BCL2, IGH::CCND1, IGH::BCL3 and IGH::MYC. By combining fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with whole-genome, targeted sequencing, and RNA expression profiling, we identified 25 IG-translocation partners; 12 were previously unreported. Of 142 cases, 107 (75%) displayed an unmutated IGHV. Genetic profiling showed a heterogenous distribution of chromosomal aberrations and recurrently mutated genes across the groups. Of 41 informative cases, 32 (78%) exhibited breakpoints driven by aberrant class-switch recombination (CSR), with prominent involvement of IGHM (9/41) and IGHG3 (9/41). Three cases with unmutated IGHV carried a juxtaposition of the IGH locus 5' to the intact NKX2.6 gene in chromosome 8p21.2 due to illegitimate VDJ recombination, associated with significant ectopic upregulation of NKX2.6 transcriptional expression (FDR < 0.001, logFC: 15). Similarly, METRNL, located at the telomere of chromosome 17q25, was identified as a translocation partner gene in four cases. Our findings expand the spectrum of the oncogenic translocation partners targeting IGH in CLL.© 2026. The Author(s).
Reproductive traits are critical for improving productivity and profitability in the pig industry, and genome-wide association studies (GWASs) are a powerful tool in detecting genetic markers related to target traits. Genome imputation provides an effective approach to obtain a greater number of genetic markers from low-density sequencing data. China's pig industry recently introduced an imputation panel and is now seeking to determine what types of data are required to meet breeding needs. In this study, we collected and analyzed two pig sequencing datasets, including Yorkshire pig (YY), Landrace pig (LL), and Duroc pig (DD), genotyped by either an SNP chip (n = 816) or genotyping-by-targeted sequencing (n = 314), and applied an imputation strategy before validation in a third dataset (n = 2401). The aim of this study was to identify SNPs associated with reproductive traits and compare imputation results of two different types of data to evaluate whether sample size or marker density more strongly impacts imputation-enabled GWAS performance. Through a GWAS, we identified 73 significant SNPs from imputed Chip data across seven reproductive traits, 94 SNPs from imputed GBTS data across three traits, and 34 SNPs from the combined dataset across seven traits. Seven of these SNPs passed validation and were associated with number born alive, number born healthy, and gestation length. Gestation length (GL) and number born alive (NBA) are the most noteworthy traits. LOXL2 and PTPRD are high-confidence candidate genes affecting GL and NBA, respectively. In addition to LOXL2, STC1, NKX2-6, HMGCLL1, MLIP, TINAG, FAM83B, GFRAL, HCRTR2, ENTPD4, MYH8, IER5L, and U5 are associated with GL. Moreover, in addition to PTPRD, KLHL32, U6, MMS22L, and FHL5 are associated with NBA. The results of this study indicate that sample size is of greater importance than marker density in imputation strategies and provide beneficial insights into genes affecting pigs' reproductive traits.
Background: Functional single ventricle (FSV) comprises a heterogeneous group of congenital heart diseases (CHDs) with severe and complex abnormalities. The multifactorial etiology of the disease poses challenges in identifying specific pathogenic factors and planning effective interventions and preventive treatments for patients. Methods: Whole-exome sequencing (WES) was performed to identify variants in relevant genes in 29 FSV patients from different families. Results: In total, 95 heterozygous variants across 48 CHD-associated genes were identified, including 85 missense, four small indel, one splicing, one stop gain, and four synonymous variants. Among them, 22 were novels, 11 conflicting, and four pathogenic variants. Each patient carried from two to six variants in different genes, including at least one variant in genes associated with serious heart defects such as AXIN1, BMP2, COL6A2, GATA4, GATA5, GDF1, MESP1, MYH6, NFATC1, NKX2-6, NOTCH1, PCSK9, TBX1, TBX18, and TBX20. In addition, the variants in the COL6A1, CREBBP, DOCK6, EOGT, EP300, LRP2, MYBPC3, MYH7, SEMA3C, and ZFPM2 genes are associated with characteristic phenotypes of FSV, such as atrial septal defect, ventricular septal defect, small left heart syndrome, transposition of the great arteries, and double outlet right ventricle occurring at high frequency in patients. The prediction results suggest that these are potentially pathogenic variants in patients and may explain the phenotype in patients. Conclusions: This is the first study to identify variants associated with functional single ventricle, a complex form of congenital heart disease. Our results contribute to a general understanding of the causes of the disease, thereby guiding treatment and prevention approaches for patients.
Skipped: PubMed ID 38884753 is a review article
Ventricular septal defects (VSDs) are recognized as one of the commonest congenital heart diseases (CHD), accounting for up to 40% of all cardiac malformations, and occur as isolated CHDs as well as together with other cardiac and extracardiac congenital malformations in individual patients and families. The genetic etiology of VSD is complex and extraordinarily heterogeneous. Chromosomal abnormalities such as aneuploidy and structural variations as well as rare point mutations in various genes have been reported to be associated with this cardiac defect. This includes both well-defined syndromes with known genetic cause (e.g., DiGeorge syndrome and Holt-Oram syndrome) and so far undefined syndromic forms characterized by unspecific symptoms. Mutations in genes encoding cardiac transcription factors (e.g., NKX2-5 and GATA4) and signaling molecules (e.g., CFC1) have been most frequently found in VSD cases. Moreover, new high-resolution methods such as comparative genomic hybridization enabled the discovery of a high number of different copy number variations, leading to gain or loss of chromosomal regions often containing multiple genes, in patients with VSD. In this chapter, we will describe the broad genetic heterogeneity observed in VSD patients considering recent advances in this field.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Warfarin has a narrow therapeutic window and high intra- and inter-individual variability. Considering that many published papers on genotype-guided dosing are derived from European populations, the aim of this study was to investigate novel genetic variants associated with the variability of stable warfarin dose in the Korean population with cardiac valve replacement, using the GWAS approach. This retrospective cohort study was performed from January 1982 to December 2020 at the Severance Cardiovascular Hospital of Yonsei University College of Medicine. GWAS was performed with a lenient threshold of 5 × 10−7 to identify associations between genotypes and the warfarin maintenance dose, by comparing the allele frequency of genetic variants between individuals. Then, the extent of genetic and non-genetic factors on the dose variability was determined by multivariable regression analysis. The study enrolled 214 participants, and the most robust signal cluster was detected on chromosome 16 around VKORC1. Followed by VKORC1, three novel variants (NKX2-6 rs310279, FRAS1 rs4386623, and FAM201A rs1890109) showed an association with stable warfarin dose requirement in univariate analysis. The algorithm was constructed by using multivariable analysis that includes genetic and non-genetic factors, and it could explain 58.5% of the variations in stable warfarin doses. In this variability, VKORC1 rs9934438 and FRAS1 rs4386623 accounted for 33.0% and 9.9%, respectively. This GWAS analysis identified the fact that three novel variants (NKX2-6 rs310279, FRAS1 rs4386623, and FAM201A rs1890109) were associated with stable warfarin doses. Additional research is necessary to validate the results and establish personalized treatment strategies for the Korean population.
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) survivors frequently experience a wide range of symptoms known as post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 (PASC) or long COVID. Importantly, complications arising from microvascular dysfunction, blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption, and chronic neuroinflammation have been implicated in driving PASC within the central nervous system (CNS), known as neuro-PASC. Notably, people with HIV (PWH), who suffer from chronic neuroinflammation, BBB impairment, and glial cell dysfunction, collectively known as neuro-HIV, are generally at higher risk of neuro-PASC. The overlap between neuro-PASC and neuro-HIV raises concerns that HIV and SARS-CoV-2 co-infection may exacerbate neurological dysfunctions among PWH. In this study, using an in-vitro cell culture model, we examine the effects of HIV and SARS-CoV-2 mono- and co-infection in microglia, astrocytes, and pericytes. Our results demonstrated that majority of brain cell types support SARS-CoV-2 replication, in the presence and absence of HIV infection. Furthermore, in both mono- and co-infected cells, there were varying degree of up- and downregulation of SARS-CoV-2 host cell entry factors, such as ACE2, TMPRSS2, NRP1, and TRIM28, and inflammatory cytokines including IL-6, TNF-α, and IL-1β. Moreover, conditioned media collected from HIV, SARS-CoV-2, and HIV/SARS-CoV-2 co-infected astrocytes and pericytes were shown to be neurotoxic. Additionally, proteomic analysis has revealed a unique set of proteins significantly up/down regulated in HIV/SARS-CoV-2 co-infected astrocytes and pericytes. The gene set enrichment analysis of these proteins indicates dysregulation of lipid, energy, and immune metabolism pathways linked to neurodegenerative disorders like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. These in-vitro findings indicate that astrocytes and pericytes from HIV/SARS-CoV-2 co-infection exhibit altered protein expression profiles, implicating dysregulated signaling pathways associated with neurodegenerative dysfunction.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Medical Virology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Membrane-bound neuropilin-1 (Nrp-1) has been implicated as a regulator of insulin resistance-related lipid metabolism, but little is known about its circulating form, soluble Nrp-1 (sNrp-1), in a metabolic context. Here we investigated the association between plasma levels of sNrp-1 and metabolic variables in 501 participants from the Prospective investigation of Obesity, Energy and Metabolism (POEM) study. Metabolic phenotyping included blood sampling, dual energy X-ray absorptiometry scan, magnetic resonance imaging for fat distribution, and a glucose tolerance test. Associations were examined using linear regression models and Spearman's rank correlation. Plasma sNrp-1 levels were inversely associated with levels of total fatty acids, triglycerides and lactate, and positively associated with markers of insulin sensitivity. In human Simpson-Golabi-Behmel Syndrome (SGBS) adipocytes, we showed that treatment with recombinant Nrp-1 reduced phosphorylation of hormone-sensitive lipase in the basal state and attenuated isoproterenol-stimulated glycerol release, a measure of total lipolytic activity. Based on these findings, we thus postulate that sNrp-1-mediated suppression of lipolysis could explain our observed association between plasma sNrp-1 and a favorable lipid profile in humans. Further studies are warranted to establish causality and to clarify the role of sNrp-1 in promoting insulin sensitivity in human adipose tissue.© 2026. The Author(s).
Ischemic heart disease remains a leading cause of mortality worldwide. Although mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) transplantation offers a promising strategy for myocardial infarction, its therapeutic efficacy is limited by poor cell survival and insufficient regenerative capacity. Traditional Chinese medicine has been widely used to promote blood circulation and treat ischemic diseases. Chuanxiong-Chishao (Ligusticum chuanxiong and Paeoniae Radix Rubra) is a commonly used herb pair for this purpose. This study aimed to investigate whether Chuanxiong-Chishao combined with MSCs could synergistically enhance angiogenesis after myocardial infarction. A rat model of myocardial infarction (MI) was established by permanent ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery, and the animals were randomly assigned to the sham, model, MSCs, and Chuanxiong-Chishao combined with MSCs (CC-MSCs) groups. MSCs were injected intramyocardially immediately after ligation, and herbal treatment was administered for 28 days. Cardiac function was evaluated by echocardiography, myocardial fibrosis by Masson staining, and angiogenesis by CD31 immunofluorescence. Proteomic profiling was performed using label-free quantitative analysis, and key proteins were validated by Western blot. Compared with MSCs alone, CC-MSCs significantly improved left ventricular ejection fraction, fractional shortening, and cardiac output, reduced infarct size, and enhanced neovascularization in MI rats. Proteomic analysis identified 154 differentially expressed proteins between the model and CC-MSCs groups, and Gene Ontology enrichment analysis indicated significant activation of angiogenesis-related processes. Among these proteins, CDC42, NRP1, and AMOT were markedly altered, which was further confirmed by Western blot analysis. These findings suggest that Chuanxiong-Chishao enhances MSC-mediated angiogenesis and cardiac repair after MI, potentially through modulation of angiogenesis-related protein networks.Copyright© 2025 Polish Physiological Society.
The roles of inflammatory and fibrogenic biomarkers in chronic hepatitis B (CHB) infection and hepatitis B virüs (HBV)-related cirrhosis remain incompletely understood. The current study investigated the diagnostic and discriminative ability of amphiregulin (AREG), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and neuropilin-1 (Nrp-1) as biomarkers of HBV-related cirrhosis.This cross-sectional analytical study included 70 patients with CHB (43 without cirrhosis and 27 with HBVrelated cirrhosis) and 60 healthy controls. Clinical and laboratory data were obtained from hospital records. Serum IL-6, Nrp-1, and AREG levels collected during outpatient visits were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Group differences were analyzed using the Kruskal-Wallis test, discriminative performance was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, and factors independently associated with cirrhosis were identified using logistic regression.IL-6 and Nrp-1 levels were higher in patients with noncirrhotic and HBV-related cirrhotic CHB than in healthy controls (P < .001), with no significant difference between the patient subgroups. AREG levels were lower in the overall CHB cohort than in controls (P < .001) but higher in patients with cirrhosis than in those without cirrhosis (P = .001). ROC analysis showed that AREG had moderate discriminative ability for HBV-related cirrhosis (area under the curve (AUC) = 0.749). The optimal Youden-derived cutoff value was 2.29 ng/mL, with a sensitivity of 74% and a specificity of 65%. In logistic regression, AREG was independently associated with HBV-related cirrhosis (P = .012). Addition of ln-transformed AREG to age- and sex-adjusted aspartate aminotransferase-to-platelet ratio index (APRI)- and Fibrosis-4 index (FIB-4)-based models increased the AUC from 0.923 to 0.970 and from 0.938 to 0.980, respectively.AREG may serve as a complementary biomarker with moderate discriminative value for HBV-related cirrhosis but is unlikely to be useful as a standalone diagnostic or prognostic marker. Although IL-6 and Nrp-1 reflected underlying inflammatory activity, their ability to distinguish cirrhosis was limited.https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.
Photodynamic therapy (PDT) holds promise for combination antitumor therapies by triggering immunogenic cell death (ICD). ICD is defined as the process by which tumor cells, upon death induced by external stimuli, convert from a non‑immunogenic to an immunogenic state, thereby mediating an anti‑tumor immune response in the host. But the poor aqueous solubility and inadequate tumor targeting of photosensitizers hinder their clinical translation. This study focuses on a novel BODIPY photosensitizer (M5) and aims to improve its antitumor efficacy via efficient tumor-targeted delivery and controllable release. Herein, we successfully synthesized iRGD-functionalized DSPE-PEG2000-iRGD and pH-sensitive HA-g-DEAP polymers, and further fabricated multifunctional M5/NMN/DEAP/iRGD-Lip liposomes via the thin-film dispersion method, which possess pH responsiveness and enhanced tumor-targeting ability. β-Nicotinamide Mononucleotide (NMN), a NAD + precursor, exerts a potent stimulatory effect on T-cell activation; 3-(Diethylamino)propylamine (DEAP) and hyaluronic acid (HA) can form pH-responsive HA-g-DEAP; the iRGD peptide (CRGDK/RGPDC), upon hydrolysis at its C‑terminus, exposes a motif that binds to neuropilin‑1 (NRP1), thereby conferring tumor‑targeting and tissue‑penetrating properties, endowing the liposomes with tumor-targeting and tissue-penetrating capabilities. M5 exhibits a high molar absorption coefficient of 5.33 × 104 M⁻¹ cm⁻¹ and a singlet oxygen quantum yield of 0.3854. In vitro cellular assays showed IC50 values of 104.1 nM and 72.68 nM in breast cancer MDA-MB-231 and 4T1 cells, respectively. Treatment with M5/NMN/DEAP/iRGD-Lip induced apoptosis rates of 56.84% and 55.6% in MDA-MB-231 and 4T1 cells, respectively. T-cell co-culture assays showed that M5/NMN/DEAP/iRGD-Lip increased the proportions of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells while reducing the proportion of regulatory T cells (Tregs) among CD4+ T cells. Collectively, the multifunctional M5/NMN/DEAP/iRGD-Lip liposomes integrate targeted delivery, pH-controlled release, and synergistic PDT-immunotherapy, effectively addressing key limitations of conventional photosensitizers. This work provides a promising nanoplatform for the development of novel combination therapies against breast cancer, laying a foundation for future preclinical and clinical translations.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its receptor VEGFR are master regulators of vasculogenesis and angiogenesis. VEGF activates VEGFR by inducing its dimerization and trans-autophosphorylation. The coreceptor neuropilin (Nrp1 and Nrp2) and heparan sulfate proteoglycan (HSPG) modulate VEGF-VEGFR signaling, but the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Here we report a cryo-EM structure of the dimeric mouse VEGF164-VEGFR2-Nrp1 ectodomain complex with a 2:2:2 stoichiometry, revealing direct Nrp1-VEGFR2 interactions that stabilize the VEGFR2 dimer. We also determined two cryo-EM structures of the VEGF164-VEGFR2-Nrp1 complex in the presence of short- or long-chain heparin, which bridges all three proteins and promotes the formation of two distinct tetrameric complexes. Long-chain heparin induces a cis tetrameric complex consistent with receptor clustering on the same cell surface, whereas short-chain heparin promotes a trans tetrameric assembly which might be formed by two dimeric complexes from opposing cells. Our structure-based mutational analyses support the model that both the Nrp1-VEGFR2 interface and the heparin-mediated clustering enhance VEGFR2 signaling.
This study aimed to investigate associations of plasma and synovial fluid vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) and neuropilin-1 (NRP1) levels with radiographic severity, pain sensitization-related features, and disease burden in knee osteoarthritis (KOA). Plasma VEGF-A and NRP1 were measured by sandwich ELISA in 120 patients with KOA (Kellgren-Lawrence [KL] grade 2, n = 40; grade 3, n = 52; grade 4, n = 28) and 53 healthy controls, while synovial fluid VEGF-A and NRP1 were assessed in the KOA group. Pain sensitization-related features and disease burden were evaluated using the Central Sensitization Inventory (CSI), pressure pain threshold (PPT), Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), and visual analog scale (VAS). Plasma VEGF-A and NRP1 levels were elevated in KOA patients versus healthy controls and increased with KL grade, while synovial fluid VEGF-A and NRP1 rose with radiographic severity. Synovial fluid VEGF-A showed stronger discriminatory performance for radiographic severity than synovial fluid NRP1. After the Benjamini-Hochberg FDR correction, plasma and synovial fluid VEGF-A/NRP1 remained associated with VAS, WOMAC, CSI-defined symptom burden, and local PPT in the overall KOA cohort. Multivariable regression adjusted for KL grade, age, sex, BMI, and symptom duration showed that synovial fluid VEGF-A had the strongest independent associations with clinical outcomes. Bootstrap-validated combined ROC models, particularly those incorporating VEGF-A, showed good discriminatory performance for KOA status and severity stratification. These findings suggest that the VEGF-A-NRP1 axis, particularly synovial fluid VEGF-A, may serve as a biomarker framework for KOA severity assessment and symptom-related phenotyping.© 2026 The Author(s). The Kaohsiung Journal of Medical Sciences published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Kaohsiung Medical University.
Oral health plays a crucial role in maintaining cognitive functions, reflecting a complex interplay between the oral cavity and brain health. Emerging evidence indicates that various oral disease-associated protein molecules are implicated in the pathogenesis of diverse neuronal disorders, including neurodegenerative diseases. This review comprehensively summarizes oral disease-related protein molecules involved in several neuronal disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, neurodegeneration, neuroinflammation, dementia, cognitive decline, and brain fog in two different contexts. Firstly, it describes protein molecules under the classical oral disease condition [Aβ42, total-Tau, phosphorylated-Tau, α-synuclein, DJ-1, lactoferrin, MMP-2/8/9, IL-6, IL-1β, TNF-α, CRP, S100A8, S100A9, S100B, RAGE, LCN2, cathepsin B/L, HSP70/90, NfL, CXCL2/8, C3/4, defensins (α and β), and lysozyme]. Secondly, it explains in COVID-19 context [ACE2, TMPRSS2, furin-1, NRP1, spike, T1R, and T2R]. The review explores oral proteins implicated in neuronal disorders, highlighting their roles in activating inflammatory pathways, contributing to memory impairment, and mediating taste dysfunction in the context of COVID-19. Furthermore, the review delineates the mechanisms underlying the oral-brain axis, highlighting the roles of systemic inflammation, microbial interactions, and blood-brain barrier dysfunction in mediating these effects. It also highlights the innovative diagnostic potential of oral disease-associated proteins as non-invasive biomarkers for early detection and monitoring of neuronal disorders in both classical and COVID-19 contexts. In addition, the emerging therapeutic significance of these proteins is discussed, emphasizing their potential as molecular targets for the prevention and treatment of neurological diseases. Understanding oral disease-associated protein molecules provides novel insights into early diagnosis and progression of neuronal disorders.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Vasculogenic mimicry (VM), a process of vascular-like channel formation for nutrient acquisition, drives melanoma metastasis and poor prognosis. We demonstrate that Chlorotoxin (CTX) effectively targets VM in melanoma. In A375 and A2058 cells, CTX dose-dependently inhibits proliferation with IC50 values of 1.0 and 0.8 μM, respectively. Furthermore, sub-lethal CTX (0.4 μM) impairs cell migration and VM tube formation while downregulating VM regulators VEGFR2 and NRP1. Mechanistically, CTX suppresses the long non-coding RNA LINC01235, a competing endogenous RNA that sponges miR-128-3p. CTX-induced downregulation of LINC01235 frees miR-128-3p to target and suppress the transcription factor YY1. This reduction in YY1 diminishes its binding to the VEGFR2 promoter, ultimately decreasing VEGFR2 and NRP1 transcription. Rescue assays confirm that LINC01235 overexpression restores VM capacity. By defining the LINC01235/miR-128-3p/YY1/VEGFR2/NRP1 signaling axis disrupted by CTX, these findings establish the mechanistic basis for CTX as a promising therapeutic agent against aggressive, VM-competent melanoma.© 2026 The Authors.
NK2 homeobox 1 (NKX2-1), a master regulator robustly expressed in lung, thyroid, and forebrain, is indispensable for specifying lung epithelial fate and serves as a definitive marker of lung progenitors. Here, we generated a human induced Pluripotent Stem Cell (iPSC) line harboring a doxycycline (dox)-inducible Cas9 and an NKX2-1-EGFP-puro reporter via CRISPR/Cas9-mediated homology-directed repair. This dual-function line combines inducible genome editing with real-time tracing of early lung progenitors, enabling their prospective isolation and screening for stage-specific maturation regulators. Therefore, this engineered iCas9-NKX2-1 EGFP line is a key resource for dissecting human lung development, modeling pulmonary disease, and advancing regenerative therapies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
NKX2-1 (thyroid transcription factor 1, TTF-1) is a homeodomain transcription factor that plays critical roles in the development and function of the thyroid, lung and forebrain. Here, we report the crystal structure of the NKX2-1 homeodomain bound to a 19 bp DNA duplex containing two palindromically arranged NK2-recognition motifs, refined to 3.26 Å resolution. The structure reveals two homeodomains bound to a single DNA duplex and demonstrates that the overall fold and DNA-binding interactions are highly conserved relative to those of NKX2-5. Comparison with NKX2-5 further shows that the amino-acid residues that differ between the two homeodomains are located away from the protein-DNA interface, suggesting that functional differences between these transcription factors are unlikely to arise from distinct DNA-recognition mechanisms. These findings provide a structural framework for understanding DNA recognition by NKX2-1 and for interpreting the effects of pathogenic variants within its homeodomain.
Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is a rare but aggressive malignancy with poor survival and limited treatment options. To comprehensively characterize its molecular landscape and identify clinically relevant subtypes, we performed an integrated genomic analysis-including whole-exome sequencing, RNA sequencing, and copy number variation profiling-on 61 Chinese patients with ACC. We identified recurrent mutations in TP53 (25%), CTNNB1 (15%), ZNRF3 (10%), and MEN1 (8%). Unsupervised clustering of transcriptomic data revealed four distinct molecular subtypes: cortisol-driven (CD, 14%), immune-suppressed (IS, 40%), cell cycle-altered (CCA, 22%), and immunomodulatory (IM, 24%). The CD subtype exhibited steroidogenic pathway activation; the IS subtype showed T-cell receptor downregulation and the worst disease-free survival; the CCA subtype was marked by chromosomal instability and cell cycle gene overexpression; and the IM subtype displayed enriched immune signaling and favorable outcomes. Copy number analysis further uncovered focal amplifications (e.g., TERT, CDK4) and HLA-II deletions. This study establishes a novel molecular classification of ACC, providing a framework for subtype-specific therapeutic strategies, such as CDK4/6 inhibition for CCA and immunotherapy for IM tumors, while highlighting the clinical challenges of immune-cold IS tumors.© the author(s).
BRAF fusions are rare but clinically relevant oncogenic events in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), yet their molecular characteristics and optimal management remain unclear.We retrospectively analyzed 97 patients with NSCLC harboring kinase domain-retaining BRAF fusions, stratified into de novo (N = 43) and acquired (N = 54) groups. Clinical and genomic features were compared across subgroups and comparator driver cohorts.We identified 104 BRAF fusions involving 53 unique partner genes, 29 of which were novel. Common partners included AGK (12.5%), IGR (11.5%), ZC3HAV1 (7.7%), TRIM24 (5.8%), and MKRN1 (5.8%). IGR and DTNB were more commonly observed in de novo cases, whereas AGK-BRAF fusions predominated in acquired cases. Among de novo cases, 65.1% lacked co-occurring drivers. ZNF703 mutations and NRF2 pathway alterations were recurrently enriched in BRAF fusion-only tumors, while CTNNB1 and NKX2-1 mutations were enriched versus ALK-rearranged cases. BRAF fusions co-occurring with other drivers showed enrichment of KMT2C and RTK-RAS pathway mutations, with TP53 mutations enriched compared to RET-rearranged tumors. One patient with TRIM24-BRAF and EGFR exon 19 deletion derived clinical benefit from dual MEK and EGFR inhibition. Acquired BRAF fusions were frequently detected after EGFR-TKI therapy, representing the predominant alteration in 63.0% of cases. Median progression-free survival on prior EGFR-TKIs aligned with clinical trial benchmarks.BRAF fusions in NSCLC are molecularly heterogeneous, with distinct genomic landscapes between de novo and acquired cases. These findings support repeated comprehensive genomic profiling at progression and suggest that pathway-directed combinations, such as MEK plus EGFR inhibition, may offer individualized treatment options for selected patients.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
To establish a doxorubicin (DOX)-resistant acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell line and explore the mechanisms of its drug resistance.A DOX-resistant THP1 cell line (THP1-Rdox) was established using a low-dose, concentration-gradient intermittent induction method. The resistance effect was evaluated by calculating the resistance index (RI). The expression levels of resistance-related proteins ［P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and lung resistance-related protein (LRP)］ and cell cycle-related proteins (Cyclin A2, Cyclin B1 and Cyclin D1) were examined by Western blot. Intracellular DOX accumulation was observed using confocal laser scanning microscopy. Apoptosis rate and cell cycle distribution were analyzed by flow cytometry. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed to compare the differential gene expression profiles between DOX-sensitive parental THP1 cells and DOX-resistant THP1-Rdox cells.The DOX-resistant cell line THP1-Rdox was successfully established. The THP1-Rdox cells could stably proliferate at a DOX concentration of 500 ng/ml with a resistance index as high as 198.7. The THP1-Rdox cells exhibited cross-resistance to homoharringtonine (HHT) and paclitaxel (PTX) but no significant resistance to cytarabine (Ara-C). Compared with parental THP1 cells, the expression levels of drug resistance-related proteins P-gp and LRP in THP1-Rdox cells were significantly upregulated. Additionally, THP1-Rdox cells showed decreased uptake and increased efflux of DOX. Notably, after treatment with verapamil (Ver), a specific inhibitor of P-gp, intracellular DOX accumulation was significantly increased in THP1-Rdox cells. Compared with parental THP1 cells, the THP1-Rdox cells exhibited a significantly decreased apoptosis rate, a reduced proportion of cells in the S phase, an increased proportion of cells in the G1 phase, and a marked upregulation in the expression level of the cell cycle regulatory protein Cyclin D1. RNA-seq analysis showed that among the differentially expressed genes between THP1-Rdox and parental THP1 cells, the top 10 most significantly upregulated genes in THP1-Rdox cells were ABCB1, HNRNPA1P9, SEMA3E, MICB, JAML, FGL2, VSIG1, CLEC1B, DLGAP1-AS3, and HOOK1; the top 10 most significantly downregulated genes were MAGEB2, NPTX2, CGREF1, CDO1, GBP5, ZNF595, ZNF630, DTX3, KLHL4 and ZBED6CL.Low-dose, concentration-gradient intermittent induction method can successfully establish a DOX-resistant AML cell line, THP1-Rdox. The drug resistance of this cell line is likely attributed to enhanced drug efflux mediated by the elevated expression of P-gp and LRP, as well as cell cycle dysregulation resulting from the upregulation of Cyclin D1 protein.
Macrophage-associated responses at sites of nerve injury are involved in the initiation and persistence of neuropathic pain (NP). Immune semaphorins (SEMAs), including SEMA3A, SEMA3E, SEMA4A, SEMA4D, and SEMA7A, regulate macrophage migration and activation, but their roles in NP remain unclear. This study aimed to identify immune SEMAs associated with NP by analyzing their serum levels and expression in sensory nerve tissues of patients with NP, and to evaluate the potential effects of SEMA-targeted intervention in a mouse model.Serum SEMA levels were measured in 45 patients with NP and 17 age- and sex-matched healthy controls (HCs) using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Using immunohistochemistry, SEMA expression was examined in the peripheral nerves (PNs) and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) from seven autopsied/biopsied patients (four with and three without NP), and in male ICR mice with partial sciatic nerve ligation (PSNL). Additionally, we intraperitoneally injected SEMA-blocking immunoglobulin G (IgG) or control IgG into PSNL-operated mice for 5 consecutive days, either immediately after PSNL (preventive protocol) or from day 14 (therapeutic protocol). Mechanical hypersensitivity was assessed using von Frey filaments. In vitro, mouse DRG neurons treated with or without SEMA3E were analyzed for neurite outgrowth and gene expression.Serum SEMA3E levels tended to be higher in patients with NP than in HCs, although this difference did not remain significant after correction for multiple comparisons. SEMA3E immunoreactivity appeared to be increased in macrophages in both PNs and the DRG, and was also observed in satellite glial cells in the DRG of patients with NP. Similarly, SEMA3E upregulation was observed in macrophages in the injured PNs of PSNL-operated mice. Administration of SEMA3E-blocking IgG was associated with reduced macrophage-associated signals in PNs and attenuated hypersensitivity in PSNL-operated mice under both treatment protocols. In vitro, SEMA3E was associated with reduced neurite outgrowth in mouse DRG neurons.SEMA3E expression appears to be increased at sites of nerve injury in both patients with NP and a mouse model of NP. Experimental findings from the mouse model suggest that SEMA3E may be associated with pain-related hypersensitivity. SEMA3E blockade might represent a potential therapeutic approach for NP.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is a highly aggressive malignancy characterized by rapid progression, early metastasis, frequent relapse, and treatment resistance. Although chemoimmunotherapy has improved outcomes in a subset of patients, reliable molecular stratification tools reflecting tumor heterogeneity and survival risk remain limited. Chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) is involved in proteostasis, metabolic adaptation, and stress responses, but its cellular heterogeneity and prognostic relevance in SCLC remain unclear.This study integrated single-cell RNA sequencing data, bulk transcriptomic cohorts, and clinical information to characterize CMA-related heterogeneity in SCLC. At the single-cell level, SCLC subtypes were annotated, CMA scores were calculated, and differences among baseline, sensitive, and resistant states were evaluated. At the bulk level, tumor versus normal differential expression analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis were performed to identify CMA-related candidate genes. A CMA-related Risk Score was constructed through comprehensive machine learning comparison and evaluated using survival analysis, time-dependent receiver operating characteristic curves, Cox regression, nomogram analysis, functional enrichment, immune microenvironment analysis, and drug sensitivity prediction. ARRDC3 was further validated by in vitro experiments.Single-cell analysis revealed marked SCLC subtype heterogeneity and nonuniform CMA activity across cellular subtypes. Significant CMA score differences between sensitive and resistant cells were observed in the SCLC-A_NR0B1/MYCL+ and SCLC_Hypoxia_glycolytic subtypes. Integration of CMA-related co-expression modules with tumor-associated differentially expressed genes identified 53 candidate genes. The machine learning-derived Risk Score effectively stratified patients into high-risk and low-risk groups across the combined cohort, GSE60052 cohort, and cBioPortal cohort, with high-risk patients showing significantly poorer overall survival. The Risk Score remained an independent prognostic factor and was associated with proliferative, cell-cycle, metabolic, immune, and drug sensitivity-related features. In vitro experiments showed that ARRDC3 overexpression suppressed proliferation, colony formation, migration, and invasion in H446 cells.This study revealed CMA-related cellular heterogeneity in SCLC and established a robust prognostic Risk Score associated with survival, biological pathway activity, immune microenvironment features, and potential therapeutic responses. Functional validation of ARRDC3 further supports the biological relevance of this model, providing new insights into SCLC molecular risk stratification and CMA-associated resistance states.Copyright © 2026 Han, Xu and Jiang.
Xp21 contiguous gene deletion syndrome is a rare X-linked disorder caused by interstitial deletions involving neighboring genes such as NR0B1, GK, DMD, and IL1RAPL1, and is clinically associated with primary adrenal insufficiency, glycerol kinase deficiency, Duchenne muscular dystrophy, and neurodevelopmental delay. The phenotype depends on deletion size and gene content. We report a male child with a 4.5 Mb hemizygous deletion at Xp21.3-p21.2 encompassing IL1RAPL1, NR0B1, GK, and exons 61 to 79 of DMD, confirmed by exome sequencing and shown to be maternally inherited. The presented patient was admitted at 8th day of life due to concerns for primary muscular or metabolic disease. During the second week of life, the patient developed salt-wasting primary adrenal insufficiency with hyponatremia and hyperkalemia. Persistently elevated creatine kinase exceeding 3000 U/L and markedly elevated cardiac biomarkers were observed in the absence of structural and functional cardiac abnormalities. Urinary organic acid analysis demonstrated significant glyceroluria, and severe serum hypertriglyceridemia was attributed to pseudo-hypertriglyceridemia consistent with glycerol kinase deficiency. Early visual impairment with nystagmus and pale optic discs were noted, and by 15 months the child exhibited global developmental delay, most pronounced in gross motor and language domains. This case illustrates the diagnostic challenges and clinical complexity of Xp21 contiguous gene deletion syndromes. In patients with Xp21 deletion syndrome, early molecular diagnosis enables timely hormone replacement, metabolic surveillance, cardiologic follow-up, and structured neurodevelopmental care.Copyright © 2026 Frulenko, Ostrowska, Patalan, Bertoli-Avella, León, Pinto, Bauer, Leśniak, Katuszonek, Glińska, Modrzejewska, Śmigiel and Giżewska.
Flowering time serves as the critical agronomic trait substantially affecting rapeseed (Brassica napus L.) production and adaptability. However, the genetic mechanisms related to flowering time modulation within rapeseed are not fully explored. The present work identified a new flowering time regulator, BnaGRP3-A03, through the genome-wide association study (GWAS) carried out using 157 Brassica napus accessions. Compared with those harboring BnaGRP3-A03-Hap1, those harboring BnaGRP3-A03-Hap2 at this locus flowered significantly earlier. Furthermore, CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knock-out (KO) of BnaGRP3 in the semi-winter cultivar Zhongshuang 6 consistently resulted in an early-flowering phenotype, confirming that it negatively regulated flowering. Comparative transcriptome analysis of CK and bnagrp3 mutant inbred lines revealed substantial alterations in the circadian clock and abscisic acid (ABA) response-related gene levels. Specifically, the mutants presented decreased expression of core morning element genes (BnaLHY and BnaCCA1) and increased expression of evening element genes (BnaTOC1 and BnaPRR5/7). Furthermore, exogenous ABA application rescued the early-flowering phenotype, suggesting that ABA acts as a key downstream component. Our results demonstrate that BnaGRP3 may negatively modulate B. napus flowering time through modulating ABA signaling and circadian clock. The above findings provide genetic insights into the molecular network that controls flowering time while identifying BnaGRP3 as the candidate molecular breeding target for early-maturing rapeseed species.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s11032-026-01696-z.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Neural microcircuits in the auditory cortex (AuC) are essential for auditory information processing. Recent studies identified the basal region of the ventromedial nucleus of the thalamus (bVM), which affects AuC neuronal responsiveness and contributes to sound discrimination. However, the microcircuit organization by which bVM influences AuC neuronal responsiveness remains unclear. Here, using anatomical tracing, slice electrophysiology, and optogenetics, we found that bVM formed monosynaptic connections with both neuron-derived neurotrophic factor-positive interneurons (NDNF-INs) in L1 and pyramidal neurons (PYRs) in L2/3, with polysynaptic engagement of other L2/3 interneuron subtypes. Notably, NDNF-INs selectively regulated bVM-driven inputs to parvalbumin-expressing interneurons (PV-INs), but not to vasoactive intestinal peptide-expressing interneurons (VIP-INs) or somatostatin-expressing interneurons (SST-INs), forming a possible cell-specific disinhibitory circuit in AuC L2/3 circuits. These findings define a circuit diagram of the bVM → AuC pathway and establish NDNF-INs as a key regulator of thalamocortical information flow.© 2026 The Authors.
The longfin barb (Acrossocheilus longipinnis) is a rare fish and an economically important species native to the Hongshui River in China. In recent years, wild populations of A. longipinnis have shown a significant decline, leading to its classification as a vulnerable species. However, the lack of genomic resources has hindered conservation efforts and breeding research for this species. In this study, we generated two high-quality, haplotype-resolved genome assemblies for a male A. longipinnis using PacBio HiFi, ONT ultra-long and Hi-C data. The resulting assemblies, designated as hap1 and hap2, span 922.22 Mb and 920.68 Mb, with Contig N50 values of 36.45 Mb and 34.89 Mb, respectively. Both haplotype assemblies were anchored to 25 chromosomes, and complete centromeric regions were resolved for 25 chromosomes in hap1 and 24 chromosomes in hap2. Completeness assessment using BUSCO revealed high genome integrity scores of 98.9% for hap1 and 98.4% for hap2. Genome annotation predicted 30,424 and 30,441 protein-coding genes in hap1 and hap2, respectively, with 96.94% and 96.74% of these genes being functionally annotated. Additionally, repetitive elements were identified to comprise 56.20% and 56.52% of the total genomic content. These high-quality genome assemblies provide invaluable resources for the conservation, molecular breeding, and evolutionary studies of A. longipinnis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Failure of epilepsy pharmacotherapy is common, justifying efforts to identify optimal cell targets for advanced therapies. Genetic manipulations of the inhibitory system in principle offer a finely tuned intervention that cannot be achieved with a broad reduction of pyramidal neuron excitability. In this context, neuron-derived neurotrophic factor-expressing (NDNF+) interneurons evoke long-lasting GABAA and GABAB receptor-mediated inhibition. However, their contribution to restraining hyperexcitability during epileptiform activity remains unexplored.To address this, we employed calcium imaging, optogenetics, and chemogenetics in an NDNF-Cre mouse line to investigate how NDNF+ interneurons influence cortical and hippocampal hyperactivity and spontaneous seizures.We show that NDNF+ interneurons are actively recruited during interictal spikes and focal seizures, although more slowly than parvalbumin-positive interneurons (mean difference: 2.8 s, p = 0.023). Optogenetic hyperpolarisation of NDNF+ interneurons exacerbates epileptic discharges (normalised seizure-duration mean difference: 0.23, p = 0.0474), whereas their depolarisation suppresses focal seizures, even when the optogenetic stimulus is delayed by several seconds from seizure onset (normalized seizure-duration mean difference: -0.27, p = 0.03). This effect is largely mediated by GABAB receptors. Additionally, chemogenetic depolarisation of NDNF+ interneurons has an important anti-seizure effect in the hippocampus both ex vivo (normalised seizure-duration mean difference: -0.92, p < 0.001) and in vivo.Collectively, these findings establish NDNF+ neurons as key regulators of both cortical and hippocampal excitability even during epileptic activity, and identify them as promising cellular targets for the development of anti-seizure therapies.Epilepsy Research UK, Wellcome, the Medical Research Council, the Gatsby Charitable Foundation, and The Rosetrees Trust.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Based on GWAS, QTL mapping, BSA and RNA‒seq jointly reveal the genetic mechanisms underlying Verticillium wilt resistance in cotton and identify three candidate genes associated with this trait. Verticillium wilt, caused by the soil-borne vascular pathogen Verticillium dahliae, is a devastating disease that severely threatens global cotton production. However, the genetic basis of resistance to this disease remains poorly uncovered, hindering the advancement of genomics-assisted breeding programs for Verticillium wilt (VW) resistance. Here, we systematically evaluated VW resistance in a recombinant inbred line (RIL) population comprising 398 F8 families and a backcross (BC) population comprising 325 BC5F4 families, under both greenhouse and field disease-nursery conditions. Based on the disease index, the RIL population were classified into four groups, with Group IV exhibiting the strongest resistance. Genome-wide association study (GWAS) identified 1299 significantly associated single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), of which 144 were repeatedly detected in two environments, and 17 were detected in three environments. Additionally, 20 stable quantitative trait loci (QTL) were identified across multiple environments. By integrating GWAS, QTL mapping and bulked segregant analysis (BSA), genetic loci on chromosomes A10 and A12 were jointly mapped. Furthermore, we pinpointed three key candidate resistance genes harboring nonsynonymous mutations. Among these, GhHMT1Hap1, GhβXT1Hap1, and GhCYP7A15Hap2 were defined as superior haplotypes; accessions carrying these haplotypes not only exhibited stronger resistance but also demonstrated a clear positive pyramiding effect. Virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) of all three genes resulted in more severe Verticillium wilt symptoms in the silenced plants. In the GhβXT1-silenced plants, lignin content and callose deposition decreased, whereas H2O2 content increased. Meanwhile, salicylic acid and jasmonic acid contents also decreased. Collectively, our study provides valuable genetic resources and candidate genes for breeding VW-resistant cotton cultivar and lays a theoretical foundation for elucidating the genetic regulatory mechanisms underlying this resistance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Magnesium (Mg²+) is an essential mineral nutrient for plant growth, playing a pivotal role in chlorophyll biosynthesis, enzyme activation, photosynthesis, and ion homeostasis. The magnesium transporters (MGTs) from the CorA/MRS2-ALR superfamily are crucial for Mg²+ uptake, translocation, and subcellular compartmentalization. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.), recognized as a drought-tolerant C4 cereal with a streamlined genome and robust environmental adaptability, presents an optimal model for investigating stress resilience and C4 photosynthesis. To date, the MGT gene family in foxtail millet has not been characterized. In this study, we identified nine SiMGT genes (SiMGT1-SiMGT9) through comprehensive genome-wide screening. These genes are distributed unevenly across chromosomes 4, 5, 7, and 9. Each SiMGT possesses conserved CorA domains and displays unique physicochemical attributes and subcellular localization patterns. Phylogenetic assessments categorized the SiMGTs into five distinct groups, indicating a close evolutionary relationship with graminaceous crops such as rice, maize, and sorghum, and suggesting functional conservation. Expression profiling highlighted that SiMGT1, SiMGT3, SiMGT6, SiMGT7, and SiMGT8 are consistently highly expressed. Notably, SiMGT7 is predominantly expressed in leaves, suggesting a potential association with leaf-related or photosynthesis-associated processes, while SiMGT6 shows preferential expression in panicles, indicating a possible role in reproductive development. When subjected to drought, low temperature, salinity, and ABA treatments, the SiMGTs exhibited varied temporal response patterns: SiMGT7 and SiMGT9 showed relatively strong responses to drought and cold stress; SiMGT2 responded prominently to salt treatment; and SiMGT1, SiMGT2, and SiMGT3 were rapidly induced at the early stage of ABA treatment. Haplotype analysis pinpointed superior haplotypes (Hap1) of both SiMGT6 and SiMGT7, which showed significant associations with panicle yield traits and stress-related traits, respectively. These findings provide insights into the evolutionary characteristics and expression divergence of the SiMGT family and offer candidate genes and molecular markers for future functional studies and the genetic improvement of foxtail millet.Copyright © 2026 Yu, Guo, Wang, Wang, Ding, Liu and Meng.
The endosperm is the predominant storage organ for starch and storage proteins in cereal grains, which also determines both grain yield and quality. Although key enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of starch and storage proteins have been identified, the underlying regulatory mechanisms remain largely obscure. In this study, we identified OsMYB4, a MYB transcription factor, specifically expressed in rice (Oryza sativa L.) endosperm. Loss-of-function of OsMYB4 led to increased grain chalkiness, accompanied by reduced amylose and protein contents as well as decreased grain yield. OsMYB4 directly binds to the promoters of multiple genes involved in starch and storage protein synthesis to activate their transcription. It also forms protein complexes with multiple transcription factors to synergistically regulate grain yield and quality. In addition, OsMYB4 was directly activated by RISBZ1, a key regulator of storage reserve accumulation. Moreover, overexpression of OsMYB4 resulted in larger grains and enhanced yield. Notably, natural variation analysis revealed that the beneficial haplotype OsMYB4-Hap1 is positively associated with increased grain weight and superior quality. In conclusion, our results demonstrate the regulatory role of OsMYB4 for grain development, which provides valuable genetic resources for simultaneously improving grain yield and quality in rice.© 2026. The Author(s).
The widespread use of injectable antibiotics in intensive poultry production disrupts gut microbial balance and host immune function, potentially affecting nutrient utilization and promoting antimicrobial resistance. To assess the effects of injectable antibiotics on the gut microbiota, host immunity, tissue accumulation, and antimicrobial resistance in ducks, we systematically evaluated six commonly used injectable antibiotics-gentamicin sulfate, oxytetracycline, florfenicol, tylosin tartrate, lincomycin hydrochloride, and enrofloxacin. Although no statistically significant differences were observed in the feed conversion ratio and organ indices over the 28-day trial, antibiotic exposure disrupted microbiota-organ associations, suggesting subclinical effects despite the absence of detectable phenotypic differences. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay results showed a clear class-dependent accumulation of antibiotics in muscle tissues, with tylosin tartrate and enrofloxacin persisting through day 28. Single-molecule real-time full-length 16S rRNA sequencing revealed a significant decline in Escherichia coli abundance and an enrichment of several Gram-positive taxa, indicating a marked restructuring of the gut microbiota following antibiotic exposure. Antibiotic residues in tissues were associated with drug-specific enrichment patterns of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) and altered host innate immune-related transcriptional profiles, including changes in inflammatory cytokine expression (IL-6, IL-10, and TNF-α). Furthermore, an integrative microbiota-immunity-residue-ARG network was constructed, revealing a conserved association framework centered on TLR2, NF-κB1, TLR4, and IL-6 as network hubs. Collectively, these findings indicate that injectable antibiotics are associated with coordinated alterations in host-microbiota-resistance interactions before measurable growth changes occur. These results provide an integrative framework for evaluating antibiotic-associated risks in poultry production.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The restoration of liver mass after partial hepatectomy (PH) and split liver transplantation (SLT) relies on efficient liver regeneration, a process highly susceptible to metabolic dysregulation. Although remodeling of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle is commonly observed during liver injury and regeneration, the specific role of succinic acid remains unclear. Here, we integrated radiomics, transcriptomics, metabolomics, and functional assays to systematically evaluate the association between succinic acid and liver regeneration. Multi-omics analysis of 20 SLT patients demonstrated that elevated succinic acid levels were strongly associated with impaired regenerative outcomes, and weighted gene co-expression network analysis identified the TCA cycle as a key regeneration-associated metabolic module. In a 70% PH mouse model, succinic acid administration was associated with reduced survival and decreased hepatocyte proliferation, consistent with impaired liver regeneration. Mechanistically, succinic acid exhibited distinct effects in different cell types: in macrophages, it enhanced inflammatory activation and increased interleukin-6 (IL-6) secretion, whereas in hepatocytes it reduced IL-6-induced STAT3 phosphorylation and downstream regenerative signaling. Furthermore, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and surface plasmon resonance assays supported an interaction between succinic acid and the STAT3 SH2 domain, providing structural evidence consistent with modulation of STAT3 signaling. Collectively, these findings suggest that succinic acid may function as an immunometabolic regulator that contributes to impaired liver regeneration by altering macrophage-derived IL-6 signaling and hepatocyte STAT3 activation. These findings also support further investigation of the succinic acid-STAT3 axis as a potential therapeutic target for promoting liver regeneration following hepatic injury or resection.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567782 is a review article
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) is a heterogeneous inflammatory disease with variable outcomes following functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS). Predictive biomarkers for post-FESS CRSwNP recurrence remain poorly defined.Identify tissue-based predictors of CRSwNP recurrence after FESS and assess dupilumab-induced modifications.From a cohort of patients with CRSwNP (including NSAID-exacerbated respiratory disease [NSAID-ERD]) who underwent FESS, we retrospectively identified 91 who could be dichotomized by clinical outcome as post-FESS "rapid recurrence" (<1 year) or "slow/no recurrence" (>2 years without recurrence). Nasal polyp tissue was analyzed for 69 inflammatory mediators using proteomics and ELISA. Logistic regression with LASSO feature selection identified candidate predictors. In an independent, second prospective cohort of 17 CRSwNP patients initiating dupilumab, nasal fluid was collected at baseline and after two months of dupilumab and profiled for the same mediators.Twenty-three tissue mediators strongly predicted rapid CRSwNP recurrence (AUC >0.70), including markers of type (T) 2 inflammation (IL-4, IL-13, IL-5Rα, ECP, IgE) and innate inflammation and/or myeloid involvement (CCL3/4/7/8/13, CSF2, IL-1β, IL-6, OSM, MMP12, HIF-1α, TNF-α, TNFSF14). Of these, dupilumab significantly reduced IL-5Rα and several chemokines (CCL3, CCL4, CCL13) but had no effect on key myeloid mediators (CCL8, CSF2, IL-1β, MMP12, HIF-1α).Both T2 and non-T2 mediators play a role in rapid post-FESS recurrence in CRSwNP. T2 blockade with dupilumab reduces T2-associated mediators but does not suppress a parallel innate/myeloid inflammatory axis. The persistence of this axis during treatment suggests that innate and myeloid mediators may underlie severe CRSwNP and could influence disease recurrence once T2 signaling is no longer inhibited, representing potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets to improve long-term disease control.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Both diet and aging shape the gut microbiota, yet how their combined remodeling propagates across microbial function to host barrier and brain outcomes remains poorly understood. Despite abundant links between Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and intestinal health, integrative studies that connect community ecology with SCFA linked metabolism, epithelial signaling, systemic inflammation, behavior, and test causal reversibility are limited. In this study, we assessed gut microbiota and function alongside host tissues and behavior. In mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD), particularly in the 12-month-old cohort, we observed hippocampal-dependent cognitive and locomotor deficits (longer escape latency, fewer platform crossings, reduced target-quadrant time; lower distance, speed and center time), accompanied by systemic inflammation, with serum lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and cytokines (IL-6 and TNF-α) elevated and associated with adiposity. We then profiled the gut microbiota and its functions alongside host tissues and behavior, finding that HFD and age reduced α-diversity and shifted β-diversity, with a selective depletion of Muribaculaceae and depressed SCFA-linked pathways. Muribaculaceae abundance positively correlated with predicted SCFA-related pathways, while qRT-PCR of microbial fermentation genes supported concurrent functional alterations. In the colon, ELISA-measured butyrate level, SCFA receptors Ffar2, Ffar3 and tight-junction genes Tjp1 and Ocln were downregulated, with ZO-1 and occludin mislocalization, while serum LPS and inflammatory cytokines increased and associated with adiposity. Notably, an intervention arm showed that sodium butyrate supplementation attenuated cytokinemia, restored Ffar2, Ffar3 and tight-junction expression, improved ZO-1 and occludin integrity, and rescued behavioral performance. Collectively, these findings support an association between Muribaculaceae depletion, reduced SCFA-related functional signatures, impaired barrier associated markers, systemic inflammation, and behavioral deficits under HFD and age-associated conditions. In an intervention setting, butyrate supplementation partially ameliorated inflammatory and barrier-related readouts and improved behavioral performance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Secondary lymphedema is a debilitating complication following oncologic surgery, characterized by progressive tissue fibrosis and chronic inflammation. Although transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) has been established as a central mediator of fibrotic remodeling, the broader interplay between pro-inflammatory cytokines and downstream fibrotic signaling cascades in post-surgical lymphedematous tissue remains poorly understood.Skin and subcutaneous tissue biopsies were prospectively collected from 126 patients with unilateral breast cancer-related lymphedema and 58 matched controls across three tertiary centers between January 2024 and December 2025. Tissue specimens were analyzed using immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time PCR, multiplex cytokine profiling, and Western blotting. Correlations between cytokine expression, fibrotic markers, and clinical severity were evaluated.Lymphedematous tissues exhibited significantly elevated expression of TGF-β1, interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-13 (IL-13), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) compared with controls (all P < 0.01). Concurrent activation of Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling pathways was observed, with both correlating positively with disease severity. Multivariate regression identified TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 as independent predictors of fibrotic burden, whereas TNF-α lost significance after adjustment for confounders. Lymphatic vessel density was inversely associated with cytokine levels and fibrotic severity.Secondary upper extremity lymphedema following breast cancer surgery is driven by a coordinated inflammatory and fibrotic axis involving TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 through convergent Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling. These findings support the development of multi-pathway therapeutic strategies beyond single-agent anti-fibrotic approaches for post-surgical lymphedema.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Uvaria micrantha remains insufficiently characterized in terms of its phytochemical diversity and pharmacological potential. In this study, branches and leaves were extracted and subjected to chromatographic isolation, yielding a new metabolite, uvarisinyicone, along with twenty-two known compounds, including chalcones, dihydrochalcones, flavonoids, and benzenoids. LC-MS/MS profiling combined with GNPS-FBMN enabled dereplication and visualization of metabolite clusters, revealing chemical networks consistent with isolated scaffolds. Bioassays demonstrated two major functional classes of metabolites, exhibiting anti-inflammatory and anti-neuroinflammatory activity, and regulators of osteogenesis. Differential bioactivities were observed, with certain compounds selectively suppressing IL-6, others exerting dual cytokine inhibition, and several promoting osteoblast differentiations. The discovery of uvarisinyicone, together with bioactive flavonoid and chalcone derivatives, expands the chemical diversity of the genus and identifies osteogenesis activity as a novel property. These findings suggest therapeutic potential for osteoporosis and inflammatory disorders while bridging natural product chemistry with modern pharmacological applications.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
To explore the specific molecular mechanisms of CD19 CAR-Macrophage (CD19 CAR-M) in treating Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL).Differential expression and pathway enrichment analyses of GEO dataset GSE66770 were performed to construct a SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB interaction network. CD19 CAR-M were generated by lentiviral transduction of THP-1-derived macrophage-like cells and co-cultured with U2932 cells. CCK-8, colony formation and Transwell assays were used to evaluate U2932 proliferation, invasion and migration; IL-6 and IFN-γ levels were measured by ELISA; ROS was detected by DHE staining. RT-qPCR quantified macrophage markers CD14 (M0), CD163 and CD206 (M2), and M1 marker IL-12. Western blot analyzed p-SYK, p-SHP2, NOX2, p-TBK1, TFEB, LC3B and phosphorylated/total protein ratios; immunofluorescence assessed endosomal markers EEA1 and LAMP1. Phagocytosis was evaluated by fluorescent microsphere assay; U2932 apoptosis was determined by flow cytometry after FcγR blockade. Flow cytometry was additionally performed to validate the maintenance of macrophage phenotype, CAR transduction efficiency, and the purity of cell separation after co-culture. NOD-scid mouse DLBCL xenografts were subjected to in vivo imaging for therapeutic validation.Bioinformatic analysis identified TBK1 as a key immune-evasion node positively correlated with SYK and negatively with SHP2. Flow cytometric analysis confirmed successful construction of the CD19 CAR-M cell model, with stable macrophage phenotype and specific CAR expression. CD19 CAR-M significantly inhibited U2932 proliferation, invasion and migration, elevated IL-6, IFN-γ and ROS, and induced M1 polarization. Phosphorylation of SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis proteins and LC3B expression were markedly increased; EEA1/LAMP1 fluorescence intensities were enhanced. Fluovrescent microsphere uptake was elevated and reversible by FcγR inhibitor elsubrutinib, accompanied by increased U2932 late-apoptosis rate. In vivo experiments confirmed that CD19 CAR-M reduced tumor burden via activation of the SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis.CD19 CAR-M kills DLBCL through macrophage phagocytosis mediated by the SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Exophthalmia is an important but poorly documented complication of tropical theileriosis caused by Theileria annulata, especially in neonatal and young calves. It involves forward displacement of the eyeball, periorbital swelling, conjunctival congestion, excessive tearing, and enlarged regional lymph nodes. Systemic signs like fever, anaemia, depression, and weakness often occur. The condition arises through complex pathogenetic mechanisms linked to the schizont stage of the parasite, where infected leukocytes transform into rapidly dividing, invasive cells. These cells infiltrate retro-orbital tissues, creating inflammatory masses that pressure the orbital cavity, resulting in globe protrusion. Simultaneously, inflammatory cytokines such as TNF-α, IL-1, IL-6, and IFN-γ are released excessively, causing endothelial damage, increased vascular permeability, and oedema. Enlarged lymph nodes block venous and lymphatic drainage, worsening fluid build-up and infraorbital pressure, which all contribute to the development of exophthalmia in tropical theileriosis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Bone marrow aspirate concentrate (BMAC) is a promising orthobiologic therapy, yet the impact of patient demographics on its proteomic profile remains poorly understood. This study investigates how smoking status, age, sex, and BMI modulate BMAC's protein composition, focusing on 109 analytes across inflammation, immune response, and tissue regeneration pathways. BMAC samples from 120 patients (iliac crest: n = 77; humeral head: n = 43) were stratified by smoking status (current, former, never-smokers) and analyzed via antibody microarrays. Nonparametric statistical analyses (Kruskal-Wallis, Dunn's post hoc) with false discovery rate (FDR) corrections revealed significant proteomic alterations in iliac crest-derived BMAC from smokers, including upregulated pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-17, TNF-α; p < 0.05, FDR-adjusted) and downregulated anabolic factors (TGF-β1, BMP-9). Former smokers exhibited intermediate profiles, suggesting partial recovery postcessation. Sex-based differences (e.g., BMP-5, FGF-4) were noted but did not survive FDR correction. Humeral head samples showed minimal smoking-related changes, highlighting site-specific effects. These findings underscore smoking's catabolic influence on BMAC's therapeutic potential and advocate for pretreatment cessation protocols.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
The current evidence suggests that the formation of pulp stones (PS) has a genetic background. Therefore, the present study aimed to evaluate the association between PS in orthodontically treated patients and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the mineralization-related genes (bone morphogenetic protein 2 [BMP2], BMP4, SMAD6, and runt-related transcription factor 2 [RUNX2]).This cross-sectional study analyzed genomic DNA and panoramic radiographs from patients with a history of orthodontic treatment. Panoramic radiographs were analyzed and PS were identified as well- or poorly defined radiopaque opacities located within the pulp chamber of the maxillary and mandibular first and second permanent molars. Genomic DNA obtained from all participants was analyzed. The genetic analysis focused on seven specific SNPs located in genes involved in mineralization pathways: BMP2 (rs235768 and rs1005464), BMP4 (rs17563), SMAD6 (rs3934908 and rs2119261), and RUNX2 (rs59983488 and rs1200425). Comparisons of allele and genotype (codominant, dominant, and recessive models) distributions between patients with and without PS were performed using the chi-square test. Logistic regression analyses were performed to control for potential confounders such as age and sex for the SNPs located in the RUNX2 gene. One-way ANOVA was applied to evaluate differences in the mean number of teeth with PS across genotypes. The significance level was established at α = 0.05.The final sample comprised 235 patients: 120 presented with PS, and 115 served as controls. For the SNP rs59983488 in RUNX2, a statistical association was observed for genotype distribution in the dominant model (p = 0.033) and for allele distribution (p = 0.022). For the SNP rs1200425 in RUNX2, a statistical association was observed for genotype distribution in the recessive model (p = 0.046; odds ratio [OR] = 2.0, confidence interval [CI] 95% 1.0-3.8). No statistically significant association was observed in the logistic regression analysis.Our study suggests that RUNX2 could have a small effect on the susceptibility of orthodontic patients to develop PS.Copyright © 2026 Daniel Hemming et al. International Journal of Dentistry published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Evidence regarding the efficacy and safety of sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) in monogenic diabetes is limited. We evaluated real-world metabolic, renal, and safety outcomes of SGLT2i therapy in adults with monogenic diabetes.This multicenter retrospective study included adults with genetically confirmed monogenic diabetes treated with SGLT2i. Clinical and biological data were collected at baseline and after approximately 1 and 2 years. Longitudinal changes were analysed using linear mixed-effects models adjusted for baseline value, age, and sex and treatment intensification.Forty patients (mean age 48.6 ± 15.2 years) with MIDD (n = 16), HNF1B-MODY (n = 9), HNF1A/HNF4A-MODY (n = 11), or other MODY subtypes (ABCC8, INS, RFX6; n = 4) were followed for 23.9 ± 5.9 months. HbA1c remained stable overall but decreased significantly in patients with baseline HbA1c ≥ 8% (9.6% ± 1.3% to 7.6% ± 0.7%; p = 0.001). UACR declined significantly (-35.6% at 1 year and -43.5% at 2 years; p = 0.004), particularly in those with baseline CKD (trend). Genotype-specific trends suggested greater glycemic improvement in HNF1A/HNF4A-MODY and greater UACR reduction in MIDD. eGFR declined modestly over time. Non-serious adverse events occurred in 15% of patients, 7.5% discontinued treatment, and no ketoacidosis, acute kidney injury, or deaths were reported.In this nationwide cohort of patients with monogenic diabetes-the largest reported to date-SGLT2i therapy was associated with improved glycemic control in individuals with baseline HbA1c ≥ 8%, reduced albuminuria, and showed a favourable safety profile. These findings support SGLT2i as a potential therapeutic option that warrants confirmation in larger controlled studies.© 2026 The Author(s). Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Hepatomegaly in hemolytic disorders, including in thalassemia, is a common complication, primarily due to hemosiderosis and activation of extramedullary hematopoiesis. Globin chain imbalance leads to chronic hemolysis and ineffective erythropoiesis, which are associated with suppression of hepcidin expression. Reduced hepcidin levels may increase iron absorption and accumulation, contributing to oxidative stress and liver tissue damage. Iron chelation therapy, such as deferipron, is effective but has side effects, so safer alternatives are needed. Sappanwood (Caesalpinia sappan L.) contains the active compound brazilin, which chelates iron and exhibits antioxidant activity, potentially reducing oxidative stress, improving iron metabolism disorders, and reducing hepatomegaly. This study aims to evaluate the potential of sappanwood extract as a natural iron chelator and antioxidant.This experimental study used male Wistar rats (180-250 g) with a model of iron overload hemolytic anemia, which were divided into normal controls, negative controls (phenylhydrazine 40 mg/kg BW), positive controls (deferiprone 75 mg/kg BW), and sappanwood extract (SWE) treatment (50, 100, 200 mg/kg BW) for 14 days. The parameters measured included iron metabolism, hepatomegaly, liver function, hepcidin-related gene expression, and oxidative stress. Data were analyzed using ANOVA, with p < 0.05 considered significant.The results showed that administration of 100 mg/kg BW SWE provided optimal improvement (p < 0.05), including reductions in hepatomegaly, SGPT, hemosiderin, lipid peroxidation, bilirubin, extramedullary hematopoiesis, and modulation in iron-related gene expression, including Hamp, Bmp6, Epo, and Ftl.These findings confirm the potential of sappanwood as a potential therapeutic candidate for the management of iron overload in thalassemia.© 2026 The Author(s). Animal Models and Experimental Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Chinese Association for Laboratory Animal Sciences.
Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) is the gold-standard technique for characterizing nonischemic structural cardiomyopathies, offering tissue characterization and precise localization of myocardial injury.A 24-year-old man presented with recurrent chest discomfort and tachyarrhythmias. Initial CMR revealed an apical left ventricular aneurysm with imaging features consistent with a true aneurysm and normal coronary arteries, successfully treated surgically. Five years later, recurrent ventricular tachycardia prompted re-evaluation; CMR identified a new inferolateral basal aneurysm in a region previously normal on postoperative imaging. Coronary computed tomography angiography again showed normal epicardial coronary arteries. Surgical patch repair and implantable cardioverter-defibrillator placement were performed. Genetic testing revealed a pathogenic desmin (DES) c.785A>T (p.Glu262Val) variant and additional variant of unknown significance in VCL and CDH2.The identification of a pathogenic DES variant suggests a potential underlying susceptibility to structural remodeling, although causality cannot be confirmed.CMR was crucial in identifying sequential, anatomically distinct left ventricular aneurysms. The combination of recurrent nonischemic aneurysms and a pathogenic DES variant suggests a possible cytoskeletal genetic cardiomyopathy with arrhythmic risk.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This discovery study investigated the impact of MODY-associated mutations in hepatocyte nuclear factors HNF1A and HNF1B on the cellular proteome, aiming to identify affected pathways and advance understanding of diabetes pathogenesis. Human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) carrying the HNF1A frameshift mutation (p.Pro291fsinsC) were differentiated into pancreatic progenitors, and renal proximal tubule epithelial cells (RPTECs) were engineered to overexpress HNF1B with the S148L point mutation. Label-free quantitative proteomics was performed using data-dependent and data-independent acquisition on Orbitrap and timsTOF mass spectrometers. Pathway enrichment was analyzed using Qiagen IPA, Hallmark gene sets, and STRING networks. Comprehensive proteome coverage (over 7000 proteins) revealed consistent downregulation of oxidative phosphorylation, mitochondrial function, and interferon signaling pathways. Both models exhibited suppression of innate immune responses, with overlapping downregulated proteins, including members of the OAS, IFIT, and MX1 families. Using label-free proteomics, we show that MODY-associated mutations in HNF1A and HNF1B suppress mitochondrial function and interferon signaling and are additionally associated with reduced abundance of predicted targets such as A1CF as well as diabetes-related proteins including SCGN, supporting their role in diabetes pathogenesis.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Ischemic tissue perfusion remains a major clinical challenge despite VEGF's central role in angiogenesis. Limited success of VEGF-based therapies underscores the need to understand endothelial heterogeneity, as distinct subsets exhibit differential responsiveness. This study explores conserved endothelial states that govern VEGF-driven angiogenesis across human organs and evaluates their functional significance.We performed single-cell and single-nucleus RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq/snRNA-seq) analysis of endothelial cells (ECs) from eight human tissues using GTEx data, validated findings in independent skin and heart datasets, and conducted CRISPR-mediated PLCγ2 knockout in cultured ECs followed by scRNA-seq.Analysis of 209,126 nuclei revealed a universal arterial-like endothelial subset (cluster 2) enriched across all organs, characterized by high expression of PLCγ2, a critical VEGF signaling effector. PLCγ2high cells exhibited robust angiogenic and lymphangiogenic programs, including upregulation of VEGFC, NOTCH4, and JAG1, and enrichment of pathways for vasculature development and endothelial differentiation. Cell-cell communication analysis demonstrated exclusive BMP6, IGF2, and CXCL12 signaling from PLCγ2high cells to fibroblasts, pericytes, and immune cells, positioning this subset as a central angiogenic hub. Functional validation showed that PLCγ2 knockout depleted PLCγ2high clusters, suppressed VEGF signaling, and diminished BMP6 ligand secretion, confirming its role in maintaining proangiogenic endothelial states.Ineffective targeting of the appropriate EC state may limit current therapeutic VEGF strategies, positioning PLCγ2high ECs as a clinically relevant target.We identify PLCγ2high arterial ECs as a conserved pan-organ population critical for VEGF responsiveness and vascular regeneration. These findings reimagine VEGF therapy by highlighting PLCγ2 as a critical regulator of a proangiogenic arterial-like endothelial state and a promising combinatorial target to overcome limitations of current angiogenic strategies.
The prevalence of pediatric neurological disorders has increased in recent years and has emerged as a major social concern. While genetic factors play a role, environmental factors may also contribute to these disorders, particularly exposure to harmful chemicals in the fetal environment during pregnancy. However, the concentrations of these chemicals in the fetal environment are extremely low compared with those in experimental conditions, and their influence on the development of neurological disorders after birth remains unclear. Epigenetic regulation plays a crucial role in gene expression and/or chromatin formation, ensuring normal cellular development and differentiation. The relationship between impaired epigenetic regulation and neurological disorders has been previously reported. Therefore, this study aimed to identify chemicals that disrupt epigenetic systems at detectable concentrations in pregnant mothers' serum using a human neural differentiation model. Among the 11 chemicals, including pesticides and heavy metals, exposure to octachlorodipropyl ether (S-421) altered heterochromatin formation in neural stem cells at concentrations found in maternal and umbilical cord blood serum. Additionally, exposure to several chemicals, including S-421, affected neural differentiation, leading to excessive neural fiber growth. Furthermore, S-421 exposure induced DNA hypermethylation of the neural-related genes Cadherin 2 (CDH2) and Sry-related HMG-Box gene 10 (SOX10) in neural stem cells. These findings suggest that S-421, which is present in the fetal environment, functions as an epimutagen that disrupts the epigenetic system within biologically relevant exposure levels. The established epimutagenic screening is expected to provide new insights into the relationship between prenatal chemical exposure and postnatal childhood neurological disorders.
Dengue virus (DENV) represents a growing global health challenge with billions of people at risk. Severe Dengue (SD), a complication of DENV infection that involves generalized hemorrhage, is driven, at least in part, by endothelial dysfunction. Endothelial dysfunction refers to increased permeability due to inflammation, mechanical injury and/or modification of the genetic program of endothelial cells. Previous work showed that exposure of endothelial cells to conditioned media from DENV-infected cells (CMDV) increased permeability and cellular stiffness, repressed endothelial markers and induced mesenchymal genes. However, the generality, extent, mechanism and ultimate impact of these events in the onset of SD remain elusive. Here, we integrate analysis from in vitro treatment of endothelial cells with media containing UV-inactivated DENV with computational modeling to investigate the key features of CMDV-induced endothelial alterations and their potential impact on endothelial dysfunction. We found that CMDV increased SNA1 and CDH2 expression, while suppressing endothelial genes OCLN and CDH5. Global transcriptomics analysis revealed that CMDV triggered a transient pro-inflammatory response, followed by induction of selected tissue repair genes and matrix remodeling. A non-directed asynchronous network model (NDAM-CMDV) identified IL6 and FN1 as central nodes of DENV-induced endothelial trans-differentiation, providing new molecular insights that predict the evolution of the disease and identify potential therapeutic targets.Copyright: © 2026 Alfaro-García et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Tubal infertility is one of the major causes of female infertility. This study aimed to investigate the mechanism of action of tubal patency decoction (TPD) and its active ingredient β-sitosterol on tubal infertility.The active ingredients of TPD and their potential targets were obtained from the TCMSP and Batman-TCM databases. The GeneCards, NCBI, and OMIM databases provided the targets associated with tubal infertility. The relationship between the components of TPD and the potential targets of tubal infertility was analyzed by String database and Cytoscape 3.8.0 software. The composition of the compounds in TPD was examined by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) assay. The effects of TPD and β-sitosterol on tubal infertility were verified by establishing a rat model of tubal infertility and a model of tubal epithelial cell inflammation.By network pharmacological analysis, we screened 139 active ingredients of TPD, covering 523 targets, of which 34 were related to tubal infertility. β-sitosterol was identified as an important active compound. Progesterone receptor (PGR) was considered the main target of TPD and β-sitosterol in tubal infertility. Molecular docking and drug affinity responsive target stability (DARTS) assays showed that PGR binds to β-sitosterol. The results of cellular experiments confirmed that β-sitosterol and TPD-containing serum increased the cell viability of LPS-induced tubal epithelial cells, decreased the levels of inflammatory factors (IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-α) and myeloperoxidase (MPO), and increased the frequency of ciliary beating. The results of in vivo experiments showed that both TPD and β-sitosterol improved the conception rate and live births in tubal infertile rats and attenuated tubal inflammation and epithelial cell damage. They increased the expression of RFX2, RFX3, and FOXJ1. Silencing PGR reversed the effect of β-sitosterol on tubal epithelial cells and tubal infertile rats.TPD and its active ingredient β-sitosterol may improve tubal infertility through PGR. These results provide a new basis for the development and application of TPD and its active ingredient β-sitosterol.Copyright © 2026 Liang Shao et al. Mediators of Inflammation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Hair yield is the main economic value of Zhexi Angora rabbit, and it is an important index to measure its productive traits. The TRPV3 gene has been found to be associated with wool yield. This study aims to investigate the correlation between TRPV3 and wool production traits in rabbits, with the goal of improving wool yield. In the current study, flow cytometry and CCK-8 assays were used to investigate the effect of the TRPV3 gene on the proliferation and apoptosis of dermal papilla cells (DPCs) in rabbit hair follicles (HFs). Results showed that the TRPV3 gene regulates the mRNA expression of genes involved in HF development (BMP4, SFRP2, TGF-β1, WNT5a, and STAT1), as detected by qRT-PCR analysis. The core promoter region of TRPV3 was identified through dual luciferase activity tests, and Sanger sequencing was used to detect polymorphisms in both the exonic and promoter regions of TRPV3. The analysis showed a single SNP in the exon region, which had no significant association with wool production. However, five SNPs were detected in the promoter region, with the g.48897415G> A site showing a significant association with wool production in Zhexi Angora rabbits. Moreover, rabbits carrying the AA genotype also showed higher transcriptional activity. The mutation at g.48897415G> A in the promoter region introduced seven extra transcription factors (TFs) (RFX4, RFX3, RFX2, ZNF45, RFX1, Zfp668, and ZNF655). In conclusion, the g.48897415G > A mutation in TRPV3 is significantly associated with wool yield, and the TRPV3 gene inhibits the proliferation of DPCs. This locus can be used as a molecular marker for wool traits in rabbits, allowing early selection and precise breeding of high-wool-yield strains to shorten the breeding cycle and improve efficiency to enhance both the yield and quality of rabbit wool.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Spinal tuberculosis (STB) and Brucella spondylitis (BS) are the two most common infectious diseases of the spine. Despite overlapping clinical features, their immunopathological mechanisms remain poorly defined.We performed integrated transcriptomic profiling of infected nucleus pulposus tissues from STB and BS patients, combining single-cell RNA sequencing (STB n=3; BS n=3) with bulk RNA sequencing (STB n=7; BS n=5). Single-cell analysis resolved immune heterogeneity and T-cell subset architecture, whereas bulk RNA-seq defined global transcriptional signatures. Cross-platform integration identified concordant differentially expressed genes and shared pathways. AUCell was applied to quantify T-cell functional programmes. Pseudotime trajectory reconstruction, regulon inference, and cell-cell communication analyses were performed to delineate immune circuit differences.A total of 67,274 high-quality cells were analysed, identifying nine major cell populations, with T cells as a dominant immune component. STB tissues were enriched in inflammatory cells, including monocytes/macrophages, neutrophils, and osteoclasts, whereas BS showed higher proportions of B and T cells. In STB, CD4 T cells were skewed toward IL26-CD4 T, Cytotoxic CD4 T, Proliferating CD4 T, and Treg subsets, while CD8 T cells were enriched in IFNG-AS1-CD8 T and exhaustion-like populations, reflecting sustained IFN-driven activation with proliferative and apoptotic stress. In contrast, BS exhibited expansion of GZMB-CTLs and IFNG-CTLs subsets, consistent with a focused cytotoxic programme with preserved memory features. Integrated single-cell and bulk analyses demonstrated convergence of overlapping genes on TCR, NF-κB, cytokine signalling, and osteoclast differentiation pathways. Functional scoring and pseudotime analysis indicated broader Th1/Th17 activation and progression toward terminal exhaustion in STB, whereas BS T cells maintained intermediate effector-memory states. Regulatory network analysis revealed a STAT1/IRF-dominated interferon axis in STB and an IRF4/EOMES/RFX3-centred effector-memory programme in BS. Cell-cell communication mapping showed an MHC-II-CD4 axis predominating in STB and an MHC-I-CD8 axis in BS. Despite divergent immune circuits, both conditions converged on osteoclast differentiation pathways, suggesting immune-bone metabolic coupling as a shared mechanism of vertebral destruction.STB and BS exhibit pathogen-specific T-cell immune circuits that converge on a common osteo-immune pathway, providing mechanistic insight and potential targets for host-directed therapy.Copyright © 2026 Yang, Yue, Liu, Gu, Ma, Tao, Wang, Wei, Huang, Hu, Niu and Shi.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is associated with musculoskeletal comorbidities, including cachexia. Weight loss (WL) is the major criterion for cachexia and increases risk for mortality in COPD. Risk factors for WL in COPD are incompletely understood. We performed this whole genome sequencing (WGS) analysis to identify genetic risk variants for WL in COPD.We studied 16 972 participants from the Trans-Omics for Precision Medicine (TOPMed) Initiative and All of Us Research Program. COPD was diagnosed using spirometry in TOPMed, while diagnosis codes were used in All of Us. WL was defined as WL ≥ 5% or a final body mass index (BMI) < 20 kg/m2. WGS data came from white blood cells in all cohorts. Single-variant testing was conducted on both race- and study-stratified cohorts and in a cosmopolitan, ancestry-independent manner using GENESIS in TOPMed and SAIGE in All of Us. SAIGE-GENE+ gene-based analyses were performed on race-stratified and cosmopolitan cohorts. Single variant meta-analyses were conducted using METAL within (B/AA and NHW analyses of Black/African-American and non-Hispanic white participants, respectively) and across racial groups (COSMO). Rare variant gene-based results were combined using Fisher's method. Transcriptomic effects were predicted using MetaXcan. We used the GWAS Catalogue to analyse for colocalization with other related traits.Two single variants were associated with WL in COPD among All of Us participants: one intronic variant in HCN1 in Black/African-American participants (chr5:45271359:TACACAC:T, odds ratio with 95% confidence interval (OR (CI95)) = 2.43(1.78-3.31), p = 1.95 × 10-8) and one intergenic variant between PPP4R2 and PDZRN3 in the cosmopolitan and NHW cohorts (chr3:73345901:A:G, OR (CI95) = 0.21(0.12-0.35), p = 8.84 × 10-9 in cosmopolitan and OR (CI95) = 0.18(0.10-0.33), p = 9.44 × 10-9 in NHW). Single-variant meta-analysis identified two loci associated with WL in COPD: five variants within DRAIC in the B/AA meta-analysis (lead variant chr15:69571341:A:G, OR (CI95) = 1.37(1.23-1.51), p = 1.29 × 10-9) and two intronic variants within RFX3 in the cosmopolitan meta-analysis (lead variant chr9:3390983:T:C, OR (CI95) = 1.50(1.31-1.73), p = 1.06 × 10-8). Rare variants within RNU6-565P (NHW analysis in All of Us; p = 2.83 × 10-7) and LOC339298 (B/AA analysis in All of Us, p = 1.85 × 10-6) were associated with WL in COPD. The RNU-565P signal remained significant after combination with TOPMed results (pcombined = 1.23 × 10-6). MetaXcan predicted differential expression of LNC00959 in visceral adipose tissue (p = 1.16 × 10-6 in COSMO analysis). Colocalization analyses identified genomic associations between BMI and variants in or near DRAIC, RFX3, PDZRN3, and LINC00959.In the first WGS analysis of WL in COPD, we have identified seven novel loci. Further characterization of these loci will validate our findings and improve our understanding of the molecular pathophysiology of this condition.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cachexia, Sarcopenia and Muscle published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Challenges in verbal communication are a prominent feature of autism. However, gene regulatory programs in speech-related cortical regions remain poorly characterized. In parallel, it remains unclear whether the heterogeneous genetic factors underlying autism converge on shared neurobiological mechanisms. To address these gaps, we generated paired transcriptomic and epigenomic data from post-mortem human brain tissue across 100 donors. Here, we show that transcriptional differences in the speech-related Brodmann Area 22 in individuals with neurodevelopmental conditions, including autism, are strongest among those with a known genetic diagnosis. A similar but attenuated signature is observed in those without a genetic diagnosis. These transcriptional differences are most pronounced in neurons, with glutamatergic L4/5 intratelencephalic neurons affected across multiple modalities. Finally, multimodal analysis implicates altered RFX3-dependent networks as a central hub in autism, particularly among L4/5 intratelencephalic neurons in non-verbal individuals. Together, our study identifies regulatory architecture linking chromatin state, transcriptional output, and variation in verbal ability in autism.
Innate immune and interferon-induced responses to in vivo nasal infection with rhinovirus (RV)16 in healthy subjects are accelerated by low-dose dietary supplementation with carrot-derived pectic polysaccharide rhamnogalacturonan-I (cRG-I), together with reduced duration and severity of symptoms. We aimed to further identify temporal mRNA responses by nasal epithelial cells (NEC) after RV16 infection, and to assess the effect of cRG-I supplementation. NECs were obtained prior to (day(d)-55) and after 8-weeks (d-1) of supplementation (0, 0.3, 1.5 g/d), and on d3, d6, d9 and d13 after exposure to 100 TCID50 RV16. Transcriptome data were generated and analysed with the R2: Genomics Analysis and Visualization platform (https://r2.amc.nl). RV16 infection reduced expression of genes related to oxidative phosphorylation (d3), induced gene expression by interferon (d6-9), and reduced expression of cilia-related genes (d13). cRG-I changed these responses. At low-dose, gene expression of important transcription factors and effector molecules (IRF4, IRF8, RFX3, IL-1B, CASP1) was enhanced markedly earlier (d3-6). At high-dose, cRG-I induced expression of inflammasome-related genes already after 8-weeks supplementation. cRG-I, in a dose-dependent manner, significantly affected the sequence and intensity of genes that regulate pathways involved in anti-viral responses and epithelial repair. This may underlie the reduced duration and severity of symptoms.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Medical Virology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41889682
Persistent pulmonary hypertension of newborn (PPHN) occurs due to the impairment in the expected fall in pulmonary vascular resistance during the fetal to neonatal circulatory transition, with a prevalence of 1.9 per 1,000 live births and a significant mortality rate of 4-33%. We aimed to systematically review the genetic variants associated with PPHN in term and late preterm infants without a known genetic syndrome.In February 2025, the MEDLINE Ovid, Scopus, and Cochrane databases were searched for eligible studies without publication date restriction. Our review included cohort studies, case-control studies, and case series that examined the association of PPHN and genetic variants in term and late preterm infants. We extracted data regarding the methodology, participant characteristics, and outcome measures.We included nine studies (7 case-control studies and 2 cohort studies) that enrolled 1,494 participants. The risk of bias assessment using the Quality of Genetic Association Studies tool showed that 100% of the studies were of moderate or good quality. Our review found reports of positive associations between specific genetic variants in genes such as CPS1, CRHR1, NOTCH3, EDN1, EPAS1, WWC2, ABCA3, RFX3, EP300, GNA11, PKLR, SLC2A1, BMPR2, and EGLN1. One study reported no association between an ACE gene variant and PPHN.Studies of common genetic variants associated with an increased risk of PPHN in term and late preterm infants are limited, based on small cohorts and frequently focused on small sets of candidate genes, yielding inconsistent results across studies.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Retinas from mice with a targeted disruption of the gene encoding forkhead transcription factor Foxn3 contained additional displaced amacrine interneurons and retinal astrocytes in the inner plexiform and ganglion cell layers, as well as ectopic primary cilia on bipolar and amacrine interneurons. Foxn3 is a transcriptional repressor and numerous genes linked to cilia structure or assembly were upregulated in embryonic retinas with disrupted Foxn3. CUT&RUN analysis revealed that many upregulated retinal genes were bound by the Foxn3 and Rfx3 proteins. A short hydrophobic motif (LXXLXWL) shared by Foxn3, Foxn4 and Foxj1 was required for association with Rfx3 and for full transcriptional repression by Foxn3, as well as for full transcriptional activation by Foxj1 or Foxn4. AlphaFold 3 predicted interaction between the hydrophobic motif and the Rfx3 dimerization domain. Mutations in Rfx3 at the predicted interaction site disrupted association of Rfx3 with Foxn3, Foxn4 or Foxj1. These results reveal a new layer of transcriptional regulation of genes required for cilia, with Foxn3 functioning as a repressor of cilia genes and limiting primary cilia formation in the developing retina.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Despite the recent identification of RFX4 as a neurodevelopmental disorder risk gene, its role in cortical development remained unclear. Here, we identified both shared and lineage-specific RFX4 requirements for human cortical development using new human stem cell models of deficiency and pathogenic mutation. We found that RFX4 restrains neurogenesis by acting cooperatively with NOTCH signaling, specifically repressing pro-neuronal and synaptic gene expression in neural progenitors. We also determined that genome-wide binding of RFX3, another neurodevelopmental disorder risk gene, depends upon RFX4 to regulate synaptic gene expression. Furthermore, we identified lineage-specific functions for RFX4 in regulating proliferation during cortical inhibitory neuron development. Ultimately, we demonstrated that RFX4 deficiency persistently dysregulates neuronal gene expression through neuronal differentiation and disrupts cortical neuron stratification in organoid models. These consequences were absent in neurons generated by direct differentiation, confirming that neuronal phenotypes resulted from unconstrained neurogenesis. Finally, we modeled pathogenic missense mutation of the RFX4 DNA-binding domain. While this mutation strongly reduced DNA binding, it dysregulated synaptic gene expression distinctly from our deficiency models, supporting pathogenic mechanisms distinct from haploinsufficiency. Together, this work identified both shared and lineage-specific requirements for RFX4 during cortical development, building a necessary foundation for elucidating the etiology of RFX4-associated disorders.
This study explores a stem-cell-based approach for diabetes treatment by enhancing the viability and functionality of insulin-producing cells (IPCs) derived from stem cells of the apical papilla (SCAP). Although SCAP can differentiate into IPCs, limited cell survival remains a challenge. To address this, the proliferation enhancer WS6 was incorporated into Eudragit RS100 nanoparticles (NPs) using microfluidics. The WS6-loaded NPs were characterized for size, charge, PDI, morphology, stability, and drug loading. An MTT assay was performed as a preliminary screening method to evaluate the cytocompatibility of blank-NPs and to optimize treatment concentration. SCAP cells were treated with free WS6 or WS6-loaded NPs, and cellular uptake of NPs was evaluated using flow cytometry and fluorescence imaging. Additionally, the viability of treated cells was determined by propidium iodide (PI) and trypan blue. Prior to differentiation, definitive endoderm formation was assessed through SOX17 and FOXA2 expressions. After differentiation into IPCs, maturation markers such as insulin, C-peptide, PDX-1, NKX2.2, and NKX6.1 were examined, and apoptosis assays measured cell viability. Functional insulin secretion was tested using an in vitro glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) assay. Results showed that WS6-loaded NPs significantly improved SCAP viability, increased healthy cell percentages, and enhanced IPC maturation. Treated IPCs demonstrated functional insulin secretion and improved glucose regulation. Overall, WS6-loaded NPs represent a promising approach to enhance IPC proliferation and generation for diabetes therapy.Copyright: © 2026 Abuarqoub et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Diabetes-associated cognitive impairment (DCI) is a devastating complication of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), driven by abnormal glucose metabolism and chronic systemic inflammation. Lycium barbarum polysaccharide (LBP), a macromolecular bioactive component, has shown neuroprotective potential despite limited blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability. We hypothesized that LBP ameliorates DCI through peripheral glycemic regulatory and anti-inflammatory mechanisms.KKAy mice (a spontaneous polygenic T2DM model) were used. Cognitive function was assessed by the Morris water maze (MWM). Fasting blood glucose was monitored throughout the study. Serum cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-10) were measured by ELISA. Hippocampal ultrastructure was examined by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB pathway was evaluated in peritoneal macrophages and RAW264.7 cells by Western blot and immunofluorescence.LBP (20-80 mg/kg, 3 months) improved spatial learning efficiency (P < 0.05) without fully normalizing memory retention, and attenuated hippocampal neuronal damage in KKAy mice. LBP reduced fasting blood glucose and improved systemic glycemic control, with the low dose (20 mg/kg) showing pronounced efficacy in glycemic control. LBP upregulated insulin signaling proteins (IRS, PDX1, ISLET1) and protected β-cell function. Systemically, LBP suppressed pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β) partially and elevated IL-10 by inhibiting the TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB pathway.LBP ameliorates DCI primarily through dual peripheral actions, suggesting a peripheral-central axis mechanism: (1) stabilizing glycemic homeostasis via enhanced insulin/β-cell signaling; (2) suppressing systemic inflammation via inhibition of the TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB pathway. These findings provide a novel mechanistic framework for the clinical translation of LBP in managing DCI.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Lipotoxicity-induced β-cell failure in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) involves intrinsic damage and inflammatory crosstalk with islet macrophages, but the initiating signals remain undefined. We identify NOX2 as the hub linking metabolic stress to macrophage-dependent β-cell injury. In high-fat diet-fed and Cybb-knockout mice, and in MIN6-RAW264.7 co-cultures, palmitate upregulates NOX2 in β-cells, activating TLR2/NF-κB/NLRP3 signaling and impairing insulin secretion. Damaged β-cells recruit macrophages via chemokines and drive M1 polarization. Activated macrophages release IL-1β and other cytokines, which suppress PDX1 and amplify β-cell apoptosis-a feedforward amplification loop. Genetic Cybb deletion or apocynin treatment disrupted this cycle, preserved insulin secretion, and improved glucose tolerance. We define the NOX2/TLR/NF-κB/NLRP3/IL-1β axis as the mechanistic link between lipotoxicity and paracrine inflammation in β-cell failure, and identify NOX2 as a therapeutic target for preserving islet function in T2DM.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is one of the most challenging cancers to treat due to the dismal survival rate, poor post-treatment outcome and profound resistance to a wide range of therapies. With mutant KRAS being a key driver, small molecule inhibitors targeting KRAS or pan-RAS (KRASi) have demonstrated exciting preclinical and early clinical anti-tumor efficacy, and the pan-RAS(ON) inhibitor daraxonrasib (RMC-6236) recently achieved Phase 3 clinically meaningful improvements in patient survival compared to chemotherapy. But resistance to RAS/KRAS inhibitor inevitably develops, which limits and compromises the treatment outcome. In this study, we investigated the combination of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) and KRAS inhibition (MRTX1133 and daraxonrasib) in the treatment of preclinical PDAC models. We found that this combination strategy synergistically suppresses PDAC cell growth in vitro and enhances tumor control while minimizing local recurrence in orthotopically implanted KPC ( LSL-Kras G12D/+;Trp53 R172H/+;Pdx1-Cre ) murine PDAC tumors in vivo . As radiation therapy (RT) induces ferroptosis in multiple cancer types and mutant KRAS promotes various anti-ferroptotic mechanisms, we tested the role of ferroptosis in promoting tumor-control efficacy. Intriguingly, the addition of a ferroptosis inhibitor, liproxstatin-1, to the combination therapy significantly abrogated the in vivo synergism between SBRT and KRAS inhibition, suggesting that treatment-induced ferroptosis at least partially drives the synergistic efficacy of this combination strategy. Our study indicates that this SBRT-KRASi combination has the potential to overcome treatment resistance and improve outcomes in PDAC patients. These data directly support the design of a planned multi-center Phase 2 clinical trial with this combination strategy in locally advanced PDAC.
This study aims to identify programmed cell death (PCD)-associated genes linked to breast cancer prognosis for the construction of a prognostic model. Transcriptomic and clinical information was imported from the The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and GEO databases. Modulatory genes related to 18 types of PCD were evaluated. Furthermore, the TCGA and GEO datasets were employed as the training and validation datasets, respectively. A risk score prognostic model based on PCD-related genes was generated via univariate, LASSO, and multivariate Cox regression analyses. Further, differences in drug sensitivity, tumor mutation burden (TMB), immune-related pathways and cell infiltration, and immune checkpoints were compared between high-risk and low-risk cohorts to elucidate the clinical applicability of the model. Lastly, the model gene's expression was verified by RT-PCR. The data revealed 1480 PCD-related genes from the TCGA breast cancer gene expression matrix. Differential expression analysis identified 186 differentially expressed PCD genes. Furthermore, a prognostic model was generated according to the risk scores using multivariate Cox regression. The model comprised 8 PCD-related genes (BRSK2, CD24, IFNG, LAMB3, PDX1, PMAIP1, SLC7A11, and TRIML2). Moreover, breast cancer cases were divided into high-risk and low-risk cohorts per the median risk score. The results indicated that low-risk patients had better prognoses, and the model showed good predictive performance in the GEO validation cohort. The area under the curve values were 0.819, 0.731, and 0.674 for the nomogram's 3, 5, and 8 years overall survival, respectively. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that the prognostic model was markedly linked with the modulation of the immune microenvironment and tumor progression in breast cancer. Immune infiltration assessment revealed that low-risk patients had increased activity in immune-related pathways and infiltration of immune cells. In addition, the low-risk cohort had lower TMB and elevated immune checkpoint-related levels. Correlation analysis between immune checkpoints and risk scores indicated that low-risk patients were more responsive to immunotherapy. Drug sensitivity analysis showed variations in the IC50 values between the risk cohorts, suggesting potential variations in drug efficacy across different risk cohorts. Gene expression was verified by RT-PCR.A prognostic risk model for breast cancer based on 8 PCD-related genes was constructed and its predictive value was validated. The established model may provide novel biomarkers and effective therapeutic targets for breast cancer diagnosis and treatment.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY) is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of monogenic diabetes subtypes that is frequently misdiagnosed as type 1 or type 2 diabetes, and accurate genetic diagnosis enables a precision-medicine treatment approach. Regional Turkish data are limited, and previous Turkish series have been pediatric only. We characterized the genetic spectrum and therapeutic consequences of next-generation sequencing (NGS)-based MODY testing in a combined adult-and-pediatric cohort from the eastern Black Sea region of Türkiye.We retrospectively analyzed 296 consecutive patients with clinically suspected MODY referred between January 2022 and June 2025. A targeted NGS panel covering 14 MODY genes was applied, variants were classified per 2015 ACMG/AMP criteria, and treatment changes attributable to the genetic diagnosis were extracted from medical records. Pathogenic or likely pathogenic (P/LP) variants were identified in 43 of 296 patients (14.5%); diagnostic yield rose to 26.0% with variants of uncertain significance included. GCK-MODY accounted for 72.1% of P/LP findings, with a recurrent frameshift c.1256del p.(Phe419SerfsTer12) across nine apparently unrelated families consistent with a regional founder allele. Rare subtypes included MODY4 (PDX1), MODY6 (NEUROD1), MODY8 (CEL), MODY10 (INS), MODY12 (ABCC8) and MODY13 (KCNJ11). The genetic diagnosis directly modified pharmacological therapy in 14 patients, including insulin discontinuation in three KATP-channel MODY and one INS-MODY case.NGS-based MODY testing yields actionable findings in approximately one in seven clinically selected patients in this region and supports inclusion of MODY testing in routine endocrinology practice.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Islet transplantation is a promising treatment for diabetes, but the shortage of donor islets limits its broad application. Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) provide an alternative source for generating insulin-producing cells; however, whether the somatic cell origin of human iPSCs influences pancreatic endocrine differentiation remains incompletely defined. In this study, we generated iPSCs from human pancreatic duct cells (HD-iPSCs) and compared their differentiation propensity and functional characteristics with human fibroblast-derived iPSCs (HF-iPSCs) under identical differentiation conditions. HD-iPSC-derived cells showed higher expression of pancreatic endocrine and β-cell-associated markers, including insulin, PDX1, and FOXA2, compared with HF-iPSC-derived cells. Flow cytometric analysis further confirmed a higher proportion of insulin-positive cells in differentiated HD-iPSC-derived cells. Functionally, HD-iPSC-derived cells exhibited greater glucose-stimulated C-peptide secretion than HF-iPSC-derived cells, although their secretory capacity remained lower than that of native human islets. Following transplantation into streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice, HD-iPSC-derived cells reduced blood glucose levels more effectively than HF-iPSC-derived cells, and insulin-positive grafts were detected in vivo. These findings suggest that human pancreatic duct cell-derived iPSCs have enhanced pancreatic endocrine differentiation potential compared with fibroblast-derived iPSCs. Although further maturation and optimization are required, pancreatic duct cells may represent a favorable somatic cell source for generating iPSC-derived insulin-producing cells for diabetes cell therapy.
Sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors lower blood glucose by promoting urinary glucose excretion and also exert anti-inflammatory and organ-protective effects. This study examined the effects of short-term peri-operative SGLT2 inhibition with ipragliflozin on islet transplantation in a mouse model of diabetes. Streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice underwent portal vein islet transplantation and received either ipragliflozin (Tx + Ip, n = 16) or no treatment (Tx, n = 16) during the perioperative period. At 4 weeks after transplantation, outcomes assessed included blood glucose normalization, body weight, glucose tolerance, insulin secretion, and hepatic expression of inflammatory markers and islet-specific genes. The Tx + Ip group showed a higher rate of blood glucose normalization (75% vs. 25%, p < 0.05), improved glucose tolerance, and higher fasting insulin levels compared with the Tx group. Early hepatic expression of inflammatory markers (tumor growth factor-β, interferon-γ, and interleukin-6) was lower in the Tx + Ip group, whereas expression of the islet survival gene Pdx1 was higher on day 5, suggesting enhanced islet engraftment. These findings indicate that short-term perioperative ipragliflozin improves islet transplantation outcomes in diabetic mice by attenuating early inflammation and supporting islet survival and function, with potential translational relevance for clinical islet transplantation strategies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly lethal cancer that develops from precursor lesions such as pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PanIN) and intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN). The adaptor protein p62 links autophagy defects with oxidative stress and inflammatory signaling, but its role across disease stages is not well defined. We examined p62 expression together with markers of autophagy, metabolic stress responses, and inflammation in human pancreatic lesions and a Kras-driven mouse model.Formalin-fixed sections from 29 patients (PanIN2/3, n = 10; IPMN, n = 9; PDAC, n = 10) were analyzed by immunohistochemistry for p62, LC3B, NRF2, TFEB, phosphorylated NFκB p65, CD45, and CD3. Staining was quantified using digital pathology (QuPath). Parallel studies were conducted in Pdx1-Cre;LSL-KrasG12D mice aged 4-12 months, with blinded histological scoring.p62 expression was higher in PDAC than in PanIN2/3 and IPMN (p < 0.01), while LC3B, NRF2, and TFEB showed no differences. Immune infiltration (CD45) was increased in PDAC versus PanIN2/3 (p < 0.01), whereas phosphorylated NFκB p65 did not differ between groups. Correlation analysis showed stage-specific associations: p62-LC3B in PanIN2/3, p62-CD45 in IPMN, and p62-TFEB in PDAC. In mice, p62 and phosphorylated NFκB p65 followed a biphasic pattern, peaking in early lesions, decreasing in PanIN, and rising again in PDAC.These findings show that p62 accumulation is stage-dependent and is associated with inflammatory and immune changes during pancreatic cancer progression, suggesting a potential role in the transition to invasive PDAC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a major cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, underscoring the need for novel therapeutic strategies. In this preliminary study, the cytotoxic and metabolic effects of Ornithogalum sigmoideum bulb extracts were explored in HT29 colorectal adenocarcinoma cells.Methanolic extracts were prepared and phytochemically characterized by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). Cytotoxicity of the extract upon the HT29 cell line, assessed via MTT assay and modulation upon CYP1A1, CYP1B1, and PDX1 at IC₅₀, was examined via Quantitative real-time PCR.Phytochemical analysis identified methyl hexadecanoate (3.83%), 1,2-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, diethyl ester (3.46%), and methyl octadecanoate (3.18%) as the major constituents within a profile predominantly composed of fatty acid esters, aliphatic hydrocarbons, and aromatic compounds. The MTT assay demonstrated a concentration-dependent reduction in cell viability, with an IC₅₀ value of 429.62 µg/mL, indicating moderate cytotoxic potency. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis showed notable modulation of metabolic gene expression, including moderate downregulation of CYP1A1 and a small-to-moderate upregulation of CYP1B1, while PDX1 expression remained largely unchanged.O. sigmoideum extract may modulate the transcription of xenobiotic metabolism-related genes in HT29 cell lines, suggesting a potential effect on metabolic pathways. Further protein-level and functional studies are required to confirm these transcriptional findings.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Acrossocheilus fasciatus is an emerging economically important fish species in China, and Streptococcus agalactiae infection may pose a potential threat to its aquaculture. However, the epigenetic regulatory mechanisms underlying the response of A. fasciatus to S. agalactiae infection remain unclear. In this study, histological observation, RNA-seq, and ATAC-seq were integrated to systematically investigate tissue damage, transcriptomic changes, and chromatin accessibility dynamics in the brain of A. fasciatus after S. agalactiae infection. Histopathological analysis showed obvious lesions in the brain, intestine, and spleen of infected fish. ATAC-seq analysis revealed marked changes in chromatin accessibility in the brain, with 128,083, 163,535, and 142,031 accessible chromatin peaks identified at 0 h, 48 h, and 72 h, respectively. RNA-seq analysis identified 5406 and 7840 differentially expressed genes at 48 h and 72 h, respectively. These genes were mainly associated with biological processes such as immune response, response to stimulus, and signal transduction and were enriched in immune-related pathways, including cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction and TNF signaling pathway. Integrated ATAC-seq and RNA-seq analysis at 48 h identified 2193 overlapping genes showing both differential chromatin accessibility and differential expression. Among them, 513 genes exhibited increased chromatin accessibility accompanied by transcriptional upregulation and were mainly enriched in the NF-κB signaling pathway, T cell receptor signaling pathway, and TNF signaling pathway. Further analysis identified several candidate immune-related genes, including BCL6, CXCL12, SOCS3, CSF3, IL7R, and RHOH. Motif enrichment analysis suggested that transcription factors such as PHA-4, COUP-TFII, EAR2, Nkx6.1, and Isl1 may be involved in infection-associated transcriptional regulation. This study provides the first epigenetic insight into the brain response of A. fasciatus to S. agalactiae infection and offers a new framework for understanding host immune regulation in this species.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Despite decades of research, there is still no effective cure for type 1 diabetes, except islet transplantation, which is limited by healthy islet donors' shortage. Transplantation of surrogate insulin-producing β-cells from human pluripotent stem cells (hPSC) may provide an alternative solution when endogenous β-cells are nearly depleted. However, most differentiation protocols generate immature β-cells with impaired glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) compared to primary β-cells. During β-cell development, there is a metabolic shift from glycolysis to OXPHOS metabolism to meet the increasing energy demand, suggesting that mitochondrial function is essential for hPSC-derived β-cell differentiation. This study investigated mitochondrial development and function during the differentiation process of hPSC into islet organoids. Two hPSC cell lines (HUES8 and iPSC824) were differentiated into islet organoids using a 6-stage differentiation protocol. Relevant stage-specific markers and GSIS were measured. Mitochondrial biogenesis, dynamics, morphological remodeling, and function were assessed to investigate mitochondria role in β-cell development. Mitochondrial contribution to total ATP production and lactate production were measured to assess the metabolic shift. The results showed, in both cell lines, >96% OCT4+ cells (pluripotency marker) at S0, >70% PDX1+ cells (pancreatic progenitor marker) induction at S3 and β-cells at S6 evidenced by NKX6.1+/insulin+ cells. The stage-specific markers measured by flow were confirmed by immunofluorescence, and functionality was assessed by responding to glucose stimulation. Moreover, our results demonstrate that the metabolic shift from glycolysis to OXPHOS occurred at pancreatic progenitor stage as evidenced by an increase in mitochondrial intensity. This shift in mitochondrial intensity coincided with (i-) enhance in mitochondrial biogenesis and dynamics (ii-) mitochondrial morphology remodeling from round shaped to elongated and well-defined cristae (iii-) increase in mitochondrial function related genes, and proteins as well as increased OXPHOS contribution to total ATP production (iv-) downregulation of "disallowed" glycolytic genes and proteins that ultimately promote functional islets.Copyright © 2026 Diane, Mu-u-min, Al-Shukri, Nour-Eldine and Al-Siddiqi.
(1)Loss-of-function mutations in SLC30A8, encoding the zinc ion (Zn2+) transporter ZnT8 in pancreatic beta cells, lower type 2 diabetes risk dose-dependently, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we combine proteomic, transcriptomic and functional approaches in human stem cell-derived islet-like clusters bearing common alleles or the inactivating variant R138X. We hypothesized that this variant protects against the deleterious effect of Zn2+ depletion on cell survival and function.(2)Human embryonic stem cells INS(GFP/w) (MEL1), and CRISPR/Cas9-derived heterozygous or homozygous R138X lines were differentiated into stem cell-derived islet-like clusters. Intracellular Zn2+ levels were reduced using the chelator N,N,N',N'-tetrakis(2-pyridylmethyl)-1,2-ethanediamine (TPEN). Apoptosis was assessed by TUNEL staining and protein expression by immunofluorescence. Glucose-stimulated calcium (Ca2+) dynamics were measured using the intracellular probe (Cal590) and insulin secretion by homogenous time-resolved fluorescence. Transcriptomic profiling was performed by bulk mRNA sequencing and proteomics by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.(3)Intracellular Zn2+ depletion increased apoptosis in wild-type islet-like clusters, whereas R138X clusters were protected. R138X heterozygous clusters showed a mild increase in GCG+ cells and R138X homozygous clusters exhibited increased NKX6.1+ cells, without affecting polyhormonal populations. These changes were reversed under Zn2+ depletion. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses, assessing genotype effects while accounting for Zn2+ depletion, showed that R138X clusters (versus wild-type) exhibited upregulation of genes and proteins involved in vesicle trafficking, secretion, Ca2+ signaling and mitochondrial metabolism, consistent with enhanced glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in homozygous clusters. Conversely, genes and proteins associated with extracellular matrix remodeling, metal-ion handling, apoptosis and cellular stress were downregulated. R138X clusters displayed altered Ca2+ signaling, with decreased area under the curve and oscillation amplitude, but increased frequency. These differences were reversed by TPEN, while Zn2+ depletion impaired Ca2+ response in wild-type clusters. Despite lowered overall activity, R138X homozygous clusters showed enhanced overall cell-cell connectivity, reversed by TPEN treatment. The opposite effects were observed in R138X heterozygous clusters, showing improved connectivity and activity under Zn2+ depletion.(4)Intracellular Zn2+ depletion compromises islet-like cluster identity and function, while the R138X variant confers protection against these effects. Under Zn2+-depleted conditions, ZnT8 deficiency promotes a more mature and metabolically active state of the R138X clusters, with enhanced Ca2+ signaling and insulin secretion, supported by a structural remodeling and the downregulation of apoptosis and cellular stress. These findings highlight the therapeutic potential of targeting ZnT8 in type 2 diabetes and support its relevance for further improving cell-based therapies.
Diabetes mellitus, characterized by β-cell dysfunction and loss, results in impaired insulin secretion and chronic metabolic complications. Mesenchymal stem cells represent a promising source for β-cell regeneration owing to their endodermal differentiation potential. This study optimized the differentiation of human tonsil-derived mesenchymal stem cells (TMSCs) into pancreatic β-like cells through the comparative evaluation of two signaling-based protocols.TMSCs were isolated from human tonsils, and passages 5-7 were used for characterization and β-like cell differentiation. Two protocols were tested in both two-dimensional (2D) and three-dimensional (3D) cultures: Protocol I induced direct differentiation into pancreatic β-like cells without sequential developmental stages, whereas Protocol II followed stepwise progression from definitive endoderm to pancreatic progenitors, and finally pancreatic β-like cells.In 2D culture, cells cultured under protocol II maintained a typical morphology and high confluency, whereas cells cultured under protocol I displayed a thinner shape with reduced confluency. Protocol II effectively induced definitive endoderm differentiation, as demonstrated by the increased expression of SOX17, FOXA2, and CXCR4 at the mRNA and protein levels. Both protocols upregulated pancreatic progenitor (HNF6 and NGN3) and pancreatic β-cell markers (Insulin, NKX6.1, and PDX1), but protocol II consistently produced higher pancreatic β-cell marker expression, except for MafA. In 3D spheroid culture, insulin, PDX1, and MafA levels increased, with protocol II showing superior expression over protocol I. Additionally, differentiated cells exhibited glucose-responsive C-peptide secretion, indicating the acquisition of early β-cell-like functional properties.Stepwise, developmentally guided differentiation (Protocol II) more effectively directs TMSCs toward pancreatic β cell lineage commitment, highlighting the importance of stage specific signaling cues and supporting the potential of TMSCs for pancreatic β cell-based regenerative applications.© 2026. Korean Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine Society.
Impairment of pancreatic β-cell function is a primary etiology of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). The sulfated manno-glucuronan (GMn) was found to possess a backbone structure consisting of interspersing 1, 3-linked β-D-GlcpA residues and alternating 1, 2-linked α-D-Manp residues and 1, 4-linked β-D-GlcpA residues. Additionally, random sulfation occurs at the C6 position of the Man residues. GMn demonstrated no detectable cytotoxicity in MIN6 cells and attenuated palmitic acid (PA)-induced decreases in cell viability in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, GMn effectively reversed PA-impaired glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) in a dose-dependent manner in both MIN6 cells and primary mouse islets. In vivo, GMn treatment significantly attenuated glycemic levels in high-fat diet/streptozotocin-induced type 2 diabetic mice, elevated β-cell insulin content, and decreased the proportions of α-, δ-, and pancreatic polypeptide (PP)-cells. Mechanistically, GMn significantly suppressed aldehyde dehydrogenase 1A3 (ALDH1A3)-mediated retinol metabolism and increased the expression of key β-cell identity/function markers, including PDX1, NKX6.1, MAFA, and NeuroD1, in pancreatic islets. Consistently, in vitro studies demonstrated that GMn counteracted PA-induced upregulation of ALDH1A3, while promoting the expression of the same set of β-cell transcription factors. Collectively, these findings indicate that GMn may enhance β-cell proliferation and reduces β-cell differentiation by downregulating ALDH1A3 expression.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Tissue-engineered scaffolds are increasingly important for improving pancreatic islet transplantation, as conventional transplantation disrupts the pancreas's native vasculature and extracellular matrix, reducing islet viability and function. This underscores the need to develop a three-dimensional porous microencapsulation scaffold system that can replicate a supportive microenvironment, providing both mechanical stability and biological cues vital to preserving islet viability and function. This study investigated the potential of two freeze-dried and crosslinked gelatin-based scaffolds: Gelatin vinyl acetate copolymer (GeVAc) and gelatin with oxidized dextran dialdehyde (GELDEX), for supporting pancreatic islet culture. Their physicochemical properties, architecture, and wettability were analyzed using scanning electron microscopy and contact angle measurements. Both scaffolds exhibited hydrophilic, biocompatible, and structurally stable characteristics. Mouse pancreatic MIN6 cells were cultured on the scaffolds for 7 days to evaluate islet viability, extracellular matrix deposition and functionality through immunocytochemistry, glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS), and gene expression analysis. MIN6 cells adhered well to both scaffolds, forming dense monolayers and multicellular spheroids that resembled native islet clusters. GeVAc scaffolds showed significantly higher glucose sensitivity and glucose stimulation index (GSI) compared to GELDEX. While INS1 and PDX1 expression levels were comparable in both scaffolds, NKX6.1 expression was significantly higher in GeVAc. These findings indicate that scaffold architecture and surface characteristics play a crucial role in creating a supportive microenvironment for islet cluster formation, highlighting the potential of gelatin-based scaffolds as microencapsulation platforms for clinical islet transplantation in diabetes therapy.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41981277
Skipped: PubMed ID 41959739 is a review article
Islet transplantation, a validated therapy for type 1 diabetes, shows heterogeneous clinical outcomes. There is an unmet need for actionable biomarkers predicting islet graft potency before transplantation. We leveraged a comprehensive set of clinical data and islet samples to explore the relation between islet NKX6.1 gene expression and clinical transplantation outcomes. We measured NKX6.1 copy number with digital PCR in 114 clinical islet preparations and showed its linear correlation with islet graft function in a mouse bioassay, independently of islet mass, purity, and viability (P < 0.01). Analyzing the clinical outcomes of 34 patients who received two or three islet preparations, we showed the added value of total NKX6.1 copy number to predict primary graft function, as compared with islet mass alone (Delong test, P < 0.001). Using a multiple regression Cox model, adjusted for islet mass, purity, and viability, a high total NKX6.1 copy number was independently correlated with 10-year survival of islet graft success [adjusted hazard ratio (HR) [95% CI]: 0.63 [0.43; 0.92], P < 0.017] and insulin independence (HR [95% CI]: 0.70 [0.52; 93], P < 0.01). This relation was confirmed in an independent cohort of nine patients receiving a single islet transplantation in other centers. Genetic silencing with anti-NKX6.1 shRNA or pharmacological induction of NKX6.1 with silymarin in vitro indicated a causal link between NKX6.1 gene expression and islet graft function. These results suggest that NKX6.1 mRNA expression can predict islet graft function and may serve as an actionable biomarker of graft potency in β cell replacement.
Mixed urothelial carcinoma (UC) and small-cell carcinoma (SmCC) of the renal pelvis is a rare but clinically consequential malignancy in which recognition of the neuroendocrine component directly influences diagnosis and treatment. We compared insulinoma-associated protein 1 (INSM1) with traditional neuroendocrine markers and explored clinicopathological correlates of outcome in a retrospective cohort of mixed renal pelvic UC/SmCC.Twenty-seven consecutive patients with histologically confirmed mixed renal pelvic UC/SmCC were identified from the institutional pathology archive during a prespecified consecutive 5-year accrual window (January 2019 to December 2023). Paired SmCC and urothelial compartments were evaluated separately on 4-μm formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded sections for INSM1, synaptophysin, chromogranin A, CD56, CK7, GATA3, Ki-67, and p53, using a modified H-score (0-300). Paired marker positivity was compared with the McNemar test, paired quantitative differences with the Wilcoxon signed-rank test, and overall survival was modeled with Kaplan-Meier estimation and Cox proportional hazards regression.INSM1 showed the highest sensitivity for the SmCC compartment, with nuclear positivity in 26 of 27 cases (96.3%; 95% CI, 81.0-99.9%), compared with synaptophysin 59.3%, chromogranin A 18.5%, and CD56 85.2%; all paired UC components were INSM1-negative. INSM1 was significantly more sensitive than synaptophysin (P < 0.01) and chromogranin A (P < 0.001), whereas CD56 did not differ significantly from INSM1 (P = 0.375). CK7 and GATA3 were retained exclusively in the UC compartment, and the median Ki-67 index was markedly higher in SmCC than UC (76% vs 24%; P < 0.001). On univariable Cox analysis, advanced pT stage, nodal metastasis, predominant SmCC burden, and higher INSM1 H-score were adversely associated with overall survival, whereas adjuvant chemotherapy was associated with reduced mortality risk.INSM1 is a sensitive and compartment-specific marker for identification of the SmCC component and showed higher sensitivity than synaptophysin and chromogranin A in this cohort, while performing similarly to CD56. Combined with CK7 and GATA3, INSM1 helps delineate the urothelial and neuroendocrine lineages within a single biphasic tumor. Larger multi-institutional cohorts with molecular profiling are needed to validate these exploratory findings and to clarify whether quantitative INSM1 expression carries prognostic relevance.Copyright © 2026 Li, Cheng and Wu.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510656 is a review article
A 10-year-old spayed female Shih Tzu was evaluated for a gallbladder mass incidentally identified during a diagnostic workup for hyperadrenocorticism and persistent hypercalcemia. Diagnostic imaging revealed a vascularized intraluminal gallbladder mass, and cytologic examination showed cohesive clusters of epithelial cells with distinct intercellular junctions, magenta cytoplasmic stippling, and marked pleomorphism, raising suspicion for a neuroendocrine carcinoma. Cholecystectomy was performed with tissues submitted for histopathology and immunohistochemistry (IHC), which confirmed a diagnosis of gallbladder neuroendocrine carcinoma (GB-NEC) with hepatic and vascular invasion. The tumor exhibited diffuse positive immunolabeling for synaptophysin, chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase, and insulinoma-associated protein 1 (INSM-1), consistent with neuroendocrine differentiation. However, no appreciable immunolabeling for gastrin, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), and parathyroid hormone (PTH) was observed. This case illustrates an uncommon cytologic presentation of GB-NEC in dogs and suggests a potential association between neuroendocrine tumors and multiple endocrinopathies. The findings support the utility of INSM-1 as a broad-spectrum marker for canine neuroendocrine tumors and underscore the need for further investigation into the hormonal activity and clinical variability of GB-NEC.© 2026 The Author(s). Veterinary Clinical Pathology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Society for Veterinary Clinical Pathology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42487865 is a review article
Medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) is primarily diagnosed through calcitoninlevel analysis and RET mutation status. In their absence, MTC diagnosis may notoccur until after surgery, requiring a completion thyroidectomy after initial lobectomy.The authors present the first reported prospective case of MTC diagnostic suspiciondriven primarily by microRNA (miRNA) profiling.A 42-year-old male with an incidentally found thyroid nodule underwent FNA, revealing Bethesda IV cytology. ThyGeNEXT® sequencing showedno mutations; ThyraMIR®v2 profiling demonstrated a 91% match pattern favoringMTC. Subsequent labs noted elevated calcitonin (273 pg/mL). The patient underwent total thyroidectomy and central neck dissection. Histology confirmed MTC with calcitonin, INSM1, and S100 protein positivity.This case demonstrates the potential of miRNA profiling as a stand-alonediagnostic adjunct in indeterminate thyroid nodules, highlighting its role in preventingdelayed diagnosis and improving surgical planning.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Intermediate progenitor cells (IPCs) are key amplifying neuronal precursors that generate the majority of glutamatergic projection neurons during neocortical development. Despite their central role in corticogenesis, the transcriptional mechanisms controlling IPC proliferation and lineage progression remain incompletely defined. Here we combined single-nucleus transcriptomics with bulk RNA sequencing of purified IPCs to identify the TALE homeodomain transcription factors Pbx1 and Pbx3 as prominent regulators in cortical progenitor populations. Single-nucleus RNA-seq of Tbr2+ IPCs reveals broad expression of Pbx1 across IPC states, with Pbx3 selectively enriched in proliferative IPCs. Conditional dual deletion of Pbx1/Pbx3 in the dorsal telencephalon using Emx1-Cre resulted in a marked reduction of proliferating IPCs during embryogenesis, while radial glial cell numbers and survival were largely preserved. At postnatal stages, Pbx1/Pbx3 double conditional mutants displayed microcephaly with reduced cortical size, disrupted laminar organization, increased numbers of deep-layer neurons, and a selective depletion of upper-layer neurons. These defects were accompanied by severe abnormalities in forebrain connectivity, including complete loss of the anterior commissure and partial agenesis of the corpus callosum. Integrated bulk-RNA-seq and CUT&Tag profiling of IPCs identified a core set of direct Pbx1/Pbx3 transcriptional targets implicated in IPC identity and lineage progression, including Cux2, Insm1, Lhx2, Myt1l, and Trnp1. Together, our findings establish Pbx1 and Pbx3 as essential transcriptional regulators of IPC proliferation and differentiation, thereby ensuring proper cortical neuron production and forebrain morphogenesis.Copyright © 2026 Muchamedin, Ulmke, Pham, Nguyen, Kümmel, Burr, Bietz, Wahle, Nguyen and Tuoc.
Medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) is a neuroendocrine malignancy arising from parafollicular C-cells with known variations in cytomorphologic and immunophenotypic features. New neuroendocrine markers pituitary homeobox 2 (PITX2), paired-like homeobox 2B (PH-OX2B), and heart and neural crest derivatives expressed 2 (HAND2) have recently been introduced, but studies using these markers in MTC are limited. The aim of this study was to evaluate the expression and potential diagnostic utility of PITX2, PHOX2B, and HAND2 in primary and secondary MTCs and to compare their expression with chromogranin A, synaptophysin, insulinoma-associated protein 1 (INSM1), and calcitonin.A total of 34 histologically confirmed cases of MTC with available cell blocks were included. Sixteen MTC samples were fine-needle aspirates from primary thyroid lesions, and eighteen were from secondary metastatic lesions. Twelve samples from thyroid carcinomas of follicular origin were included as controls.PITX2 positivity was observed in 17 (50.0%) MTC samples and in 4 (33.3%) control samples (P = 0.502). PITX2 positivity was found in 43.8% of primary thyroid MTC lesions and in 55.6% of secondary MTC lesions (P = 0.366). Co-expression of PITX2 with chromogranin A, synaptophysin, INSM1, and calcitonin was observed. PHOX2B and HAND2 were negative in all MTC and control samples.There were no significant differences in PITX2 expression between primary and secondary MTC samples. PITX2 did not show reliable utility in distinguishing MTC from thyroid carcinomas of follicular origin. PHOX2B and HAND2 were negative in all samples. These results suggest that these new markers do not offer diagnostic value for MTC as stand-alone markers or as additions to the diagnostic workup panel.Helenius M, Kalfert D, Maleki Z, Barkan GA, Rossi ED, Cai G, et al. New Neuroendocrine Markers PITX2, PHOX2B, and HAND2 Do Not Offer Diagnostic Utility in Fine-needle Aspiration Biopsies of Primary and Secondary Medullary Thyroid Carcinomas: A Retrospective Multi-institutional Study. J Clin Transl Pathol 2026. doi: 10.14218/JCTP.2026.00011.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42398637 is a review article
Acinar cell carcinomas (ACCs) of the pancreas are rare neoplasms composed of cells showing acinar cell differentiation demonstrated by the immunoreactivity for acinar cells markers including trypsin, chymotrypsin, and BCL10. The differential diagnosis with more common pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (PanNETs) may be difficult due to some overlapping morphological features and the expression of general neuroendocrine markers (synaptophysin and chromogranin A) by acinar cells, a phenomenon observed in about 35% of cases. These tumors showing a dual acinar and neuroendocrine differentiation need to be separated from PanNETs since their clinical management and prognosis are different. Little is known about the possible diagnostic role of INSM1, a highly specific and sensitive "second generation" neuroendocrine marker recently identified. With this aim we investigated INSM1 expression in 58 ACCs that, based on the expression of synaptophysin and chromogranin A, were separated into 36 pure ACCs lacking any neuroendocrine marker expression, 21 ACCs with divergent acinar and neuroendocrine differentiation, and one mixed neuroendocrine/non-neuroendocrine neoplasm (MiNEN) consisting of two separate acinar and neuroendocrine components. INSM1 expression overlapped that of synaptophysin and chromogranin A, although in several cases the number of INSM1 positive cells was less than that of chromogranin A. In conclusion, our results show that INSM1 expression in a pancreatic neoplasm should be carefully considered and interpreted in conjunction with morphology and a comprehensive immunohistochemical panel and does not give any diagnostic advantage respect to "traditional" neuroendocrine markers.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42351440 is a review article
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is a malignancy characterized by significant heterogeneity and variable clinical outcomes. RhoGTPases play a critical role in cancer progression; however, their precise effects on LUAD prognosis remain inadequately understood. This study aimed to construct and validate a RhoGTPase-driven prognostic signature for LUAD, alongside an examination of its biological relevance. Transcriptomic and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data were obtained from public databases. Candidate genes were identified by intersecting differentially expressed genes (DEGs) with a set of 733 RhoGTPase-related genes. Prognostic genes were selected through univariate Cox regression and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) analysis. A prognostic model was developed and subsequently validated. Analyses including functional enrichment, immune infiltration, and drug sensitivity were conducted. Additionally, scRNA-seq analysis was employed to define key cellular populations and explore the dynamic expression of the prognostic genes. A total of 5,420 DEGs were identified, yielding 233 candidate genes upon intersection with the RhoGTPase-related gene set. Four genes (CCT6A, PLK1, DSG2, PCDH7) were designated as prognostic. The risk model effectively stratified patients into the high-risk group (HRG) and the low-risk group (LRG), revealing significant differences in overall survival rates. The risk score served as an independent prognostic indicator. Functional enrichment analysis showed that HRG was associated with cell cycle pathways, while LRG was predominantly enriched in immune-related pathways, with HRG exhibiting a more immunosuppressive microenvironment. Drug sensitivity analysis indicated potential responsiveness to specific agents, such as doramapimod, in HRG. ScRNA-seq analysis identified epithelial cells as the primary population of interest. Pseudotime analysis uncovered a developmental trajectory in which CCT6A, DSG2, and PCDH7 were associated with late-stage, differentiated epithelial cell states. A robust prognostic model based on four RhoGTPase-related prognostic genes (CCT6A, PLK1, DSG2, PCDH7) was established, effectively stratifying LUAD patients. This model provides valuable insights into the heterogeneity of LUAD and has the potential to inform personalized therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
CD38 is a cell-surface glycoprotein whose molecular functions are closely linked to its surrounding protein environment. To date, omics-level understanding of CD38-associated surface proteins remains lacking. To investigate the CD38-proximal surfaceome in live adherent cell culture, we developed nanobody-targeted TurboID (NBID), a proximity labeling approach using protein-of-interest (POI)-specific nanobody-TurboID chimeras (NTCs), and applied this approach to characterize CD38-proximal proteome on the cell surface. The approach was validated using EGFR-targeting NTC construct, which recovered multiple known EGFR-associated proteins. CD38-specific NTC was applied to A549 lung cancer cells and THP-1 monocytic leukemia cells, and enriched multiple proteins involved in adhesion, ECM organization, and lipid raft-associated membrane domains. In A549 cells, proteins related to Wnt signaling were additionally enriched. NAD+ treatment did not significantly alter the CD38-proximal surfaceome in A549 cells. Total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy further demonstrated co-clustering of several enriched candidates with CD38 on membrane protrusions. Functional assays showed that CD38 contributes to transendothelial migration of A549 cells. By combining NBID with stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC), we further identified CD38-associated cadherin adhesion complexes involving CDH2 and DSG2 at the tumor-endothelial interface. Together, these results establish NBID as a robust platform for investigating surface protein environments and intercellular protein neighborhoods under native conditions. Furthermore, our findings reveal a CD38-associated membrane adhesion network and provide new insight into the role of CD38 in tumor cell migration and tumor-endothelial interactions.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42406223 is a review article
Keratins (CK) and desmosomal proteins are associated with prognosis in many cancers, and CK5, CK14 and CK20 are recognized as surrogate markers for molecular subtyping of muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC). We analyzed the correlation between protein clustering and MIBC subtypes. We retrieved samples of muscle-invasive UC from patients treated with radical cystectomy without prior neoadjuvant therapy at two institutions. Immunohistochemical staining with tissue microarrays was performed for keratins (CK5, CK7, CK8, CK10, CK13, CK14, CK17, CK18, CK19, CK20), desmogleins (DSG2, DSG3) and desmocollin 3 (DSC3), and outcomes were evaluated using the H-Score. Molecular classification subgroups were defined according to CK5 and CK20 expression; for a subset of cases, the MDACC molecular classification was also available. Clinical data were retrieved from medical records. Hierarchical clustering with Euclidean distance, classification trees and principal component analysis was used for data visualization. We identified protein clustering patterns for luminal and basal subtypes in 232 analyzed samples. DSG2 groups were independent from DSC3 and DSG3 clustering in the luminal subtype. The molecular clusters were comparable in matched primary tumour and lymph node metastases (LNM) samples, and the protein expression correlated moderately with each other. CK5 (PT (90 [IQR 8.3-265, LNM (30.8 [IQR 6.7-155]; p = 0.011)), CK17 (PT (145 [IQR 42.5-222.5]),LNM (47.5 [IQR 14.2-110]; p = 0.005), DSG2 ( PT (55 [IQR 15-105]), LNM (32.1 (7.5-75.8)); p = 0.004), and DSC3 (PT (20.8 [IQR 0-71.7]), LNM (3.8 [IQR 0-43.3]; p = 0.013) expression were lower in LNM. Limitations include the absence of patients treated with neoadjuvant therapy and the risk of overfitting. We concluded that distinct keratin and desmosomal protein patterns are linked to cancer subtypes, and remain consistent in LNM. These findings indicate potential for keratins and desmosomal proteins to guide muscle-invasive bladder cancer subtype classification with possible prognostic implications, necessitating further research.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Maternal recognition of pregnancy (MRP) in the mare requires coordinated adaptations of both the conceptus and the endometrium during the peri-recognition interval; however, integrated transcriptomic analyses of both compartments within the same biological window remain limited. Here, we analyzed conceptus RNA-seq data across embryonic age (Days 8 and 12 post ovulation) and endometrial RNA-seq data across pregnancy status (pregnant versus non-pregnant mares sampled between Days 8 and 12 post ovulation). In pregnant mares, conceptus recovery and endometrial biopsy collection were performed within the same gestation, allowing biological integration of embryo and maternal transcriptomes while preserving tissue-specific statistical contrasts.RNA-seq analysis followed by TMM normalization and voom-limma modeling identified differential expression in both compartments. Differential expression was defined by an adjusted P-value (FDR threshold <0.001). The B-statistic (log-odds of differential expression) was used to prioritize high-confidence candidates for interpretation and downstream modeling, considering genes with a Bayesian posterior probability >1. Gene-level interpretation was restricted to transcripts with a Bayesian posterior probability of differential expression (B > 1). In the conceptus, high-confidence upregulated genes from day 8 to 12 included steroidogenic enzymes (CYP19A1, CYP17A1), extracellular matrix components (COL4A1, COL4A2, COL4A5, SPON1, DSG2), protease regulators (SERPINE1, TMPRSS2, LGMN), and selective transporters (AQP5, SLC2A5, ATP1B3). In the endometrium, downregulated genes in pregnant mares included immediate-early transcriptional regulators (EGR1, FOS, DUSP1) and oxidative stress-associated genes (GSTA4), while upregulated genes in pregnant mares included signaling and regulatory components (HRAS, PUM3, U2AF1L4, COPS6), complement regulator C4BPA, and mitochondrial sulfide metabolism gene SQOR. Functional enrichment analysis supported coordinated extracellular matrix organization and signaling modulation without enrichment of inflammatory pathways.Matched transcriptomic profiling reveals coordinated but compartment-specific gene regulation at the onset of early equine pregnancy. The conceptus exhibits endocrine and interface specialization, whereas the endometrium demonstrates attenuation of immediate-early transcriptional programs and selective signaling recalibration. These data define a high-confidence systems-level framework for early embryo-maternal communication that precedes the classical maternal recognition phase and is consistent with early embryo-maternal communication associated with the transition toward maternal recognition.Copyright © 2026 Da Silva Álvarez, Ortiz-Rodríguez, Martín-Cano, Álvarez-Barrientos, Becerro-Rey, Gil, Redondo, Masot, Aparicio, Peña and Ortega-Ferrusola.
The anterior insular cortex (AIC) is a critical hub integrating exteroceptive and interoceptive information into high-order cognition, yet its neural basis remains incompletely understood. Here, by combining whole-cell-based single-cell transcriptomics with Patch-seq recordings, we resolved and characterized 78 detailed cell types in the macaque AIC, revealing the diversity and specialization of this region in cell type, connectivity profile, signal-processing strategy and metabolic characteristics. Among these, we identified two transcriptomically and morphoelectrically defined von Economo neuron (VEN) subtypes, DSG2-expressing VEN-L and POC5-expressing VEN-S, transcriptomically relating to extratelencephalic and corticothalamic projection neurons, respectively. We also uncovered a previously underappreciated signal-processing strategy by VENs, whereby the geometry of the dendrite-originating axon reshapes action potential dynamics and enhances somatic responsiveness to deep-layer synaptic inputs. Our multimodal atlas establishes a molecular and functional framework for investigating the circuit principles underlying cognitive processes in the primate AIC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pathogenic variants in desmoglein-2 (DSG2) are a major cause of arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy (ACM), a disease plagued by ventricular arrhythmias, contractile dysfunction, myocardial inflammation, and fibrofatty remodeling. In addition, increasing evidence implicates mitochondrial dysfunction in DSG2-associated disease. However, whether mitochondrial remodeling occurs uniformly across ventricles remains less well defined. Here, we used a homozygous Dsg2 mutant (Dsg2mut/mut) mouse to define chamber-specific mitochondrial remodeling in DSG2-linked ACM. Reanalysis of our previously generated cardiomyocyte snRNAseq dataset revealed broad downregulation of mitochondrial transcripts involved in fusion/fission dynamics, calcium handling, mitophagy, structural organization, and electron transport chain assembly, findings that are consistent with impaired mitochondrial homeostasis and bioenergetic capacity. Ultrastructural analyses by transmission electron microscopy showed that Dsg2mut/mut hearts contained an increased number of mitochondria, which were smaller, irregularly shaped, and more disorganized than wildtype counterparts. Importantly, these alterations were chamber-dependent, with the right ventricle (RV) displaying more pronounced reductions in mitochondrial circularity and greater mitochondrial abundance than the left ventricle, indicating increased RV susceptibility. Together, these findings unveil mitochondrial remodeling as a feature of DSG2-deficiency and support a desmosomal-mitochondrial axis in ACM pathogenesis, further supporting mitochondrial pathways as candidate therapeutic targets.NEW & NOTEWORTHY This study identified mitochondrial remodeling as a key feature of desmoglein-2 (DSG2)-linked ACM. Using Dsg2mut/mut mice, we showed that DSG2 loss broadly suppresses mitochondrial transcripts involved in fusion/fission, Ca2+ handling, mitophagy, organization, and electron transport chain assembly. Ultrastructural analyses revealed increased mitochondrial abundance, smaller and irregular mitochondrial morphology, and chamber-specific remodeling, with greater RV susceptibility. These findings support a desmosomal-mitochondrial axis and highlight mitochondrial pathways as potential therapeutic targets.
Splice-altering variants (SAVs), particularly those outside canonical splice sites, are an underappreciated contributor to inherited cardiovascular diseases. In arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy (ACM), these variants frequently remain classified as of uncertain significance (VUS) due to limited predictive power and lack of transcript-level evidence, constraining genetic yield and clinical management. Our study aimed to determine the functional impact of SAVs in ACM genes and refine their classification using ACMG/AMP and ClinGen SVI criteria.SAVs identified in 200 ACM probands underwent SpliceAI prediction, GTEx cardiac exon-usage annotation, and functional assessment using pSPL3-based minigene assays. Aberrant transcripts were quantified using Percent Splicing Alteration (PSA). Segregation data and ACMG/AMP criteria refined by ClinGen SVI were applied to integrate functional and clinical evidence for classification.Aberrant splicing was confirmed in 9/20 variants (45%), including synonymous, missense, and non-canonical intronic changes. SpliceAI scores correlated strongly with PSA values (R²=0.86). Case-control burden testing revealed significant enrichment of splice-altering variants in DSP, DSG2, DSC2 and FLNC. Integrating predictive algorithms with experimental validation and segregation analysis markedly enhances reclassification of 16/20 variants (80%).Splicing defects beyond canonical sites significantly shape ACM genetic landscape. Integrating predictive models with experimental validation clarifies uncertain variants bridging the gap between genomic uncertainty and clinical decision-making.© 2026. The Author(s).
The primary challenges in the clinical treatment of cervical cancer include metastasis, recurrence, proliferation, and drug resistance. DSG2 is a transmembrane desmosomal cadherin, has been implicated in various cancers, but its specific role in cervical cancer remains unclear.Recently, Dihydroartemisinin (DHA) has emerged as a promising antitumor drug. In this study, we aimed to investigate the impact of DSG2 on cervical cancer cells treated with DHA. Cellular assays demonstrated that DHA effectively inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of HeLa cells. Increasing concentrations of DHA prolonged its effects and reduced HeLa cell proliferation. RNA-seq analysis revealed that DHA induced differential gene expression involved in cell migration, protein digestion and absorption, cytokine receptor interaction, the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway, and the Rap1 signaling pathway. DHA downregulated the expression of PI3K and AKT, while upregulating P53, ATM, cleaved caspase-3, and H2AX expression. Overexpression of DSG2 in HeLa cells increased resistance to DHA inhibition, whereas knockdown of DSG2 enhanced the inhibitory effects of DHA. This study highlights that DSG2 modulates the cytotoxicity of DHA, which is potentially associated with the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway, suggesting DSG2 as a candidate biomarker and a potential target for further investigation in cervical cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, with hypoxia contributing to tumor progression and treatment resistance. Identifying hypoxia-related biomarkers could enhance prognosis and therapeutic strategies for LUAD.This study aimed to identify hypoxia-related differentially expressed genes (HRDEGs) in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) through differential expression analysis. Functional analysis and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction were performed to explore the biological roles and interactions of these genes. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, univariate Cox regression, and Lasso regression were used to identify key genes associated with survival. Multivariate Cox regression was then conducted to assess independent prognostic factors.This analysis revealed 283 upregulated HRDEGs and 322 downregulated HRDEGs in LUAD. Functional enrichment analysis indicated that the upregulated genes were primarily involved in cancer-related and cellular signaling pathways, while downregulated genes were associated with immunity-related pathways. We further identified 201 common upregulated hub genes (including MMP9, CDH1, HSP90AB1, SOX2, CDKN2A, SPP1, EZH2) and 224 common downregulated hub genes (such as IL6, TNF, IL1B, JUN, CCL2, TLR4, FOS, PTGS2). Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, univariate Cox regression, and Lasso regression led to the identification of 17 key genes (ADRB2, ALDH2, CAT, CCNE1, MAP3K8, DSG2, EIF6, ABCB1, PIK3R1, RAD51, SFTPD, SOD3, CLEC3B, ADAM12, EXO1, FBLN5, and IGF2BP3) associated with patient survival. Finally, multivariate Cox regression analysis identified DSG2, EIF6, and EXO1 as independent prognostic factors for LUAD, highlighting their potential as biomarkers for prognosis and therapeutic targets in lung cancer.In conclusion, DSG2, EIF6, and EXO1 were identified as key hypoxia-related genes in lung adenocarcinoma. These genes were found to be independent prognostic factors, highlighting their potential as biomarkers for predicting patient survival and guiding future therapeutic approaches.Copyright: © 2026 Alghamdi, Rocha. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades play vital roles in mediating plant cell responses to external stimuli by regulating intracellular metabolism. We have previously reported that extracellular ATP (eATP) acts as an apoplastic messenger to regulate root growth, and that two receptor-like kinases, LRK10L3 and BAK1, play essential roles in this process. However, the intracellular signaling mechanisms through which eATP influences root growth remain unclear. In this study, we found that roots of loss-of-function mutants of several MAPK cascade components exhibited significantly reduced responsiveness to eATP compared with the wild type. eATP stimulated the expression of genes encoding MAPK cascade components, and in several upstream-element null mutants, eATP-induced expression of downstream members was enhanced. Moreover, eATP increased the phosphorylation of MAPK cascade components, suggesting that a cascade comprising MEKK1/YDA-MKK4/5-MPK3/6 is involved in the response of root cells to eATP. eATP may activate this MAPK cascade via LRK10L3 and BAK1, because eATP-stimulated phosphorylation of MEKK1 and YDA was impaired in double-null mutants lacking both receptor-like kinases. eATP also induced the translocation of MKK4/5 and MPK3/6 from the cytoplasm to the nucleus, a process partially dependent on phosphorylation. In mutants lacking functional MAPKs, eATP-stimulated expression of several jasmonic acid (JA) biosynthesis-related genes was compromised. Collectively, these results demonstrate that the MAPK cascade may serve as a crucial signaling module in eATP-regulated root growth in Arabidopsis thaliana, providing insights for further investigation of eATP signaling mechanisms.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Cf resistance proteins of tomato that provide resistance against the extracellular fungal pathogen Fulvia fulva are receptor-like proteins (RLPs) localized at the cell surface. As they lack a cytoplasmic kinase domain, Cf proteins require 2 co-receptors to activate downstream immune responses. In the resting state, Cf proteins constitutively interact with the receptor-like kinase (RLK) SUPPRESSOR OF BIR1-1 (SOBIR1), whereas upon recognition of the matching avirulence (Avr) effector, the RLK BRI1-ASSOCIATED KINASE 1 (BAK1) is recruited. Cf proteins have a typical leucine-rich repeat (LRR)-RLP structure, consisting of an LRR ectodomain, a transmembrane domain, and an intracellular juxtamembrane domain that is referred to as the C-terminal tail. Cf-4 and Cf-9 have identical C-terminal tails, while the C-terminal tails of Cf-2 and Cf-5 differ by a single amino acid. Interestingly, the Cf-5/Avr5- and Cf-2/Avr2-triggered immune response results in a slower and weaker hypersensitive response (HR)-related cell death than the response triggered by Cf-4/Avr4 and Cf-9/Avr9. Domain swapping between Cf-5 and Cf-9 revealed that the C-terminal tail plays a specific role in determining the intensity of the immune response. Notably, the pool of SOBIR1-associated Cf-4 and Cf-9 proteins is much larger than that of Cf-2 and Cf-5, and a full-length C-terminal tail is required for immune signaling activation. This work provides a basis for further studies on RLP engineering to enhance crop resistance against detrimental pathogens.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society of Plant Biologists.
Plant plasma membrane proteins are organized into distinct domains; however, the principles that govern this spatial organization are not fully understood. HYPERSENSITIVE-INDUCED REACTION (HIR) proteins are plant-specific members of the stomatin/prohibitin/ flotillin/HflK/C (SPFH) family implicated in membrane organization. Arabidopsis thaliana HIR2 interacts with multiple plasma membrane proteins, including receptor kinases such as BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE 1-ASSOCIATED KINASE (BAK1)-INTERACTING RECEPTORS 2 and 3 (BIR2 and 3) and BAK1. These interactions connect HIR2 to BAK1-mediated signaling pathways, as evidenced by impaired growth and immunity phenotypes in hir2 mutants. HIR2 is anchored to the inner leaflet of the plasma membrane through a hydrophobic domain and S-acylation. Single-particle-tracking photoactivated localization microscopy (sptPALM) revealed that HIR2 affects BAK1 mobility and clustering, exemplifying a role in regulating plasma membrane dynamics. Structural modeling with AlphaFold 3 predicts a multimeric cup-like assembly for HIR2, consistent with high molecular weight complexes identified through blue-native PAGE. These findings indicate that HIR2 contributes to the formation of membrane sub-compartments, providing a potential structural framework for spatial membrane organization that influences the dynamics and function of membrane-resident receptors.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510584 is a review article
In plants, numerous receptor-like kinases (RLKs) function as potential pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) involved in perceiving ligands to trigger pattern-triggered immunity (PTI); however, the roles of most RLKs remain uncharacterized. A previous study showed that the potato receptor-like kinase StLRPK1 interacts with the co-receptor SERK3A/BAK1 to positively regulate resistance against Phytophthora infestans, yet the underlying mechanism remains unknown. Here, we identified StLecRK. IX, a potato RLK that interacts with StLRPK1. The expression of StLecRK. IX was up-regulated in response to P. infestans inoculation. Transient overexpression of StLecRK. IX triggered strong cell death in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. Moreover, stable overexpression of either StLecRK. IX or its N. benthamiana ortholog NbLecRK. IX significantly enhanced late blight resistance in both potato and N. benthamiana by activating a cascade of immune responses, including reactive oxygen species (ROS) burst, transcriptional upregulation of PTI marker genes, and callose deposition. StLecRK. IX contains two conserved functional motifs, HRD and DFG, within its kinase domain and exhibits strong kinase activity. Furthermore, we demonstrate that StLRPK1 and StLecRK. IX form a ternary protein complex with the co-receptor SERK3A/BAK1 to positively regulate late blight resistance. Together, these findings expand our understanding of plant RLK functions in late blight resistance and provide a strategic basis for utilizing StLecRK. IX and StLRPK1 to improve potato resistance, and highlight StLecRK. IX as a promising target for engineering disease resistance in crops.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cryopreservation is essential for avian genetic resource conservation but often compromises post-thaw sperm quality. This study evaluated the effects of trehalose and sucrose as non-permeating cryoprotectants on chicken semen cryopreserved using a straw-based protocol with reduced dimethylformamide (DMF). Pooled semen from Green-legged Partridge roosters was assigned to a cryopreserved control group containing 6% DMF or to treatment groups containing 3% DMF supplemented with trehalose (400 or 500 mM) or sucrose (300 or 500 mM). Post-thaw sperm quality was assessed using CASA and flow cytometry parameters, together with targeted qPCR analysis of BAK1 and HSP60. Trehalose, particularly at 500 mM, was associated with a more favorable overall functional profile, including higher motility and lower DNA fragmentation. It also showed lower lipid peroxidation- and apoptosis-related values in selected comparisons. However, the response varied depending on the parameter assessed, with S300 showing higher values for mitochondrial membrane potential. BAK1 and HSP60 expression increased after cryopreservation, but no differences were detected between the cryopreserved control and trehalose 500 mM groups, suggesting that these transcriptional changes mainly reflected the freeze-thaw process rather than a trehalose-specific molecular response. Overall, 500 mM trehalose combined with reduced DMF showed a promising functional profile for chicken semen cryopreservation, while the targeted molecular findings provide complementary insight into freeze-thaw-associated stress responses.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Plants utilize versatile leucine-rich repeat (LRR) proteins to perceive diverse pathogen-derived signals, thereby activating or suppressing defense responses. However, the specific roles of LRR-only proteins in pathogen-specific resistance remain largely unclear. Here, we show that allelic variations in an Arabidopsis thaliana LRR-only gene, LEUCINE-RICH REPEAT IMMUNE PROTEIN 1 (LRIP1), underlies dual functions in combating distinct pathogens. An allele common in arid regions confers resistance to Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato (Pst) bacteria via salicylic acid (SA) signaling pathway, whereas an allele enriched in high-precipitation regions protects against Botrytis cinerea fungus via camalexin biosynthesis. Divergence in promoter and coding sequences between the two alleles modulates gene expression and elicitor-associated immune responses, thereby promoting pathogen-specific complex formation with BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE 1 (BRI1)-ASSOCIATED RECEPTOR KINASE 1 (BAK1). Globally distributed A. thaliana accessions carry two distinct LRIP1 allele groups that correlate with local precipitation conditions. These findings demonstrate that a single LRR-only gene can evolve environmentally adapted alleles that optimize immunity against different pathogens in contrasting habitats.© 2026. The Author(s).
The vast majority of multi-exonic genes are alternatively spliced, generating diverse and cell-type-specific isoforms exhibiting functional differences. To better capture this heterogeneity using single-cell long-read sequencing data, we previously developed an exome-probe-based approach to enrich for exonic reads of target genes. While effective, this procedure is time-consuming and expensive. Real-time targeting offers a more cost-efficient solution for selectively sequencing reads of interest. Here, we performed real-time enrichment of exonic sequences of single-cell long reads by targeting spliced transcripts from 3377 genes implicated in brain functions and related diseases. Our approach increased the total number of spliced on-target reads to up to 1.82 times the control level. Notably, targeting lowly expressed subsets yielded spliced on-target reads 1.39 to 1.89 times the control. While these gains do not rival those achieved using chemical probe-based enrichment, they are sufficient to significantly enhance the power of downstream statistical analyses, such as testing for cell-type-specific isoform abundance. Specifically, compared to naïve single-cell long-read sequencing, our approach yielded 2.42 times as many genes with significant differences in isoform usage between neurons and glia. Real-time targeting confirms cell-type-specific splicing in two early Mapt exons and newly reveals such events in > 100 genes, including Bak1 and Atp8a1. Overall, our findings highlight real-time targeting as a versatile method for enhancing resolution in detecting differential isoform usage across cell types in single-cell long-read data, offering the potential to obtain a fuller view of cellular isoform diversity.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press and Science Press on behalf of the Beijing Institute of Genomics, Chinese Academy of Sciences / China National Center for Bioinformation and Genetics Society of China.
The red sea urchin Loxechinus albus is a species of high commercial importance in Chilean aquaculture, whose performance is strongly influenced by environmental conditions such as temperature. The gut microbiota plays a central role in host physiology; however, its interaction with stress-induced molecular responses remains poorly understood. This study evaluated the effects of thermal stress on food consumption, gut microbial composition, oxidative status, and immune- and stress-related gene expressions in L. albus gut. Sea urchins were exposed to control (16 °C) and elevated temperature (22 °C) conditions for 7 and 14 days. Gut microbiota was characterized using 16S rRNA sequencing, while oxidative damage to DNA and proteins was quantified. Gene expression analyses targeted markers of apoptosis (casp3, casp10, bak1), cellular growth (mtor, raptor), stress response (hsp70), and immune regulation (nfκb, foxo). Thermal stress induced a marked reduction in microbial alpha diversity and promoted a shift toward opportunistic taxa. Heat-stressed individuals exhibited significantly increased oxidative DNA damage, whereas protein oxidation remained unchanged. Gene expression analyses revealed early upregulation of casp3, casp10, nfκb, foxo, and hsp70, suggesting activation of apoptotic, immune, and stress-response pathways. In contrast, bak1, mtor, and raptor showed limited or no significant modulation. These findings demonstrate that thermal stress disrupts host-microbiota homeostasis and induces oxidative and molecular responses in L. albus. This integrative response provides insight into mechanisms underlying physiological performance under thermal stress, with important implications for aquaculture sustainability.
Plants restrict microbial entry into their leaves by closing their stomata upon recognition of conserved microbe-associated molecular patterns (MAMPs). The hydathode pore is a stomata-like opening on leaf margins which are thought to lack MAMP recognition and to be an entry point for microbial pathogens. Here, we observe marginal hydathode pore closure in response to abscisic acid, and the MAMPs chitin and flg22 in Arabidopsis thaliana leaves. Hydathode pore closure occurs within 3-9 hours of chitin exposure and pores reopen after 12 hours. Under conditions when hydathode pores are open, external fluids enter approximately 80% of the marginal hydathodes within a leaf. After hydathode pores close in response to ABA, chitin or flg22, external fluids accumulate in under 20% of hydathodes with in a leaf. MAMP-induced hydathode restriction was similar for dye or fluorescent Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato bacteria and was dependent on pattern recognition receptors including CERK1 for chitin and FLS2 for flg22. Chitin-induced hydathode limitation was also dependent on the NADPH oxidase RBOHF and was partially hampered in rbohD, lyk4 lyk5, bak1-5 bkk1, slac1-3 slah3-1 knockout mutants. Together, this work indicates that MAMP recognition regulates entry into the hydathode and induces transient closure of the hydathode pores.
Mitchell-Riley syndrome (MRS) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by pathogenic variants in the RFX6 gene and characterized by neonatal diabetes, pancreatic hypoplasia with exocrine insufficiency, intestinal atresia, and hepatobiliary abnormalities. Despite increasing recognition of the syndrome, the number of reported cases remains limited and clinical management remains challenging. We aimed to report a preterm infant with an extremely low birth weight and a truncating RFX6 mutation to highlight the severe metabolic instability that may occur in such patients.We report a preterm male infant born at 31 weeks of gestation with a birth weight of 880 g who presented with duodenal atresia, severe hyperglycemia beginning on postnatal day 4, chronic diarrhea, pancreatic exocrine insufficiency, and cholestasis. Imaging revealed gallbladder aplasia and pancreatic hypoplasia. Genetic analysis identified a homozygous truncating variant in the RFX6 gene (c.1573C>T; p.Arg525Ter), confirming the diagnosis of MRS. Despite intensive supportive therapy, including insulin infusion, nutritional support, and management of pancreatic insufficiency, the patient developed persistent metabolic instability and progressive liver dysfunction and died on postnatal day 195.This case highlights MRS in an extremely low birth weight preterm infant and underscores the severe metabolic instability associated with truncating RFX6 mutations. Early recognition and genetic diagnosis are essential for appropriate management and genetic counseling.© 2026 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42214606 is a review article
Adult pancreatic tissue contains cell populations with latent regenerative potential, but the processes governing their expansion and differentiation into endocrine lineages remain unclear.Adult human pancreatic cells obtained from donor tissue were isolated and expanded and analyzed for lineage potential using single-cell RNA sequencing, flow cytometry, and functional assays. A CD9+ PROCR+ RGS16+ subpopulation, termed islet progenitor-like cells (IPCs), was evaluated for proliferative capacity and differentiation potential.IPCs exhibited robust proliferative capacity and, upon differentiation, formed insulin- and glucagon-secreting organoids. Treatment of IPCs with the small molecule ISX9 induced expression of key transcription factors RFX6 and NEUROD1 through calcium-dependent chromatin remodeling mediated by NFAT recruitment of p300 and displacement of histone deacetylases (HDAC1-3). Pharmacologic inhibition of HDACs further enhanced IPC maturation and glucose-stimulated insulin secretion.These findings define the molecular and epigenetic mechanisms driving the expansion and differentiation of adult IPCs into functional islet-like organoids, providing a foundation for future regenerative approaches using adult pancreatic tissue as a renewable source for endocrine cell replacement.© 2026 Darden, Kuncha, Kirkland, Mattke, Vasu, Saravanan, Naziruddin and Lawrence.
Accurate interpretation of loss-of-function (LOF) variants in MODY genes is essential for diagnosis but remains challenging, particularly for variants that are predicted to escape nonsense-mediated decay (NMD). We aimed to systematically evaluate the pathogenicity of LOF variants, stratified by NMD-triggering and NMD-escape status, across all known MODY genes.We analysed ultra-rare LOF variants (minor allele frequency <1 in 10,000) in 5171 individuals of European ancestry with suspected MODY, compared with 155,501 population-based control individuals from UK Biobank. LOF variants in ABCC8, GCK, HNF1A, HNF4A, HNF1B, INS, KCNJ11, NEUROD1, PDX1 and RFX6 were classified as NMD-triggering or NMD-escape. We tested for gene-level enrichment in cases vs controls. For novel associations, we performed replication in additional MODY patients, assessed familial co-segregation, and undertook in silico protein modelling.LOF variants were significantly enriched in all MODY genes except ABCC8 and KCNJ11. Both NMD-triggering and NMD-escape variants were enriched in GCK, HNF1A and HNF4A, consistent with haploinsufficiency (all p<10-3). HNF1B and RFX6 showed enrichment only for NMD-triggering variants, while NEUROD1 and PDX1 were enriched only for NMD-escape variants. A novel finding was the significant enrichment of only NMD-escape LOF variants in INS (OR=181, p<10-5). Including replication in additional MODY patients, we identified eight families with 17 affected individuals carrying INS variants. These variants co-segregated with diabetes (logarithm of the odds score=3), included one de novo case, and were absent from >800,000 population control individuals. Individuals presented with diabetes at a median age of 19 years, had median BMI of 22.9 kg/m2, were negative for islet autoantibodies, and had low type 1 diabetes genetic risk scores. Compared with INS missense MODY, diagnosis occurred approximately 10 years later in individuals with NMD-escape LOF variants. Protein modelling suggested that INS NMD-escape variants produce aberrant proinsulin molecules with unpaired B-chain cysteines, leading to milder misfolding.The pathogenicity of LOF variants in MODY genes depends on gene context and NMD status. Heterozygous NMD-escape LOF variants in INS are a novel cause of MODY. These findings provide systematic gene-level evidence to inform variant interpretation guidelines and improve the accuracy of MODY diagnosis in clinical practice.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41716817 is a review article
RFX6 maturity-onset diabetes of the young (RFX6-MODY) is a relatively new MODY subtype, with limited guidance on management, particularly in pregnancy. We report the clinical features and management of two female patients with RFX6-MODY and their progression during and post-pregnancy. These patients were diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) at ages 13 and 19 years, initially managed on dietary modification alone. They were subsequently diagnosed with RFX6-MODY during pregnancy following calculation of MODY probability. Both required insulin during pregnancy and delivered healthy babies at 38 weeks. Three months post-delivery, tirzepatide was started for one of our patients and she has shown significant glycaemic improvement and weight loss. To our knowledge, this is the first reported use of tirzepatide in RFX6-MODY.RFX6-MODY may present at a much earlier age than previously reported in the literature. Many patients with RFX6-MODY do not appear to require insulin at diagnosis. Tirzepatide may be a beneficial therapeutic option for managing patients with RFX6-MODY who have adequate β-cell function. Pregnancy management in patients with RFX6-MODY is similar to type 2 DM, although higher insulin doses may be required.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41422049 is a review article
Maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY) can present after the age of 40 years, but its prevalence and clinical characteristics, and the utility of simple clinical features for selecting cases in this age group, remain poorly defined. We analyzed whole-exome and clinical data from 51,619 individuals with diabetes diagnosed after age 40 years from one U.K. and one U.S. cohort. The prevalence of MODY due to a pathogenic variant in the 10 most common MODY genes was 1 in 191 (0.52%) in the U.K. cohort and 1 in 633 (0.16%) in the U.S. cohort. For subtypes with treatment implications (i.e., GCK, HNF1A, HNF4A, ABCC8, KCNJ11), prevalence was 1 in 234 and 1 in 935 in the U.K. and U.S. cohorts, respectively. GCK-MODY was most common, followed by HNF4A and the lower-penetrance RFX6-MODY. Clinical features of MODY largely overlapped with non-MODY diabetes either treated with insulin from diagnosis or not. Only BMI, HbA1c and HDL values were statistically different between patients with MODY and those with non-MODY diabetes in both cohorts (P < 0.0018 for all). Applying strict clinical criteria (i.e., BMI <25, noninsulin treated, and parent with diabetes) only increased the MODY diagnosis to 2.64% and 0.87% in the respective cohorts but missed >86% of cases. MODY is prevalent in later-onset diabetes and has potential for targeted therapy but is challenging to identify.Maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY) can present later in life, and diagnosis can enable precision treatment. However, individuals with later-onset diabetes are rarely tested. How common is MODY in people diagnosed with diabetes after age 40 years? Can they be identified clinically? MODY affects 1 in 191-633 individuals with diabetes onset after 40 years, but clinical features alone cannot reliably identify them. MODY is relatively common in later-onset diabetes but difficult to detect clinically, limiting routine genetic testing in this group.© 2025 by the American Diabetes Association.
Diagnosing maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY) is clinically important for treatment and prognosis. However, phenotype-based studies of MODY are prone to ascertainment bias, limiting accurate estimates of its population prevalence and phenotypic spectrum.To apply a genotype-first approach to determine the population prevalence, penetrance, and all-cause mortality associated with MODY.We analyzed exome sequencing and clinical data from 454 275 UK Biobank participants to identify pathogenic variants in 10 established MODY genes. We assessed variant prevalence, age-dependent diabetes penetrance, and all-cause mortality by genetic etiology over a mean follow-up of 13.4 years.Pathogenic MODY variants were present in 1 in 1052 individuals and accounted for 1.48% of diabetes cases diagnosed before age 40. GCK variants were the most frequent (1 in 2787), demonstrating high penetrance (mean HbA1c 8.8 mmol/mol higher; 94.5% with prediabetes or diabetes) but no significant association with all-cause mortality (P = .09). Variants in other MODY genes showed lower penetrance, with 12% of carriers developing diabetes by age 40 and 31.6% by age 60 and showed no increase in all-cause mortality (P = .89). Penetrance varied by genetic etiology, with HNF1A showing the highest penetrance and PDX1, NEUROD1, and RFX6 the lowest. Parental history of diabetes and polygenic risk for type 2 diabetes were important modifiers of penetrance (hazard ratios 2.54 and 1.52, respectively; P < 3.9 × 10-3).This large-scale genotype-first study provides novel insights into MODY in the population. These findings have broad implications for genetic counseling, personalized treatment strategies, and healthcare resource allocation.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
This paper investigates the influence of weak but structured high-frequency disturbances on the linear system identification of lateral vehicle dynamics using experimental measurement data. The analyzed dataset originates from previously conducted driver-in-the-loop experiments involving free-driving and slalom maneuvers. Frequency-domain analysis confirms that the dominant vehicle dynamics are concentrated below approximately 2-3 Hz, while a weak but persistent narrow-band disturbance around 10 Hz is consistently present in the steering signal. To investigate the influence of this disturbance on identification, different disturbance-handling strategies are compared, including notch filtering, low-pass filtering, ARX, IV-ARX, and ARMAX model structures. The comparison considers prediction performance, model complexity, identified dynamics, and robustness under different measurement conditions. The results show that increasing the deterministic model order is generally less effective than either targeted preprocessing or explicit noise modeling. When the disturbance is spectrally well separated from the relevant vehicle dynamics, notch filtering combined with a low-order ARX model provides the most effective solution. If preprocessing is not possible, ARMAX models achieve comparable performance by representing part of the disturbance through the noise model. IV-ARX models are used as a benchmark to verify that the main conclusions remain valid under possible closed-loop bias. Based on these findings, a practical engineering workflow is proposed for selecting appropriate disturbance-handling strategies according to the spectral characteristics of the measured signals. The proposed methodology provides guidance for robust control-oriented identification of lateral vehicle dynamics using realistic measurement data.
Infra-hepatic inferior vena cava (IVC) balloon occlusion is an effective strategy for reducing intraoperative bleeding during precision liver surgery, yet rapid balloon inflation can produce abrupt transient deviations in downstream venous pressure that are not yet quantitatively characterized. Current practice relies on operator experience, with no quantitative framework to balance occlusion efficacy against downstream pressure safety. A computational fluid dynamics (CFD) model of the balloon-occluded IVC was developed in ANSYS 2025 R2 with two-way fluid-structure interaction (FSI), Carreau-Yasuda blood rheology, and a balloon described by an Ogden hyperelastic model; the flow regime was laminar (Re ≈ 254). Reduced-order ARX models of four input-output subsystems were identified from CFD-generated data, and a model predictive control (MPC) strategy was formulated to penalize downstream pressure overshoot through a weighted cost function. The identified models achieved training normalized root-mean-square errors of 0.0363 to 0.1164 and out-of-sample validation errors of 0.1224 to 0.2381. Conventional sigmoid inflation induced a 45.82% overshoot in downstream pressure (Paft); the optimal input signal (q = [0, 1, 0, 0], λ = 0.1) reduced this to 6.05%, a reduction of 39.77 percentage points, while preserving >90% flow occlusion at UF = 3 × 104 Pa. The proposed framework offers a quantitative basis for balloon-occlusion device design that limits downstream pressure overshoot, motivating subsequent benchtop, ex vivo, and in vivo validation.
Day-to-day fluctuations in heart rate variability (HRV) are widely used to infer autonomic recovery in endurance athletes. However, the extent to which HRV can be forecast one day ahead from readily available external and internal training-load metrics remains unclear. In this study, we evaluated whether machine learning models can predict next-day HRV in competitive cyclists using the two load descriptors most commonly collected in practice: external load quantified as total mechanical work in kilojoules (kJ) and internal load quantified as session rating of perceived exertion (RPE).Seven male competitive endurance cyclists were monitored daily for sixteen weeks, yielding 590 athlete-days of longitudinal data (seven independent time series). Two machine learning approaches-support vector regression (SVR) and extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost)-were compared with a conventional autoregressive model with exogenous inputs (ARX) as a traditional time-series benchmark. Each model was trained individually per athlete under two predictor scenarios (using past HRV-only or past HRV plus kJ and RPE) and across multiple lag orders (1, 4, 7, 10 and 14 days), with forecasting accuracy expressed as root mean squared error (RMSE).Across all athletes, adding kJ and RPE to the past HRV produced only modest reductions in RMSE relative to HRV-only models. XGBoost achieved the lowest one-step-ahead RMSE at short lag, while all models converged at longer lag orders. Predictive accuracy differed markedly between athletes, reflecting the well-known individual nature of autonomic responses.These findings suggest that the two routinely collected load descriptors examined here-total work (kJ) and RPE-add limited information beyond recent HRV history for forecasting next-day HRV, and that broader contextual variables are likely required to meaningfully improve athlete monitoring.
Wearable devices generate continuous, high-resolution physiological data that offer opportunities for real-time assessment of stress, arousal, and early physiological deterioration, but existing pipelines often treat variability as nuisance noise or rely on labeled classifiers. We present a computational approach for subject-adaptive temporal risk detection that explicitly separates conditional mean and variance dynamics in high-dimensional multisubject sensor data.The proposed penalized panel ARX-GARCHX model integrates subject-specific baselines, shared autoregressive dynamics, sparse multimodal covariate effects, and covariate-dependent volatility. It produces an exceedance-based risk score that estimates the conditional probability of crossing an individualized physiological threshold. Simulation experiments across stable, seasonal, transient-regime, and sustained-regime settings showed that modeling covariate-driven variance improves recovery of threshold-exceedance risk when volatility is structured. In the Wearable Stress and Affect Detection (WESAD) demonstration, the score provided an interpretable, label-free temporal summary that separated stress-associated windows more clearly than raw heart-rate summaries and remained lightweight for streaming use.Variance-aware penalized panel modeling provides a reproducible methodology for converting noisy wearable streams into subject-adaptive risk-state scores. It is intended for translational feature extraction, with prospective validation required before clinical decision support.Not applicable. This study is a methodological article that uses publicly available secondary data and does not constitute a clinical trial.© 2026. The Author(s).
Stem cell-derived glucagon-(α) and insulin-producing (β) cells allow to engineer in vitro biomimetics of islet of Langerhans, the micro-organ controlling glycemia; however, a knowledge gap in the mechanism by which human stem cell-derived α and β cells are specified persists. Mouse studies postulated that Aristaless Related homeobox (Arx) and Paired box 4 (Pax4) transcription factors cross-inhibit each other in endocrine progenitors to promote α/β fate allocation, respectively. To test this model in human, we combine lineage labelling with single-cell multiomic analysis in our newly generated ARXCFP/CFP; PAX4mCherry/mCherry knock-in induced pluripotent stem cell reporter line. Lineage tracing, proteomic and gene regulatory network analysis and potency assays reveal a human specific regulation of α/β cell fate allocation. Pharmacological perturbations previously proposed to trigger α-to-β transdifferentiation or identified by our gene regulatory network lead to enhanced endocrine induction and directed α/β cell fate. Studying mechanisms of endocrinogenesis and fate segregation enables the engineering of islets in vitro, and has broader implications for cell-replacement therapy, disease modelling and drug screening.© 2026. The Author(s).
Extracting reliable damage-sensitive features from sparse sensor networks under Environmental and Operational Variations (EOV) remains a critical challenge in Structural Health Monitoring (SHM). The purpose of this study is to overcome this limitation by proposing a novel, data-driven framework utilizing a cost-effective network of high-sensitivity triaxial roving accelerometers. The methodology integrates an AutoRegressive with eXogenous inputs (ARX) model and Wavelet Packet Decomposition (WPD) to extract robust, damage-sensitive features from complex vibration data. To handle the high-dimensionality of the extracted signals and achieve optimal multi-sensor data fusion, Block-wise Principal Component Analysis (PCA) is employed as a signal sanitation and feature reduction tool. This algorithmic pipeline is applied to a full-scale bridge pier subjected to RC jacketing. The structural enhancements and dynamic behavior shifts post-retrofitting were statistically quantified using the Mahala Nobis distance. The analysis revealed a 41.2% attenuation in median vibration intensity and successfully verified the structural improvements at a 99% confidence interval, clearly distinguishing the retrofitting effects from ambient noise. The proposed framework successfully isolates true structural changes from EOV, providing a reliable non-destructive evaluation tool for continuous monitoring in practical civil engineering applications.
Current data on neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) of the gallbladder and cystic duct (GB-NETs) are highly limited, and the available evidence, largely derived from cancer registry data, suggests that these tumors exhibit a substantially more aggressive clinical behavior than NETs arising at other anatomical sites. We analyzed 26 GB-NETs. Female-to-male ratio: 1.9:1; median age: 50 years. They were typically incidental small (median: 0.8 cm, range: 0.08-2.3 cm) tumors, with 81% classified as grade 1 (G1), either pT1 or pT2, and 38% showing a paraganglioma-like pattern at least focally. Body/fundus tumors were mostly polypoid while neck/cystic duct examples showed mural growth. Symplastic pleomorphism was found in 11%, pseudoglandular structures in 50% and psammomatous intraluminal calcifications in 15%. Pancreatic polypeptide, somatostatin, and gastrin were detected in 5/7 (71%), 5/8 (62.5%), and 4/7 (57%) tested cases, respectively. ISLET1 and ARX were diffusely expressed in all 5 tested cases. Cholesterolosis was common, and six appeared to arise within cholesterol polyps. None had any evidence of metastasis and all 12 patients with available follow-up were alive without disease after a median follow-up of 30 months. Critical review of the literature (79 bona-fide GB-NETs) showed that tumors > 2 cm and grade 3 (G3) were enriched among metastatic GB-NETs. In conclusion, GB-NETs are generally indolent neoplasms, in contrast to gallbladder neuroendocrine carcinomas. Tumor size and grade may help predict metastatic potential, while the relatively frequent paraganglioma-like morphology, often associated with diffuse somatostatin expression, can represent a diagnostic pitfall. Their frequent association with cholesterol polyps also suggests a possible etiopathogenetic link.© 2026. The Author(s).
Recent studies have identified ATRX/DAXX and PDX1/ARX as biomarkers defining novel pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor (PanNET) subtypes, while the clinical significance of somatostatin receptors (SSTRs) remains incompletely understood.We retrospectively analyzed 58 surgically resected primary PanNET samples and performed immunohistochemical evaluation of ATRX, DAXX, ARX/PDX1, and SSTR2a/5. The primary goal was to assess associations between biomarker expression and clinicopathological parameters. Secondary analyses explored relationships with recurrence-free survival (RFS), cancer-specific survival (CSS), and overall survival (OS). Quantitative expression scores were calculated, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was performed, and survival outcomes were assessed using Kaplan-Meier analysis.The loss of DAXX or ATRX expression (86.3%) was more commonly observed in nonfunctional PanNETs cases compared to the functional PanNET group (13.7%) (p = 0.02). SSTR5 positive tumors were associated with longer median OS (73 vs. 7 months, p < 0.001) and RFS (36 vs. 6 months, p = 0.005). However, the difference in OS was not confirmed by Kaplan-Meier analysis (log-rank p = 0.078). In PanNETs ≥ 2 cm, a tumor size cutoff of 2.45 cm predicted ATRX/DAXX mutations with 96.9% sensitivity and 75% specificity (AUC 0.922, p = 0.007), in a cohort of 36 patients.ATRX/DAXX loss was more prevalent in nonfunctional PanNETs (p = 0.02). Although SSTR5-positive tumors were associated with longer median OS, this difference was not confirmed by Kaplan-Meier analysis. Furthermore, tumor size demonstrates predictive value for ATRX/DAXX loss in PanNETs ≥2 cm, highlighting the relationship between tumor morphology and molecular alterations, however, this finding remains hypothesis-generating and requires further validation.Copyright © 2026 Ciobanu, Martin, Fica, Herlea, Tudose, Vasilescu, Sandra and Barbu.
This study investigates the structural behavior of thin-walled cylindrical shells fabricated from stainless-steel pipe under uniform axial compressive loading. Pursuant to this goal, a combined experimental and FE parametric study was performed to develop more generalized design insights for long stainless-steel shell structures. Seventeen specimens with different diameters, thicknesses, and lengths were tested to characterize load-displacement behavior and failure modes. Digital image correlation (DIC) was employed to assess the initial geometric imperfections of the shells, which were then introduced to the numerical models. A nonlinear finite element analysis (FEA) was conducted employing ANSYS software to validate these models against the experimental results. The FE model closely matched the experimental results when considering the peak axial loads of the six tested pipes, with FEA/Test ratios ranging from 0.998 to 1.013 (a difference of approximately - 0.20% to + 1.3%) and an average absolute percentage error of about 0.61%. Based on the validated models, a parametric study using finite element analysis was conducted to evaluate the effects of the radius-to-thickness and height-to-diameter ratios on buckling capacity. Finally, an autoregressive with exogenous inputs (ARX) model was developed as a design-oriented predictor to support the preliminary estimation of nonlinear buckling capacity within the experimentally validated parameter space under uniform axial compression. The proposed capacity model accounts for imperfection amplitude effects and facilitates the evaluation of long stainless-steel shell structures during the design phase.© 2026. The Author(s).
The lack of validated stage-specific biomarkers hampers the understanding of Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression and clinical translation. Current transcriptomic methods often produce unstable results with limited stage discrimination. We aimed to develop an explainable machine learning pipeline to identify robust, interpretable gene signatures linked to distinct AD neuropathological stages. We analyzed multi-region transcriptomic data from the MSBB cohort using a multi-class XGBoost-SHAP-driven framework. Class imbalance was addressed using SMOTE, and model robustness was assessed through cross-validation and permutation-based validation. Our pipeline accurately classified Early, Mid, and Late Braak stages and achieved accurate Braak stage classification (regional ROC AUCs up to 0.76). The method identified a concise set of high-confidence, stage-specific genes, showing minimal signature overlap (~ 1.7%). Key validated novel candidate biomarkers included ARX (Early), MKNK2 (Mid), and SLC25A16/NEURL1B (Late), linked to GABAergic, inflammatory, mitochondrial, and synaptic pathways. This explainable framework overcomes key limitations of conventional analyses, providing a stable, interpretable gene signature for AD staging. It establishes a robust method for transcriptional biomarker discovery and offers new biological insight into AD progression, highlighting potential stage-specific therapeutic targets.© 2026. The Author(s).
With recent advances in high-throughput proteomic technologies, population-scale plasma proteomics datasets, often linked to extensive genetic and phenotypic information, have become increasingly accessible. Yet the relationships between circulating protein levels, brain imaging phenotypes, and risk for neurological and psychiatric disorders remain largely unexplored. Proteome-wide association studies offer a promising approach for elucidating biological mechanisms that connect genetic variation to complex brain-related traits and diseases. In this study, we integrated protein quantitative trait loci (pQTLs) from the two largest plasma proteomic resources (the UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project [UKB-PPP] and Ferkingstad et al. [deCODE]) with genome-wide association studies of brain imaging-derived phenotypes in UK Biobank using Mendelian randomization and colocalization analyses. We identified 120 cis and 20 trans associations between plasma proteins and imaging phenotypes and validated these findings using brain tissue-derived proteomic and transcriptomic datasets. Multivariable Mendelian randomization revealed eleven plasma proteins (coding genes APOE, ARL3, MICB, NSF, RHOC, RSPO3, ENPP2, BTN2A1, EIF2AK3, MRVI1, and OPLAH ) with significant direct effects on the risk of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia. Single-cell expression and pathway enrichment analyses further revealed cell-type-specific effects and distinct biological processes underlying these protein- disease associations. Together, these findings demonstrate robust links between plasma protein variation and brain structure, delineate protein-disease pathways, and highlight the cellular and molecular mechanisms that contribute to neurobiological diversity and pathology.
Background: Pathogenic variants in genes that cause skeletal dysplasias may, instead of producing classic findings, present in children with a phenotype whose hip radiographs resemble bilateral Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease (LCPD). Objectives: This study aims to investigate the efficacy of genetic diagnosis in children with waddling gait or joint pain and radiological evidence of hip dysplasia mimicking bilateral LCPD. Methods: Forty children with bilateral femoral head dysplasia from 36 families were included in the study. Exome sequencing was performed, and all identified variants were confirmed within the families by Sanger sequencing. Results: Twelve pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants were identified: six in COL2A1, two in COL9A1, and one each in RPL13, EIF2AK3, DNAJC21, and ARSK; six are novel. The diagnostic yield was 33.3% (12/36) in 12 families. Additionally, variants of uncertain significance (VUS), proposed as causative, were detected in five families (5/36:13.9%): two in COL11A1 and one each in COL9A3, COL11A2, and ARSK. Based on bilateral epiphyseal dysplasia of the femoral head, it was observed that seven families may be compatible with mild spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia and six families may have Stickler syndrome. Notably, among these, three children carrying closely localized pathogenic/likely pathogenic variants in COL2A1 shared a novel phenotype characterized by short stature and bilateral irregular femoral heads. In four families, EIF2AK3, DNAJC21, and ARSK were also responsible for the ultra-rare disorders Wolcott-Rallison syndrome, bone marrow failure syndrome 3, and mucopolysaccharidosis 10, respectively. Conclusions: This study, for the first time, investigated the frequency of associated genes in a pediatric cohort with bilateral hip dysplasia resembling LCPD, providing important information for pathogenesis and differential diagnosis.
Monogenic diabetes mellitus (MDM) comprises a heterogeneous group of rare disorders caused by single-gene defects. Data from highly consanguineous Middle Eastern populations remain scarce, which limits the application of precision medicine in these regions.To characterize the genetic spectrum, clinical features, and inheritance patterns of MDM within a large Saudi Arabian cohort.Exome sequencing (ES) and clinical analysis were conducted for 135 Saudi patients from 86 unrelated families. Variants were classified according to ACMG guidelines.The cohort (52.6% male) exhibited a high consanguinity rate of 81%. A molecular diagnosis (Pathogenic/likely pathogenic) was achieved in 73% of families, with autosomal recessive inheritance predominating. Variant of uncertain significance (VUS) accounted for 15% of families. Leading clinical subtypes included MODY (33.3%), syndromic diabetes (27.4%), and permanent neonatal diabetes (23.7%). The most frequently implicated genes were INSR (13%), EIF2AK3 (12%), INS (11%), and GCK (11%). Furthermore, seven novel variants were identified.MDM in Saudi Arabia is characterized by a high burden of autosomal recessive forms, including neonatal and syndromic diabetes, reflecting population structure and consanguinity. These findings highlight the importance of early genetic testing to guide management and genetic counseling.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
To investigate the regulatory effect and mechanism of nuclear fragile X mental retardation-interacting protein 1 (NUFIP1) on the apoptosis of dendritic cells (DCs) in septic mice.Nufip1+/- C57BL/6J mice were generated, and Western blotting was performed to verify the protein expression level of NUFIP1 in splenic DCs. A total of 48 SPF male wild-type (WT) mice and Nufip1+/- mice were divided into the sham group (18 mice) and the sepsis group (30 mice). Three independent replicate experiments were conducted, and mice were grouped using a random number table in each trial. The cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) procedure was performed to establish the sepsis model in the sepsis group; mice in the Sham group only underwent laparotomy and cecal separation without ligation. Twenty-four hours after operation, orbital blood was collected. The mice were then sacrificed, and heart, lung, liver, kidney tissues as well as spleens were harvested for isolation and extraction of splenic DCs. Flow cytometry was applied to detect the apoptosis rate of splenic DCs. Western blotting was used to determine the protein expression levels of apoptosis-related proteins including caspase-3, Bcl-2, heat shock protein 5 (HSPA5), eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 alpha kinase 3 (EIF2AK3), phosphorylated EIF2AK3 (p-EIF2AK3), eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2A (EIF2A), phosphorylated EIF2A (p-EIF2A), activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4) and DNA damage-inducible transcript 3 protein (DDIT3) in splenic DCs. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was adopted to detect the serum levels of interleukins (IL-2, IL-4, IL-10), transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) and interferon-γ (IFN-γ). Hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining was performed to observe the injury of heart, lung, liver and kidney under light microscope. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) morphology of splenic DCs was observed under a laser confocal microscope. An additional 20 WT mice and 20 Nufip1+/- mice were respectively assigned to the sham group and sepsis group, with 10 animals in each subgroup. The 7-day survival rate after CLP was observed in all groups.Western blotting results showed that the protein expression level of NUFIP1 in splenic DCs of Nufip1+/- mice was lower than that of WT mice (NUFIP1/β-actin: 1.080±0.233 vs. 2.178±0.440, P<0.05), indicating the successful construction of NUFIP1 gene-deficient mice. Flow cytometry results revealed that the apoptosis rate of splenic DCs at 24 h after CLP in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group was higher than that in the WT sepsis group [(43.41±1.70)% vs. (30.43±4.99)%, P<0.05]. Meanwhile, compared with the WT sepsis group, the protein expression level of caspase-3 in splenic DCs was increased, while the protein expression level of Bcl-2 was decreased in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group (caspase-3/β-actin: 1.23±0.17 vs. 0.59±0.14, Bcl-2/β-actin: 0.46±0.13 vs. 0.72±0.08, all P<0.05). Compared with the WT sepsis group, the serum levels of IL-2 and IFN-γ in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group were decreased [IL-2 (ng/L): 8.54±0.27 vs. 209.70±1.56; IFN-γ (ng/L): 391.60±9.24 vs. 512.70±31.50, all P<0.05], whereas the serum levels of IL-4, IL-10 and TGF-β were increased [IL-4 (ng/L): 73.19±2.38 vs. 28.52±0.98; IL-10 (ng/L): 359.20±2.02 vs. 267.60±5.05; TGF-β (ng/L): 826.20±26.73 vs. 497.30±3.33, all P<0.05], and the IFN-γ/IL-4 ratio was decreased (7.98±0.46 vs. 16.59±0.40, P<0.05). These findings suggested that peripheral immunosuppression was further aggravated in Nufip1+/- mice during sepsis relative to WT mice. HE staining demonstrated that the injury of heart, lung, liver, kidney and other tissues in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group was markedly severer than that in the WT sepsis group, and the 7-day survival rate was lower in Nufip1+/- mice [20% (2/10) vs. 50% (5/10), P<0.05). Compared with the WT sepsis group, the protein expression levels of HSPA5, the ratio of p-EIF2AK3 to EIF2AK3, the ratio of p-EIF2A to EIF2A, ATF4 and DDIT3 in splenic DCs after CLP were all up-regulated in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group (HSPA5/β-actin: 0.93±0.38 vs. 0.34±0.02, p-EIF2AK3/EIF2AK3 ratio: 1.67±0.28 vs. 0.59±0.05, p-EIF2A/EIF2A ratio: 0.90±0.09 vs. 0.61±0.08, ATF4/β-actin: 1.71±0.77 vs. 1.60±0.48, DDIT3/β-actin: 1.18±0.12 vs. 0.56±0.34, all P<0.05). Laser confocal microscopy showed that the morphological changes of ER in splenic DCs of the Nufip1+/- sepsis group were more obvious than those in the WT sepsis group, presenting irregular distortion, swelling and fragmentation.NUFIP1 gene deficiency induces extensive apoptosis of splenic DCs in the early stage of sepsis, further aggravate peripheral immunosuppression, exacerbate multiple organ damage and worsen survival outcomes in septic animals.
Colorectal cancer remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, with resistance to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) posing a major therapeutic challenge. Thymoquinone (TQ), a bioactive compound derived from Nigella sativa, exhibits anticancer activity; however, its system-level effects in colorectal cancer are not fully understood.RKO colorectal cancer cells were treated with TQ, 5-FU, or their combination for 24 h, followed by genome-wide transcriptomic profiling using oligonucleotide microarrays. Drug interaction effects were assessed using a deviation-from-additivity model. Selected genes were validated by RT-qPCR and Western blotting, and functional relevance was evaluated using bioinformatics analyses.Combined treatment induced extensive network-level reprogramming of pathways associated with apoptosis, cellular stress response, and proliferation. Although no classical transcriptional synergy was observed, the interaction between TQ and 5-FU resulted in coordinated modulation of overlapping signaling networks. Key regulatory genes, including FAS and CYLD, were linked to enhanced pro-apoptotic signaling, whereas BIRC3 and EIF2AK3 were associated with adaptive or resistance-related responses.TQ acts as a context-dependent modulator of chemotherapy response, reshaping cell death and stress-related signaling networks rather than directly enhancing cytotoxicity. These findings highlight the potential of TQ to influence therapeutic responses in fluoropyrimidine-based treatment of colorectal cancer and support further functional and in vivo validation.Copyright © 2026 Kurowska, Kruszniewska-Rajs and Strzałka-Mrozik.
Dl-3-n-butylphthalide (NBP) is a small-molecule compound derived from celery seeds with anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and anti-apoptotic properties. Although NBP has shown protective effects in various kidney diseases, its role in traumatic cardiac arrest (TCA)-induced acute kidney injury (AKI) remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the effects of NBP on AKI following TCA in pigs and to determine whether these effects were associated with modulation of ERS/UPR-associated apoptotic readouts.We integrated ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI)-related bulk transcriptomic/microarray datasets with single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data. Differential expression analysis, Hallmark GSEA, and GSVA/ssGSEA were performed to quantify unfolded protein response (UPR) and apoptosis, focusing on proximal tubule (PT) cells via PT-state stratification, pseudo-bulk differential analysis, and pseudotime inference. For in vivo validation, healthy male Bama minipigs were randomized to Sham, TCA, or TCA+NBP groups. NBP (2.5 mg/kg, i.v.) was administered within 120 min after return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC). Serum creatinine (Cr) and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) were measured at 1, 2, 4, and 24 h; kidneys harvested at 24 h underwent H&E and TUNEL staining, immunohistochemistry (KIM-1, NGAL), and Western blotting (PERK, CHOP, caspase-12, caspase-3).Integrated bulk, single-cell, PT-state, pseudotime, and PT pseudo-bulk analyses prioritized a PT-enriched PERK-ATF4-CHOP-associated stress-apoptosis module, predominantly within injury-associated PT states. Along PT injury-state progression, HSPA5/GRP78, PERK/EIF2AK3, ATF4, CHOP/DDIT3, and apoptosis-related effectors showed coordinated transcript-level remodeling, suggesting engagement of an ERS/UPR-associated stress-apoptosis program rather than establishing pathway causality. Compared with TCA, NBP significantly reduced Cr and BUN, alleviated histopathologic injury, decreased KIM-1/NGAL expression, reduced TUNEL-positive cells and caspase-3 abundance, and was associated with lower PERK, CHOP, and caspase-12 protein expression.A PT-enriched PERK-ATF4-CHOP-associated ERS/UPR stress-apoptosis module was prioritized in injury-associated proximal tubule states during IRI-related AKI. In a porcine TCA model, NBP was associated with reduced early AKI severity within a 24 h observation window, accompanied by lower PERK/CHOP/caspase-related ERS/UPR-associated and apoptosis-related readouts.Copyright © 2026 Zhou, Du, Chen, Hu and Lan.
Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress contributes to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progression and promotes the development of a pro-tumorigenic microenvironment. Here, we demonstrate that selective inhibition of the ER-stress sensor PERK using AMG-PERK substantially restrains tumor development when administered during early carcinogenesis in a chemically induced HCC model. PERK inhibition reduced tumor burden, proliferation, and cell viability in vivo, and impaired the growth of HCC cells and patient-derived organoids in vitro. In parallel, AMG-PERK markedly reduced stromal activation, fibrosis, and inflammatory signaling within the tumor microenvironment. Mechanistic analyses indicated that ER-stress enhances tumor-stromal communication in part through increased secretion of the glycoprotein GP73, which can activate hepatic stellate cells via GRP78-dependent signaling. Blocking PERK or using GRP78-targeting antibodies reduced stellate cell activation and fibrogenic responses. Single-cell RNA sequencing and patient biopsies showed that PERK/EIF2AK3 and GP73/GOLM1 are upregulated in malignant hepatocytes and associated with poor clinical outcomes. Transcriptomic profiling further revealed that ER-stress drives oncogenic programs, including MYC signaling, epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, and inflammatory pathway activation, all of which were affected by pharmacological PERK inhibition. Together, these findings identify PERK signaling as a potential driver of malignant progression and microenvironmental remodeling in HCC and establish PERK inhibition as a promising therapeutic strategy to target both tumor cells and their stromal interactions during the initial stages of hepatocarcinogenesis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In our previous work, we isolated a novel bisphenol named capillarisenol C (Cap C) from Artemisia capillaris. The preliminary activity screening study showed that Cap C can cause cytotoxicity to hepatocellular carcinoma cells, but its mechanism is still largely unclear. In this study, we confirmed that Cap C sharply reduced the viabilities of HepG2 and Huh7 cells in a concentration- and time-dependent manner by using CCK8 assay. We aimed to investigate the molecular mechanism underlying the cytotoxicity of Cap C in liver cancer cells. The mechanism study results showed that the apoptosis inhibitor z-vad-fmk had no significantly effects on Cap C-induced HepG2 cell death. Further mechanistic studies showed that MAP1LC3-II (LC3-II) expression, LC3 puncta and GFP-p62 puncta were increased under Cap C treatment. In addition, Cap C-induced cell death was attenuated by treatment with chloroquine (CQ) or knockdown of autophagy-related gene 7 (ATG7). Western blot analysis showed that Cap C treatment led to activation ER stress protein sensors EIF2AK3/PERK and ERN1/IRE1 as well as EIF2A/eIF2α phosphorylation which have been reported to promote cytotoxic autophagy in cancer cells. Moreover, Cap C-induced cell death was abrogated with the ER stress inhibitor 4-phenylbutyrate (4-PBA) treatment. Our results demonstrated that Cap C led to autophagic cell death in liver cancers potentially by activating ER stress-related PERK- eIF2α axis and IRE1 upregulation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Obesity contributes to an increase in the prevalence of metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) and is diagnosed when hepatic steatosis is accompanied by at least one of the following factors: obesity or overweight, diabetes mellitus, or signs of metabolic abnormalities. MAFLD is a term that encompasses a wide range of liver disorders, ranging from simple steatosis to metabolic steatohepatitis, which can progress to cirrhosis and eventually, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Lipotoxicity generated by a high-fat diet causes liver inflammation, therefore, blocking inflammatory pathways is considered a promising strategy to prevent MAFLD progression. Inflammatory responses and oxidative stress are linked to endoplasmic reticulum stress, thereby activating the unfolded protein response (UPR) pathway. Although drugs such as resmetirom and semaglutide have recently been approved for the treatment of MAFLD, there is still a need to identify complementary therapies with different mechanisms of action. In this context, the present study evaluated the hepatoprotective effect of ellagic acid through the modulation of mRNAs of proteins in the UPR-Perk pathway in a murine model fed a high-calorie diet. This study revealed that the high-calorie diet activated the UPR pathway in response to stress, increasing the expression of the Grp78, Eif2ak3, Eif2α, Ddit3, Atf4, and Nfe2l2 genes in the liver and epididymal adipose tissue. Ellagic acid modulated the pathway genes and reduced levels of glucose, total cholesterol, HDL and VLDL, triglycerides, insulin, and glycated hemoglobin, and could therefore be considered a hepatoprotective agent.
To observe the effect of electroacupuncture (EA) at "Zusanli" (ST36) on blood glucose in acute hyperglycemia (AH), low-risk prediabetes (LRP) and high-risk prediabetes (HRP) mice, and to explore its underlying mechanisms in regulating the function of pancreatic β - cells in LRP.This study included 3 (AH, LRP and HRP) experiments. In each part of the experiments, C57BL/6J mice were randomly divided into normal, model and EA groups, with 6 mice in each group in AH and HRP experiments, and 18 mice in LRP experiment. The AH model was established by intraperitoneal injection of 2 g/kg glucose solution. After injection, EA (1 mA, 10 Hz) was applied to bilateral "Zusanli" (ST36) for 20 min. The LRP model was established by feeding the mice with high-fat diet for 1 week. From the 4th day when the impaired glucose tolerance criteria of prediabetes were reached, EA was applied to bilateral ST36, with the parameters being the same as above, once a day for a total of 4 times. In the HRP experiment, the animal model was established by feeding the mice with a high-fat diet for 8 weeks. Four weeks after beginning of the modeling, EA intervention (1 mA, 10 Hz) was performed at ST36 for 20 min, 3 times a week for a total of 12 times. Blood glucose and glucose tolerance were measured using a glucose meter, and serum glycated hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), insulin, and glucagon levels were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Changes of the pancreatic morphology were examined by HE staining. The expression levels of activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6), endoplasmic reticulum to nucleus signaling 1 (ERN1), eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 alpha kinase 3 (EIF2AK3), p21 (a cell cycle factor in cellular senescence), muscarinic acetylcholine receptor M2 (M2-AchR) and M3-AchR in the pancreatic β-cells were detected using Western blot, and the expression levels of pancreatic and duodenal homeobox factor-1 (PDX-1), beta-cell-specific transcription factor (MAFA) and forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) mRNAs in the pancreatic β-cells detected using quantitative real-time PCR. The insulin+/P21+ co-positive cells, and the number of ChAT+/c-fos+ co-labeled neurons in the pancreatic ganglia and CTB647/ChAT+/c-fos+ co-labeled neurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV) innervating the pancreas were determined using fluorescent immunohistochemistry.1) In the AH experiment, compared to the normal group, the blood glucose level in the model group was significantly increased 15 min after modeling (P<0.001), without pathological damage in the pancreas, and the serum insulin level was significantly increased after modeling (P<0.05). In comparison with the model group, the blood glucose levels at 30 and 60 min were significantly reduced (all P<0.01), while the serum insulin content was considerably increased (P<0.05) in the EA group, suggesting that EA lowered blood glucose by increasing stress-induced insulin level. 2) In the LRP experiment, compared to the normal group, the blood glucose levels from the 3rd day to the 7th day, and the glucose tolerance from 15 to 120 min were significantly elevated in the model group (P<0.001, P<0.05, P<0.01). No significant changes were found in the serum HbA1c, serum insulin and glucagon levels and in the morphological result of the pancreas tissue in the model group. In comparison with the model group, the blood glucose levels on day 4, 6 and 7, the glucose tolerance at 15, 30, 60 and 120 min were strikingly decreased (P<0.001, P<0.01, P<0.05), while the serum insulin content was notably increased (P<0.05) in the EA group. No significant changes were found in the serum HbA1c and glucagon levels after EA intervention. 3) In the HRP experiment, compared to the normal group, the blood glucose levels from 1 to 8 weeks, the glucose tolerance levels at 15, 30, 60 and 120 min, HbA1c and insulin levels were significantly increased (P<0.001, P<0.05, P<0.01), whereas the serum glucagon level was notably decreased (P<0.05) in the model group, accompanied with an increase of the pancreatic islet volume. Following EA intervention, the blood glucose at the 5th and 6th week, insulin and glucagon levels were considerably down-regulated in the EA group (P<0.01, P<0.05), accompanied with a slight decrease of the pancreatic islet volume. 4) In LRP mice, in comparison with the normal group, the expression levels of M2-AchR and M3-AchR protein were significantly decreased (P<0.05), while the expression levels of ATF6, ERN1, EIF2AK3, P21 and the number of insulin+/P21+ positive cells in the pancreas tissue were significantly increased (P<0.01, P<0.05) in the model group. In contrast to the model group, the EA group had an obvious increase in the number of CTB647/ChAT+/c-fos+ co-labeled neurons in the DMV and ChAT+/c-fos+ co-labeled neurons in the pancreatic ganglia, and the expression of M2-AchR and M3-AchR protein (P<0.05, P<0.01), and a notable down-regulation in the expression levels of ATF6, ERN1, EIF2AK3 and P21 proteins and in the number of pancreatic insulin+/P21+ positive cells (P<0.01, P<0.05). No significant changes were found in the number of CTB647/ChAT+/c-fos+ co-labeled neurons in the DMV and ChAT+/c-fos+ co-labeled neurons in the pancreatic ganglia in the model group, and in the mRNA expression levels of pancreatic PDX1, MAFA and FOXO1 in both model and EA groups.EA at ST36 can promote the restoration of blood glucose balance in the AH, LRP and HRP stages in mice, with the most effective phase being the LRP. The underlying mechanism may be related to its functions in activating vagus nerve to inhibit the endoplasmic reticulum stress in pancreatic β-cells.
Adult stem cells are thought to drive the regenerative potential of the endometrium and contribute to the pathogenesis of endometriosis; however, their identity and defining features remain to be characterized. Here, we used in vivo and in vitro approaches to demonstrate that cells with high aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 activity (ALDHHI cells) were long-lived progenitors in the endometrium with a higher organoid formation capacity, long-term passaging potential, and stemness gene signatures. Using lineage tracing with an Aldh1a1creERT2/+; Rosa26LSL-tdTomato reporter mouse, Aldh1a1+ epithelial cells expanded during postnatal development, Aldh1a1+ stromal cells expanded during estrous cycling, and both populations of Aldh1a1+ cells were present during postpartum repair. In response to ovariectomy or exogenous estradiol, we found that ALDH1A1+ cells localized to glandular crypts of the endometrium or throughout the luminal epithelium, respectively, indicating that their spatial localization is hormone-sensitive. Functionally, we found that selective ablation of ALDH1A1+ cells in Aldh1a1creERT2/+; Rosa26LSL-DTR mice decreased endometrial gland number and FOXA2 expression. These findings were recapitulated in the human endometrium, where endometrial epithelial organoids with high ALDH activity (ALDHHI cells) showed a higher organoid formation capacity than ALDHLO cells and displayed unique transcriptomes with fewer luminal-like ciliated cells. Overall, our studies indicate that ALDH1A1+ cells are hormone-sensitive adult stem cells in the endometrium with regenerative potential that are critical for endometrial development and function.© 2026, Tang et al.
Within the present study, the aim was to investigate the detailed mechanism of forkhead box protein A2 (FOXA2) in anoikis resistance in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). The levels of FOXA2 and ATP-binding cassette subfamily A member 8 (ABCA8) were assessed using public databases. The effects of overexpression (oe)-FOXA2, oe-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase 4 (NOX4) and sh-ABCA8 on NOX4 levels, aggregation, cell viability, apoptosis and apoptosis-related proteins were analyzed using reverse transcription quantitative PCR, microscopy, MTT assays, flow cytometry and western blotting. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and dual-luciferase reporter assays were employed to determine the interaction between FOXA2 and ABCA8. In LUAD, FOXA2 and ABCA8 mRNA levels were downregulated, with lower expression observed in in A549 cells compared with BEAS-2B cells; this pattern was pronounced under suspension culture, where A549 cells showed a further decrease in FOXA2/ABCA8 expression alongside a marked increase in NOX4 expression, compared with adherent culture. Furthermore, oe-ABCA8 inhibited NOX4 expression and reversed the effects of oe-NOX4 on enhancing cell aggregation, promoting cell viability, decreasing apoptosis, suppressing cleaved caspase-3 expression and increasing NOX4 level in suspended A549 cells. Furthermore, FOXA2 bound to the ABCA8 promoter region and oe-FOXA2 reversed the effects of ABCA8 silencing on suspended A549 cells, including enhanced cell aggregation, increased cell viability, reduced apoptosis, suppressed cleaved caspase-3 expression and elevated NOX4 expression. Collectively, FOXA2 enhanced ABCA8 transcription, leading to inhibition of NOX4 expression and subsequently alleviating anoikis resistance in A549 cells.Copyright © 2026, Spandidos Publications.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is refractory to immunotherapy due to its immunologically cold microenvironment and the scarcity of mutation-derived neoantigens. Here, we introduce NeoAPP, a computational tool designed to systematically decode neoantigens arising from tumor-specific transcripts (TSTs) generated by transcriptional dysregulation. By integrating multi-cohort transcriptomic data from 413 PDAC samples, NeoAPP identified a median of 351 neoantigens per sample, originating from 56 neoantigen-encoding TSTs (neoTSTs), exceeding mutation-derived neoantigens in both abundance and patient coverage. Mechanistic analyses show that noncanonical splicing junctions and transposable element activation drive neoantigen generation, while alternative promoter usage regulated by FOXA2 constitutes a potential major source of neoTSTs. In addition, a subset of neoTSTs was detectable in plasma-derived extracellular vesicles and was associated with patient survival, suggesting their potential as minimally invasive biomarkers. Vaccination with neoTSTs induced CD8+ T cell responses in HLA-A*02:01 and HLA-A*11:01 transgenic mice and suppressed tumor growth in syngeneic PDAC models. Collectively, this work establishes TST-derived neoantigens as a dominant and therapeutically actionable antigen reservoir in PDAC, advancing a transcriptome-guided framework for neoantigen discovery with potential to overcome immune resistance in low-mutation cancers.© 2026 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Endometrial cancer (EC) is a common female reproductive system malignancy, with metastasis being a major cause of poor prognosis. Intestinal flora imbalance is linked to gynecological tumor progression, and probiotics exhibit anti-tumor potential, but their regulatory mechanisms in EC migration/invasion/metastasis remain unclear.Bioinformatics analysis: TCGA database screened 1063 metastasis-related differentially expressed genes (DEGs), and 3915 DEGs after probiotic intervention, with 301 overlapping DEGs enriched in "ECM assembly", "autophagy regulation", and "epithelial migration" (GO analysis). GEPIA2 validated FOXA2, FN1, and CITED2 as survival-related genes in EC patients; STRING database identified p62 as a key FN1-interacting protein (interaction score=0.913). Cell experiments: Low-autophagy, high-FN1, highly invasive Ishikawa/KLE cells were selected. CCK-8 assay showed probiotic supernatant inhibited cell viability in a time/dose-dependent manner, with 1/32 and 1/64 dilutions chosen (based on IC50 values).qPCR/Western Blot confirmed probiotics downregulated FN1, upregulated p62 and LC3-II/LC3-I ratio (P < 0.01); Co-IP verified p62-FN1 interaction. p62 knockdown attenuated probiotic-induced FN1 degradation (P < 0.01), while p62 overexpression enhanced probiotics' inhibitory effect on EC cell migration/invasion (P < 0.001). Animal experiments: Nude mouse EC metastasis models showed significantly lower tumor fluorescence intensity in the probiotic intervention group (Vehicle+BS) than controls (P < 0.01). Western Blot revealed higher p62/LC3-II/LC3-I and lower FN1/N-cadherin in Vehicle + BS group (P < 0.01). Routine blood and liver/kidney function tests confirmed probiotic safety (P > 0.05).In conclusion, probiotics inhibit EC cell migration, invasion, and in vivo metastasis by activating autophagic flux and promoting p62-mediated autophagic degradation of FN1, with good safety, providing potential experimental evidence and target reference for clinical microecological adjuvant EC treatment.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
The transcription factor Forkhead box A2 (FOXA2) is a key regulator of endoderm development and mature endoderm-derived organs, including the liver, and tight control of its expression and activity is paramount for proper execution of developmental and homeostatic gene programs. Despite its established role as a pioneer transcription factor and transcriptional activator, FOXA2 exhibited robust repressive activity in differentiated liver cells. FOXA2 over-expression led to widespread repression of endogenous genes, including autorepression of the FOXA2 locus, and to dramatic suppression of viral regulatory elements. Among these, the SV40 virus early promoter-an essential driver of viral replication and cellular transformation-was strongly repressed by FOXA2. Repression was most pronounced on regulatory elements whose activity is dependent on nuclear factor κB (NF-κB). For the SV40 early promoter, NF-κB binding sites were necessary and sufficient for FOXA2-dependent repression. Consistent with this, the DNA binding domain of FOXA2 was sufficient to mediate repression of NF-κB-driven promoters. EMSA and immunoblot analyses indicated that FOXA2 does not repress these promoters through direct competition with NF-κB for DNA binding. Instead, FOXA2 expression was associated with reduced NF-κB protein abundance, at least in part through proteasome-dependent degradation, revealing a novel indirect mechanism by which FOXA2 constrains NF-κB-dependent transcription. Since many viruses, including SV40 and HIV-1, rely heavily on NF-κB activity to drive early gene expression and the transition from latency to productive infection, our findings suggest that FOXA2 may function as a host-derived, context-dependent restriction factor that limits viral gene expression in differentiated tissues.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Gastric cancer is a multifactorial disease characterized by complex interactions among transcriptional regulation, inflammation, metabolic adaptation, and angiogenesis. However, systemic molecular relationships linking these processes remain insufficiently understood. This study aimed to evaluate circulating levels of FOXA2 (Forkhead Box A2), Ang-1 (Angiopoietin-1), ApoE4 (Apolipoprotein E4), PEN-2 (Presenilin Enhancer-2), and NF-κB (Nuclear Factor kappa B) in gastric cancer patients and to explore their potential integrated role in disease biology. Serum samples were obtained from 40 patients with gastric cancer (20 preoperative and 20 postoperative) and 20 healthy controls. Protein levels were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), followed by statistical analysis. Serum levels of FOXA2, ApoE4, PEN-2, and NF-κB were significantly decreased in gastric cancer patients compared with healthy controls, whereas Ang-1 levels were significantly increased. No statistically significant differences were observed between preoperative and postoperative groups. These findings indicate coordinated dysregulation of transcriptional, inflammatory, metabolic, and angiogenic processes in gastric cancer. The identified FOXA2-NF-κB-PEN-2-ApoE4-Ang-1 axis may be considered an integrated circulating molecular profile reflecting tumor host interactions and may provide a potential foundation for future non-invasive biomarker development and translational research. This study proposes systems-level circulating molecular network model rather than isolated biomarker alterations.
The genetic dissection of complex traits in livestock continues to pose a significant challenge in the field of animal genetics and breeding. Although traditional genome-wide association studies (GWAS) are capable of localizing genetic variants associated with specific traits, they are insufficient to elucidate the underlying physiological mechanisms. An integrated analysis of multi-trait GWAS and multi-transcriptomic data systematically identifies key tissues and cell types influencing complex traits in beef cattle and elucidates their genetic regulatory basis.We systematically mapped tissue- and cell-type-specific regulatory architectures underlying 20 economically important traits in beef cattle. Tissue-level analyses revealed distinct trait-tissue associations: fatty acid traits, including C16:0 and C20:4, were enriched in liver; carcass traits, including marbling score and carcass weight, in renal cortex/medulla and longissimus dorsi muscle; meat-quality traits such as pH in cartilaginous tissues; and total fat content in bone marrow. At cellular resolution, analysis of eight trait-associated tissues identified 38 discrete cell types. Myofibers were significantly associated with most carcass traits, including rib-eye area and backfat thickness, whereas hepatocytes emerged as key regulators of fatty acid and meat-quality traits, such as C16:0 and crude protein content. Transcription factor analysis identified cell-type-specific regulators: TBX15, SOX6, and TCF12 in myofibers; FOXA2 and NR1H4 in hepatocytes; and IRF8 and IKZF1 in microglia. Notably, hepatocytes and microglia showed complementary, trait-specific association patterns: hepatocytes were enriched for C16:0 associated saturated fatty-acid metabolic pathways, while microglia were enriched for C16:1 and unsaturated fatty-acid-related pathways, suggesting potential cross-tissue coordination in lipid regulation.Our study links specific tissues and cell types to phenotypic variation in beef cattle and identifies core transcriptional regulators and pathways driving trait variation. These cell-resolved maps provide mechanistic insight into how genetic variation shapes economically important traits, offering a valuable resource for functional studies, cell-informed precision breeding strategies, and the design of large-scale molecular phenotyping.© 2026. The Author(s).
Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) represents a major risk that threatens human health worldwide and lacks effective therapies. Alcohol-induced inflammation and oxidative stress can trigger and aggravate liver steatosis and promote the development of diseases such as alcoholic liver fibrosis without effective treatment. Bruceine A (BA), a compound extracted from traditional Chinese medicine Brucea javanica, exhibits various activities in multiple diseases.This study aimed to investigate the hepatoprotective effect of BA and its underlying mechanism involving the farnesoid X receptor (FXR) / forkhead box A2 (FOXA2) pathway.Here, a mouse model of ALD was established with a Lieber-DeCarli liquid diet including 5% ethanol (v/v). Molecular dynamics simulations and cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA) were performed to assess the binding of BA to FXR. Chromatin immunoprecipitation-qPCR (ChIP-qPCR) and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to examine the transcriptional regulation of FOXA2 by FXR.The results showed that BA alleviated ethanol-induced liver injury and lipid accumulation, and reduced oxidative stress. BA exhibited affinity for FXR and attenuated ethanol-induced FXR inactivation. FXR bound to the promoter fragments of FOXA2 and enhanced its transcriptional activity and positively affected the expression level of FOXA2. Silencing FOXA2 attenuated the protective effect of BA against hepatic lipid deposition and oxidative stress in vitro.We first demonstrated that RBA could alleviate ALD, and further verified that RBA exerted protective effects through modulating FXR-FOXA2-mediated lipid metabolism and oxidative stress in vivo and in vitro.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Vocal fold fibrosis (VFF), characterized by excessive extracellular matrix deposition, leads to permanent voice impairment, with current therapies often failing to restore vocal function. Current treatments are limited by suboptimal efficacy and high recurrence rates. Dysregulated energy metabolism is emerging as a critical driver of fibrosis. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a central cellular energy sensor, exerts broad antifibrotic effects in multiple organs, yet the therapeutic potential of novel AMPK activators, such as Aldometanib, in VFF remains to be fully characterized. This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic potential and mechanisms of Aldometanib, a novel AMPK activator, in vocal fold fibrosis.A controlled animal study was conducted using an SD rat vocal fold injury model. Animals were randomly allocated into four groups: control, injury, and injury treated with low or high doses of Aldometanib. Primary vocal fold fibroblasts were isolated and cultured, then stimulated with TGF-β1 to induce fibroblast activation, followed by treatment with different concentrations of the AMPK activator Aldometanib. Key outcome measures included histopathological analysis of collagen deposition (Alcian blue and EVG staining), protein and gene expression levels of fibrotic markers (α-SMA, COL1A1, FN1), and components of the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway (p-AMPK, p-JAK2, p-STAT3).In vivo, compared with the injury only group, Aldometanib treatment significantly improved the histological architecture of the vocal fold lamina propria. These changes were accompanied by increased p-AMPK levels and decreased expression of p-JAK2, p-STAT3, α-SMA, COL1A1, and FN1. In vitro, Aldometanib attenuated TGF-β1-induced fibroblast activation, and these effects were effectively reversed by co-treatment with the AMPK inhibitor DOX, confirming AMPK pathway dependency.Pharmacological activation of AMPK with Aldometanib effectively alleviates vocal fold fibrosis by inhibiting the JAK2/STAT3 signaling axis. This study identifies AMPK as a promising novel therapeutic target for vocal fold fibrosis, supporting future development of more potent or specific AMPK activators and localized delivery systems for clinical translation.Copyright © 2026 The Voice Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The infrapatellar fat pad (IFP) is increasingly recognized as an active contributor to knee osteoarthritis (KOA) pathogenesis. However, age-related transcriptional changes in the IFP remain poorly understood, and whether observed differences are purely age-dependent or confounded by disease status is unclear. This study aimed to compare transcriptomic profiles of the IFP between young patients with traumatic knee injury and older patients with KOA.IFP samples were obtained from three young trauma patients (21-28 years, KL grade 0) and three older patients with KOA (64-72 years, KL grade III-IV). Bulk RNA sequencing was performed to compare transcriptomes between groups. Differential expression was analyzed with DESeq2 (|log2FC| ≥1, unadjusted p < 0.05), followed by GO and KEGG pathway enrichment. Real-time PCR confirmed key expression changes.Compared with the young trauma group, the old KOA group exhibited 247 upregulated (CSN1S1, SCN9A, P2RY14, EIF3C, etc) and 334 downregulated genes (PI15, WISP3, DMKN, NUTM2G, etc). The old KOA group exhibited significantly reduced expression of extracellular matrix (ECM) genes, including COL1A1, COL2A1, and FN1. Additionally, core genes of the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, such as AKT1, ITGA2B, and MYB, were also downregulated in the old KOA group.The IFP in old KOA exhibits a transcriptomic profile characterized by dampened ECM structural gene expression and suppressed PI3K-Akt signaling compared with young trauma patients. While confounded by injury status, these findings suggest that age-related loss of ECM integrity may contribute to IFP dysfunction in established KOA and warrant validation in healthy aging cohorts.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42558776
Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) projects for rare disease diagnosis typically yield a diagnostic rate of 25-41%, depending on the methods for patient selection and the extent of prior genetic testing. The Scottish Genomes Partnership (SGP) is a collaborative programme using genome sequencing to diagnose rare disease patients with presumed monogenic aetiology in the Scottish NHS. Within SGP, short-read sequencing (SRS) had previously achieved a diagnostic rate of 23% in affected families. To increase diagnostic yield, we applied Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT) long-read sequencing (LRS) to a cohort of 24 SGP families (74 individuals) that remained undiagnosed after SRS-based SNV/indel analysis. We also retrospectively reviewed SRS-derived structural variant (SV) calls to assess whether LRS results could have been detected in SRS data. After quality, rarity, panel-based and inheritance-based filtering, 392 candidate SVs were retained across de novo, homozygous recessive, compound heterozygous and X-linked inheritance models, of which 8 overlapped PanelApp diagnostic-grade "green" genes. Pathogenic or likely pathogenic de novo SVs were identified in 3 of 24 families: an AUTS2 inversion, a DLX5/6 locus inversion, and an FN1 deletion. All three SVs were independently confirmed by retrospective SRS re-analysis using SVRare. These findings demonstrate that LRS-based SV analysis, supported by orthogonal SRS re-analysis, can resolve clinically significant SVs in families who remain unsolved after standard rare disease testing.© 2026. The Author(s).
Differentiating atypical Spitz tumors (AST) from true Spitz melanomas (SM) and conventional melanomas with spitzoid features (MSF) remains a formidable diagnostic challenge. Because current molecular epidemiological data are overwhelmingly derived from Caucasian cohorts, the genomic landscape of Asian populations remains largely unexplored. To elucidate the molecular progression landscape and refine diagnostic criteria, we performed a comprehensive multimodal analysis-integrating histomorphology, immunohistochemistry (IHC), multi-probe fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), and targeted RNA/DNA-based next-generation sequencing (NGS)-on a cohort of 140 spitzoid neoplasms. This cohort, comprising 126 ASTs, 8 SMs, and 6 MSFs, represents the largest Asian cohort to date. Malignant phenotype strongly correlated with lesional asymmetry, deep atypical mitoses, a sheet-like growth pattern, diffuse PRAME positivity, and significant loss of p16 expression (64.3% in SM/MSF vs. 9.5% in ASTs; P<0.0001). Building upon established melanoma FISH criteria, we optimized a prognostic threshold of ≥2 FISH abnormalities specifically tailored for spitzoid neoplasms. We demonstrated that isolated single chromosomal aberrations (particularly MYB loss) are relatively stable events frequent in indolent ASTs, whereas our refined ≥2 threshold yielded 100% sensitivity and 91.7% specificity for predicting regional lymph node metastasis/local recurrence. Molecularly, NGS identified mutually exclusive initiating driver alterations (comprising kinase fusions and HRAS mutations) in 89.9% of true Spitz neoplasms, a remarkably high prevalence suggesting a distinct genetic background in Asian populations. We also characterized five entirely novel kinase fusions (ZNF24::ROS1, PCBP1::ROS1, NUMA1::RET, CBWD1::ALK, and TPR::NTRK1). Furthermore, NGS definitively segregated true Spitz neoplasms from morphologic mimics (MSF), which lacked fusions and were driven by canonical genomic alterations of the conventional melanoma pathway. Integrating these genomic landscapes validated a stepwise progression model. While isolated kinase fusions drove indolent ASTs, malignant SM invariably harbored concurrent pathogenic secondary alterations, demonstrating a profound reliance on CDKN2A/B, TP53, and CDK4 aberrations. Ultimately, we propose an integrated diagnostic algorithm combining morphologic evaluation, the refined FISH threshold, and comprehensive NGS profiling, providing a precise, evidence-based framework for pathway classification and clinical management of spitzoid neoplasms.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Obtaining tissue from advanced non-small cell lung cancer(NSCLC) patients is difficult, yet mutation testing is crucial for targeted therapy. This study evaluates the clinical utility of serous cavity effusion (SCE) supernatant for multi-gene mutation testing, comparing its performance with cell blocks as a promising liquid biopsy alternative. SCE samples were collected from untreated NSCLC patients. Following the routine cytology and DNA ploidy analysis of the SCE samples, matching supernatant and cell block specimens were prepared and subsequently subjected to multi-gene mutation testing using Amplification Refractory Mutation System PCR (ARMS-PCR). The panel comprised 11 genes covering major variant types across EGFR, ALK, ROS1, BRAF, KRAS, NTRK1/2/3, MET, RET, and HER2. Among the 124 patients who met the inclusion criteria, the overall driver gene mutation rate was 77.42%. Mutation status correlated with DNA aneuploidy, specifically with the average DNA Index (DI) value for the top 20 cells with DI > 2.5 (P = 0.004) and the number of cells with DI > 4.5 (P = 0.022). The detection rate of the supernatant (76.61%) was higher than that of the cell blocks (73.39%), though the difference was not statistically significant (P > 0.05). In samples with a tumor cell proportion < 10%, the supernatant achieved a significantly higher detection rate than cell blocks (53.33% vs. 26.67%). The turnaround time for supernatant testing was also much shorter than that for cell blocks (4.5 h vs. 19.5 h). SCE supernatant is a highly effective, rapid, and valuable complementary specimen for multi-gene driver mutation testing in NSCLC, demonstrating superior clinical sensitivity particularly in low-tumor-content or cytologically negative specimens.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The BRAF V600E mutation is a common driver variant in differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC); however, the clinical significance of its co-mutation patterns in the Chinese population remains unclear. This study aimed to analyze the predictive value of BRAF V600E co-mutations for aggressive clinicopathological features in DTC by detecting a 10-gene panel, providing molecular evidence for refined risk stratification.A multicenter cohort of 240 DTC patients from two medical centers was retrospectively enrolled. A 10-gene panel (BRAF V600E, TERT, NRAS, HRAS, KRAS, PIK3CA, RET, PPARG, NTRK1, NTRK3) was assessed using Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) for mutations and fusion events. Based on mutation status, patients were categorized into three groups: BRAF V600E-mutation alone, BRAF V600E co-mutation, and non-BRAF V600E mutation groups. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed to evaluate P53 and Ki-67 expression. Clinicopathological characteristics were compared using chi-square, Fisher's exact, or Kruskal-Wallis tests as appropriate. Log-rank test assessed differences in recurrence-free survival (RFS), while binary/ordinal logistic regression analyzed the predictive role of BRAF V600E co-mutations for aggressiveness (capsular invasion, ATA risk stratification, lymph node metastasis, and recurrence).The BRAF V600E co-mutation group (n = 21) exhibited significantly higher rates of capsular invasion (52.4 %vs. 13.2 % and 23.1 %, *p*<0.01) and ATA high-risk classification (57.1 %vs. 25.7 % and 28.8 %, *p*<0.05) compared to the BRAFV600E -mutation alone group (n = 167) and non-BRAFV600E mutation group (n = 52). Tumor stage distribution (AJCC 8th edition) also differed significantly among the three groups, with the co-mutation group showing the highest proportion of advanced T stage (T3-T4) (*p*<0.05). TERT was the most frequently co-mutated gene. Logistic regression revealed that the BRAFV600E co-mutation group had significantly increased risks of capsular invasion (OR = 3.667, 95 % CI: 1.325-10.713) and ATA high-risk status (OR=2.881, 95 % CI: 1.217-6.839). Although P53/Ki-67 expression did not differ significantly among groups (*p* > 0.05), the co-mutation group showed a trend toward higher proportions of cases with Ki-67 ≥ 10 % (9.5 %vs. 7.2 % and 5.7 %, *p*=0.09).These results suggest that BRAFV600E co-mutations are associated with more aggressive DTC features in a Chinese patient cohort. The 10-gene panel used in this analysis may offer potential as a tool for identifying subsets of patients with adverse pathology, such that it warrants further investigation as a tool for refined risk stratification. However, prospective studies are needed to confirm its clinical utility and clarify its potential for optimized patient management..Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Current research into the actions of psychedelic drugs is focused on 5-HT2A receptor-coupled signaling pathways, particularly β-arrestin2 signaling. Here, we investigated the involvement of β-arrestin2 in psychedelic drug-induced mouse markers of hallucinogenic effects, molecular plasticity, and structural plasticity; specifically, the head-twitch response, cortical expression of plasticity-related genes (cFos, Egr1, Egr2, and Arc), and dendritogenesis (primary cortical neuron cultures), respectively. Psilocin-induced head-twitches, plasticity gene expression, and dendritogenesis were all blocked by the 5-HT2A receptor antagonist MDL-100,907. The head-twitch response to psilocin was not different between wildtype and β-arrestin2 knockout (KO) mice, and the head-twitch responses to 2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine (DOI) and lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) were similarly unaffected by β-arrestin2 KO. Psilocin-evoked gene expression showed a trend to be less in β-arrestin2 KO compared to wildtype mice, but the gene expression response to DOI was clearly not altered by β-arrestin2 KO. Finally, psilocin-induced dendritogenesis was attenuated in β-arrestin2 KO versus wild-type cultured neurons, and similar findings were obtained with DOI. In summary, the current study found no convincing evidence to support a role for β-arrestin2 signaling in either the head-twitch or plasticity-related gene responses to the psychedelic drugs tested. However, our data suggest a role for the β-arrestin2 pathway in psychedelic drug-evoked dendritogenesis of cultured neurons. Thus, the β-arrestin2 pathway unlikely mediates the hallucinogenic effects of psychedelic drugs but may contribute to neural plasticity changes in certain models.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Heart failure (HF) represents the final stage of cardiovascular disease progression, characterized by high morbidity and mortality. Pressure overload in HF activates the PI3K/AKT pathway, and prolonged activation leads to pathological cardiac hypertrophy. However, the mechanism underlying sustained PI3K/AKT activation in pressure overload-induced HF remains unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that miR-203 overexpression in transgenic mice counteracts cardiac dysfunction and pathological remodeling in HF, whereas miR-203 downregulation exacerbates HF. At the cellular level, miR-203 overexpression significantly reduces Angiotensin II (Ang II)-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and injury, while miR-203 knockdown aggravates these effects. Mechanistically, miR-203 binds to the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) of insulin-like growth factor binding protein 5 (IGFBP5) mRNA, inhibiting IGFBP5 protein expression, thereby suppressing PI3K/AKT signaling and mitigating cardiomyocyte hypertrophy. Furthermore, we demonstrate that fibronectin-1 (FN1) is a critical functional partner for IGFBP5, as knockdown of FN1 attenuates IGFBP5-induced PI3K/AKT activation and hypertrophy. This study is the first to elucidate the role and mechanism of miR-203 in regulating pressure overload-induced HF, offering a potential genetic tool for HF therapy.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
2-phenylbenzimidazole-5-sulfonic acid (PBSA), a widely used organic UV filter, is frequently detected in aquatic environments, yet its developmental neurotoxicity (DNT) remains poorly understood. Here, we exposed zebrafish embryos to 0.1-1000 μg/L PBSA and identified 10 μg/L as the effective concentration and 6-48 hours post-fertilization (hpf) as the sensitive developmental window for PBSA-induced DNT. Exposure to 10 μg/L PBSA during the critical window led to a significant increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and inflammatory response, accompanied by astrocyte activation in specific brain region (elevated GFAP, S100B, and glutamine synthetase), while neurogenesis was inhibited independent of apoptosis. Moreover, PBSA exposure upregulated retinoid X receptor gamma (rxrga) expression and downregulated thrombospondin-1 (tsp-1) expression, with rxrga positively correlated with astrocyte activation markers and negatively correlated with tsp-1 levels. Knockdown of rxrga using morpholino rescued PBSA-induced tsp-1 suppression, neurogenesis impairments, and behavioral abnormalities at 120 hpf, while leaving astrocyte activation unaffected, suggesting that astrocyte activation may operate upstream of rxrga. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that PBSA exposure during a sensitive developmental window induces DNT through oxidative stress, inflammation, and astrocyte activation, with the rxrga/tsp-1 axis mediating neurogenesis inhibition. This study provides mechanistic insights into PBSA-induced neurotoxicity and emphasizes the importance of incorporating DNT assessment in UV filter safety evaluation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Established evidence linking circadian syndrome (CircS) to cognitive impairment. However, the association with subjective cognitive decline (SCD) and its sex-specific patterns remains unclear.This cross-sectional study included 2008 cognitively normal adults from the Hubei Memory and Aging Cohort Study (HMACS). CircS was evaluated by metabolism, sleep, and depression. SCD was assessed based on the SCD-I framework. Regression, restricted cubic spline, subgroup analyses, and indirect-effect analysis were performed.CircS was associated with various SCD outcomes, with a dose-response relationship. CircS was dose-responsively linked to GFAP and nonlinearly to Aβ42/40 (Pₙₒₙₗᵢₙₑₐᵣ = 0.029) and NfL (Pₙₒₙₗᵢₙₑₐᵣ = 0.030). Subgroup analysis revealed that CircS was associated with higher SCD-domain in males (β = 0.32, 95% CI: 0.14-0.49; P for interaction = 0.003), and lower GFAP levels in females (β = -0.25, 95% CI: -0.38 to -0.11; P for interaction = 0.021). Indirect-effect models did not show evidence of the inflammatory markers examined statistically accounted for the observed association between CircS and SCD.CircS is associated with SCD severity, while exploratory analyses suggest possible nonlinear associations between CircS score and selected plasma biomarkers. Male participants showed a stronger association with SCD-domain scores. The clinical implications of these findings require validation in longitudinal studies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Alzheimer's disease-related plasma biomarker interrelationships and factors underlying these associations remain poorly understood. To address this, we studied the heritability of plasma biomarkers and their associations with cognition. This study included 696 twins, aged 65-85, without a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease or related dementias. Plasma amyloid beta 42 and 40, phosphorylated tau (p-tau) 181 and 217, neurofilament light chain (NfL) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) were quantified with Simoa HD-X, and cognition was assessed with cCOG. Heritability of plasma biomarkers was assessed with multivariate twin models and associations with cognition with linear mixed effect models. Phenotypic associations varied from 0.22 between p-tau181 and GFAP to 0.73 between p-tau181 and p-tau217, and the heritability estimates ranged from 0.39 (p-tau181) to 0.66 (GFAP). Genetic and environmental correlations were 0.32-0.67 and 0.06-0.78, with the strongest correlations observed between p-tau181 and p-tau217. P-tau181 and p-tau217 were associated with cognition (β = -0.12; 95% CI: -0.19--0.04 and β = -0.19; 95% CI: -0.26--0.12, respectively). The observed phenotypic and genetic associations highlight shared underlying mechanisms among plasma biomarkers. Despite p-tau181 and p-tau217 having the strongest genetic and environmental correlations, neither approached unity, implying unique genetic and environmental factors. Our results offer insight into the genetic architecture of diagnostic and progression markers of Alzheimer's disease and inform their use in future gene-finding studies.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) is an aggressive malignancy with limited molecular characterization in advanced disease. FGFR3 alterations are well established in low-grade urothelial carcinoma, but their prevalence, stability, and biological significance in locally advanced and metastatic UTUC remain only partially defined. We performed an integrated morphologic, immunohistochemical, and molecular analysis of 24 locally advanced and/or metastatic UTUC from 20 patients. FGFR3 status was assessed by RT-PCR across multiple tumor compartments, including biopsies, primary tumors, lymph-node metastases, and distant metastatic sites. Immunohistochemistry included CK20, CK5, GATA3, p53, and mismatch repair proteins. Targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) was used to characterize co-occurring genomic alterations and to assess concordance with p53 immunophenotype. FGFR3 alterations were identified in 50% of patients and in 54.2% of analyzed tumors. FGFR3 status showed high intra-patient stability, with concordance between primary tumors and distant metastases in 90% of cases, whereas concordance with lymph node metastases was lower (50%), suggesting site-specific clonal divergence. Despite advanced stage, 92.3% of FGFR3-altered tumors displayed papillary urothelial carcinoma morphology, and most showed a luminal immunophenotype (61.5% by CK20/CK5 and 69.2% by GATA3/CK5). Targeted NGS revealed additional pathogenic alterations in 75% of patients, most frequently involving RTK/RAS/MAPK signaling (70%), cell-cycle regulation (25%), and PI3K/AKT pathway components (10%). TP53 mutations co-occurred with FGFR3 alterations in 60% of FGFR3-mutated patients and showed 90.4% concordance with p53 immunohistochemistry. Finally, a few cases exhibited complex, multi-site FGFR3 mutational patterns, consistent with intratumoral clonal evolutions. In conclusion, FGFR3 alterations are frequent and remarkably stable in advanced UTUC, even in high-grade and metastatic disease. These findings support the reliability of FGFR3 testing on limited diagnostic material and reinforce its relevance for therapeutic stratification. UTUC emerges as a molecularly dynamic disease in which early oncogenic drivers such as FGFR3 continue to shape tumor biology and therapeutic vulnerability at advanced stages.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Asthma is a heterogeneous inflammatory airway disease characterized by immune dysregulation, airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR), and excessive immune activation. Although NLRP3 (NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3) has been extensively studied in asthma, its role remains controversial, and the contribution of DNA sensor AIM2 (Absent in Melanoma 2) is less well defined. To assess AIM2's relevance in asthma, we analyzed public human datasets and found increased AIM2, but not NLRP3, expression in severe asthma and in neutrophilic compared with paucigranulocytic asthma. In allergic asthma models induced by ovalbumin (OVA)-lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or house dust mite (HDM), AIM2 expression was increased in lung homogenates and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid cells. Analysis of a published single-cell RNA-seq dataset from the HDM model further showed increased Aim2, but not Nlrp3, expression in T helper cells, with most Aim2-expressing cells coexpressing Gata3. In the OVA-LPS model, whole-body Aim2 deficiency reduced AHR, inflammatory cytokine production, airway smooth muscle actin, and γH2A.X, consistent with decreased airway remodeling and tissue stress. Unexpectedly, CD4-specific, but not Treg- or myeloid-specific, Aim2 deletion significantly attenuated disease, identifying AIM2 in CD4+ T cells as a major driver of pathogenesis. In the HDM model, Aim2 deficiency similarly reduced AHR. Cell-specific deletion showed that AIM2 in CD4+ T cells promotes AHR and cytokine production, whereas AIM2 in myeloid cells modulates IgG1, IL-13-producing CD4+ T cells, and alveolar macrophages. These findings identify AIM2 as a regulator of allergic asthma acting predominantly through T cells, with an additional context-dependent contribution from myeloid cells.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566137 is a review article
Hyperuricemia-related vascular endothelial injury is closely associated with hypertension, atherosclerosis, and other cardiovascular diseases. Although GPR75 has been implicated in vascular inflammation and hypertension, whether it mediates hyperuricemia-induced endothelial dysfunction and how it is regulated upstream remain unknown.Human umbilical vein endothelial cells were exposed to uric acid and subjected to gain- and loss-of-function experiments targeting HOTAIR, miR-141-3p, and GPR75. A CRISPR/Cas9-generated Hotair knockout mouse model of hyperuricemia was used for in vivo validation. qRT-PCR, Western blotting, immunofluorescence, flow cytometry, and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed.Uric acid markedly induced HOTAIR and GPR75 expression in endothelial cells. Dual-luciferase reporter assays further confirmed the direct interactions between HOTAIR and miR-141-3p, as well as between miR-141-3p and GPR75. Mechanistically, HOTAIR functioned as a competing endogenous RNA to sequester miR-141-3p, thereby releasing its inhibitory effect on GPR75. HOTAIR silencing or miR-141-3p overexpression reduced GPR75 expression and NF-κB activation, decreased the expression of inflammatory mediators, including IL-1β, IL-6, and VCAM-1, preserved membrane-associated VE-cadherin, and attenuated endothelial apoptosis. Conversely, these protective effects were largely abolished by miR-141-3p inhibition or GPR75 overexpression. In vivo, Hotair knockout significantly reduced GPR75 expression, NF-κB activation, and vascular inflammatory markers (IL-1β and VCAM-1) in hyperuricemic mice, without altering serum uric acid levels.This study indicates that HOTAIR aggravates hyperuricemia-induced endothelial injury by regulating the miR-141-3p/GPR75/NF-κB axis and provides new mechanistic insights into hyperuricemia-associated vascular dysfunction.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Astrocytes play essential roles in maintaining brain homeostasis, regulating synaptic transmission, supporting neuronal metabolism, and preserving blood-brain barrier integrity. Following prolonged seizures, such as status epilepticus (SE), astrocytes undergo structural and molecular changes that may contribute to epileptogenesis. Although reactive astrogliosis after SE is well documented, the temporal dynamics of astrocytic cytoskeletal remodeling and its relationship to complement activation remain incompletely defined. Using a pilocarpine-induced SE rat model, we examined hippocampal astrocyte responses at multiple time points (4 h, 1 day, 3 days, and 1-, 2-, 3-, or 5-weeks post-SE). Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) distribution was assessed by immunohistochemistry (IHC), and total GFAP protein levels and cleavage were quantified by western blotting (WB). We further evaluated the cellular association between GFAP-positive astrocytes and complement component C3 by immunofluorescence (IF). IHC revealed progressive astrocytic hypertrophy and increased GFAP immunoreactivity in the CA1 region, peaking at 2-3 weeks post-SE and modestly declining by 5 weeks. In contrast, WB demonstrated sustained elevations in total GFAP protein from 2 to 5 weeks post-SE, accompanied by significant accumulation of GFAP cleavage fragments. Quantitative analysis of GFAP breakdown products revealed progressive proteolytic processing during the latent-to-chronic phases of epileptogenesis. IF showed robust colocalization of C3 within hypertrophic GFAP-positive astrocytes at 2-3 weeks post-SE. When integrated with our prior mapping of microglial activation and complement dynamics, these findings indicate that astrocytic GFAP upregulation and cleavage follow early microglial activation and parallel sustained complement C3 expression. Together, our results demonstrate that SE induces dynamic and persistent astrocytic cytoskeletal remodeling characterized by coordinated GFAP synthesis and proteolysis, along with complement association. These findings highlight GFAP cleavage as a potential marker of astrocytic stress post-SE and support a temporally integrated astroglial-complement response following SE.© 2026. The Author(s).
ABBV-916, an anti-amyloid immunotherapy, was evaluated in patients with early Alzheimer's disease (AD).This phase 1b/2, double-blind, placebo-controlled study consisted of two stages: multiple ascending dose (Stage A) and dose expansion (Stage B). In Stage A, patients were randomized to one of six planned cohorts to receive intravenous ABBV-916 (10 mg to 3000 mg) or placebo monthly through week 24. Assessments included amyloid PET, blood-based biomarkers, pharmacokinetics (PK), and safety. Dose selection for Stage B was to be based on results from Stage A.One hundred six patients were randomized to ABBV-916 or placebo. The 3000 mg dose was reduced to 2000 mg and subsequently to 900 mg after safety review. Dose-proportional PK were observed, and amyloid reduction was observed over 24 weeks at doses ≥300 mg. Most adverse events were non-serious amyloid-related imaging abnormalities. The program ended before dose expansion due to business considerations.Amyloid clearance rate and safety of ABBV-916 were generally comparable to approved anti-amyloid AD therapies.NCT05291234.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2026.1827108.].Copyright © 2026 Guo, Zhai, Gao and Ding.
Background and objective Antipsychotic-associated metabolic abnormalities, including weight gain, dyslipidemia, hyperglycemia, obesity, and metabolic syndrome, vary among drugs. Receptor pharmacology offers mechanistic clues, while transcriptome-wide association studies identify genetically regulated expression signals linked to lipid traits. These evidence streams are usually evaluated separately. This secondary computational sensitivity analysis used previously generated Ki-DDD-TWAS outputs and was not a primary discovery or clinical validation study. The primary hypothesis was that removing literature-derived metabolic receptor weights would preserve overall drug ranking, with Spearman ρ approximately 0.9, while shifting receptor-level contributions from histaminergic and serotonergic systems toward dopaminergic and low-prior TWAS signals. Secondary objectives were to identify low-weight genes with strong TWAS signals, assess discordance with an author-defined clinical-liability comparator, and test sensitivity to gene removal and TWAS scaling. Methods Previously generated outputs were analyzed. Ki, the inhibition constant, and DDD, the defined daily dose, served as affinity and exposure-proxy inputs. Receptor-level and per-drug risk-score files were analyzed for 52 antipsychotics across LDL, HDL, log-transformed triglycerides, non-HDL, and total cholesterol. Analyses included reconstruction validation, pooled receptor contributions, TWAS signal versus literature weight, clinical-liability discordance, leave-one-gene-out and TWAS-scaling sensitivity, and receptor co-occurrence in high-risk drug sets. No patient-level data, independent TWAS resources, longitudinal outcomes, or outcome-based validation were used. Results Reconstruction reproduced saved risk ranks with Spearman correlation 1.000 for all 10 mode-trait combinations. V4 rankings remained concordant after removing literature weights, with trait-specific correlations of 0.900-0.923 and a mean of 0.913. The weighted model was dominated by HRH1, HTR2A, and HTR2C, contributing 25.7%, 21.6%, and 10.3% of pooled signal. Under uniform weighting, DRD2, DRD3, and HTR2A led, accounting for 22.1%, 12.9%, and 12.6%. ADRB1 was the strongest high-priority low-weight TWAS candidate, with an absolute HDL z-score of 13.53 and literature weight of 0.08. Other candidates included CHRM4, DRD2, DRD4, SLC6A4, and ADRB2. The model most strongly under-ranked paliperidone versus the supplied 12-drug comparator, while ziprasidone rose under uniform weighting. Removing HRH1 produced the largest rank shifts, particularly for levomepromazine, promazine, and acepromazine. Conclusions Removing literature-derived weights preserved overall drug ranking but substantially changed receptor-level score allocation. The weighted model emphasized histaminergic and serotonergic receptors prioritized in metabolic-liability literature, whereas the uniform model revealed broader dopaminergic and low-prior contributions. ADRB1 is a computational hypothesis-generating candidate, not a confirmed mechanism or established metabolic-risk contributor. HDL-association direction was not analyzed. The framework supports dual reporting of clinically anchored weighted and discovery-oriented uniform models as an internal sensitivity strategy only. It is not externally validated, does not predict patient-level outcomes, and should not be interpreted as estimating clinical metabolic risk or establishing receptor-level causality.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Cholesterol is a key membrane component that regulates G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) function, yet its molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we combine chemical extraction of membrane sterols with functional signaling assays and single-molecule fluorescence resonance energy transfer (smFRET) to define how cholesterol controls activation of chemokine receptors. Reduction of membrane cholesterol in mammalian cells selectively decreased constitutive and agonist-induced signaling across CXCR1, CXCR2, CXCR4, while it activated ACKR3, and did not affect CXCR3, revealing receptor-specific dependence on membrane sterols. Mechanistically, cholesterol regulation partly required the conserved class A GPCR residue Trp 4.50 and shifted agonist-bound CXCR4 toward active conformational states, providing a molecular explanation for its functional effects. In contrast, replenishment with oxidized cholesterol species failed to restore receptor activity, distinguishing cholesterol from oxysterols as modulators of receptor activation. Our findings identify cholesterol as an allosteric regulator of chemokine receptors and suggest that oxysterols may reshape inflammatory signaling by selectively modulating GPCR activity.
Corneal transparency emerges during embryogenesis through the coordinated organization of neural crest-derived cells (NCCs) and extracellular matrix (ECM), yet the temporal and structural basis of this process remains incompletely defined. Here, we provide a multimodal, spatiotemporal analysis of mouse corneal development from embryonic Day 10 (E10) to birth (P0), combining whole-mount and sectioned immunofluorescence, tissue clearing with three-dimensional (3D) imaging, second harmonic generation (SHG) microscopy, full-field optical coherence microscopy (FFOCM), and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). We show that early periocular mesenchyme is characterized by broad expression of neural crest-associated markers (Sox9, HNK1), followed by progressive spatial restriction and downregulation as cells populate the corneal stroma. Sox10-positive cells remain primarily associated with developing nerves and are largely excluded from the stromal compartment. Concomitantly, stromal cells undergo marked morphological transitions, from rounded to progressively flattened and elongated phenotypes, accompanying stromal expansion. Collagen deposition is first detected in the subepithelial region around E12 and increases thereafter, with SHG and TEM analyses revealing progressive organization and compaction of fibrillar networks. Quantitative ultrastructural analysis indicates dynamic changes in interfibrillar spacing during development, consistent with ongoing ECM remodeling. The emergence of a posterior-to-anterior gradient in cell morphology and matrix organization suggests a spatially coordinated maturation process across the stroma. Together, these findings provide an integrated structural framework linking NCCs dynamics, stromal cell differentiation, and ECM organization during murine corneal development. This work establishes a quantitative and multiscale atlas of corneal morphogenesis that informs how tissue architecture compatible with transparency is progressively established in vivo.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS) remains incompletely elucidated. Semaphorins play an active role in the immune and nervous systems by regulating receptor-mediated adhesion mechanisms. Immunosemaphorins have recently emerged as diagnostic biomarkers or therapeutic targets in MS.This study aimed to investigate alterations in semaphorins (Sema) 3A, 3F, 4A, 4D, and 7A in newly diagnosed, treatment-naive patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS).In this prospective case-control study, semaphorin levels were evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in 40 consecutive patients (serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)) and 40 healthy controls (serum).Serum levels of Sema3A, Sema4A, Sema4D, and Sema7A were lower in RRMS patients than in healthy controls and remained significant after correction for multiple testing. In exploratory analyses, OCB count was negatively correlated with serum Sema4A and Sema7A and positively correlated with CSF Sema7A. Patients with an OCB count ≥12 had lower serum levels of Sema3F, Sema4A, and Sema7A. Sema4D levels were higher in patients with an IgG index ≥0.7. Patients with infratentorial lesions had lower serum Sema4A levels and higher CSF Sema4A levels.Low serum levels of Sema3A may be diagnostically relevant in RRMS. Low serum levels of Sema7A and elevated CSF levels may be associated with inflammatory immune activation. Further studies are needed for Sema3F, Sema4A, and Sema4D.Copyright © 2026 Sarıdaş, Aydın, Özpar, Koç, Hakyemez, Alkan and Turan.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42520269
Brain cortical development results from the proliferation, differentiation, migration and maturation of many cell types. While neuronal development is well characterized, the mechanisms regulating macroglial cells (oligodendrocytes and astrocytes) development remain largely unknown. Recent works suggest that the vascular system plays a key, yet underevaluated role in this process. In this study, we investigated the spatial organization of macroglial cells within the parenchyma and relative to blood vessels. Using immunolabelling for Sry-box transcription factor (Sox) 9 (macroglial progenitors and astrocytes) and Sox10 (oligodendrocyte lineage), we determined macroglia density, distribution and proximity to blood vessels from postnatal day (P) 1 to P60 in the somatosensory cortex. We showed that Sox9+ cells were evenly distributed across cortical layers with regular intercellular spacing. In contrast, Sox10+ cells concentrated in deeper cortical layers and exhibited a random distribution. Vascular density and branching increased markedly between P5 and P15, and macroglial cells were closer to blood vessels from P15 onward. We investigated possible alteration of astrocyte distribution in the cortex of MLC1-deficient mice, a model of megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts, in which astrocyte perivascular coverage is altered. No difference with the control condition was found both in young and adult mice, either in the density, distribution or distance to blood vessels. Altogether, we revealed distinct distribution and postnatal development patterns for astrocytes and oligodendrocytes in the brain and in relation to the vasculature.© 2026 The Author(s). International Journal of Developmental Neuroscience published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Society for Developmental Neuroscience.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42516635 is a review article
Dysregulation of brain cholesterol homeostasis is increasingly recognized as a critical driver of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. G protein-coupled receptor 146 (GPR146) has emerged as a pivotal regulator of systemic cholesterol metabolism; however, its role in the central nervous system and AD remains elusive. Here, we report that GPR146 deficiency in mice modulates ERK/PKA signaling without affecting baseline physiology or general behavior. Following intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of amyloid-β (Aβ)42 oligomers, GPR146 was associated with altered Aβ42-evoked ERK/PKA/Akt signaling both in vivo and in vitro. Mechanistically, Gpr146 ablation potentiated microglial Aβ phagocytosis, which correlated with the transcriptional upregulation of phagocytic receptors, including TREM2, GPR34, P2Y6, and CR3, alongside increased expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6). Moreover, GPR146 deficiency was linked to elevated levels of blood-brain barrier (BBB)-associated markers Cldn-5 and Glut-1 protein levels, while attenuating Aβ‑induced inflammatory responses in brain endothelial cells. At the metabolic level, GPR146 knockout modulated the expression of key enzymes governing glucose (GLUT1, GLUT3, G6PD, PFK, HK) and lipid (HMGCS1, ACACA, FASN, SCD1) metabolism and markedly reduced Aβ‑elicited lipid droplet accumulation in the cortex and hippocampus. Collectively, our findings establish GPR146 as a novel neurometabolic regulator whose deficiency correlates with enhanced Aβ phagocytosis, maintenance of BBB-associated proteins, and altered cerebral metabolism, thereby presenting a potential therapeutic axis for early AD intervention.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder. Neuroinflammation and bloodbrain barrier (BBB) dysfunction have role in the pathophysiology of ASD. Trigonelline (TRI) exerted neuroprotective effects. We aimed to investigate TRI's effects on autistic phenotype, gene expression of tight junction proteins associated with BBB integrity, neuroinflammation and histopathological changes in the hippocampus in valproic acid (VPA) - induced autism in rats.Pregnant Wistar rats received single subcutaneous injection of VPA (600mg/kg) on day 12 of gestation. Animals were treated with normal saline or TRI for one week. Repetitive behaviours, anxiety-like behaviour, memory function, and social interactions were assessed. The thickness and dark neurons of the CA1 and CA3 regions of hippocampus were examined. The inflammatory genes, including Tlr4, Tnf-α, and Il-1β, along with claudins (Cldn -3, Cldn-5, and Cldn-12), were measured in the hippocampus.TRI significantly attenuated autistic behaviors. TRI reduced the expression of inflammatory markers and modulated the expression of claudins. TRI increased the thickness and decreased the number of dark neurons in the CA1 and CA3 regions.TRI reduced autistic behaviours probably through attenuation of neuroinflammation, preservation of the hippocampus, and modulation of gene expressions of tight junction proteins associated with the BBB permeability.
Mutation in paired-like homeobox 2B (PHOX2B) is used as the diagnostic marker of Congenital Central Hypoventilation Syndrome (CCHS). The mutant gene/protein affects neural crest cells embryonic development which leads to congenital central hypoventilation syndrome (CCHS). When individuals also have Hirschsprung's disease (HSCR) with CCHS it is known as Haddad syndrome (HS). Previous studies on CCHS/HS have mainly focused on the conformational dynamics of the mutant protein and have remained controversial. Here we performed RNA-sequencing on the patient derived neuroepithelial stem cells (NESCs), pertinent to the neurodevelopmental phenotype in CCHS/HS, and found that the PHOX2B-PARM has a profound impact on the transcriptional profile of the cells. The single copy of PHOX2B-PARM in heterozygote cells led to >8 fold differentially expressed genes. This include genes e.g., STMN2, L1CAM, ONECUT2 and NFASC, that are reported to have role in neurodevelopment. In the patient cells there was a significant enrichment of genes related to neuronal development and synapse organization mainly driven by L1CAM interactions and synaptogenesis signaling pathway. Our results not only highlight the use of a suitable model of CCHS/HS but also provide a clear path for future experimental validation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
How extracellular matrix organization shapes signaling-associated transcription during skeletal development remains incompletely understood. Using CRISPR-Cas9-edited human urine-derived stem cells, we show that loss of the laminin gene LAMA5 preserves canonical chondrogenic marker induction but impairs three-dimensional spheroid morphogenesis and disrupts pericellular matrix architecture. Bulk RNA sequencing and weighted gene co-expression network analysis identify a LAMA5-associated transcriptional module enriched for embryonic limb morphogenesis genes, with WNT7A and FLI1 as inversely correlated hub genes. Projection onto a human fetal hindlimb atlas localizes LAMA5/WNT7A co-expression to the endothelial compartment, while PITX1 and FLI1 map to endothelial and chondrocyte populations, respectively, suggesting a spatially organized signaling axis partially conserved in mouse. Pharmacologic β-catenin stabilization partially restores selected module transcripts, and endothelial-conditioned medium selectively rescues WNT7A and CDH1 in LAMA5-KO cultures. Together, these data link LAMA5-dependent matrix organization to a WNT-associated transcriptional program and identify endothelium as a candidate niche source.© 2026 The Author(s).
Avian coccidiosis, caused by Eimeria spp., is a major constraint on global poultry production, and mixed-species infections-particularly Eimeria tenella and Eimeria acervulina-are common and more pathogenic in the broiler breeding. Rising concerns over anticoccidial drug resistance and residues have stimulated interest in probiotics as alternative or complementary control strategies. This study evaluated the protective efficacy of Lactobacillus plantarum BS22 (LP-BS22), a chicken-derived strain with confirmed in vitro antimicrobial activity and stability, against this clinically prevalent mixed infection. Seventy-two broiler chickens were randomly assigned to four groups: uninfected control (CG), probiotic control (LP-BS22), co-infected model (DIG), and probiotic-treated co-infected group (LP-BS22+DIG). Efficacy was assessed via growth performance, oocyst output, lesion scoring, and histopathology. To elucidate the underlying mechanism, the expressions of intestinal tight junction (TJ)-related zonula occluden-1 (ZO-1) and claudin 5 (CLDN5) proteins as well as pro-inflammatory (interleukin [IL]-6) and regulatory (IL-10 and IL-22) cytokines were also quantified. The results demonstrated that prophylactic administration of LP-BS22 significantly mitigated growth retardation, reduced fecal oocyst shedding, and lowered intestinal lesion scores compared to the untreated DIG group (P < 0.05). Histologically, the probiotic treatment alleviated intestinal villus atrophy and crypt hyperplasia. Mechanistically, LP-BS22 preserved intestinal barrier integrity by preventing the downregulation of ZO-1 and CLDN5; furthermore, the probiotic modulated the immune response by suppressing pro-inflammatory IL-6 while upregulating regulatory IL-10 and the tissue-repair cytokine IL-22 (P < 0.05). The calculated anticoccidial index (ACI) ranged from 126.76 to 133.46, classifying the efficacy as moderate. These findings indicated that LP-BS22 conferred protection against mixed Eimeria infections by enhancing mucosal barrier function and regulating inflammation, positioning it as a promising sustainable strategy for coccidiosis control in broiler production.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Probiotics have gained attention as alternatives to antibiotic growth promoters in broiler production due to their ability to support gut health, immune function, and disease resistance. Bacterial chondronecrosis with osteomyelitis (BCO) is a major cause of lameness in broiler chickens and is commonly associated with bacterial translocation from the gastrointestinal tract. Strategies that improve intestinal integrity and host responses may help mitigate this condition. This study evaluated the efficacy of a probiotic program comprising an Enterococcus faecium-based spray (2 × 10⁹ CFU/bird at hatch) and a triple-strain Bacillus-based feed additive (B. subtilis 597, B. subtilis 600, and B. amyloliquefaciens 516 at 500 g/t feed from day 1 to 56), applied alone or in combination. A wire-flooring challenge model was used to simulate BCO transmission. A total of 1,560 Cobb 500 broilers were randomly assigned to four treatment groups: NC (negative control, 6 replicate pens), GalliPro® Hatch (E. faecium spray only, 6 replicate pens), GalliPro® Fit (Bacillus-based feed supplement only, 6 replicate pens), and Hatch/Fit (combined treatment, 6 replicate pens). Two additional wire-floor seeder pens served as the infection source for the BCO challenge. Tight junction gene expression (CLDN1, CLDN5, OCLN, ZO-1, and ZO-2) was assessed in the ileum and trachea at d 7, 28, and 56, along with serum IgM, IgA, and serotonin concentrations. Probiotic supplementation significantly influenced ileal gene expression, with significant effects of treatment, age, and treatment × age interaction for selected tight junction genes (P < 0.05). OCLN and ZO-1 were upregulated at d 7 (P< 0.001), followed by sustained increases at d 56, particularly in the Hatch/Fit group (p < 0.05). Tracheal responses were variable. Plasma IgA concentrations increased with age (P < 0.001), reflecting normal immune maturation. Notably, serum serotonin concentrations were markedly elevated in the Hatch/Fit group, indicating microbiota-driven modulation of the gut-brain axis. Bacterial isolation identified a polymicrobial profile dominated by Staphylococcus spp. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that combined probiotic supplementation modulated tight junction gene expression and serum serotonin concentrations in BCO-challenged broilers. These results support evaluation of combined probiotic strategies in commercial production systems.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
PHOX2B is a master transcriptional regulator of autonomic nervous system development whose mutations cause neurocristopathies including neuroblastoma and congenital central hypoventilation syndrome (CCHS). However, the identification and functional relevance of PHOX2B target genes remain incompletely defined, partly due to the lack of robust cellular models.Through CRISPR/Cas9-engineering we established a PHOX2B functional knockout IMR32 neuroblastoma model, and combined transcriptomic, chromatin-binding, electrophysiological, and live-cell imaging analysis to investigate PHOX2B-dependent pathways. We then assessed the developmental relevance of the obtained results in iPSC-derived sympathetic neurons from CCHS patients carrying different PHOX2B mutations.PHOX2B functional knockout (PHOX2B-KO) cells exhibited morphological and molecular features indicative of enhanced neuronal maturation. RNA-seq and ChIP-seq analyses highlighted an unexpected direct role for PHOX2B in regulating the expression of ion channels, including KCNQ5, SCN3A and RYR2, primarily through transcriptional repression. Functionally, PHOX2B KO cells displayed significant alterations in intrinsic electrical properties, including depolarized resting membrane potential, reduced action potential amplitude, attenuated Ca2+ responses and profoundly altered K+ efflux dynamics. Functional rescue experiments confirmed that PHOX2B re-expression restores both transcriptional and electrophysiological phenotypes, thereby establishing a causal relationship between PHOX2B expression and the maintenance of intrinsic excitability homeostasis. Extending these findings to development, sympathetic neurons differentiated from CCHS patient-derived iPSCs displayed dysregulated maturation, transcriptional network rewiring, and altered expression of the same ion channel genes, supporting their relevance to disease.Together, our data establish the PHOX2B functional knockout neuroblastoma model as a valuable platform for functional genomics, enabling systematic analysis of PHOX2B targets and highlighting its critical role in coordinating transcriptional programs that shape neuronal excitability and maturation.Copyright © 2026 Cardani, Bertocchi, Donà, Chiesa, Cambria, Cuadros Gamboa, Piscitelli, Rancic, Gosgnach, Pagliardini, Antonucci, Fornasari, Di Lascio and Benfante.
Aluminum (Al³⁺) is a widespread environmental metal with potential effects on the intestinal epithelium. In this study, we evaluated the impact of dietary concentrations of aluminum on barrier integrity, histological organization, and gene expression in a 3D human intestinal tissue model. Tissues were exposed to increasing concentrations of aluminum (0, 5, 20, and 50 ppm) for 12 days to mimic environmental chronic exposure through ingestion. Transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER) measurements revealed a significant decrease only at the highest dose (50 ppm) on day 12, indicating a damage to the epithelial permeability. This was supported by a marked downregulation of OCLN and CLDN-5 expression, key genes involved in tight junction integrity. Aluminum permeation across the tissue was confirmed via Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectroscopy (ICP-AES), indicating dose-dependent penetration. Furthermore, gene expression analysis showed significant upregulation of MT-1E and MT-2 A (markers of cellular response to metal exposure) while MT-1 A remained unchanged. The present data demonstrate that repeated exposure to 50 ppm of Al3+ impacts intestinal barrier function and alters the tissue organization in the human intestinal epithelium.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sustentacular cell presence and the absence of keratin expression represent diagnostic hallmarks for distinguishing paragangliomas from neuroendocrine tumors (NET)/carcinoids. However, based on the literature and our practice, pulmonary carcinoids can exhibit both features. Here, we examined the prevalence and biological correlates of this phenomenon. Lung carcinoids (n=109) were analyzed with several common keratins including AE1/AE3, sustentacular cell markers (S100, SOX10), nuclear markers of lung carcinoids (OTP, TTF1, ASCL1) and paragangliomas (GATA3, PHOX2B), and 505-gene next-generation sequencing (NGS). AE1/AE3 was strikingly variable (mean H-score 127; SD=80), with 18 cases (17%) exhibiting low labeling (H-score <50), including 3 AE1/AE3-negative cases. CAM5.2 was similarly variable (mean H-score 105; SD=94) and was low/negative in 16/18 AE1/AE3-low cases. Conversely, pan-keratin OSCAR and CK18 were higher overall (mean H-scores 253 and 264, respectively), and showed unequivocal positivity in all AE1/AE3-low/negative cases. Sustentacular cells were present diffusely in 35% of carcinoids, with 15/18 AE1/AE3-low carcinoids containing sustentacular cells. Overall, 15/109 (14%) lung carcinoids were AE1/AE3-low and sustentacular cell-positive. In contrast, such features were seen in only 4/188 (2%) entero-pancreatic NETs. All AE1/AE3-low carcinoids were GATA3 and PHOX2B-negative while TTF1, OTP, and/or ASCL1-positive. By NGS, all cases lacked mutations typical of paragangliomas and many harbored alterations typical of lung carcinoids. Notably, lower AE1/AE3 was associated with the presence of sustentacular cells (S100: p=0.003, SOX10: p=0.005), spindle morphology, peripheral location and ASCL1+/TTF1+/OTP+/HNF4A- immunophenotype - the constellation reflecting the emerging concept of "proneuronal" carcinoids. We conclude that lung carcinoids are not keratin-negative, but instead keratin-variable and some may appear as negative in an antibody-dependent manner. Together with the common presence of sustentacular cells, this may yield a profile overlapping with paragangliomas. We suggest using additional keratins and tumor-specific transcription factors (e.g. OTP, GATA3) as the updated approach for this differential diagnosis. Potential biological implications of paraganglioma-like features in lung carcinoids are discussed.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Septic cardiomyopathy is characterized by acute cardiac dysfunction, while sustained inflammatory and extracellular matrix remodeling may contribute to subsequent myocardial fibrosis and impaired cardiac recovery. A disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs 4 (ADAMTS4) has been linked to fibrotic remodelling, but its role in septic cardiac injury remains unclear. Here, we show that Adamts4 is upregulated in LPS-induced septic mouse hearts and is predominantly induced in cardiac fibroblasts. Using three fibroblast-lineage Adamts4 knockout models, we demonstrate that Adamts4 deletion attenuates LPS-induced cardiac dysfunction, inflammation and fibrosis, whereas Tcf21-lineage fibroblast Adamts4 overexpression aggravates these changes. Mechanistically, ADAMTS4 interacts with thrombospondin-1 (TSP1) and promotes its catalytic activity-dependent proteolytic processing. The 236-246 amino acid region of TSP1 is required for fragment generation and fibroblast activation. TSP1 processing further activates TGF-β/Smad and NF-κB signalling, promoting myofibroblast activation and extracellular matrix deposition. These findings identify ADAMTS4 as a fibroblast-centred driver of septic cardiac fibrosis and suggest that targeting the ADAMTS4-TSP1 axis may offer therapeutic potential for septic cardiomyopathy. KEY POINTS: ADAMTS4 is induced predominantly in cardiac fibroblasts after LPS challenge Fibroblast-lineage Adamts4 deletion attenuates LPS-induced cardiac dysfunction and fibrosis The TSP1 236-246 aa region is required for efficient ADAMTS4-dependent processing ADAMTS4-dependent TSP1 processing activates TGF-β/Smad and NF-κB signalling in fibroblasts.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Institute of Clinical Bioinformatics.
In vitro maturation (IVM) of germinal vesicle oocytes may broaden assisted reproductive technologies; however, developmental competence remains limited by the lack of standardized follicular somatic support. We generated an endogenous FOXL2-P2A-tdTomato reporter human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC) line using CRISPR/Cas9 knock-in and reporter-guided transcription factor (TF) programming to produce fetal granulosa-like cells (FGLCs). A flow cytometric TF screen identified TCF21, WT1-KTS, and NR1H4 as the strongest FOXL2 inducers, and combinatorial optimization showed that removing TOX3/ETV5 and adding NR2F2 substantially increased the FOXL2-positive fraction. Bulk RNA-seq, principal component analysis, and TF activity inference positioned the induced cells close to early-gestational human fetal granulosa cell profiles. In a mouse IVM, in vitro fertilization (IVF), blastocyst culture, and embryo transfer pipeline, FGLC supplementation did not change nuclear maturation rates but improved downstream development, most clearly increasing offspring production from cumulus-oocyte complexes. A comprehensive safety assessment of F0 offspring derived from FGLC-treated oocytes revealed a normal sex ratio, postnatal growth, gross anatomy, gonadal histology, and modified SHIRPA neurobehavioral profiles. Next-generation natural mating and germ cell assays demonstrated preserved fertility, normal IVF outcomes, and normal sperm parameters in the F1 generation. These results establish a scalable strategy for generating fetal granulosa-like supporting cells from hiPSCs and provide an effective and multi-generational safety framework for oocyte-contact IVM interventions.
Coronary arterial disease (CAD) poses a significant public health challenge, with tobacco as the most predominant modifiable risk factor in young individuals. Despite a strong correlation between tobacco use and CAD, many smokers remain CAD-free. This fact raises questions about the complex interplay between environmental and genetic factors that contribute to CAD.Identify genetic polymorphisms that may be responsible for CAD in smokers without the main cardiovascular risk factors.A small retrospective case-control association study included current smokers aged 35-50 with low-density lipoprotein (LDL) levels <100 mg/dL who were non-diabetic and non-hypertensive. A total of 134 individuals (83% male; mean age of 48.9 ± 8.4 years) were selected from the GENEMACOR population: 97 CAD patients defined as having at least 70% stenosis in one major coronary artery, and 37 controls without CAD. Nine genetic variants from 8 genes previously associated with CAD but not with traditional risk factors (TRFs) were genotyped using TaqMan real-time PCR: CDKN2B-AS1, TCF21, PHACTR1, MIA3, ADAMTS7, ZC3HC1, SMAD3, and GJA4. Bivariate analyses compared genotypic proportions between CAD and non-CAD groups, reporting odds ratios (ORs) and confidence intervals (CIs). Multivariate logistic regression evaluates variables independently associated with CAD. The Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium was tested.The intronic PHACTR1 polymorphism rs12526453 C > T was significantly more prevalent in cases, with the dominant model presenting 86.6% in CAD smokers and 70.3% in non-CAD smokers (OR = 2.73; p = 0.028). After logistic regression, which included significant variables in the bivariate analysis, PHACTR1 rs12526453 remained in the model (OR = 3.02; p = 0.038), along with dyslipidemia (OR = 3.58; p = 0.004), obesity (OR = 4.39; p = 0.031), and a family history of CAD (OR = 5.56; p = 0.031).Our findings show that the PHACTR1 T allele is associated with an increased risk of CAD in smokers with a family history, dyslipidemia and obesity, in the absence of other major cardiovascular risk factors. These results support the concept that genetic susceptibility may modulate the vascular response to chronic inflammatory and oxidative stress. Further prospective and functional studies are warranted to clarify the underlying biological mechanisms and the potential clinical value of integrating genetic profiling into personalised cardiovascular risk stratification.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Cadherin-2 (CDH2) has been implicated in angiogenesis-related tumor biology, but its microenvironmental significance remains unclear. To clarify the role of CDH2 in a biologically informative setting, we used a two-round site-selection strategy and identified pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) as the final study context. Integrative single-cell, spatial, and regulatory analyses were then performed to define the cellular localization and biological meaning of CDH2 in the PDAC microenvironment. CDH2 was reproducibly localized to a fibroblast-associated stromal compartment rather than to a broadly endothelial compartment. Within fibroblasts, CDH2-positive cells were enriched for extracellular matrix remodeling, mesenchymal activation, wound-healing, angiogenesis-related, and TGF-beta-associated programs, supporting a coherent stromal remodeling state. Additional cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF) subtype signature analysis indicated that this state preferentially overlapped with a myofibroblastic CAF-like (myCAF-like)/extracellular matrix-remodeling CAF-like program rather than a dominant inflammatory or antigen-presenting CAF-like program. Communication analysis further showed that CDH2-positive fibroblasts occupied a primarily inter-compartmental, sender-dominant, extracellular matrix-centered signaling niche characterized by prominent collagen-, fibronectin-, and laminin-related interactions with stromal, malignant, myeloid, and endothelial-associated compartments. Spatial transcriptomic mapping supported tissue-level concordance between the CDH2-associated fibroblast state and an extracellular matrix-centered stromal program. Regulatory and counterfactual attenuation analyses further implicated candidate upstream regulators, including RUNX2, SMAD3, and TCF21. Together, these findings indicate that, in PDAC, CDH2 marks a fibroblast-associated CAF-like stromal cell state linked to extracellular matrix remodeling rather than to a directly vascular-centered program.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Human Cell Society.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fcell.2021.788331.].Copyright © 2026 Gao, Zheng, Zhang, Dong, Sun, Zhao, Ding, Ma and Wang.
Regulatory networks that maintain cardiomyocyte identity are not completely understood. Here, we have examined the relationship of the transcription factors Nr2f1a and Isl1, which, respectively, repress and promote pacemaker cardiomyocyte (PC) differentiation within the venous pole of zebrafish atria. Using zebrafish nr2f1a;isl1 mutants, we found that loss of Isl1 exacerbates the inability to maintain the atrial cardiomyocyte (AC) identity found in nr2f1a mutant hearts. Subsequently, while nr2f1a;isl1 mutants have a failure of PC differentiation and their ACs are unable to transdifferentiate into PC identity, ACs in nr2f1a;isl1 mutant hearts lose myocardial marker expression, gain epicardial cell (EC) gene expression and exit the myocardial layer. Single-cell RNA-sequencing analysis of hearts supports the observation that the ACs and ECs of nr2f1a;isl1 mutant embryos share common myocardial and EC transcriptomic signatures. Depletion of tcf21 and tbx18 in nr2f1a;isl1 mutants was sufficient to prevent the acquisition of EC identity within putatively transdifferentiating ACs. Thus, our results reveal reiterative requirements for Nr2f and Isl1 transcription factors in binary fate decisions within the genetic hierarchy that maintains distinct AC, PC and EC identities at the venous pole of vertebrate hearts.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Lymph node metastasis (LNM) is a primary critical factor for gastric cancer (GC) prognosis, fundamentally driven by the adaptive remodeling of the tumor microenvironment (TME). While gastric cancer-associated mesenchymal stem cells (GCMSCs) are recognized as pivotal orchestrators of the tumor niche, the paracrine mediators governing LNM remain poorly defined. In this study, integrative transcriptomic and cytokine profiling identified CCL11 as the most significantly upregulated chemokine in GCMSCs. Clinical analysis demonstrated that elevated CCL11 expression in tumor tissues correlated with advanced LNM and dismal overall survival. Furthermore, a signature score derived from CCL11+ MSC subclusters, identified via single-cell RNA sequencing, was positively associated with advanced clinical stages and poor prognosis. Serum CCL11 levels further exhibited high diagnostic efficacy for gastric cancer (AUC:0.8131) and moderate predictive value for lymph node metastasis (AUC:0.7848). Intriguingly, despite these robust clinical associations, exogenous CCL11 failed to directly influence the proliferative or migratory capacity of GC cell lines. This discrepancy was resolved by our finding that the cognate receptor CCR3 was virtually absent on the malignant epithelium but selectively enriched on macrophages and lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs). Functionally, GCMSC-derived CCL11 drove M2 macrophage polarization to bolster tumor stemness and chemoresistance, while simultaneously remodeling LECs to facilitate lymphangiogenesis and transendothelial migration. Mechanistically, hypoxic stress triggered the nuclear translocation of TCF21, which directly transactivated the CCL11 promoter in GCMSCs. Together, these findings identify the hypoxia-TCF21-CCL11 axis as a key driver of the GC metastatic niche, highlighting the indispensable significance of stromal-derived molecules in deciphering metastatic complexity and identifying promising targets for early diagnosis and strategic therapeutic intervention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Nephrotic syndrome is one of the most common causes of kidney disease in children. The glomerular and tubulointerstitial changes that occur in the kidney due to this state of high-grade proteinuria are incompletely understood. Here, we report a mouse model of congenital nephrotic syndrome, induced by deletion of transcription factor 21 (Tcf21) from podocyte precursors, that can be used to study the injury sustained by young kidneys in response to nephrotic range proteinuria. Tcf21 is required for normal podocyte development. Our laboratory previously showed that deletion of Tcf21 from early podocyte progenitors abrogated the formation of normal foot processes in embryonic mice. We now show the postnatal phenotype of this deletion characterized by progressive nephrotic range proteinuria as early as two weeks of age. These mice developed worsening glomerulosclerosis and tubulointerstitial fibrosis, resulting in early mortality. Single-cell RNA sequencing of kidneys from these mice demonstrated structural and developmental defects in podocytes caused by the absence of Tcf21. Parietal epithelial cells in mutant kidneys underwent secondary changes that have been shown to promote glomerular injury in other models of kidney disease. In addition, we observed tubulointerstitial changes coincident with the massive proteinuria produced by this genetic model-namely, an expansion of fibroblasts accompanied by the appearance of a new injury cell state in the loop of Henle. These changes preceded the onset of severe, irreversible injury, presenting pathways that could be intervened upon early in the disease to prevent progression of renal fibrosis.NEW & NOTEWORTHY This study generated a comprehensive kidney-wide single-cell transcriptomic dataset of a murine model of childhood nephrotic syndrome developed by the deletion of transcription factor 21 (Tcf21) from early podocyte precursors. Our transcriptomic data provide further mechanistic insights into how TCF21 regulates podocyte health and development while enabling interrogation of how the tubulointerstitium responds to massive proteinuria.
BACKGROUND: Early detection of preeclampsia may reduce maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality. While angiogenic biomarkers (sFlt-1 and PlGF) are clinically useful, their sensitivity is imperfect. Podocyte injury is implicated in preeclampsia; urinary transcription factor 21 (TCF21) may serve as a non-invasive marker of glomerular involvement. METHODS: In this case-control study, 160 women with preeclampsia and 64 normotensive pregnant controls matched for age and gestational age were enrolled to evaluate the diagnostic utility of urinary TCF21 and its performance alongside angiogenic markers (sFlt-1, PlGF) at the time of clinical presentation for suspected preeclampsia. Preeclampsia cases were stratified into mild (n = 92) and severe (n = 68) disease, and each group was further stratified into early-onset and late-onset preeclampsia. Biomarker performance was assessed using logistic regression, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, and multivariable modeling. RESULTS: Compared with controls, women with preeclampsia had higher sFlt-1 (11.4-fold; p < 0.001), a higher sFlt-1/PlGF ratio (40.6-fold; p < 0.001), and higher urinary TCF21 (1.7-fold; p < 0.001), with lower PlGF (− 68%; p < 0.001). Urinary TCF21 demonstrated moderate discrimination for preeclampsia (AUC 0.769) and was inferior to the sFlt-1/PlGF ratio (AUC 0.812). At the prespecified cutoff of > 370 pg/mL, urinary TCF21 achieved 60.6% sensitivity and 90.6% specificity (LR + 6.45; LR − 0.43). Urinary TCF21 showed an exploratory inverse association with severity (r = − 0.258, p < 0.001) and diastolic blood pressure (r = − 0.244, p = 0.002). In multivariable analysis, urinary TCF21 remained independently associated with preeclampsia (adjusted odds ratio 2.83 per 50 pg/mL; 95% CI 1.49–5.59; p = 0.002), and combined models improved discrimination (AUC 0.87; 95% CI 0.82–0.91). CONCLUSIONS: Urinary TCF21 is a novel, non-invasive biomarker associated with preeclampsia and showed a hypothesis-generating inverse association with disease severity. In this case-control cohort, its high specificity suggests potential adjunct confirmatory performance at presentation when interpreted alongside angiogenic testing; however, cutoffs and probability thresholds are exploratory and require prospective external validation. Future studies should include creatinine-normalized reporting, assay standardization, and longitudinal sampling to evaluate predictive utility prior to symptom onset.
Cardiac fibrosis remains a significant and currently untreatable contributor to mortality in chronic heart disease. This study aimed to comprehensively map cell-specific pathological changes in fibrotic heart tissue from aortic stenosis patients using single-nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq). We specifically sought to identify novel cell-specific candidate genes involved in cardiac fibrosis and validate their functional impact using both in vitro and in vivo models. Our ultimate goal was to enhance the understanding of fibrogenesis in aortic stenosis, thereby guiding the development of targeted antifibrotic therapies.We conducted single nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq) on human fibrotic aortic stenosis and non-failing donor heart samples. The final dataset consisted of 41 330 nuclei distributed across 28 cell clusters representing 6 major cell types. SnRNA-seq revealed a disease-specific subpopulation of fibroblasts, characterized by the presence of both anti-fibrotic and pro-fibrotic markers. Interestingly, TCF21, a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor, was identified as a potential key regulator within this distinct fibroblast population, and we performed functional studies to identify its role in disease progression accordingly. Loss of TCF21 in cardiac fibroblasts caused increased myofibroblast-like gene expression and differentiation, whereas upregulation of TCF21 in cardiac fibroblasts exerted an anti-fibrotic effect. Adeno-associated virus-mediated cardiac fibroblast-specific knockdown and overexpression in vivo further demonstrate that TCF21 improves cardiac remodelling.This investigation highlights the role of TCF21 as a protective regulator in cardiac fibrosis. Moreover, the upregulation of TCF21 holds promise as a strategy for treating cardiac fibrosis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) osteodifferentiation involves adaptations of lipid metabolism but the specific regulatory roles of lipid species remain underexplored. We use a global metabolomics approach, comprising LC-MS lipidomics and NMR metabotolomics, to identify mechanistic features of human adipose-derived MSC (hAMSC) osteodifferentiation and new markers of osteogenic progression. Results show that, upon differentiation, cellular metabolism progresses through an early osteocommitment phase (day 7) followed by active osteodifferentiation (day 21), with underlying proliferation contributing towards membrane remodeling, oxidative stress protection and lipid-supported energy/signaling processes. At day 7, differentiating cells exhibit coordinated lipid remodeling and activation of the phosphocreatine (PCr)-creatine (Cr) axis. This leads to accumulation of phosphocholine, PCr and sphingomyelin, in preparation for mineralization and extracellular vesicle formation. Concomitantly, calcium oscillatory signaling and active purinergic metabolism are predicted. Other early features persist until day 21, including increased polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs)-rich plasmalogen levels, enhanced endogenous substrate mobilization and metabolic autonomy. At this later stage, accumulation of storage lipids occurs, likely contributing to ω-3/ω-6 balance. FA regulation seems to be accompanied by a shift from TCA/OXPHOS towards β-oxidation and PCr hydrolysis, as predominant energy sources. Late-stage osteodifferentiation is also characterized by inhibition of pathways associated with undifferentiated state maintenance, while several upstream regulators emerge as pro-osteogenic. The resulting metabolic framework enables actionable monitoring and rational optimization of bone tissue engineering strategies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
In this work, in order to improve the low solubility and poor oral bioavailability of puerarin, we first applied melt sonocrystallization (MSC) technology to systematically investigate the effects on its solubility and crystallographic properties. We applied MSC to treat puerarin, evaluated its solubilization effect using UV spectroscopy, and characterized it by dissolution rate, optical microscope, powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR). Following MSC treatment, puerarin exhibited higher solubility and faster dissolution, the product displayed reduced particle size and a tendency to agglomerate. The results of PXRD, DSC, FTIR and TGA showed that the crystal form of MSC treated puerarin transformed into puerarin monohydrate, with a decrease in crystallinity and partial amorphization. The reduction in particle size and amorphization may be the driving forces of the increase in solubility and dissolution. In summary, MSC can significantly improve the solubility and dissolution of puerarin, providing new ideas for enhancing its bioavailability and improving its oral formulations.Copyright: © 2026 Gong et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
The development of effective strategies for treating bone defects can be based on gene therapy methods aimed at regulating the differentiation of osteoprogenitor cells. One of the approaches is to use siRNA molecules in knockdown systems for genes inhibiting osteogenic cell differentiation. In this work, we aimed at developingapproaches to induce osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) by siRNAs-mediated knockdown of GSK3β siRNAs in cultures of MSCs derived from human adipose tissue (AD-MSCs). For this purpose, we compared the transfection efficacy of lipoplexes and polyplexes formed with one of four siRNA molecules and five commercial transfection agents most commonly used in laboratory practice. The most effective transfection agent was found to be linear polyethylenimine (PEI) which demonstrated high cytocompatibility both in free form and in polyplexes (even when maximum concentrations were used). Using the polyplexes formed by the newly designed siRNA and PEI, we constructed a highly efficient GSK3β gene knockdown system, which showed effectiveness in AD-MSC cultures. As a result, we demonstrated the osteoinductive properties of GSK3β siRNA molecules in these cultures. These results provide a methodological basis for future siRNA-based strategies targeting GSK3β in osteogenic applications, with in vivo studies needed to establish its translational potential.Copyright: © 2026 Galitsyna et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Accumulating evidence from studies in other tumour types suggests that mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) may influence macrophage polarization, but the underlying mechanisms in renal cell carcinoma (RCC) remain unclear. In this study, renal carcinoma-derived MSCs (RCC-MSCs) were isolated from the tumour tissue of a patient with clear cell renal cell carcinoma, and BM-MSC-derived MSC1 was included as an exploratory reversal model rather than as a biologically matched comparator. THP-1-derived macrophage models, together with co-culture assays, flow cytometry, Western blotting, quantitative real-time PCR, and ELISA, were used to evaluate macrophage phenotypes and cytokine secretion. Patient-derived RCC-MSCs from a single ccRCC specimen promoted M2-like macrophage polarization in vitro, and this effect was attenuated by NF-κB inhibition with pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC). In turn, RCC-MSC-primed macrophages enhanced the growth, migration, and invasion of 786-O cells in vitro, whereas blockade of NF-κB attenuated these tumour-promoting effects. In an exploratory in vitro setting, BM-MSC-derived MSC1 favoured partial reprogramming of M2 macrophages toward an M1-like phenotype. Collectively, these findings suggest that patient-derived RCC-MSCs from a single ccRCC specimen may promote M2-like macrophage polarization through NF-κB-related signalling and enhance malignant phenotypes of 786-O cells in vitro, while BM-MSC-derived MSC1 supports the plasticity of macrophage polarization in an exploratory setting.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Oncolytic viruses are therapeutic agents that combine self-amplification, lytic activity, and immunostimulatory properties. However, their systemic administration is limited by inefficient tumor delivery. Although mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-based carrier systems have been proposed to overcome these barriers, their efficacy is restricted by rapid MSC lysis following viral replication, which limits the time available for tumor homing. Here, we describe a tetracycline operator-regulated oncolytic adenovirus designed to temporally control viral replication within MSC carriers and enhance intratumoral viral delivery. In this system, menstrual blood-derived MSCs (MenSCs) are engineered to stably express the tetracycline repressor, while the adenoviral genome incorporates TetO sites upstream of the E1A promoter, enabling reversible pharmacological control of viral replication through tetracycline or doxycycline administration. TetO incorporation did not compromise viral fitness, and viral replication was effectively repressed in TetR-expressing MenSCs, with restoration upon inducer addition. Importantly, once released within the tumor microenvironment, viral progeny replicated unrestrictedly in TetR-negative cancer cells. In lung adenocarcinoma model, TetO-regulated oncolytic adenoviruses delivered by TetR-MenSCs achieved enhanced intratumoral viral accumulation and improved antitumor efficacy. Overall, these findings establish a controllable MSC-based oncolytic adenovirus delivery strategy that addresses a key limitation of systemic virotherapy and supports its clinical translation across solid tumors.© 2026 The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564296 is a review article
The aging of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) is characterized by impaired osteogenic differentiation and enhanced adipogenic differentiation. Studies have identified stanniocalcin‑1 (STC1) as a core component of the senescence‑associated secretory phenotype and a regulator of osteoblast maturation; however, its role in MSC biology remains poorly understood. In the present study, bone marrow‑derived MSCs were used and in vitro functional assays together with molecular and omics‑based analyses were performed to investigate the role of STC1. It was observed that STC1 expression was upregulated in aged MSCs and during both osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation. Small interfering RNA‑mediated depletion of STC1 reduced cellular senescence and notably impaired osteogenic differentiation, whereas adipogenic and chondrogenic differentiation were not significantly affected. RNA sequencing revealed that STC1 knockdown led to the downregulation of osteogenesis‑related genes and the concomitant upregulation of inflammatory factors. Genes associated with closing differentially accessible regions (DARs) were enriched in osteogenic pathways, whereas those associated with opening DARs were predominantly involved in inflammatory responses. Mechanistically, STC1 knockdown led to the activation of NF‑κB signaling. Pharmacological inhibition assays using NF‑κB inhibitors were performed to validate pathway involvement. Pharmacological inhibition of NF‑κB signaling significantly mitigated the impairment in osteogenic differentiation and attenuated the inflammatory response induced by STC1 depletion. Collectively, these findings suggest that STC1 is involved in the regulation of osteogenic differentiation and inflammatory signaling through the modulation of NF‑κB activity in MSCs. Furthermore, targeting STC1 while inhibiting NF‑κB signaling may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for alleviating MSC dysfunction and age‑related bone loss.
Acute kidney injury (AKI) is primarily caused by renal ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury, which is clinically linked to significant morbidity and death in both developed and developing countries. Therefore, the aim of this work is to compare the possible ameliorative effect of dapagliflozin (DAPA) versus human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells derived microvesicles (HUC-MSC-MVs) through biochemical, light, and electron microscope studies. Fifty-six adult male albino rats were divided into four groups: control, I/R, I/R+DAPA, and I/R+MVs groups. Both serum and tissue samples were collected for biochemical analysis. Renal specimens were processed to evaluate the histological structure, collagen content, desmin, and β-catenin immune expression. Morphometric and statistical analyses were performed. I/R group revealed prominent histoarchitectural alterations and a significant rise in the serum urea, creatinine, oxidative stress markers, and inflammatory mediators. Alterations were partially attenuated by DAPA therapy, whereas HUC-MSC-MVs significantly improved all parameters. We concluded that MSC-MVs administration exert a more significant ameliorative effect comparing to DAPA therapy via attenuating the oxidative stress and inflammation in addition to, restoring angiogenesis and cell proliferation. However, these findings remain preclinical and further researches are acclaimed for dose optimization, safety evaluation, and clinical validation before application in human AKI.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) triggers complex secondary pathologies that lack effective treatments. While mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) transplantation is promising, it is severely limited by poor cell retention and survival. To address these challenges, we engineered a combinatorial platform comprising an injectable, self-healing supramolecular gelatin hydrogel (iGel) loaded with CRISPR-SAM-engineered "Super MSCs" (SPMSCs). These cells were programmed to endogenously multiplex the activation of neuroprotective factors IL-10 and FGF21. Our results demonstrate that the biomimetic iGel niche enhances SPMSC viability and sustained factor secretion compared to 2D cultures. In a murine TBI model, iGel-encapsulated SPMSCs exerted potent immunomodulatory effects, suppressing microglial inflammation and neuronal apoptosis while restoring blood-brain barrier integrity. Furthermore, the treatment promoted angiogenesis and endogenous neurogenesis. Consequently, treated mice exhibited reduced cerebral edema and lesion volume, alongside significant improvements in sensorimotor function and spatial memory. This study establishes a versatile, gene-editing-empowered biomaterial platform that overcomes critical bottlenecks in cell therapy for central nervous system injuries.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The aim of this study was to isolate human periapical cyst-derived mesenchymal stem cells (PC-MSCs) and compare their immunophenotypic profiles, clonogenic capacity, metabolic activity, migration capacity, and differentiation characteristics with those of dental pulp mesenchymal stem cells (DP-MSCs). PC-MSCs and DP-MSCs were isolated from six periapical cysts and six impacted third molars, respectively. The cells were characterized by flow cytometry and trilineage differentiation assays (osteogenic, adipogenic, chondrogenic). Proliferation was assessed using the MTT assay and colony-forming unit-fibroblast (CFU-F) efficiency. Migration potential was evaluated using an in vitro scratch assay. The secretion of odontogenic markers, dentin sialophosphoprotein (DSPP) and dentin matrix acidic phosphoprotein (DMP1), was quantified using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Both cell types expressed characteristic mesenchymal stem cell markers. PC-MSCs exhibited significantly higher colony-forming efficiency (CFU-F, p < 0.05) and superior migration capacity compared to DP-MSCs (p < 0.05). Both MSC populations demonstrated differentiation capacity. DP-MSCs showed more extensive Alizarin Red S staining, while PC-MSCs showed relatively stronger Oil Red O staining. ELISA analysis revealed no statistically significant differences in DSPP and DMP1 secretion levels between the two groups (p > 0.05). Although DP-MSCs exhibited superior mineralizing ability, PC-MSCs displayed higher clonogenic and migratory potential, while no statistically significant differences were observed in DSPP and DMP1 secretion levels between the groups. These findings suggest that periapical cysts, often regarded as pathological waste, may represent a promising and readily accessible source of MSC-like cells with potential relevance for regenerative endodontic research.© 2026. The Society for In Vitro Biology.
Eosinophilic chronic rhinosinusitis (ECRS) is characterized by refractory nasal polyps and severely impaired mucociliary clearance (MCC). The molecular mechanisms underlying the modulation of mucociliogenesis following IL-4/13 blockade with dupilumab remain poorly understood, notwithstanding its proven clinical efficacy.Bulk RNA Barcoding and sequencing (BRB-seq) was performed on nasal polyp tissues collected from healthy controls (n = 6), patients with non-ECRS (n = 8), and patients with ECRS both before and four weeks after dupilumab treatment (n = 9) to identify the early molecular drivers underlying ciliary regeneration. Comprehensive gene-set scoring systems were developed to evaluate multiciliogenesis master regulators, master regulators of core/ciliary planar cell polarity (PCP) and PCP components. Interaction scores for epithelial-derived cytokines-thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP), IL-25, and IL-33-were calculated based on ligand and cognate receptor subunit expression.The ciliary master regulatory hierarchy (e.g., FOXJ1, RFX2/3), PCP components (CELSR1 and the ciliogenesis and planar polarity effector (CPLANE) module: FUZ, INTU, WDPCP), and structural ciliogenesis pathways were robustly restored following IL-4/13 blockade. The TSLP interaction score correlated with global mucosal damage, serving as a trigger for compensatory multiciliogenesis. The pre-treatment IL-33 interaction score emerged as a significant predictor of transcriptomic ciliary recovery (p < 0.05). DNASE1L3-the primary endonuclease for degrading eosinophilic extracellular traps (EETs)-remained persistently downregulated post-treatment.IL-4/13 blockade successfully restores the structural and directional "hardware" of the respiratory epithelium but fails to rectify the enzymatic "software" required for mucus degradation. This "residual molecular scar" may explain the persistent mucus hyperviscosity observed in some ECRS patients even after clinical polyp resolution.
Here, we report a genetically engineered mouse model expressing a mutant Wdpcp gene that harbors a deletion of two codons encoding D481 and W482 that correspond to N512 and W513 in human WDPCP. Homozygous mutant mice, designated as Wdpcp-Z11, exhibited severe developmental abnormalities, including neural tube defects, craniofacial malformation, anophthalmia and polydactyly. The mutant WDPCP protein was expressed but failed to dock to the apical surface of the cell. Cilia formation and Hh signaling were severely impaired. Structure predictions located these residues at the juncture of two alpha helices in a conserved, but otherwise uncharacterized, region of WDPCP. Their absence was predicted to impair the linker and reduce conformational stability of WDPCP. Rescue experiments demonstrated that restoring both D481 and W482 are required for a phenotypic recovery. Because a variant of W513 (p.Trp513Ser) is associated with Bardet-Beidl syndrome, insight gained into the structure-function relationship may be valuable for understanding WDPCP-associated ciliopathy.© 2025. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Prostate cancer (PCa) diagnosis is hampered by the limited specificity of current methods, necessitating more reliable biomarkers. To identify causal protein biomarkers and therapeutic targets in humans, we conducted a proteome-wide Mendelian randomization (MR) study. We first performed a meta-analysis of two independent genome-wide association studies, including 94,397 individuals with PCa and 192,372 controls, which identified five possible susceptibility loci (JAZF1, PDILM5, WDPCP, EEFSEC, TNS3) for PCa. Subsequently, MR and colocalization analyses were performed using genetic instruments for 4907 plasma proteins from deCODE Genetics (N=35,559) and 2940 plasma proteins from UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project (UKB-PPP) (N=54,219). Among 3722 human proteins analyzed, 193 were associated with PCa risk, with 20 high-risk proteins (including KLK3) validated across both cohorts. Functional annotation implicated immune and inflammatory responses and cell-cell interaction pathways. Druggability analyses nominated several potential drug targets for PCa, such as HSPB1, RRM2B, and PSCA. Our findings reveal novel risk loci and candidate protein biomarkers, providing new etiological insights and potential avenues for PCa early detection and therapy.© 2025, Chen et al.
High levels of HBV DNA and HBsAg titres increase the risk of mother-to-child transmission. Development of adaptive immunity post HBV vaccination in neonates born to HBsAg-positive mothers may be determined by maternal HBsAg titres. We analysed pre- and post-HBV vaccination immune status in neonates.PBMCs were collected before and after vaccination for single cell multi-omics sequencing for infants born to mothers with low (Gr.1, sAgLo 1.65 × 102 IU/mL) and high (Gr.2, sAgHi 1.4 × 104IU/mL) HBsAg titres. Integrative analysis of whole transcriptome and surface marker expression was done using the Seurat R package. Functional validation of single-cell data was performed through immunophenotyping in both groups.scRNAseq revealed that, at pre-HBV vaccine, CD8+T cells of neonates born to mothers with HBsAgHi levels showed increased expression (p < 0.05) of TOX, CTLA4, PD1, LAG3, CD38 and CREM exhaustion markers and decreased expression of ATP1B3, MREG and TGFβ1 compared to sAgLo. Monocytes and NK cells had elevated CXCR3, TNFSF9, HIVEP3, WDPCP, ATP6V1G2, IL-6, GMCSF and GCSF (p < 0.0001) driving the inflammation and mitochondrial biogenesis through MAP/ERK kinase in sAgHi compared to sAgLo. Post-vaccination, despite anti-HBs titre ≥ 10 IU/mL, sAgHi, neonates showed persistently high TOX, CTLA4, PD1 and CREM in CD8+T cells (p < 0.0001). Functional validations by immune phenotyping also showed higher expression of LAG3, PD1, TIGIT and BTLA (p < 0.05) on CD8+T cells pre- and post-vaccination in sAgHi compared to sAgLo.HBV exposure compromises adaptive immunity at birth; despite post-vaccination anti-HBs titres generation, there was a sustained pro-inflammatory state by the innate immune activation via metabolic alterations that persisted in neonates born to sAgHi mothers.© 2025 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Despite significantPlease check if article title presented correctly. advances made by genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in the genetic exploration of tumors such as prostate cancer (PCa), the precise pathogenic genes and underlying biological mechanisms of PCa remain unclear.To address this complex issue, we used a cross-tissue transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) strategy within the Unified Test for Molecular Signatures (UTMOST) framework. This approach integrated GWAS summary statistics from 122,188 PCa patients and 604,640 controls with extensive gene expression data from the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) project. We validated key gene discoveries using three complementary methods: FUSION, FOCUS, and Multi-marker Analysis of GenoMic Annotation (MAGMA). Additionally, MAGMA was used to examine the tissue and functional level enrichment of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with PCa. Conditional and joint analysis, as well as fine mapping techniques, were employed to deepen our understanding of PCa's genetic architecture. To establish causal relationships, we conducted Mendelian randomization analysis, while colocalization analysis was used to identify potential shared SNPs between key genes and PCa risk.Through the comprehensive application of four TWAS methods, we identified 13 potential susceptibility genes closely associated with PCa risk. Mendelian randomization analysis confirmed direct causal links between the WDPCP, RIF1, POLI, HAAO, GGCX and CASP10 genes and PCa. Colocalization analysis further revealed that CASP10 (rs6735656), GGCX (rs2028900) may share genetic signals between GWAS and expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL), indicating common pathways in PCa pathogenesis.This study identified 13 new susceptibility genes significantly associated with PCa risk and provided new insights into the genetic basis of PCa, contributing to a more comprehensive understanding of its complex genetic structure.© 2025. The Author(s).
In the present study 1,709 cattle, including 1,118 Drakensberger (DRB), 377 Nguni (NGI), and 214 Tuli (TUL), were genotyped using the GeneSeek® Genomic Profiler™ 150 K bovine SNP panel. A genomic data set of 122,632 quality-filtered single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were used to identify selection signatures within breeds based on conserved runs of homozygosity (ROH) and heterozygosity (ROHet) estimated with the detectRUNS R package. The mean number of ROH per animal varied across breeds ranging from 36.09 ± 12.82 (NGI) to 51.82 ± 21.01 (DRB), and the mean ROH length per breed ranged between 2.31 Mb (NGI) and 3.90 Mb (DRB). The smallest length categories i.e., ROH < 4 Mb were most frequent, indicating historic inbreeding effects for all breeds. The ROH based inbreeding coefficients (FROH) ranged between 0.033 ± 0.024 (NGI) and 0.081 ± 0.046 (DRB). Genes mapped to candidate regions were associated with immunity (ADAMTS12, LY96, WDPCP) and adaptation (FKBP4, CBFA2T3, TUBB3) in cattle and genes previously only reported for immunity in mice and human (EXOC3L1, MYO1G). The present study contributes to the understanding of the genetic mechanisms of adaptation, providing information for potential molecular application in genetic evaluation and selection programs.© 2024. The Author(s).
Coronary atherosclerosis (CAS) is a complex chronic inflammatory disease with significant genetic and environmental contributions. While genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have pinpointed many risk loci, over 75 % are in non-coding regions, complicating functional analysis and understanding gene-disease mechanisms.We conducted a cross-tissue transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) using data from the GWAS Catalog (16,041 cases, 440,307 controls) and the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) v8 eQTL dataset. Initially, we used the Unified Test for Molecular Signatures (UTMOST) for analysis, followed by validation with Functional Summary-based Imputation (FUSION) and conditional and joint (COJO) analyses. Candidate genes were further refined using Multi-marker Analysis of Genomic Annotation (MAGMA). Causal relationships were assessed through Summary Data-Based Mendelian Randomization (SMR), colocalization analysis (COLOC), and Mendelian Randomization (MR). GeneMANIA was used to identify interacting genes, and Phenome-Wide Association Study (PheWAS) was employed to enhance the results.UTMOST identified 33 susceptibility genes for CAS. Out of these, 17 met stringent criteria in both UTMOST and FUSION analyses. Combining results from UTMOST, FUSION, and MAGMA, we identified four critical candidate genes. WDPCP was the only gene to pass SMR, COLOC, and MR analyses, confirming its causal role in CAS. GeneMANIA revealed additional interacting genes, and PheWAS validated WDPCP's role as a susceptibility gene.WDPCP is a potential novel susceptibility gene for CAS, influencing endothelial function, lipid metabolism, and coronary artery development. This study extends GWAS findings, highlighting WDPCP's potential as a therapeutic target and its consistent expression across different tissues. Further validation studies are warranted.© 2024 The Authors.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) affects 3.9%-5.6% of the worldwide population, with well-documented sex-related differences. While psychosocial and hormonal factors affecting sex differences in PTSD and posttraumatic stress (PTS) symptom etiology have been explored, there has been limited focus on the genetic bases of these differences. Many symptom combinations may confer a PTSD diagnosis. We hypothesized that these symptom combinations have sex-specific patterns, the examination of which could inform etiological differences in PTSD genetics between males and females.To investigate this, we performed a sex-stratified multivariate genome-wide association study (GWAS) in unrelated UK Biobank (UKB) individuals of European ancestry. Using GWAS summary association data, genomic structural equation modelling was performed to generate sex-specific factor models using 6 indicator variables: trouble concentrating, feeling distant from others, irritability, disturbing thoughts, upset feelings, and avoidance of places/activities which remind the individual of a traumatic event.Models of male and female PTSD symptoms differed substantially (local standardized root mean square difference = 3.12) and significantly (χ2(5) = 28.03, P = 3.6 × 10-5). Independent 2-factor models best fit the data in both males and females; these factors were subjected to GWAS in each sex, revealing 3 genome-wide significant loci in females, mapping to SCAND3, WDPCP, and FAM120A. No genome-wide significant loci were identified in males. All 4 PTS factors (2 in males and 2 in females) were heritable.By assessing the relationship between sex and PTSD symptoms, this study informs correlative and putatively causal etiological differences between males and females which support further investigation of sex differences in PTSD genetics.
Congenital heart defects (CHDs) represent one of the most prevalent categories of neonatal defects, and maternal dietary patterns have been linked to the risk of these conditions. Branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs), particularly leucine, are essential for various metabolic and physiological processes involved in heart development. In this study, we examined the molecular mechanisms through which elevated levels of leucine induce defects in cardiac microvascular endothelial cells. We collected plasma samples from healthy controls and neonatal patients with CHDs, employed a high-leucine diet for pregnant female mice, and applied high-leucine treatment in human cardiac microvascular endothelial cells (HCMECs). The impacts of high-leucine levels on WD Repeat Containing Planar Cell Polarity Effector (WDPCP)/MAPK signaling axis were investigated in the cell and animal models. We reported heightened plasma leucine levels in neonatal patients with CHDs and observed that a high-leucine diet in pregnant mice was associated with reduced expression of WDPCP and attenuated MAPK/ERK signaling. High-leucine treatment in HCMECs impaired epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and cell migration; however, overexpression of WDPCP or activation of MAPK exhibited a rescue effect. The upregulation of endomucin (EMCN) under high-leucine conditions contributed to the impaired EMT and migratory capacity of HCMECs, and the WDPCP/MAPK signaling axis regulated EMCN overexpression in response to high-leucine treatment. High levels of leucine in neonatal patients with CHDs may inhibit the WDPCP/MAPK axis, leading to an increase in EMCN expression that undermines the function of cardiac microvascular endothelial cells. These findings suggest the potential of targeting the WDPCP/MAPK axis as an intervention strategy for neonatal CHDs.© 2024 The Author(s). Pulmonary Circulation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Pulmonary Vascular Research Institute.
We report on the case of a 19-year-old male with Stargardt disease (STGD1) who presented with a five-year history of progressive vision loss, accompanied by the recent onset of alternating exotropia. This patient initially sought care due to difficulties with near vision and tended to focus on distant objects when looking to the right. He was found to have a best-corrected visual acuity of 20/200 in both eyes. A comprehensive evaluation, including multimodal imaging and multifocal electroretinogram, was performed. Genetic testing confirmed the diagnosis of STGD1, identifying homozygous mutations in the ABCA4 gene. Interestingly, an additional heterozygous mutation in the WDPCP gene, typically associated with Bardet-Biedl syndrome, was also discovered. The patient's exotropia, an atypical feature in STGD1, underscores the importance of comprehensive clinical and genetic evaluation and the need for further research into the clinical significance of these findings.Copyright © 2024, López-Fontanet et al.
Gastric adenocarcinoma lacks robust circulating biomarkers and tractable targets. We assessed whether genetically predicted plasma protein levels influence disease risk and sought druggable candidates using a proteome-wide Mendelian randomization (MR) framework.We integrated deCODE plasma protein quantitative trait loci (pQTLs) with gastric cancer GWAS in a proteome-wide two-sample MR framework to identify circulating proteins causally associated with gastric cancer. Protein-protein interaction topology was used to prioritize eight hub proteins, which were further evaluated in an eight-gene artificial neural network (ANN) classifier. Single-cell and spatial transcriptomics, together with multiplex immunofluorescence, mapped hub-gene expression across tumor, stromal and immune compartments. Finally, we focused on TGFB3 as a genetically and spatially prioritized target, combining in silico ligand screening with in vitro perturbation of the TGFB3-PI3K survival axis using proflavine hemisulfate as a chemical probe.Proteome-wide MR highlighted 29 circulating proteins with putative causal effects on gastric cancer, of which eight (ERBB3, LGR4, BMP4, CD248, MGP, TGFB3, GRP and ETS2) occupied central positions in the interaction network. The corresponding eight-gene ANN showed robust discrimination between gastric cancer and non-tumor tissue across multiple cohorts and improved diagnostic performance beyond clinical variables. Single-cell, spatial and multiplex immunofluorescence analyses localized these hubs to epithelial, fibroblast and endothelial compartments, with TGFB3 enriched at tumor-stroma interfaces and associated with poor survival. Virtual screening nominated TGFB3-binding ligands and proflavine hemisulfate formed a stable complex with TGFB3 in silico while attenuating TGFB3-driven proliferation, migration and PI3K-dependent survival signaling in AGS cells.Our proteome-wide MR framework identifies genetically supported circulating proteins that contribute to gastric carcinogenesis and converges on TGFB3 as a tractable stromal signaling axis. Proflavine hemisulfate functions as a mechanistically informative chemical probe of TGFB3-PI3K survival signaling in gastric cancer cells, providing a starting scaffold for future TGFB3-targeted therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026 Zhao, Mao, Xu, Zhou, Liang, Han, Zhang, Hong, Hu and Wu.
Endothelial senescence is a critical contributor to vascular aging and age-related vasculopathies. Our previous work identified AGGF1 as a regulator of cell cycle progression and anti-inflammatory signaling. However, whether AGGF1 modulates endothelial senescence remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that AGGF1 is downregulated in both replicative and DOX-induced senescent HUVECs. AGGF1 knockdown accelerated cellular senescence as evidenced by senescence markers, including increased SA-β-gal activity, enhanced formation of γH2AX foci, elevated IL-6 levels, and impaired proliferation, whereas AGGF1 overexpression prevented DOX- and MMC-induced senescence using adenovirus and lentivirus-mediated gene manipulation. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, we performed RNA sequencing, small-molecule drug intervention, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and other imaging techniques in subsequent experiments. Transcriptomic and functional analyses revealed that AGGF1 transcriptionally upregulates TGFB3, which is associated with TAK1 activation and AMPK phosphorylation, ultimately inhibiting excessive mitochondrial fragmentation and suppressing cellular senescence. This signaling module reduced DRP1 expression and attenuated its activating phosphorylation at Ser616. TEM results further confirmed that AGGF1 overexpression significantly reduced mitochondrial fragmentation in cells. Additionally, this proposed association was supported by pharmacological inhibition (Takinib, Compound C) and TGFB3 knockdown, which abrogated AGGF1-mediated protection. Collectively, we identified that AGGF1 is critical for regulating a proposed TGFB3-TAK1-AMPK regulatory module, which delays endothelial senescence partially through maintenance of mitochondrial morphology. Our study provides evidence that AGGF1 plays an important role in metabolic control and cellular senescence.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42380922 is a review article
Zebrafish, in contrast to mammals, regenerate neurons after spinal cord injury, but little is known about the control mechanisms of this process. Here we use scRNA-seq and in vivo experiments to show that sema4ab, mainly expressed by lesion-reactive microglia, attenuates regenerative neurogenesis by changing the complex lesion environment. After spinal injury, disruption of sema4ab doubles the number of newly generated progenitor cells and neurons but attenuates axon regrowth and recovery of swimming function. Disruption of the plxnb1a/b receptors, selectively expressed by neural progenitor cells, increases regenerative neurogenesis. In addition, disruption of sema4ab alters activation state and cytokine expression of microglia, such that fibroblasts increase expression of the cytokine tgfb3, which strongly promotes regenerative neurogenesis. Hence, we propose that sema4ab expression in microglia attenuates regenerative neurogenesis in multiple ways, likely directly through plxnb1a/b receptors and indirectly, by controlling the inflammatory milieu and tgfb3 levels. Targeting Sema4A-dependent signaling in non-regenerating vertebrates may be a future strategy to improve regenerative outcomes.Copyright: © 2026 Docampo-Seara et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Loeys-Dietz Syndrome (LDS) is a heritable connective tissue disorder characterized by widespread arterial tortuosity and aneurysmal disease. Although intracranial aneurysms occur frequently in LDS, it is unclear whether cervical arterial tortuosity is associated with intracranial aneurysm risk.We retrospectively reviewed patients with genetically confirmed LDS who underwent cervical and cerebrovascular imaging at our institution. Cervical carotid and vertebral tortuosities were derived from baseline CTA or MRA three-dimensional centerline reconstructions. Quantitative metrics such as total absolute curvature, peak curvature, number of curves, and inter-vessel asymmetry were compared between LDS and controls and between LDS subgroups based on the presence and multiplicity of intracranial aneurysms.Sixty-three LDS patients (17 TGFBR1, 19 TGFB2, 11 SMAD3, 11 TGFB2, 5 TGFB3) and 50 controls were analyzed. LDS patients had significantly greater carotid and vertebral tortuosity across all metrics compared to controls (P < 0.001). Tortuosity varied by genotype, with highest values of carotid (P = 0.0001) and vertebral tortuosity (P < 0.0001) in TGFBR2 variants. Intracranial aneurysms were identified in 16 (25%) LDS patients. No direct association was observed between absolute carotid or vertebral tortuosity and intracranial aneurysm presence in LDS. In exploratory analyses, we observed a non-significant positive association between carotid asymmetry and multiple intracranial aneurysms (adjusted OR = 3.2 [95% CI: 0.7 to 14.0]; P = 0.126).Cervical arterial tortuosity is a robust imaging feature of LDS but does not independently predict intracranial aneurysm presence. These findings support continued baseline cerebrovascular imaging and periodic surveillance in all LDS patients, independent of tortuosity burden.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Many transcription factors may be involved in the pathogenesis of pulmonary fibrosis (PF). One such factor is PPARG. The PPARG agonist, pioglitazone (PG), has demonstrated general lung protective activity in animal models and is considered a promising therapeutic agent for fibrotic intervention. This study aimed to investigate the effect of PG on the expression of connective tissue remodeling genes in the lungs using bleomycin (BLM)-induced lung fibrosis (BIF).The study was conducted on male BALB/c mice. PF was induced by pretreatment with bleomycin sulfate and cyclophosphamide. The mice were randomly divided into 3 groups: the first group was administered BLM at a dose of 0.15 U/kg in 50 µl of sterile saline (0.9% NaCl), and the second group was administered 50 µl of saline. The third group was not induced with pulmonary fibrosis and served as a control group. On the 4th day of the experiment, animals from the first and second groups were randomly divided into animals that received PG orally at a dose of 20 mg/kg or saline (40 µl) for 14 days. 4-hydroxyproline was determined in right lung tissue samples. Gene expression was determined using real-time PCR.PG administration to BIF mice resulted in a significant reduction and normalization of the total number of BAL cells, fibrosis score, mRNA expression of genes associated with connective tissue - Col1a1 (P=0.0466), Col3a1 (P=0.0053), Mmp2 (P=0.0006), Tgfb2 (P=0.0459), and Tgfb3 (P=0.0017), as well as mRNA of genes regulating lung connective tissue inflammation and fibrosis - Mrc1 (P=0.0263), Edn1 (P=0.0012), Pparg (P=0.0044), Nr1d1 (P=0.0053) and Fn1 (P=0.0125).PPARG activation by PG alleviates BIF by decreasing collagen deposition, Col1a1 and Col3a1 mRNA expression, remodeling of lung tissue (decreasing Mmp2, Edn1, and Fn1 mRNA), and M2-specific profibrotic macrophage Mrc1 mRNA.
Aim: The rising prevalence of opioid use during pregnancy poses serious public health concerns. The placenta is a critical organ during gestation, and opioid exposure can disrupt its function and fetal development. However, the molecular mechanisms through which opioids such as oxycodone affect feto-placental development remain poorly understood. This study aimed to investigate the effects of chronic in-utero oxycodone exposure on the composition and signaling functions of placenta-derived small extracellular vesicles (PSEVs) using a rat model. Methods: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) were isolated from placental tissue and characterized through nanoparticle tracking analysis, transmission electron microscopy, western blotting, and label-free quantitative proteomics. Bioinformatic enrichment analyses were conducted to evaluate changes in EVs biophysical properties and protein cargo. Results: Chronic oxycodone exposure significantly altered PSEV characteristics, including particle size distribution and proteomic composition. Among the 456 identified EV proteins, 107 proteins were significantly dysregulated. We found key downregulatory proteins including Atp2a2, Lmna, Tgfb3, Agt, and Sgce, which are crucial for myocardial calcium cycling, nuclear integrity, extracellular matrix remodeling, and blood pressure regulation. These findings indicate disruptions in fetal cardiac programming, particularly hypertrophic and dilated cardiomyopathy pathways. Additionally, enrichment analyses revealed notable perturbations in metabolic processes (e.g., citrate cycle, fatty acid degradation, N-glycan biosynthesis), along with upregulation of vesicle transport and neurodevelopment-related proteins, indicating broader systemic effects on fetal development. While these proteomic findings are robust, further independent validation (e.g., via targeted assays or Western blotting) will be necessary to confirm individual protein-level changes. Conclusion: These results highlight PSEVs as sensitive molecular indicators linking maternal oxycodone use to disrupted fetal cardiovascular, metabolic, and neurodevelopmental pathways. This study provides a novel systems-level framework for understanding opioid-induced placental signaling alterations and lays the groundwork for developing EV-based diagnostic biomarkers and targeted interventions.© The Author(s) 2026.
Inflammation has emerged as a prominent feature of bipolar disorder (BD) pathophysiology, drawing attention to brain barriers known to regulate immune-brain interactions. While perturbation of the blood-brain barrier has been reported in BD, the blood-cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) barrier formed largely by the choroid plexus (ChP) remains underexamined. To address this gap in knowledge, we used a multiplex array to measure cytokine protein abundance in postmortem ChP tissue from individuals with BD and unaffected controls, revealing elevated levels of CCL2 and SPP1, factors associated with monocyte and macrophage recruitment and activation. In contrast, expression of cytokines involved in tissue homeostasis, trophic support, and immune signaling, including OSM, IGF-1, CX3CL1, TGFB3, GDNF, LIF, BDNF, SCF, and FGFs, was reduced. Several cytokines, including CCL2 and PLGF, exhibited condition-specific divergent age trajectories. Bulk RNA sequencing of the same cohort revealed a modest set of differentially expressed genes, including transcripts associated with oxidative stress, mitochondrial function, and immune regulation that were upregulated in BD. Notably, the BD CSF biomarker NELL2 was downregulated in the ChP. Gene set enrichment analysis highlighted activation of inflammatory and cellular stress pathways, as well as reduced expression of junction-related gene programs. These findings suggest a shift in ChP function in BD characterized by increased pro-inflammatory signaling and reduced trophic and barrier-supportive activity. Together, these data identify the ChP as an active site of immune dysregulation in BD and support the broader notion of brain barrier dysfunction in mood disorder pathology.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To characterize the transcriptional and physiological alterations induced by manganese stress in Coilia nasus, juveniles (mean weight 5.0 ± 0.2 g) were subjected to either manganese exposure (5.50 ± 0.03 mg/L) or control (0 mg/L) for a 12 h period. Subsequently, gill tissues were excised for evaluation of antioxidant parameters and RNA-Seq analysis. A total of 753 DEGs were identified in the manganese exposure group compared to controls, comprising 287 up-regulated and 466 down-regulated genes. GO and KEGG enrichment analysis of DEGs showed that most of the DEGs were involved in immune and metabolic pathways, which disturbed the biological processes related to immunity and metabolism at the molecular level. The acute manganese stress initiated a multi-level antioxidant response to cope with oxidative stress in Coilia nasus. This finding was further supported by the significant increase in MDA content and significant decrease in GSH content and GSH-Px activity under manganese exposure, while SOD and CAT activities were significantly increased. Simultaneously, the acute manganese stress triggered profound metabolic reprogramming to cope with energy pressure in Coilia nasus, which showed that manganese exposure significantly down-regulated energy metabolism-related genes (pfkm, pgam2, eno3, pkm, aqp9, apoa1, tkt, sds); furthermore, the overall energy metabolism network was widely inhibited, while lipid metabolism-related genes (fabp3, cpt1a) were significantly up-regulated to compensatorily activate fatty acid transport and β-oxidation pathways. In addition, the acute manganese stress initiated a complex immune response pattern to cope with cell damage in Coilia nasus, which showed that manganese exposure significantly enhanced the expression of inflammatory signaling genes (mapk1, stat1, tgfb3); furthermore, certain inflammatory pathways were activated, while the expressions of immune regulatory genes (traf6, il-10) were significantly decreased. In summary, these results indicated that manganese exposure could impair immune function, disrupt metabolism, and induce oxidative stress in Coilia nasus.
Effective wound healing depends on coordinated fibroblast-macrophage cross-talk that governs the transition from inflammation to regeneration. Here, we evaluated whether a glycosaainoglycan (GAG)-based viscoelastic scaffold composed of chitosan, chondroitin sulfate, and hyaluronic acid (CH-(CS-HA)) can modulate this cross-talk and promote regenerative repair. In vitro coculture studies demonstrated excellent cytocompatibility and significant phenotypic modulation. In fibroblasts, α-SMA (acta2) expression increased ~4.4-fold, and fibronectin (fn1) was markedly upregulated at 96 h in the CH-(CS-HA) + conditioned media (CM) group. Importantly, the Col-I/Col-III (col1a1/col1a3) ratio decreased from ~2.1 to ~1.1 over time, while the TGF-β1/TGF-β3 (tgfb1/tgfb3) ratio shifted from ~2.0 to ~0.7, indicating antifibrotic ECM remodeling. In macrophages, CD86 (Cd86) expression decreased from ~2.8-fold to ~1.5-fold, whereas CD206 (Mrc1) increased from ~3.4-fold to ~6.7-fold between 48 and 96 h, confirming M2 polarization. The TGF-β1/TGF-β3 (tgfb1/tgfb3) ratio similarly declined from ~1.0 to ~0.3, reinforcing an anti-inflammatory phenotype. In a full-thickness rat wound model, CH-(CS-HA) treatment achieved ~91% wound closure by day 17 compared to ~63% in controls. Gene expression in healed tissue showed elevated tgfb3 (~6.4-fold) relative to tgfb1 (~4.3-fold), increased col1a1 (~5.3-fold) with reduced col1a3 (~2.7-fold), and enhanced acta2 and fn1 expression, consistent with organized matrix maturation. Histology confirmed complete re-epithelialization and early hair follicle regeneration. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that CH-(CS-HA) orchestrates immune-stromal cross-talk to promote inflammation resolution, balanced ECM remodeling, and functional tissue regeneration.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Corticosteroids are among the most highly prescribed drugs. Chronic treatment with corticosteroids causes osteopenia, as well as growth failure in children. Our goal was to identify serum biomarkers of prednisone-related perturbations of bone and/or cartilage metabolism associated with growth failure in children. We utilized longitudinal serum samples from a double-blind, placebo- and prednisone-controlled trial of vamorolone in 4 to < 7 years children with Duchenne muscular dystrophy assayed by proteomic methods. Vamorolone is a recently approved bone-sparing corticosteroid that has been shown to have similar efficacy as prednisone but does not cause growth failure. The study included a 24-week Period 1 (placebo, prednisone [0.75 mg/kg/day], vamorolone [6 mg/kg/day]), and a 24-week Period 2 where placebo and vamorolone groups crossed over to vamorolone. Clinical laboratory measures of ALP, osteocalcin, P1NP, and CTX1 showed significant reductions with prednisone, but were unchanged by vamorolone treatment or placebo. Proteomics studies of serum proteins reduced by prednisone, but not vamorolone or placebo, identified 10 proteins where mutations in the corresponding genes are known to cause genetic disorders of cartilage and/or bone (collagens [COL2A1, Chondrocalcin, COL6A1, COL9A1, COL10A1, COL11A2], aggrecan core protein [ACAN], biglycan [BGN], osteopetrosis-associated transmembrane protein 1 [OSTM1], and noggin [NOG]). On transitioning from prednisone to vamorolone, all 10 biomarkers returned to baseline levels. Non-human (animal) studies have shown that traditional corticosteroids cause apoptosis of terminal hypertrophic chondrocytes associated with growth failure. Our clinical trial studies suggest that the 10 novel, corticosteroid-related biomarkers likely reflect the induction of apoptosis in terminal hypertrophic chondrocytes and osteoblasts by traditional corticosteroids. Vamorolone may spare chondrocytes and osteoblasts from this apoptosis, consistent with maintenance of normal growth in vamorolone-treated children.Trial registration The clinical trial registration (clinicaltrials.gov) is NCT03439670 ( https://www.clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03439670 ).© 2026. The Author(s).
Urinary proteomic profiling (UPP) provides insights in disease mechanisms and origin of symptoms. Using UPP, this study aimed at deepening insight in the biology of exercise tolerance.In the HOMAGE trial, 268 patients at risk of heart failure underwent the incremental shuttle walk test (SWT) and UPP by capillary electrophoresis coupled with mass spectrometry at baseline (discovery) and the 9-month final visit (replication). Sequencing of 1498 urinary peptides identified 170 non-collagen and 40 collagen-derived proteins. Ten exercise-related variables, including heart rate and blood pressure responses, symptoms and walking distance were summarised into a single factor, higher values indicating exercise intolerance. In exploratory analyses, exercise intolerance was related to the UPP, first in linear and logistic regression models, considering one peptide at a time, and next by elastic net regression considering the peptides retained in the previous step. Replicated proteins were subjected to pathway analysis.Twenty-nine non-collagen and 31 collagen-derived peptides were associated with reduced exercise capacity with correction for multiple testing. In elastic net regression, exercise intolerance was in >50% of 1000 bootstrap runs associated with the non-collagen proteins FXYD2, GAPDH, HBB, KCNB1, MB, MYOCD, SECTM1, SNX9, TACC3, TMSB4X, and TTN and with collagens COL5A1, COL6A1, COL11A2, and COL28A1. Enriched pathways involved oxygen homoeostasis, oxidative stress regulation, metabolic and developmental processes, and muscle biology.In HOMAGE patients, UPP identified parent proteins regulating exercise endurance, which are involved in oxygenation, vascular and muscle structure and function, maintenance of the circulating volume, and protection against oxidative stress.European Union.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Congenital heart defects (CHD) constitute a prevalent group of structural birth anomalies, characterised by substantial genetic heterogeneity and diverse clinical phenotypes.To investigate the underlying genetic architecture, we performed whole-genome sequencing (WGS) in a cohort of 50 patients with echocardiographically confirmed CHD, followed by systematic variant identification and functional annotation.Our analysis reveals the limited discriminatory capacity of current genomic annotation databases and underscores the necessity of stratifying genetic risk assessments by specific CHD subtypes. By integrating clinical classifications, genomic data, and tissue-specific expression profiles, we identified novel coding and non-coding variants alongside putative regulatory signals that may contribute to CHD pathogenesis. Within cardiac-specific genes, we identified CHD subtype-specific genetic associations, including JARID2 with PDA, GOSR2/TBX18 with VSD, PCDHA9 with ASD, and a multi-gene signature (CREBBP, ZFPM2, SLC27A6, ADAM17, ETS1) with atrioventricular septal defects. Among coding variants in non-CHD-associated genes, we identified COL11A2 and PCOLCE2 as plausible collagen-related candidates for CHD pathogenesis.These findings reinforce the polygenic architecture of CHD and highlight the value of context-aware, phenotype-driven interpretation of genetic variants. Collectively, this study expands the understanding of the genetic landscape underlying congenital heart anomalies and emphasises the need for larger, deeply phenotyped cohorts to translate these preliminary insights into clinically applicable predictors.© 2026 Korobeinikova, Petriaikina, Tychinin, Yudin, Bulaeva, Gyulmamedova, Khugaev, Sukhacheva, Snigir, Mitrofanov, Rumyantseva, Svetlichnyy, Yudin, Golukhova and Skvortsova.
Background/Objectives: Prostate cancer (PCa) remains a prevalent malignancy among men, often complicated by recurrence and unfavorable clinical outcomes. Consequently, precise risk stratification and timely clinical intervention are paramount. Initially, we delineated distinct expression profiles of histone modification regulators via unsupervised clustering, identifying PCa subtypes with divergent survival probabilities and biological phenotypes. Subsequently, we sought to develop a prognostic gene signature, derived from the transcriptomic variations among these regulator-defined subtypes, to predict outcomes in PCa patients following radical prostatectomy (RP). Methods: Clinical and transcriptomic data from PCa cohorts were retrieved from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) repositories for comprehensive analysis. Subtypes driven by histone modification regulators were established using unsupervised consensus clustering, followed by in-depth characterization of their molecular features and associated pathways. A risk-scoring model was then developed to evaluate its prognostic efficacy in this patient population. Results: Stratification based on histone modification regulators yielded four distinct PCa subtypes exhibiting heterogeneous survival outcomes, functional pathways, and genomic mutational landscapes. Following rigorous feature selection, a 21-gene risk signature (HIS_score)-comprising MXD3, CCDC28B, COL11A2, SLC39A5, GPT, DNASE1L2, PIF1, KRTAP5-9, TTLL10, KRTAP5-1, KRTAP5-10, HAGHL, MSLNL, AMH, NKAIN4, CCDC114, SLC9A3, SULT1E1, ALB, SLC6A14, and RPE65-was constructed. Survival analyses demonstrated that patients assigned to the high HIS_score cohort experienced significantly worse clinical outcomes compared to their low-score counterparts. Furthermore, we integrated this signature into a novel clinical nomogram to facilitate individualized prognostic assessments. Conclusions: Derived from transcriptomic disparities between extreme epigenetic subtypes, the HIS_score and its associated nomogram serve as robust prognostic instruments. These tools effectively encapsulate the downstream transcriptional sequelae of histone modification dysregulation, offering clinicians a valuable framework to accurately predict post-RP outcomes and expedite the formulation of personalized therapeutic strategies.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a heterogeneous hematologic malignancy with complex genetic underpinnings. Understanding the causal relationships between genetic factors and AML risk is crucial for developing targeted therapeutic strategies.We conducted a comprehensive Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis to evaluate causal effects of 10 genetic exposures on AML risk using multiple analytical methods including inverse-variance weighted, weighted median, simple mode, weighted mode, and MR-Egger regression. Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis was performed to validate gene expression patterns and investigate cellular heterogeneity in AML. Quality control, clustering analysis, and cell type annotation were conducted to characterize the expression profiles of identified risk genes.MR analysis revealed heterogeneous causal effects across genetic exposures. Three genes demonstrated significant protective effects: COL11A2 (OR: 0.425-0.481), MTHFD1 (OR: 0.142-0.151), and SERPINA10 (OR: 0.426-0.560). Seven genes showed risk-increasing effects: SPATA20, PDE5A, ANXA11, FUT10, TXNL4B, RNASET2, and TCL1A, with PDE5A showing the strongest risk association (OR > 8.0). Single-cell analysis identified 17 distinct cell populations and 14 cell types, revealing cell-specific expression patterns of these risk genes across different hematopoietic lineages.This integrative approach provides robust evidence for causal relationships between specific genetic factors and AML risk, offering insights into disease mechanisms and potential therapeutic targets at the cellular level.Copyright © 2026 Tian Xia et al. International Journal of Genomics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) represents one of the global public health challenges. Several epidemiological reports indicate that environmental arsenic exposure is associated with CKD. This study aimed to investigate the effect of long-term arsenic exposure on renal lipid metabolism during the development of kidney fibrosis. Adult C57BL/6 mice were administered NaAsO2 (3 or 15 mg/L) in drinking water for 6 months. Urinary protein, NGAL, α1-MG and β2-MG, markers of tubular injury, were increased in arsenic-exposed mice. In the later stage, renal inflammation and epithelial-mesenchymal transition indicators remained elevated. Collagen genes, including Col1a1, Col1a2, Col11a1, and Col11a2, were upregulated and collagen deposition was aggravated in the kidneys of arsenic-exposed mice. Mechanistically, renal lipid composition, as assessed by lipidomics, was significantly altered in arsenic-exposed mice. In the later stage, renal free fatty acids (FFAs) remained increased. Renal triglyceride (TG) content was elevated, and lipid droplet deposition was observed. Transcriptome sequencing showed that fatty acid oxidation (FAO) pathways were enriched in arsenic-exposed mouse kidneys. Real-time RT-PCR found that renal FAO-related genes were downregulated in arsenic-exposed mice. These results indicate that long-term arsenic exposure induces kidney fibrosis accompanied by renal lipid droplet deposition. Renal lipid metabolic disorders might be a mediating mechanism underlying arsenic-induced kidney fibrosis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
We examined gene expression profiles in abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) lesions vs. normal aortas by cDNA microarray and real-time quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR).Phosphorus (32P)-labeled cDNA from AAA specimens (mean AAA size 6.65 cm) and normal aortas were hybridized with a 588-gene microarray primarily of the cardiovascular system. The results were validated by qRT-PCR.A total of 35 out of the 588 genes were differentially expressed, with either log2 ratio of AAAs/controls ≥1 (upregulated; 20 genes) or ≤-1 (downregulated; 15 genes) in AAA lesions vs. normal aorta, and 25 of these were significantly different (71%). Expression of matrix metalloproteinase 9, TIMP metallopeptidase inhibitor 3, collagen type I α 1 chain (COL1A1), COL6A3, COL15A1, intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM1), ICAM2, decorin, endoglin, apolipoprotein D (APOD), APOE, phospholipid transfer protein, calcium and integrin binding 1 (CIB1), phospholipase A2 group IIA, von Willebrand factor, serpin family B member 6 (SERPINB6), urokinase-type plasminogen activator, H19, C-C motif chemokine ligand 2, and platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta was upregulated in AAA vs. normal aorta. Expression of collagen type IV α 4 chain (COL4A4), COL11A2, gap junction protein α 1 (GJA1), biglycan, integrin subunit α 8, galectin-1, low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1, acetyl-CoA acyltransferase, serpin family E member 1, melanoma cellular adhesion molecule, sodium channel epithelial 1 subunit beta (SCNN1B), natriuretic peptide receptor 1 (NPR1), superoxide dismutase 3, actinin α 1 (ACTN1) and cardiac phospholamban (PLN) was downregulated.Eleven genes differentially expressed (p≤0.05) in AAA lesions vs. normal aortas were not reported previously: upregulated: COL6A3, COL15A1, ICAM2, APOD, CIB and SERPINB6; downregulated: GJA1, SCNN1B, NPR1, ACTN1 and PLN. Remaining results confirmed previous reports regarding 21 genes differentially expressed in AAA. qRT-PCR results were in general in agreement with microarray results.Copyright © 2026, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH), a morphological abnormality of the hip joint, is a well-recognized risk factor for hip osteoarthritis (OA). Much remains unknown about the genetic factors of DDH and its subtypes. To further understand its genetic basis, we conducted genome-wide association studies (GWASs) using a total of 1 085 Japanese DDH cases (including 788 hip dysplasia cases without dislocation and 297 cases with dislocated hip) and 24 000 controls. Additionally, we meta-analyzed with United Kingdom (UK) DDH GWAS and the largest hip OA GWAS to date. We identified three genome-wide significant novel loci, COL11A2, CALN1 and TRPM7, associated with hip dysplasia without dislocation. None of these signals were significant in dislocated hips, and additionally two of the signals had an opposite direction of association, suggesting distinct genetic architectures between the subtypes. The Japanese DDH GWAS identified five associated loci (VEGF-C, FOXC1, SMC2, SLC38A4, and TRPM7), and the trans-ancestry meta-analysis with UK revealed two loci (COL11A1 and GDF5) supported by strong trans-ancestry genetic correlation (r = 1.0). In total, nine loci were identified for DDH and its subtypes, with hip dysplasia without dislocation showing distinct genetic signals from hip dislocation. The meta-analysis of DDH and hip OA identified five novel signals for hip OA. Susceptibility loci and heritability enrichment analyses implicated pathways involving bone formation, collagen type XI trimer, and chondrocyte development, as well as their gene regulation, in DDH. These findings enhance understanding of the genetic architecture and biological pathways underlying DDH, providing new insights into its relationship with OA.© 2026. The Author(s).
Deciphering the mechanisms that govern lineage commitment of human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) is essential for optimizing differentiation strategies. Here, we uncover the role of the mitochondrial protein OCIAD2 in hPSC fate decisions. We show that OCIAD2 is transiently upregulated during mesendoderm differentiation in response to TGFβ/Activin A signaling. OCIAD2 depletion disrupted TGFβ and WNT signaling, impaired mesendoderm specification, and resulted in an incomplete epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Furthermore, OCIAD2 loss reduced mitochondrial dynamics and fatty acid oxidation, indicating dysregulated lipid metabolism. Transcriptome and biochemical analysis of OCIAD2-knockout (KO) and -overexpressing (OV) hESCs identified OCIAD2 as a positive regulator of TGFβ signaling. Supplementation with acetate alongside Wnt3a increased SMAD2/3 acetylation and restored mesendoderm differentiation in KO. We propose that OCIAD2 integrates metabolic cues with TGFβ signaling to regulate EMT. This study provides new insight into how mitochondrial proteins influence lineage commitment, highlighting broader implications for developmental biology and tumor progression.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) senescence contributes importantly to atherosclerotic plaque progression, yet the upstream mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Here, by integrating single-cell RNA sequencing analysis with human plaque validation, we found that TGFBR1 is enriched in senescent VSMCs in atherosclerotic lesions and correlates with senescence-associated markers. In vivo, VSMC-specific TGFBR1 knockin in Apoe-deficient mice accelerated plaque development and increased VSMC senescence. Mechanistically, we identified the deubiquitinase USP5 as a previously unrecognized stabilizer of TGFBR1. USP5 directly interacted with TGFBR1 and selectively removed K48-linked polyubiquitin chains at lysine 213, thereby preventing proteasomal degradation. Stabilized TGFBR1 suppressed the mitochondrial enzyme IDH2, driving a metabolic shift toward glycolysis that sustained apoptosis resistance in senescent VSMCs. Conversely, VSMC-specific knockdown of USP5 reduced TGFBR1 expression, restored IDH2 expression, attenuated glycolytic remodeling, and mitigated atherosclerosis in vivo. Our findings reveal a USP5-TGFBR1-IDH2 axis in which site-specific deubiquitination at K213 links receptor stability to metabolic remodeling and VSMC senescence, identifying USP5 as a potential therapeutic target for atherosclerosis.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Missense variants in genes encoding GABAA receptors are involved in the pathophysiology of common and rare epilepsies. Variant effects on channel biophysical function are associated with key clinical characteristics and treatment response. Predicting variant effects is therefore key to improving care for individuals with GABAA receptor-related disorders.We collected data from 505 affected individuals with 272 (likely) pathogenic GABAA receptor missense variants (GABRA1, GABRB2, GABRB3, GABRG2). All variants were evaluated with in-vitro electrophysiology. Variants were annotated with features based on sequence, structure, and phenotype. Model performance was estimated using cross-validation and external validation on a further 197 individuals with 138 (likely) pathogenic variants.Our models enable highly accurate prediction of missense variant effects in GABAA (AU-ROC 0.862-0.946), outperforming state-of-the-art models (AU-ROC 0.495-0.756) and clinical decision-making. Model scores correlated with GABA sensitivity and were consistent with expert-based structure-function hypotheses, supporting plausibility. Predictions on population variants were similar to functionally neutral variants, while cases from ClinVar were similar to GOF/LOF variants. Our model may provide additional evidence for 5-25% of variants in ClinVar. Lastly, we show that we can predict likely clinical characteristics from variant information alone (median Lin similarity 0.754 IQR 0.161).We demonstrate accurate missense variant effect prediction in GABAA receptors with rigorous validation across a large dataset of functionally tested variants. These predictions may facilitate timely diagnosis and precision treatment of individuals with GABAA receptor-related disorders, pending prospective clinical validation. A web interface, precomputed scores, and calibrated score thresholds for all possible variants are openly available.Else Kröner-Fresenius-Stiftung; German Federal Ministry of Research, Technology and Space; German Research Foundation; Medical Faculty University of Tübingen; Lundbeck Foundation; Novo Nordisk Foundation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42545806 is a review article
Despite hyposmia being a dominant non-motor manifestation of Parkinson's disease (PD), its underlying driving mechanisms are poorly defined. The redox protein Thioredoxin-1 (Trx-1) offers neuroprotection against various insults; however, its potential involvement in the neural proliferation in the subventricular zone (SVZ) and neural differentiation in the olfactory bulb (OB) related to MPTP-induced olfactory dysfunction have not been previously established. Our research demonstrates that when Trx-1 is downregulated in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc), MPTP-triggered olfactory deficits are significantly intensified. A key anatomical discovery in our study is the existence of projections from the SNpc to the SVZ. We established that the MPTP-driven death of SNpc dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons correlates with decreased dopamine D1 receptor (D1R) levels in the SVZ, an effect that is magnified by the loss of Trx-1. Alongside D1R reductions, MPTP suppressed a cascade of SVZ signaling molecules (phosphorylated PKA, Wnt3a, β-catenin, Pax6, cyclin D1, and CDK4), with Trx-1 deficiency causing even steeper declines. Furthermore, Trx-1 knockdown hindered the generation of immature neurons and disrupted DAergic neuronal differentiation within the OB. Collectively, our findings suggest that reduced Trx-1 expression in the SNpc may contribute to PD-related olfactory deficits, potentially via inhibiting SVZ neural proliferation, decreasing immature and mature neuron populations, and disrupted differentiation of OB immature neurons. By accelerating MPTP-triggered degeneration of DAergic neurons in the SNpc, Trx-1 downregulation reduces the SVZ of DAergic input. This disruption impairs D1R-mediated the neural proliferation in the SVZ, as well as the maturation and differentiation of immature neurons in OB, ultimately driving the progression of olfactory dysfunction in a PD mouse model.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Allograft inflammatory factor-1 (AIF1) is a scaffold protein expressed predominantly in myeloid antigen-presenting cells (APCs) and associated with inflammatory disease. Although genetic studies have linked AIF1 loci to immune traits, its causal role in physiological immune responses remains poorly defined. We examined AIF1 deficiency using a conditional knockout model with deletion of AIF1 in hematopoietic cells (AIF1-cKO) during development and challenged mice with Listeria monocytogenes. AIF1 loss impaired bacterial clearance and diminished inflammatory responses, indicating reduced immune readiness during infection. AIF1-cKO mice exhibited impaired expansion of antigen-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, accompanied by regulatory-associated phenotypic changes. These defects were associated with reduced cDC1 frequencies and transcriptional and phenotypic remodeling of splenic macrophages toward a less inflammatory state. Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed transcriptional alterations across multiple myeloid and lymphoid compartments despite AIF1 expression being largely restricted to myeloid APC, indicating broader immune remodeling. Increased Tgfbr1 expression was a recurrent feature across several immune populations. Consistent with this finding, AIF1-deficient cells displayed enhanced TGFβ responsiveness, while Tgfbr1 silencing partially restored inflammatory responses and T cell priming ex vivo . These findings establish AIF1 as a regulator of immune competence that promotes effective innate and adaptive immune responses.
Glypican-3 (GPC3) is a heparan sulfate proteoglycan that is highly expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma and promotes tumor progression through Wnt3a/β-catenin signaling. However, how the nanoscale organization of GPC3 at the cell surface controls signaling remains unclear. Here, we combined nano-resolution MINFLUX imaging, single-molecule tracking, and functional assays to define the spatial architecture and dynamics of GPC3 on hepatoma cells. We found that GPC3 exists as both single molecules and nanoscale clusters and switches between confined and free diffusions on the plasma membrane. Heparan sulfate (HS) chains create nanoscale corrals that limit GPC3 movement, whereas removal of HS increases diffusive heterogeneity and disrupts confinement. Wnt3a stimulation induces the formation of higher-order GPC3 assemblies and enhances β-catenin signaling, while loss of HS markedly reduces this response. MINFLUX DNA-PAINT further revealed that HS chains orchestrate the spatial distribution of Wnt3a and promote its association with the Wnt receptor, Frizzled-1, an essential step for pathway activation. Collectively, these findings reveal that HS controls the nanoscale organization and dynamics of GPC3 to promote Wnt receptor assembly and efficient β-catenin signaling in hepatoma cells.
In multiple sclerosis several alterations in transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) signaling in immune cells have been observed, however, little is known about gene expression of TGF-β receptor subunits. Dimethyl fumarate is a disease modifying drug that is still used to treat relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. Although its inhibitory effect on TGF-β signaling associated with SMAD proteins has been observed, its effect on the expression of TGF-β receptors is unknown. Expression of genes for TGF-β receptor subunits - TGFBR1, TGFBR2, as well as the co-receptor - TGFBR3 has been examined in blood from patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, untreated and treated with dimethyl fumarate, as well as in healthy controls, using droplet digital PCR. TGF-β1 concentrations were determined in sera, using ELISA. Untreated patients had significantly lower TGFBR3 gene expression in blood than healthy controls (p<0.0001) and significantly lower serum concentration of TGF-β1 (p=0.0268), than healthy controls. Patients treated with dimethyl fumarate had significantly lower TGFBR2 and TGFBR1 gene expression (p=0.0054 and 0.0225 respectively) and significantly higher TGF-β1 (p=0.0113) serum concentrations than untreated patients. The percentage of T cells in blood of untreated relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) patients was significantly higher than in healthy controls (p=0.0054), but in dimethyl fumarate-treated patients was not significantly different from the values in the other groups. Downregulation of the TGFBR3 gene and lower TGF-β1 serum concentration in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis can indicate a defective regulatory immune response. Downregulation of TGFBR1 and TGFBR2 genes could be one of the mechanisms for dimethyl fumarate-induced inhibition of TGF-β signaling.Copyright© 2025 Polish Physiological Society.
Broader research and translational use of patient-derived organoids (PDOs) in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remain constrained by complex and costly culture requirements. Here, we developed a conditional transgenic strategy to generate self-sustaining primary PDAC organoids and explored its feasibility for therapeutic evaluation.We established a proof-of-concept PDAC organoid biobank (n = 10). Using a doxycycline-inducible lentiviral Tet-On system, we engineered organoids to express essential cytokines RSPO1 and WNT3A, enabling growth in supplement-depleted media. We then performed exploratory assessments of FOLFIRINOX-mimetic chemotherapy and EPHA2-targeted CAR-T cells in transgenic organoids, together with histopathological and clinicopathological co-analysis.Doxycycline-induced RSPO1/WNT3A expression rescued the impaired growth and passaging caused by exogenous cytokine depletion. In simplified media, transgenic organoids retained patient-specific histological and molecular features. Sensitivity to FOLFIRINOX-mimetic treatment and EPHA2 CAR-T cells varied among different patients, and the in vitro responses showed exploratory concordance with the corresponding clinical courses in a small subset.This conditional transgenic approach reduces culture complexity while preserving key phenotypic and functional characteristics of PDAC organoids, providing a feasible proof-of-concept platform for exploratory evaluation of chemotherapy and immunotherapy responses.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Complexes of paracrine signals and synthesized, sulfated oligosaccharides regulate expansion and/or differentiation of human epithelial-mesenchymal cell-cell partners with lineage-stage-specific distinctions exemplified in mature hepatocytes versus organoids of stem cells. Of a bank of 53 synthesized heparan sulfate-(HS)-oligosaccharides, 28 formed triggering complexes with selected paracrine signals. Of these, the 12-mer oligosaccharides proved representative for the biological effects of a specific chain chemistry. Optimized conditions for responses to complexes are:(1) A trigger consisting of a paracrine signal bound tightly to a sulfated oligosaccharide; (2) Biologically active sulfated oligosaccharides are of minimum size of 10-12-mers and with ones up to 18-mers giving similar but enhanced responses; (3) Full cell polarization. Responses are not observed at all or not observed fully in cells in two-dimensional formats even when on complex matrix substrata; (4) Epithelial-mesenchymal cell-cell signaling; (5) Serum-free, wholly defined medium tailored to the cells' maturational lineage stage; (6) Responses are predictable by a tell, the ability of a complex to trigger significant changes in sizes of cell nuclei within ∼18 hours. The complexes offer nuanced regulatory controls of growth and differentiation of organs and tissues. Representative triggering complexes [HS-oligosaccharide + paracrine signal] include ones regulating: Self-renewal: fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2) bound to an HS-oligosaccharide containing [NS2S] or WNT3A bound to [NS2S6S3S]. Hypertrophy: vascular epithelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A) bound to an HS-oligosaccharidecontaining [NS2S6S3S or NS2S6S]. Expansion in parallel with differentiation: various complexes with a paracrine signal and an oligosaccharide containing [NS2S6S3S]; representative paracrine signals include FGF2, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), and others. Newly prepared, synthesized chondroitin sulfate-(CS)-oligosaccharides also form triggering complexes with biological responses requiring similar conditions as those for HS-oligosaccharides. Ongoing research efforts are surveying the specific biological responses to particular complexes of CS-oligosaccharides and paracrine signals.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Pathological ocular neovascularization is a major driver of vision-threatening retinal diseases. This study aimed to investigate the role and therapeutic potential of miR-15a-5p in ocular neovascular disorders.miR-15a-5p expression levels were assessed in intraocular fluids from patients with ocular neovascular diseases. Functional assays were performed in retinal endothelial cells under pathological conditions to evaluate proliferation and endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition. In vivo, miR-15a-5p was delivered via intravitreal injection in oxygen-induced retinopathy (OIR) and laser-induced choroidal neovascularization (CNV) mouse models. Therapeutic effects on pathological neovascularization were analyzed and compared with anti-VEGF treatment, including assessments of retinal structural integrity, retinal function, gliosis, and fibrotic changes. miR-15a-5p-knockout mice were used to examine retinal vascular developmental abnormalities and enhanced neovascular responses following miR-15a-5p deficiency. Safety evaluations of systemic and ocular administration were performed in both healthy and neovascularized mice. Mechanistic studies investigated whether miR-15a-5p directly targeted VEGF and Smad2.miR-15a-5p was significantly upregulated in intraocular fluids from patients with ocular neovascular diseases. Overexpression of miR-15a-5p inhibited retinal endothelial cell proliferation and endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition in vitro. In OIR and CNV models, miR-15a-5p treatment reduced retinal neovascularization, decreased reactive gliosis, and maintained retinal thickness and electrophysiological function. In miR-15a-5p-knockout mice, loss of miR-15a-5p impaired normal retinal vascular development. Mechanistically, miR-15a-5p directly targeted VEGF and Smad2, modulating angiogenic and fibrotic pathways. Compared with anti-VEGF therapy, miR-15a-5p demonstrated stronger anti-fibrotic and neuroprotective effects without affecting postnatal development or systemic metabolism. No ocular or systemic toxicity was observed at therapeutic doses.miR-15a-5p regulates angiogenesis and fibrosis by targeting VEGF and Smad2. These findings suggest that miR-15a-5p is a promising therapeutic candidate for the treatment of ocular neovascular diseases.© The author(s).
Post-translational modifications, particularly SUMOylation, plays a crucial role in α-synuclein (α-syn) aggregation, a key pathological feature of Parkinson's disease (PD). Curcumin, a natural polyphenol, has shown neuroprotective potential, but its effects on SUMOylation-related signaling in PD remain unclear.This study aimed to investigate whether curcumin modulates α-syn SUMOylation and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms in PD model mice.A PD model was established in male C57BL/6 mice via unilateral intrastriatal injection of α-syn preformed fibrils (PFFs). Six months after α-syn PFFs injection, mice were treated intravenously with curcumin (25 mg/kg/day) or vehicle for 1 month. Behavioral tests (open field, rotarod) assessed motor function. Neuropathology was evaluated by immunohistochemistry and western blotting for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), phosphorylated α-syn (p-syn), SUMOylation pathway components (SUMO1, SAE2, UBC9, PIAS1/2), and ubiquitin. Striatal dopamine levels were measured by HPLC.Curcumin treatment ameliorated motor deficits and anxiety-like behaviors in PD mice. It partially preserved dopaminergic neurons and reduced p-syn aggregation in the substantia nigra, accompanied by increased striatal dopamine levels. Mechanistically, curcumin was associated with reduced SUMO1 and increased ubiquitin levels, suggesting modulation of SUMOylation-related signaling. Among SUMOylation enzymes, UBC9 expression was decreased, whereas E1 (SAE2) and E3 (PIAS1/2) components were not substantially affected.Our findings demonstrated that curcumin exerted neuroprotective effects in a PD model by attenuating α-syn pathology. The protective mechanism involves the inhibition of α-syn SUMOylation, primarily through the downregulation of the UBC9 enzyme. This study identifies UBC9-mediated SUMOylation as a potential target for curcumin and highlight a promising strategy for modifying α-syn-associated pathology in PD.Copyright © 2026 Li, Zhu and Zhang.
Aging is associated with impaired skeletal muscle mass and function, often attributed to reduced sensitivity to anabolic stimuli. This study investigated whether aging influences the sensitivity of key anabolic signaling pathways to mechanical tension development in skeletal muscle.Using an ex vivo model, extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscles from adult (16 weeks) and old (24 months) female mice were subjected to a standardized passive stretch protocol, with contralateral muscles serving as controls. During recovery, phosphorylation of proteins related to downstream mTORC1 and JNK-SMAD2-L signaling were assessed by immunoblotting.Passive stretch significantly increased phosphorylation of mTORC1-related proteins (mTOR, p70S6K, rpS6, and 4E-BP1) in both adult and old muscles, with no significant differences between age groups, indicating preserved mTORC1 signaling sensitivity to mechanical tension with aging. In contrast, the magnitude of activation of JNK and SMAD2-L signaling was attenuated in old muscles.Our findings reveal that mechanosensitive anabolic signaling is differentially affected by aging. While the intrinsic capacity for mTORC1 activation in response to mechanical tension appears to be preserved with aging, JNK-SMAD2L signaling exhibits reduced mechanosensitivity in aged muscle. This divergence suggests that aging selectively impairs tension-sensitive transcriptional pathways, potentially constraining muscle remodeling despite preserved translational signaling capacity. These findings further imply that age-related deficits observed in vivo may, at least in part, arise from systemic influences rather than intrinsic defects adhering to mTORC1 mechanotransduction.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Mammalian embryonic diapause is a reversible state of pre-implantation dormancy characterized by metabolic rewiring toward lipid usage as energy source. Whether active signaling sustains this dormant state remained unclear. Here, we show that the transforming growth factor- β (TGF-β) pathway, previously thought to only be required post-implantation, is essential for diapause. Nodal signaling is activated and its downstream effector SMAD family member 2 (Smad2) is required during diapause in vivo. Using ex vivo blastocyst and embryonic stem cells models of diapause, we show that Smad2 represses peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (Pparg), a master regulator of lipid storage. Loss of Smad2-mediated Pparg repression leads to lipid accumulation and is incompatible with pausing. Our findings establish a Nodal-Smad2-Pparg axis that is pivotal for sustaining the transcriptional and metabolic programs of embryonic diapause. This axis may be redeployed in other contexts, including cancer dormancy and metabolic disorders.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548510 is a review article
This study investigated the effect of gypenosides(GPs) on anoikis resistance(AR) in human triple-negative breast cancer(TNBC) MDA-MB-231 cells and explored the underlying mechanism involving the transforming growth factor β1(TGF-β1)/forkhead box protein P3(Foxp3)/retinoic acid-related orphan receptor γt(RORγt) signaling axis. An anoikis model was established using poly-HEMA coated plates, and cells were divided into normal adherent, anoikis model, GPs(100 μg·mL~(-1)), TGF-β1 inhibitor(LY, 10 μmol·L~(-1)), and GPs + LY groups. Cell viability, apoptosis, invasion and migration were assessed by CCK-8 assay, flow cytometry with AnnexinV-FITC/PI staining, and Transwell assay, respectively. The mRNA and protein expression levels of TGF-β1, Foxp3, RORγt, B-cell Lymphoma 2(Bcl-2), Bcl-2 associated X protein(Bax), cysteine aspartic acid specific protease-3(caspase-3), and Smad2/3 phosphorylation levels were measured by quantitative real-time PCR(qRT-PCR) and Western blot. Nuclear localization of Foxp3 and RORγt was examined by immunofluorescence staining. A breast cancer bone metastasis model was established in nude mice by tail vein injection. After intervention, the circulating tumor cells(CTCs) in peripheral blood and the formation of bone metastasis foci were evaluated. The mRNA and protein expression levels of TGF-β1, Foxp3, RORγt in bone metastasis foci of each nude mouse breast cancer bone metastasis model were detected using qRT-PCR and Western blot. In vitro experimental results showed that GPs inhibited the viability of human breast cancer MDA-MB-231 cells, promoted apoptosis, and reduced the number of invasive and migratory cells. GPs downregulated the mRNA and protein expression levels of TGF-β1, Foxp3, and Bcl-2, upregulated the expression levels of RORγt, Bax, and caspase-3, and inhibited Smad2/3 phosphorylation. Furthermore, GPs decreased Foxp3 nuclear accumulation and enhanced RORγt nuclear localization, and exhibited synergistic effects with LY. In vivo experimental results indicated that GPs reduced the number of CTCs in peripheral blood and the number of bone metastases in nude mice. The changes in key mRNA and protein expression levels of the TGF-β1/Foxp3/RORγt signaling axis in bone tissue were consistent with those observed in in vitro experiments. In summary, GPs inhibit the TGF-β1/Smad signaling axis, downregulate Foxp3 expression and its nuclear localization, thereby relieving its negative regulation on RORγt. This leads to upregulation of pro-apoptotic proteins Bax and caspase-3, downregulation of anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2, disruption of anoikis resistance, and reduction of metastatic potential in MDA-MB-231 cells. These findings reveal that the TGF-β1/Foxp3/RORγt signaling axis is a key target of GPs against metastatic triple-negative breast cancer(TNBC), providing new experimental evidence and clinical strategies for natural product-based therapy in TNBC.
This study aims to investigate the effect and mechanism of baicalein in improving alveolar epithelial cell senescence. A cellular model of alveolar epithelial cell senescence induced by transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1) was established. Cells were randomly divided into control group, model group, baicalein group, small interfering RNA(siRNA) targeting Smad family member 2(Smad2) group, siRNA targeting Smad3 group, and baicalein + Smad3 plasmid group. Western blot was employed to detect the protein expression level of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1(PAI-1), a marker protein of alveolar epithelial cell senescence. Senescence-associated β-galactosidase(SA-β-gal) staining was used to measure the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells. The results show that baicalein can significantly inhibit the protein expression of PAI-1 in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells and markedly reduce the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. Baicalein can also significantly decrease the phosphorylation levels of Smad2 protein and Smad3 protein in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. Knockdown of Smad2 does not affect the protein expression level of PAI-1 in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells, nor does it alter the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. In contrast, knockdown of Smad3 can significantly downregulate the protein expression level of PAI-1 and reduce the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. Overexpression of Smad3 can notably reverse the inhibitory effects of baicalein on PAI-1 protein expression and the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. In conclusion, baicalein improves alveolar epithelial cell senescence by downregulating the TGF-β1/Smad3 signaling, but this effect might be independent of Smad2 signaling.
Lymphedema is a chronic disease characterized by impaired lymph drainage and accumulation of protein-rich interstitial fluid, which progresses to develop irreversible fibrosis. Importantly, effective therapies and treatments are lacking to alleviate and mitigate the disease. The pathological inflammation and fibrogenesis underlying lymphedema prompted us to evaluate a preclinical medicine IVA337, a pan-peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) agonist that improves liver fibrosis in patients with metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) by activating three PPAR isoforms (α, β/δ, λ), which play critical roles in lipid metabolism, anti-inflammation responses, and anti-fibrogenesis. Here, we investigate the therapeutic effects of IVA337 during the early stage of surgery-induced secondary lymphedema in mice and explored the underlying mechanisms. IVA337 administration alleviated lymphedema progression, improved lymphatic drainage, reduced dermal thickness, and resolved lymphatic vessel dilation. Mechanistically, IVA337 suppressed the TGFβ/SMAD2/3 signaling pathway, reduced immune cells infiltration, and improves lymphatic vessels integrity. In human dermal lymphatic endothelial cells (HDLECs), IVA337 attenuated TGFβ induced SMAD2/3 phosphorylation and preserved the expression of cell junction Claudin5, reduced VE-Cadherin-stained cell-cell gaps. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that IVA337 protects against early stage lymphedema by inhibiting TGFβ/SMAD2/3-mediated inflammatory and fibrotic responses. This study provides a potential therapeutic strategy to improve lymphatic function during the early phase of lymphedema and prevent progressive fibrosis in patients with lymphedema and related disorders.
Gastric cancer (GC) derives limited benefit from immune checkpoint blockade (ICB), in part due to stromal-mediated immune suppression. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing on 14 GC specimens from patients treated with neoadjuvant ICB. We identified a distinct subset of TRPA1+ cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) maintained by tumor-derived midkine (MDK) through LEF1-dependent transcription under ICB pressure. These TRPA1+ CAFs drive immunosuppression by secreting WNT5A, which polarizes SPP1+ macrophages and subsequently promotes the accumulation of CD25 + FOXP3+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) in the tumor microenvironment. Disrupting this stromal-myeloid-lymphoid axis via WNT5A inhibition or SPP1+ macrophage depletion reduced Treg infiltration and enhanced the antitumor efficacy of anti-PD-L1 therapy in vivo. Our study unveils an MDK-TRPA1 + CAF-mediated mechanism of ICB resistance in GC and highlights the WNT5A-SPP1+ macrophage pathway as a promising target to overcome immunotherapy resistance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Molecular profiling is now integral to the diagnosis, risk stratification, and treatment of central nervous system (CNS) tumors following the 2021 WHO Classification (WHO CNS5). However, access to molecular diagnostics remains severely limited in settings with limited resources. International outsourcing to accredited reference laboratories represents a potential bridging strategy, yet systematic data on its feasibility and clinical impact in the LMICs are lacking.We conducted a retrospective review of CNS tumor cases at King Hussein Cancer Center (KHCC), Amman, Jordan, that underwent outsourced molecular testing at the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto, Canada, between 2021 and 2023. Four test types were ordered: medulloblastoma subgrouping by NanoString nCounter-based gene expression profiling, TruSight pan-cancer RNA sequencing, low-grade fusion gene analysis, and C19MC fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). For each case, we recorded turnaround time (TAT), cost, conclusive result rate, impact on diagnosis, and identification of actionable therapeutic targets.A total of 105 patients underwent outsourced molecular tumor testing (87% pediatric; median age 10 years; 54% male). Tumor types included medulloblastoma (52%), low-grade glioma (LGG, 30%), high-grade glioma (HGG, 12%), and others (6%). Of the 119 samples that reached the reference laboratory, 109 (92%) yielded a conclusive molecular result, with the highest rate in medulloblastoma (94%) and the lowest in ependymoma (33%). The median overall TAT was 26 days (range 13-140 days), and the total expenditure was 153,506 US Dollars. Molecular testing led to a change in diagnosis in 4 cases (4%): 3 major changes (reclassification of BCOR sarcoma to solitary fibrous tumor, ependymoma to pilocytic astrocytoma, and pediatric-type diffuse low-grade glioma with COL1A1::PDGFB fusion) and 1 minor change. In one additional case, a discordant molecular result (NRAS-mutant low-grade glioma) did not alter the final morphological diagnosis of high-grade glioma. Actionable targets (predominantly BRAF alterations) were identified in 28 tumors (27%), including 65% of LGGs and 54% of HGGs.International outsourcing of molecular diagnostics is a feasible and clinically impactful strategy for CNS tumor management at limited-resource settings, enabling WHO CNS5-integrated diagnoses and access to precision therapy. The TAT and cost per tumor sample are relatively acceptable given the benefits of a more accurate diagnosis and the possibility of finding a targetable alteration. Permanent solutions would require investment in regional molecular diagnostic infrastructure through in-house capacity building, laboratory networks, and international twinning programs.Copyright © 2026 Al Abweh, Al Sharie, Hasasna, Amayiri, Obeidat and Al-Hussaini.
Sepsis is a systemic inflammatory response caused by pathogen infection, leading tomultiple organ failure. This study aims to identify potential sepsis biomarkers.Differentially expressed genes in sepsis-related datasets GSE57065 and GSE95233 were analyzed, and sepsis-associated genes were identified using weighted gene co-expression network analysis. Protein-protein interaction network was further analyzed to screen the core genes, which were verified using external datasets GSE65682 and GSE9960. An in vitro septic cardiomyopathy model was constructed by inducing H9c2 cells with lipopolysaccharide (LPS).TCF7, LEF1, FYN, IL7R, CD3E, SKAP1 and FCER1G showed significant differences between sepsis and the control samples, and were related with immune cells infiltration. Sepsis patients with high expression of SKAP1, FYN and CD3E had better prognosis. Overexpression of SKAP1, FYN and CD3E could significantly inhibit the levels of inflammatory counterfactors TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-8 induced by LPS, and reduce the apoptosis rate of H9c2 cardiomyocytes, the ratio of cleaved caspase 3 and Bax/Bcl-2. Additionally, SKAP1 and FYN exerted these biological functions partially via activating PI3K/Akt pathway.SKAP1, FYN and CD3E are potential sepsis biomarkers associsted with favorable prognosis, protecting against inflammation and cardiomyocyte apoptosis.
To describe the genotypic and phenotypic profile of chromatin remodeling complex (CRC)-related neurological disorders.We retrospectively analyzed the clinical characteristics and the genetic spectrum of children with variants in CRC genes.Fifty patients were included. The genotype spectrum involved genes encoding the CHD complex (CHD2, CHD3, CHD4, CHD7, CHD8), the BAF complex (SMARCA2, ARID1B, ARID2, ACTB), and the ISWI complex (BPTF). The predominant phenotypes were global developmental delay/intellectual disability (GDD/ID) (76.0%, 38/50) and epilepsy (64.0%, 32/50). Seventy-five percent of patients with epilepsy had generalized seizures. Sixty-nine percent (20/29) were seizure-free for more than 1 year at the last follow-up (three were lost to follow-up), although 56.3% (18/32) of patients required three or more kinds of antiseizure medications. EEG abnormalities were prevalent (82.2%, 37/45), commonly showing generalized or diffuse interictal discharges (63.6%), slow background activity (59.5%), and slow waves (35.1%). BAF complex variants were significantly associated with GDD/ID, microcephaly, facial dysmorphism, short stature, and slow background activity on EEG, while CHD complex variants were more likely to cause heat-sensitive seizures (FDR < 0.05).CRC-related disorders are primarily caused by variants in the CHD and BAF complexes, with CHD2, ARID1B, and SMARCA2 being the frequently involved genes. The conditions are characterized by GDD/ID and epilepsy, with distinct clinical patterns between the CHD and BAF complexes.© 2026 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Nucleoporin 98 rearrangements (NUP98re) occur in a wide range of hematologic malignancies including acute leukemias with a variety of fusion partners. NUP98re is associated with adverse prognosis, especially in children. We aimed to better understand the genomics of acute leukemias with NUP98re including fusion partners and co-occurring genomic alterations (GA). Results from 5905 patients with acute leukemia undergoing standard-of-care next generation sequencing on FoundationOneHeme were included for analysis. A total of 78 (1.3%) patient samples harbored NUP98re with a median age of 19 years compared with 62 years for the cases with no NUP98 rearrangement (NUP98wt) (p < 0.001). Patients with NUP98re were more frequently of admixed American ancestry (p < 0.001). Among patients with acute myeloid leukemia, individual genomic alterations more frequently identified in NUP98re cases included WT1 (77% vs. 11%, p < 0.001) and FLT3 (49% vs. 26%, p < 0.001); Alterations more frequent in the NUP98wt cohort included NPM1, KMT2A, TET2, DNMT3A, ASXL1, SRSF2, STAG2, and BCOR (all p < 0.05). NUP98re are rare in patients with acute leukemia, more frequent in pediatrics and younger adults but distributed across all age groups. NUP98re is associated with a unique genomic landscape featuring increased frequencies of mutations with proliferative features (FLT3 and KRAS) and growth suppression (WT1). Alterations in WT1 had the highest co-occurrence rate in samples containing NUP98re. This work highlights the unique GA associated with NUP98 and emphasizes the need for clinical studies to reveal underlying biologic mechanisms and enhance optimal management in the presence of potentially targetable alterations such as NUP98re.© 2026 The Author(s). Hematological Oncology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Clear cell sarcoma of the kidney is an uncommon pediatric renal malignancy with metastatic potential and marked morphologic heterogeneity. The anaplastic variant is rare and may mimic other high-grade pediatric renal tumors, resulting in diagnostic challenges in limited pretreatment biopsy specimens. A 3-year-old girl presented with progressive abdominal distension. Imaging showed a 15-cm right retroperitoneal mass with tumor thrombus in the inferior vena cava and no distant metastasis. Pretreatment core needle biopsy showed a highly pleomorphic malignant neoplasm with necrosis and fibrous-to-myxoid stroma; however, a definitive diagnosis could not be established. The patient was clinically managed as a nephroblastoma and received preoperative chemotherapy followed by surgical resection. The resected specimen showed features characteristic of clear cell sarcoma of the kidney. Immunoreactivity of BCL6 corepressor and cyclin D1 was observed, whereas Wilms tumor 1 was negative. Molecular testing further identified an in-frame internal tandem duplication of BCOR. Retrospective immunohistochemistry on the pretreatment biopsy demonstrated concordant BCOR and cyclin D1 expression. Marked anaplasia can obscure the typical morphology of clear cell sarcoma of the kidney. Immunohistochemistry for BCL6 corepressor and cyclin D1 at an early diagnostic stage, with molecular confirmation may facilitate accurate diagnosis and timely treatment.© 2026 Japanese Society of Pathology and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Gastric adenocarcinomas constitute a histologically and genomically heterogeneous group of cancers. The genomic classification of gastric cancers in four groups by The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) has defined a framework for pathogenic discoveries. One of the groups is associated with infection by the gamma herpes virus Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and represents a distinct subset of gastric cancers with potential therapeutic opportunities.The EBV-associated cancers from the TCGA gastric cancer cohort were analyzed to determine specific mutational and mRNA expression profiles that set these cancers apart from other gastric cancer subtypes. The cBioportal for Cancer Genomics site was used for downloading and analyzing the primary data.EBV-associated cancers represented about 7% of the cohort. Mutations in the catalytic alpha subunit of PI3K kinase, PIK3CA, and the epigenetic modifiers ARID1A and BCOR were common. PIK3CA mutations were observed in 80% of EBV-associated cancers and frequently affected the hotspot codons E542 and E545. The few cases without PIK3CA mutations displayed frequent alterations in ERBB2 or in the regulatory unit of PI3K. EBV-associated cancers did not display excess cytidine to thymine (C>T) transitions compared with other gastric cancer genomic subtypes, as would be expected from the high genome methylation caused by the virus. In contrast, an increased rate of T to G (T>G) transversions was observed in EBV-associated cancers. Translesion polymerase eta (POLH), which produces a signature characterized by a preponderance of T>G, was up-regulated in EBV-associated gastric cancers and may be a contributing factor in this increase, up-regulated by wild-type p53 and over-expression of transcription factor IRF1.The data presented here suggest that mutagenesis in the EBV-associated gastric cancers is not a direct consequence of the virus-derived hypermethylation. Up-regulation of kinase PI3K and its pathway is a prerequisite for EBV transformation, and epigenetic alterations are frequently present, suggesting therapeutic avenues.
Congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (CHH) is a rare group of disorders of gonadotropin deficiency, either isolated or as a part of multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies (MPHD). We aimed to describe the spectrum of presentation, diagnosis, and management practices of CHH spanning 30 years at an Australian tertiary paediatric centre. This is a retrospective cohort study of patients with CHH seen at the Children's Hospital at Westmead between January 1994 and December 2024 (n = 96, 66% male), categorised by diagnostic subtypes: Kallmann Syndrome (KS), normosmic HH, MPHD and other syndromes (including CHARGE). RESULTS: In patients with KS (n = 31, 87% male), the most common presenting features were micropenis and/or cryptorchidism (45%) or pubertal delay (45%), with two peak ages of presentation: 0.6 [IQR 0.3-0.8] and 14.6 [11.5-15.7] years. Patients with MPHD (n = 23, 52% male) presented with neonatal hypoglycaemia in 52%. Comorbidities stratified by diagnostic subtypes (KS, MPHD, and other syndromes) included hearing impairment (10%, 4%, 100%), visual impairment (7%, 17%, 77%), cardiac anomalies (3%, 9%, 77%), and intellectual disability (13%, 26%, 46%). Genetic testing was performed in 32% in 1995-2009 vs 66% in 2010-2024. Pathogenic gene variants associated with HH were found in 61% of those tested, including CHD7 (n = 10), ANOS1 (n = 4), and FGFR1 (n = 3). Pubertal induction was commenced in males at a mean age of 14.1 ± 1.6 years using testosterone (n = 27 oral; 14 intramuscular; 1 subcutaneous) or gonadotropins (n = 5), and in females, at a mean age of 14.6 ± 1.8 years using oestradiol (n = 21 oral; 8 transdermal) ± progesterone. CONCLUSIONS: CHH is a heterogeneous group of disorders, with varying prevalence of associated comorbidities according to diagnostic subtypes. Our data highlight the paediatric-specific modes of presentation of CHH, and in KS, the bimodal distribution of age at presentation in males and the under-representation and delayed diagnoses in females. Despite advances in genetics in the past three decades, there remain areas for further research in the diagnostics and therapeutics of CHH in the paediatric age group.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Endocrinology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease involves interconnected failures in epithelial integrity, immune cell migration, and inflammatory homeostasis in the system, making multifunctional therapeutic approaches a promising option. In this study, we developed a Bacillus licheniformis-templated nano-silver (Nano-Ag) composite within a tannic acid-iron (TA-Fe) metal-phenolic network and evaluated its therapeutic effects in TNBS-induced colitis. The composite exhibited favorable physicochemical properties, including a stable surface architecture and uniform nanosilver deposition, supporting its potential application as a biohybrid nanotherapeutic platform. In vivo treatment produced a dose-responsive protective effect, with the 1 mg formulation showing the most consistent response. This treatment regimen improved survival, reduced morbidity, alleviated diarrhea and fecal bleeding, lowered disease activity, preserved colon length, and significantly restored colonic histoarchitecture. Further histological examination revealed reduced inflammatory infiltration and improved hepatic morphology, indicating protective effects beyond the intestine. At the molecular level, therapeutic efficacy was associated with LEF-1 suppression, axin restoration, CXCR2 and CCR7 attenuation, and CCR5 recovery, consistent with coordinated normalization of Wnt-associated epithelial signaling and chemokine-guided immune trafficking. Serum profiling further revealed broad modulation of dysregulated chemokine networks and partial correction of biochemical disturbances associated with gut-liver and gut-kidney axis dysfunction. Collectively, these findings indicate that the engineered biohybrid nano-Ag platform does not act through a single anti-inflammatory mechanism, but rather through integrated remodeling of epithelial repair, inflammatory signaling, and systemic metabolic stress. Our study identifies TA-Fe-stabilized probiotic nano-Ag therapy as a promising multifunctional strategy for experimental colitis and provides a mechanistic framework for developing next-generation nanomedicines for inflammatory bowel disease.
The approval of Mirvetuximab soravtansine, a folate receptor alpha (FOLR1)-targeting antibody-drug conjugate, for platinum-resistant ovarian cancer, has prompted interest in FOLR1 as a target in endometrial carcinoma (EC). Characterization of FOLR1 expression across EC histotypes, TCGA molecular subtypes, and clinically relevant biomarkers using the FDA-approved companion diagnostic assay has not been performed. FOLR1 immunohistochemistry was performed on tissue microarrays from 169 molecularly classified ECs using the VENTANA FOLR1-2.1 assay and scored by proportion score PS2 and PS1 criteria at the ovarian cancer eligibility cutoff (PS2 ≥75) as well as exploratory thresholds. Associations with histotype, molecular subtype, biomarker (ER, PR, HER2) status, survival outcomes, intratumoral heterogeneity, and matched primary-recurrence expression were assessed. Only 3% (5/169) of ECs met the PS2 ≥75 threshold; all 5 were p53-abnormal (p53abn). In all, 9% (15/169) showed PS2 ≥25, predominantly in p53abn and no specific molecular profile (NSMP) subgroups. Uterine serous carcinoma had the highest expression; FOLR1 was absent in 3/3 clear cell carcinomas. Higher FOLR1 expression was associated with inferior survival, though this largely reflected molecular subtype and grade. FOLR1 was homogeneous across cores but variable between primary and recurrent tumors. FOLR1 testing in EC may be most relevant in p53abn and NSMP tumors and may not be useful in clear cell carcinomas. FOLR1 may have prognostic value in low-grade endometrioid and ER/PR-positive EC. Retesting at tumor recurrence is recommended. Given the frequency of lower-level FOLR1 expression, trials with treatment-response data are needed to test eligibility criteria below the current ovarian cancer threshold.Copyright © 2026 by the International Society of Gynecological Pathologists.
Folate plays a critical role in central nervous system development, particularly in myelin synthesis and neurotransmitter metabolism. Cerebral folate transport deficiency (CFTD), most often caused by biallelic pathogenic variants in the FOLR1 gene, results in markedly reduced cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) folate levels despite normal systemic folate status. Affected individuals typically present with developmental regression, seizures, and movement disorders. Early diagnosis and folinic acid supplementation have been shown to reverse neurological symptoms, emphasizing the importance of prompt recognition.We describe a 6-year-old girl born to consanguineous parents who initially presented with autism spectrum disorder and drug-resistant epilepsy. Her seizures included myoclonic-atonic, generalized myoclonic, and focal seizures, with subsequent gait instability and ataxia. Neuroimaging revealed diffuse cerebral atrophy and white matter signal abnormalities. Subsequent genetic testing identified a homozygous FOLR1 missense likely pathogenic variant (c.544T>A; p.Phe182Ile). The diagnosis was further confirmed by CSF analysis showing severe folate deficiency (5-MTHF: 4 nmol/L). Following initiation of oral folinic acid (4 mg/kg/day), seizures resolved completely, and substantial improvements were observed in ambulation, speech, and social interaction.This case illustrates that folinic acid supplementation can lead to remarkable neurological recovery, even with substantial diagnostic delay. FOLR1-related CFTD should be considered in children with refractory epilepsy and developmental regression.© 2026 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Mirvetuximab soravtansine is an antibody-drug conjugate targeting FRα, which has not only shown antitumor activity and tolerability in ovarian carcinoma with FRα high expression, but has also been incorporated into NCCN guidelines to treat patients with platinum-resistant disease. Sequential cases were retrieved from a previously published cohort of gynecologic pathology cases in which FOLR1 immunohistochemistry had been performed at our institution. Clinical and pathologic data collected included patients' age, tumor histotype, tumor grade (if reported or relevant to histotype), primary tumor site, FIGO stage, and type of specimen. FOLR1 immunohistochemical results were collected from the report, including the overall tumor percentage and intensity reported, and subsequently determined if this was an overall positive or negative result (positivity defined as per current recommendations for therapy eligibility, 75%, 2-3+ intensity). The FOLR1 immunohistochemical slide was reviewed by 2 gynecologic pathologists and jointly recorded the following parameters: percent of cells staining at each level of intensity (0-3), range of staining intensity (0-3), percent of cells with membranous, cytoplasmic, or mixed staining, apical-only versus any membranous staining, percent of cells with complete membranous staining, and presence of abrupt transition (0 - no staining at all, juxtaposed to 2-3+ staining). One hundred twenty cases were reviewed and scored, 119 of which had original reported scores available for comparison. The staining intensity record was 0 in 9 (7.5%) of the cases, 0-1 in 3 (2.5%), 0-2 in 11 (9.2%), 0-3 in 88 (73.3%), 1-3 in 3 (2.5%), 2-3 in 4 (3.3%), and 3 in 2 (1.7%). The percent of positive cells at 2-3+ intensity as per quartile of cases was 12 (10.0%) cases with 0%, 14 (11.7%) cases with 1%-24%, 15 (12.5%) with 25%-49%, 28 (23.3%) with 50%-74%, and 51 (42.5%) with ≥75%. Using the original clinical reports, 67 (56.3%) of 119 cases were positive; 55 (67.9%) of 81 resection cases were positive, while 12 (31.6%) of 38 biopsy cases were positive. On re-review, 51 (42.5%) of all 120 cases were positive, with 41 (50%) of 82 resection cases being positive and 10 (26.3%) of 38 biopsy cases being positive. Overall, 18 (15.1%) of 119 cases had a clinically significant change (i.e. positive to negative or negative to positive). When broken down by type of specimen, 16 (19.8%) of 81 resection cases had a significant change, while only 2 (5.3%) of 38 biopsy cases had a significant change. Of the original scores taken from the report, the score was clearly stated in 117 reports, of which 47 cases were reported within 65% to 85% 2-3+ intensity. Seventeen of these 47 on rescoring were changed significantly as to a clinical action outcome; all 17 of these were changed from "positive" to "negative." The 18th case, which was changed on rescoring, was the singular case that was changed from "negative" to "positive," which was originally reported at 60% and on review was scored 75%. On rescoring of all 120 cases, 32 cases were 65% to 85% 2-3+ intensity. The heterogeneous staining pattern of FRα expression may lead to difficulties in scoring and interpretation, which can have an impact on clinical management.Copyright © 2026 by the International Society of Gynecological Pathologists.
Despite the rapid clinical approval of the HER2-directed antibody-drug conjugate trastuzumab deruxtecan (T-DXd) for patients with HER2-expressing epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC), preclinical mechanistic studies are lacking.The goal of this investigation was to determine the genomic and immunogenic characteristics associated with HER2 expressing EOC in order to better understand the mechanism of treatment response and what subset of patients will benefit most from single agent and combinatorial HER2-directed treatment regimens.130 EOC patients were retrospectively identified from our institution's internal clinical genomic database. Selected genomic characteristics were stratified by gastric HER2 score and distributions were analyzed by Fisher's exact test. A subset of 34 EOC tumors were internally HER2 stained and fluorescent immunohistochemistry analysis of PD-L1, CD4, and CD8 was performed. EOC cell lines were treated with T-DXd and PD-L1 and VEGFA levels were assessed via quantitative PCR. VEGF expression following combinatorial T-DXd and bevacizumab treatment was determined via western blot.Non-significant differences were detected in HRD, CCNE1 amplification, and ARID1A status between HER2 high (n=29) and low (n=101) tumors in an EOC and high grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC) sub-cohort (n=98). Although not statistically significant, patients with HER2 high tumors had lower levels of FOLR1 positivity and higher levels of PD-L1 positivity in both EOC and HGSOC cohorts. Intratumoral PD-L1 expression and CD4+ T cell levels were significantly higher (p<0.05) in HER2 high tumors. Finally, T-DXd substantially downregulated PD-L1 and VEGFA expression, and bevacizumab and T-DXd synergistically reduced VEGF expression.HER2 high EOC tumors are more likely to be FOLR1 negative and PD-L1 positive, and treatment with T-DXd downregulates PDL-1 and VEGFA expression. These findings support further examination to determine if immunotherapy and anti-angiogenic treatments synergize with T-DXd in EOC.Copyright © 2026 Salinaro, De La Cruz, Perati, McAdams, Buyungo, Pearce, Bojko, Salaverria, Singh, DiSilvestro, Mathews and James.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42547712
Skipped: PubMed ID 42547642 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42536480
Although chromosome 14q deletion (14q-) is present in up to 40% of clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) cases, its immunologic and molecular impact remains unclear. Because TRAF3 and NFΚBIA, key regulators of nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) signaling, are located on 14q, we hypothesize that 14q- in ccRCC promotes increased inflammation and unique determinants of immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) response.We collected data from 825 patients with ccRCC from publicly available sources, our own independent retrospective study, and the Oncology Research Information Exchange Network. These data include bulk RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq), single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq), and whole exome sequencing (WES). We also include reverse phase protein array from DepMap cell lines (n=277). Next, we performed multiplex immunofluorescence for spatial analysis of immune cells on 23 patient slides with paired WES and ICB response. Finally, progression-free survival, 14q- status (assessed in bulk RNA-seq or whole exome sequencing), and kidney inflammatory marker EDNRB expression were assessed in two independent ICB immunotherapy trials.14q- status is associated with increased NF-κB-target transcription and p65 phosphorylation. Tumor scRNA-seq revealed increased expression of CCL20, an NF-κB target and lymphotactic protein. Simultaneously, single-cell and bulk RNA-seq demonstrated higher effector CD8+T cell infiltration in 14q- tumors compared with controls. We investigated myeloid panel mIF images from 14q- tumors and found dendritic cells (DCs) significantly aggregate with tumor cells in ICB responders compared with non-responders. Cell-cell communication analysis on DCs and tumor cells from a 14q- responder revealed tumor-derived EDN1 is uniquely interacting with EDNRB on DCs. In two ICB trials, 14q- combined with elevated EDNRB expression correlated with significantly improved progression-free survival.This is the first evidence that 14q- in ccRCC is associated with an antitumor inflammatory phenotype, possibly driven by aberrant NF-κB activation. Furthermore, 14q- with high EDNRB expression (EDNRB+) may serve as a predictive biomarker for ICB response in ccRCC. Finally, our results indicate patients with 14q-/EDNRB- may respond poorly to immunotherapy and new treatment options should be explored for this cohort.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Lead (Pb2+) is a well-established neurotoxin that impairs motor, learning, and memory functions, particularly in children and younger adults. However, its impact on older adults remains less understood. Pb2+ toxicity involves disruption of DNA methyltransferase activity and associated epigenetic pathways, potentially altering the expression of specific genes relevant to neurological functions. As methylation patterns naturally shift during aging, Pb2+ exposure may induce additional neurological risks in aged populations. Using a zebrafish model, we investigated the combined effects of Pb2+ exposure and brain aging. Two-year-old male zebrafish were exposed to 1, 10, 100, 1000, 10 000 µg/l Pb2+ or fish water control for five days. Brain tissues were collected for DNA extraction and whole-genome bisulfite sequencing to assess global and gene-specific methylation changes. Our results found that Pb2+ exposures ≥ 100 μg/l significantly increased global methylation levels in the aged brain. Differentially methylated genes (DMGs) exhibited methylation changes within gene body regions and were mostly annotated with ion transportation and signal transduction pathways. Although only a limited number of DMGs showed corresponding changes in gene expression, several of them were associated with locomotor-related functions, including shank1 at 10 000 Pb2+ μg/l, and ptprsa, plxna2, and aopep at 100 μg/l Pb2+. These findings suggest that Pb2+ exposure during aging predominantly induces gene body-localized DNA methylation changes, and the role of such epigenetic regulation in Pb-associated neurobehavioral outcomes warrants further investigation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
The synergistic crosstalk between epigenetic dysregulation and metabolic reprogramming underlies to prostate cancer (PCa) development and treatment resistance, yet an integrated prognostic signature reflecting this nexus remains poorly defined. We developed and validated a gene signature associated with methylation and amino acid metabolism for patient stratification and exploring its connection to tumor microenvironment (TME) remodeling. RNA sequencing data and independent datasets were integrated with predefined gene sets for DNA methylation (n = 79) and amino acid metabolism (n = 471). A analytical workflow was employed: identification of hub genes and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO)-Cox modeling; construction of a prognostic nomogram; comprehensive TME profiling; and validation through single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) cellular dynamics analysis and immunohistochemistry (IHC) on a prostate cancer tissue microarray. A novel six-gene prognostic model (ASPM, WDR86, CCK, HOXA2, EGF, ZFHX4) was developed. This model efficiently discriminates patients into groups based on risk level though divergent overall survival (p < 0.001) and exhibited high predictive accuracy in external validation sets (3-year area under the curve (AUC) = 0.87). A nomogram incorporating the signature, pathologic T stage, and Gleason score surpassed individual clinical factors (5-year AUC = 0.73). Functional annotation indicated that high-risk tumors were characterized by downregulated androgen response and activated E2F/G2M checkpoint pathways. The signature was correlated with an immunosuppressive TME, which was supported by a negative correlation between ZFHX4 and monocyte infiltration (r = -0.37, p < 0.001) and a positive correlation between ASPM and activated CD4+T cells (r = 0.44, p < 0.001). Single-cell trajectory analysis exhibited that epithelial cells, fibroblasts, and natural killer T (NKT) cells was key cellular expressors of the signature. We utilized immunohistochemistry (IHC) and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) to confirm the differential expression. We developed and validated an integrative methylation-amino acid metabolism gene signature that effectively predicts prognosis and reflects an immunosuppressive TME in PCa. This study provides a translational framework for precision oncology, bridging epigenetic-metabolic crosstalk to disease aggressiveness, and offers potential biomarkers for informing risk-stratified therapy and immunotherapy approaches.© 2026 The Author(s). Chemical Biology & Drug Design published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Photoreceptors are retinal neurons whose subtype-specific opsin expression and mosaic organization enable parallel encoding of spectral and spatial visual information. Yet, the transcriptional mechanisms establishing and maintaining subtype identity remain poorly understood. We investigated the role of the T-box transcription factors tbx2a and tbx2b in zebrafish photoreceptor development and found evidence for paralog subfunctionalization across photoreceptor lineages. Tbx2b is required for UV-cone generation and prevents fate switching toward rods, while Tbx2a is constrained to UV-cone generation without involving rods. These factors also maintain cone identity by repressing inappropriate M-cone fate. Despite major changes in photoreceptor composition, tbx2 mutants retain luminance- and motion-driven vision, whereas prey capture is abolished only in tbx2b mutants and not tbx2a mutants. Our findings identify the tbx2 paralogs as key regulators of cone-subtype generation and maintenance and reveal how developmental programs diversify photoreceptor fate to appropriately support visually-guided behaviors important for survival.
Previous studies from us and others suggest that the second heart field (SHF)-derived outflow tract (OFT) wall can undergo a cell fate transition to mesenchymal cells within the intercalated valve swelling (ICVS). However, the trajectory of this transition and its intrinsic regulation remain unknown. Here, we investigate cell fate determination in OFT development and identify specific Nkx2-5 expression in the inferior midline OFT (imOFT) wall and adjacent ICVS. scRNA-seq of E10.5 OFT revealed a transcriptional signature specific to the imICVS within the heterogeneous cell populations. We observed that cells of the imOFT wall ingress while maintaining myocyte properties, whereas the leading cells initiate a transition to a mesenchymal fate. Furthermore, these ingressing cells exhibit 'lily-bulb' collective cell migration. In addition, we found that β-catenin, Shh and FGF8 signaling are associated with imICVS formation. These results identify a novel type of cell ingression and the imICVS appears to spatially coordinate the distribution of OFT main cushion derived from neural crest. This study provides new insights into the role of the SHF in OFT septation and the pathogenesis of congenital heart diseases.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Congenital heart disease (CHD), which represents the most common type of human birth defect affecting approximately 1% of all live births globally, is a leading cause of substantial infant mortality and morbidity worldwide. Although aggregating evidence has convincingly suggested a strong genetic basis underpinning CHD, the inherited components underlying CHD in most cases remain indefinite. Hence, the current investigation aimed to identify and characterize novel genetic variations underlying CHD. A five-generation pedigree with patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) and another group of 174 index patients with CHD were enrolled. In addition, 218 unrelated non-CHD people were employed as controls. Clinical assessments, along with exome-sequencing and Sanger-sequencing examinations, were performed in the study participants. The functional effects of the detected variations in the SMAD5 gene, which encodes a transcription factor required for proper cardiovascular morphogenesis, were measured by dual-luciferase reporter assays. Two new SMAD5 variants, NM_005903.7: c.244 A > T; p.(Lys82*) and NM_005903.7: c.209G > T; p.(Arg70Ile), were detected in a heterozygous status in the PDA pedigree and one PDA case out of the 174 index patients affected with CHD, respectively. Neither of the two SMAD5 variations was observed in the 436 control chromosomes. Quantitative biochemical assays using dual-reporter genes revealed that the Lys82*- or Arg70Ile-mutant SMAD5 possessed diminished transactivation of NKX2.5, an established CHD-causative gene. Furthermore, the Lys82* or Arg70Ile variation nullified or significantly reduced the synergistic transactivation of ID2 between SMAD5 and BMP4, and both ID2 and BMP4 had been causally implicated in the pathogenesis underpinning CHD. The present findings indicate that SMAD5 haplo-insufficient variants contribute to PDA in humans, which sheds more light on the genetic architecture of PDA and implies a potential target for genetic counseling and individualized medicine of PDA in a subgroup of patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) and chronic airway obstruction frequently coexist and are associated with poorer clinical outcomes. Although airway obstruction is recognized as a risk factor for adverse prognosis in LUAD, the molecular alterations associated with airway obstruction in LUAD remain incompletely understood. Most previous studies have been confounded by smoking-related molecular changes.To identify proteins associated with airway obstruction status in non-smoking patients with LUAD using a proteomics-based approach.Proteomic analysis was performed on paired tumor and adjacent normal tissues obtained from 12 non-smoking LUAD patients, including 6 patients with airway obstruction and 6 without airway obstruction. A four-group design combined with a three-step intersection strategy was used to identify candidate proteins associated with both airway obstruction status and tumor-related alterations. Functional enrichment, protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, Western blot validation, correlation with pulmonary function, and transcriptomic validation using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database were subsequently performed.A total of 2036 differentially expressed proteins were identified in tumor tissues between airway obstruction and non-obstruction groups. The three-step intersection strategy identified 15 candidate proteins. PPI network analysis and expression-direction consistency screening further identified four core proteins: Cystatin B (CSTB), Bone Morphogenetic Protein Receptor Type 1A (BMPR1A), Complement C4B (C4B), and Potassium Channel Tetramerization Domain Containing 10 (KCTD10). Western blot validation supported the differential expression patterns of these four core proteins in tumor tissues. Functional enrichment analysis indicated involvement in DNA damage repair, immune regulation, and cellular proliferation pathways. CSTB expression was positively correlated with FEV1%, whereas BMPR1A expression showed a negative correlation. TCGA analyses demonstrated that expression of these proteins' corresponding genes was associated with LUAD prognosis, and C4B expression was significantly associated with tumor stage.This study identified CSTB, BMPR1A, C4B, and KCTD10 as proteins associated with airway obstruction status in non-smoking LUAD patients. These findings provide preliminary insights into molecular differences related to airway obstruction in LUAD and generate candidate biomarkers for future validation studies. Western blot validation provided additional experimental support for the proteomic findings. Larger multicenter cohorts and functional experiments are required to clarify the biological and clinical significance of these proteins.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Federación de Sociedades Españolas de Oncología (FESEO).
The transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) superfamily regulates diverse biological processes, including proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, tissue remodeling, and reproductive signaling across metazoans. Here, we performed a genome-wide characterization of the TGF-β gene family in donkey (Equus asinus, ASM1607732v2) using comparative genomics and bioinformatics analyses, with horse (Equus caballus, EquCab3.0) as a reference to investigate evolutionary conservation and functional divergence. Genome assemblies and proteomes were retrieved from NCBI, and TGF-β genes were identified using BLASTp and HMMER searches (Pfam PF00019), followed by phylogenetic, conserved motif, synteny, Ka/Ks, mutation prediction, subcellular localization, and tissue-specific expression analyses. We identified 40 TGF-β genes in donkeys, exceeding the numbers reported in several mammals, suggesting possible lineage-specific expansion or differential gene retention within Equidae. Phylogenetic and motif analyses demonstrated strong evolutionary conservation across the two principal clades (TGF-β-like and BMP-like). Four segmental duplications were identified, with Ka/Ks ratios ranging from 0.28 to 0.43, indicating strong purifying selection on duplicated genes. Synteny analysis revealed extensive collinearity with the horse genome, supporting conserved equid genomic architecture. Comparative sequence analysis identified 160 amino acid variants, including 11 predicted deleterious mutations in key genes (GDF6, GDF9, GDF10, BMP15, and RGMA), suggesting potential functional divergence associated with reproductive and developmental pathways. Importantly, transcriptomic validation using publicly available donkey RNA-seq tissue expression data (NCBI BioProject: PRJNA1017964) revealed distinct tissue-specific expression patterns, with reproductive tissues (ovary and uterus) displaying enriched expression of TGF-β/BMP signaling components, particularly TGFBR1, TGFBR2, TGFB1, BMP2, BMP4, and BMP7, while canonical fecundity genes (GDF9 and BMP15) exhibited ovary-associated expression. This receptor-dominant signaling profile may have a coordinated TGF-β regulatory network underlying folliculogenesis, reproductive tissue remodeling, and fertility-related processes in donkeys. Subcellular localization predictions showed that most proteins (22/40) were extracellularly localized, consistent with conserved signaling functions. Together, this study provides the first integrated genomic and tissue-expression atlas of the donkey TGF-β superfamily, offering new insights into equid-specific evolutionary conservation, reproductive signaling, and functional divergence.
Although the hearts of large animals are known to exhibit regional heterogeneity in structure, function, and metabolism, their spatial patterns of gene expression remain poorly understood. Therefore, we investigated regional differences in gene expression across six anatomical regions of the bovine heart, including the atria, ventricles, interventricular septum, and apex (n = 3). The expression levels of genes related to cardiac development, structure, and branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) metabolism were analyzed using quantitative real-time PCR, and multivariate patterns were evaluated using principal component analysis (PCA). Histological analysis suggested no apparent structural differences among the examined regions. NKX2.5 expression showed no significant regional variation, suggesting conserved cardiomyocyte identity. Conversely, contractile genes (MYH7, MYL2, TNNI3, and TNNT2) and the BCAA metabolism-related gene BCKDHA were significantly more highly expressed in the ventricular myocardium than in the atrial regions. PCA clearly distinguished between the atrial and ventricular myocardium and indicated coordinated variations in contractile and metabolic gene expression. These findings of region-specific molecular heterogeneity in the bovine heart, characterized by regional differences in gene expression across the myocardium rather than morphological differences, provide new insights into the spatial regulation of cardiac function and highlight the value of the bovine heart as a model for studying myocardial specialization.
2,4,6-tris(2,4,6-tribromophenoxy)-1,3,5-triazine (TTBP-TAZ) is a widely used novel brominated flame retardant with environmental persistence, yet its developmental toxicity remains poorly characterized. In this study, we investigated the developmental and cardiotoxic effects of TTBP-TAZ in zebrafish embryos/larvae. Embryos (4 hpf) were exposed to 0-20 μM TTBP-TAZ for 120 hpf. Assessments included survival, hatching kinetics, burst activity (24 hpf), heart rate (48 hpf), caudal venous blood-flow velocity (72 hpf), locomotor behavior under alternating light/dark conditions (120 hpf), cardiac morphology in Tg(myl7:EGFP), and transcription of key cardiac genes. Results indicated low mortality of embryos/ larvae across all concentrations. However, TTBP-TAZ accelerated hatching rate in a concentration-dependent manner (significant by 60 hpf) and increased burst activity. Elevated heart rate (48 hpf) and enhanced tail-vein blood flow (72 hpf) suggested tachycardia and stimulated circulation. Transgenic larvae exhibited reduced ventricular/atrial fluorescence intensity, along with enlarged cardiac size and indistinct contours, indicating structural abnormalities. qPCR analysis revealed up-regulation of nkx2.5, tbx20, and vmhc, and down-regulation of gata4, mef2, and myh7, suggesting disruption of core cardiogenic transcription and chamber-specific contractile programming. Locomotor assays demonstrated hyperactivity at higher concentrations under both light and dark conditions. These findings indicate sub-lethal TTBP-TAZ exposure induces significant developmental and cardiotoxic disturbances in zebrafish, associated with altered cardiac gene expression and functional hyperactivation. This study supports the need for further mechanistic investigation and exposure-relevant risk assessment of TTBP-TAZ.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a major cause of heart failure with limited therapeutic options beyond heart transplantation. This study aimed to evaluated the therapeutic potential of human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocyte (hiPS-CM) patch transplantation in a genetic DCM model.hiPS-CM patches were transplanted onto the left ventricular surface of adult J2N-k hamsters with DCM. Cardiac function, survival, and histological evaluation were assessed. Single-nucleus RNA sequencing using left ventricular myocardium was performed to investigate cell-type-specific transcriptional alteration associated with treatment.hiPS-CM patch transplantation preserved cardiac function [left ventricular ejection fraction, 41.2 (38.9 - 42.8) vs. 43.4 (40.5 - 44.6) %, P = 0.07], improved survival [Hazrod ratio 0.39 (95% confidence interval 0.16 - 0.63), P < 0.05], reduced myocardial fibrosis [fibrous area, 10.2 (9.4 - 12.1) vs. 14.1 (13.1 - 18.3) %, P < 0.05], and increased capillary density [CD-31 positive cells cout, 373.2 (336.4 - 441.3) vs. 210.7 (157.4 - 232.3) cells/mm3, P < 0.05] in J2N-k hamsters compared with controls. Transcriptomic analysis revealed regenerative shifts across multiple cell types, including activation of cardiac transcription factors (MEF2C, GATA4, NKX2-5), upregulation of angiogenesis-related pathways (ERK1/2 cascade, KLF4, ETS1, GATA2), and modulation of pro-fibrotic signaling (SMAD3, STAT3, NF-κB).hiPS-CM patch transplantation exerts therapeutic effects through multicellular mechanisms, including enhanced angiogenesis, improved myocardial microenvironment, and modulation of fibrosis. These findings support the feasibility of hiPS-CM patch therapy as a regenerative strategy for end-stage DCM and provide mechanistic insights into its therapeutic action.© 2026 The Author(s).
Although hydrophobic drugs demonstrate the promising therapeutic efficacy for peripheral artery disease in vitro, their in vivo performance is often hindered by low bioavailability due to inherent hydrophobicity. To address this, an injectable, self-healing and curcumin-sustained-release hydrogel (CGP hydrogel) using a gelatin/polyvinyl alcohol hydrogel (GP hydrogel) was developed. The CGP hydrogel effectively preserved the DPPH radical-scavenging activity of curcumin at room temperature. Meanwhile, in the murine hindlimb ischemia model, a single intramuscular injection of CGP following femoral artery ligation significantly improved the motor function of the ischemic limb compared to curcumin suspension. This superior therapeutic outcome is attributed to the sustained release of curcumin from the CGP hydrogel. Mechanistically, we found that CGP, but not GP, inhibited the expression of Atp6v0d2 in ischemic skeletal muscle cells and suppressed ischemia-induced autophagy. The inhibition of autophagy may mitigate tissue and cellular necrosis and promote the expression of Myogenin. Furthermore, CGP reduced the expression of pro-fibrotic factors such as Tgfb1 and Ctgf and prevented skeletal muscle fibrosis. In summary, the CGP hydrogel, through its sustained release of curcumin, inhibits ischemia-induced autophagy, alleviates necrosis and fibrosis in skeletal muscle tissue and preserves motor function in the ischemic limb.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Hypoxic pulmonary hypertension (HPH), a severe complication of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, features pulmonary vascular remodeling driven by dysregulated pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cell (PASMC) apoptosis, with limited therapies like vasodilators offering only modest hemodynamic benefits. This study aimed to elucidate the role of Midkine (MK) in regulating PASMC apoptosis via the Notch2 pathway and its potential as a novel anti-remodeling target in HPH progression.The experimental approach involved cellular and animal models. In vitro, PASMCs were exposed to hypoxia (1% O2, 48 h), and MK was silenced via lentiviral shRNA (shRNA-413, ∼85% knockdown). Cellular phenotypes were assessed using Cell Counting Kit-8 assays for proliferation, wound healing assays for migration, and flow cytometry for apoptosis. Molecular analyses (quantitative polymerase chain reaction and western blot) targeted apoptosis-related proteins and Notch2 signaling. In vivo, HPH was induced in rats by LPS plus chronic hypoxia/smoke exposure; MK was inhibited via intratracheal adeno-associated virus serotype 9-mediated gene delivery (AAV9-shRNA (1.5 × 1011 vg/rat). Outcomes included hemodynamics, vascular remodeling, oxidative stress markers, and apoptosis-related protein expression in lung tissue.In vitro, hypoxia upregulated MK, activating Notch2-Hes1 signaling, promoting proliferation and migration at 48 h, and suppressing apoptosis (P < 0.01 vs. normoxia). MK knockdown reversed these effects, restoring apoptosis (P < 0.01). In vivo, HPH activated the MK-Notch2 axis in rat lung tissue; MK suppression inhibited Notch2 signaling, improved antioxidant capacity, alleviated oxidative stress (e.g., elevated SOD/CAT, reduced MDA/LDH; P < 0.01), induced PASMC apoptosis, attenuated vascular remodeling, and reduced pulmonary arterial pressure.Unlike current vasodilators, MK drives HPH pathogenesis by suppressing PASMC apoptosis via Notch2 and exacerbating oxidative stress. Targeting MK offers a promising therapeutic strategy for HPH.Copyright © 2026 Zhu, Li, Wang, Huang, Peng, Wu, Liao, Wei, Zhong, Jin and Deng.
Thyroid cancer (TC) is the most common endocrine malignancy. While papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) generally has a favorable prognosis, anaplastic thyroid cancer (ATC) is rare but highly aggressive, with limited treatment options, highlighting the urgent need for novel therapeutic targets. Macrophages are a major component of the immune infiltrate in TC, and their abundance is associated with poor prognosis. We recently identified upregulation of the immune checkpoint TIM3 (T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin-domain containing protein 3) on M2-like macrophages both in vitro and in ATC xenografts. In addition, we have shown that transforming growth factor β1 (TGFβ1) promotes macrophage polarization toward an M2-like phenotype. However, the role and clinical significance of TGFβ1 in regulating TIM3 expression in TC-associated macrophages remains unclear. We found that TGFβ1 secreted by ATC cells significantly increased HAVCR2 (TIM3) mRNA expression in human monocytes. Analysis of patient samples demonstrated elevated TIM3 expression in both PTC and ATC tissues compared with adenoma and normal thyroid counterparts. Analysis of publicly available single-cell RNA sequencing datasets further showed increased TIM3 expression in T cells from both tumor types. Notably, TIM3 upregulation was also localized to M2-like macrophages within the thyroid tumor microenvironment (TME), and positively correlated with TGFB1/CD163 expression, suggesting the involvement of a TGFβ-TIM3 axis in macrophages in TC. Combined targeting of the TIM3 and PD1 pathway in an immunocompetent mouse model of ATC led to a significant reduction in tumor growth. Together, these findings highlight TIM3 as a promising immunotherapeutic target in TC, with the potential to suppress macrophage-mediated pro-tumor activity while enhancing T-cell-driven anti-tumor immunity within the thyroid TME. © 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. This article has been contributed to by U.S. Government employees and their work is in the public domain in the USA.© 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. This article has been contributed to by U.S. Government employees and their work is in the public domain in the USA.
Fibroblasts are linked to stress responses in a broad number of diseases. Here, we used immortalized mouse embryonic fibroblasts (iMEFs) to elucidate their signaling behavior in response to proinflammatory lipopolysaccharides (LPS) and angiotensin II (Ang-II). To test for the role of the mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC), iMEFs were cultured in glucose- and galactose-containing media promoting glycolysis and mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, respectively. In addition, we used alternative oxidase (AOX), a ubiquinol oxidoreductase that serves as a naturally evolved rescue mechanism in case of ETC disruption. We found that within 24 h of treatment, LPS upregulated a number of proinflammatory genes, namely Tlr4, Il6, Tgfb1, Nlrp3, Casp1, and Il1b; largely, the effect was more pronounced in galactose-containing media and attenuated by AOX. The increase in transcripts resulted partly in elevated cytokine secretion. Twenty-four hours of Ang-II treatment also induced these genes, albeit to a lesser degree and less sensitive to AOX. Cellular oxygen consumption rates (OCRs) were higher in galactose media but remained unaffected by either stimulus. Our results suggest that fibroblasts undergo a similar proinflammatory phenotypic shift in response to different stressors. This response is shaped by ETC activity, which, surprisingly, is not reflected in altered OCRs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Classic Hodgkin lymphoma (CHL) is a highly curable disease. However, a subset of patients develops relapsed/refractory disease, underscoring the need for predictors of treatment response. Although immune-checkpoint inhibitors have improved outcomes, many patients still experience suboptimal responses. A deeper understanding of the CHL transcriptomic landscape may improve patient stratification and guide treatment approaches. Targeted mRNA-NGS was performed on formalin-fixed paraffine-embedded CHL-tissue using the HTG EdgeSeq Precision Immune-Oncology Panel (1,392 genes) in treatment-naive and post-chemotherapy relapsed treated with nivolumab-based protocols. Differential gene expression and pathway enrichment analyses were conducted to characterize tumor-intrinsic, and microenvironmental features associated with disease biology and treatment response. Across all CHL samples (n = 25) we observed overexpression of immune-checkpoint and immunoregulatory genes (CD274, CTLA-4, IL6, IL13), and markers of macrophage-rich/matrix-remodeling microenvironment (CD163, MMP2, TIMP1), alongside loss of B-cell identity and tumor suppression programs. Pathways analysis revealed activation of IL6/JAK/STAT3, TNF-α/NF-κB, KRAS-UP, and Inflammatory response, with reduced proliferative and metabolic activity. Immunotherapy non-responders, both in the overall (n = 5; 20%), and the treatment-naïve CHL (n = 2; 12%) displayed a proliferative, cytokine-activated, and immunologically cold phenotype. This includes shared overexpression of FADD, NFKB1, and TGFB1 and downregulation of SMAD7, together with activation of E2F, G2M, MYC, and PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathways and negative enrichment of TNF-α/NF-κB, IL6/JAK/STAT3, and Inflammatory response. Post-chemotherapy relapsed (n = 8) exhibited adaptative immunoregulatory and stress response signatures (IL15, TNFSF18, MAPK8, FUT4), along with reduced immune activation and loss of tumor-suppressor signaling. This study highlights the biological complexity and transcriptional diversity underlying CHL and its tumor microenvironment. Immunotherapy non-responders exhibited an "oncogene-driven" transcriptional profile independent of previous treatment status, whereas responders showed an "inflammatory immune-scape" phenotype, offering insight into mechanisms of resistance. Despite the limited sample size, these findings provide a foundation for larger precision-focused studies aimed at improving outcomes in CHL.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Ovarian cancer is a heterogeneous solid tumor, whereas polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a distinct endocrine-metabolic ovarian disorder. Whether PCOS-associated ovarian dysregulation and ovarian cancer share convergent transcriptomic candidates remains unclear. This study aimed to identify shared transcriptomic candidates and define their cellular localization without implying a causal or clinical comorbidity relationship.Public bulk transcriptomic datasets from PCOS and ovarian cancer underwent platform-specific preprocessing, within-disease-arm harmonization, differential-expression analysis, robust rank aggregation, and machine-learning-based feature prioritization with SHapley Additive exPlanations. Single-cell RNA sequencing datasets were used to localize prioritized genes in PCOS-related ovarian cell populations and high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC)-derived compartments. Preliminary validation used DHEA-treated KGN cells and siRNA-mediated SIX4 knockdown in SKOV3 cells. Exploratory docking and molecular dynamics simulation assessed the structural tractability of a SIX4-centered axis.Integrated analysis identified shared molecular dysregulation enriched in cell-cycle regulation, chromosome segregation, epithelial remodeling, and Wnt-related pathways. Five candidate genes were prioritized: SIX4, CCNE1, MMP7, KIF2C, and GPX3. SIX4 was the highest-ranked contributor within the computational model. Single-cell analysis showed compartment-specific localization, with SIX4 enriched in HGSOC-derived epithelial populations. DHEA increased SIX4 expression in KGN cells, whereas SIX4 knockdown suppressed SKOV3 proliferation, migration, and colony formation. Molecular dynamics suggested stable predicted engagement between SIX4 and a Benzbromarone-related scaffold.This study identifies SIX4 as a candidate epithelial target in ovarian cancer within a shared, noncausal transcriptomic program associated with PCOS-related ovarian dysregulation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The mammalian auditory sensory epithelium consists of hair cells (HCs), whose stereociliary bundles convert sound-evoked vibrations into electrical signals, and supporting cells (SCs), which provide mechanical stability. The transcription factor SIX1 is essential during otic neurosensory cell specification and HC commitment, but its contribution after birth has remained elusive. Here, we show that SIX1 is required for maintaining the structure and function of the adult cochlear sensory epithelium. Conditional deletion of Six1 in SCs or HCs of young adult mice causes profound deafness. SC-specific deletion disrupts epithelial organization and promotes SC loss with secondary HC degeneration, whereas HC-specific loss results in stereociliary-bundle defects and progressive HC death. To define early molecular defects, we performed single-nucleus RNA-seq before widespread degeneration and found early collapse of mature HC identity and functional gene programs, including mechanotransduction, stereociliary-bundle, and synaptic networks. SIX1 ChIP-seq analysis in the mature cochleamapped SIX1 occupancy at regulatory elements near genes involved in epithelial junctions, actin/cytoskeletal regulation, ion transport, mechanotransduction, and cell survival, and overlapped with a subset of Six1-dependent transcripts and deafness loci. Together, these results identify SIX1 as a key transcriptional regulator of adult cochlear homeostasis and reveal downstream gene networks that preserve sensory epithelial integrity and hearing throughout life.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) exhibits stem-like characteristics that drive tumor aggressiveness and treatment resistance. The molecular chaperone Glucose-Regulated Protein 78 (GRP78) is substantially elevated in NSCLC compared to normal tissues and cell lines. In clinical samples, GRP78 protein levels correlated with advanced tumor stage and lymph node metastasis. Pharmacological inhibition of GRP78 using BAPTA-AM and GRP78-IN-3 significantly suppressed NSCLC cell viability while promoting apoptosis. The inhibitors effectively attenuated cell migration by downregulating matrix metalloproteinases and reversed epithelial-mesenchymal transition by modulating key cadherin expression profiles. Importantly, GRP78 inhibition substantially reduced cancer stem cell markers and impaired spheroid formation capability. Genetic knockdown of GRP78 in A549 and H1975 cells recapitulated the effects of pharmacological inhibition, reducing cell migration, reversing EMT, attenuating stemness, and suppressing β-catenin signaling. Conversely, GRP78 overexpression in A549 and H1975 cells induced opposite effects, promoting mesenchymal markers, enhancing stemness proteins, and increasing spheroid size. Mechanistic studies revealed that this anti-tumor activity operates through suppression of β-catenin signaling mediated by SIX1, as evidenced by SIX1-overexpression rescue experiments. These findings demonstrate that GRP78 acts as a key regulator of NSCLC stemness and metastatic potential by coordinating epithelial plasticity and stemness pathways, positioning it as a promising therapeutic target for NSCLC treatment.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
BACKGROUND Allergic rhinitis (AR) is a common inflammatory disorder of the nasal mucosa triggered by allergens and characterized by sneezing, nasal congestion, and itching. This study aimed to identify and validate potential biomarkers associated with immune dysregulation in AR via bioinformatics analyses initiated with chemokine-related genes. MATERIAL AND METHODS AR-related datasets (GSE75011 and GSE50223) and 69 chemokine-related genes were analyzed via differential expression analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis to identify candidate genes. Random forest analysis was used to select optimal features. Expression analysis identified potential immunoregulatory biomarkers that were downregulated in AR samples. A nomogram incorporating these biomarkers was constructed as an exploratory tool to estimate individual AR probability and support future diagnostic model development. RESULTS Early growth response protein 2 (EGR2) and transforming growth factor-ß1 (TGFB1) were identified as chemokine-related biomarkers in AR. Immune infiltration analysis showed significant correlations between TGFB1 and M2 macrophages, as well as activated memory CD4+ T cells. Drug prediction identified tretinoin as a potential therapeutic agent targeting both biomarkers; molecular docking confirmed stable binding of the 3 top-ranked predicted drugs with TGFB1. Pilot reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis demonstrated downregulation of EGR2 and TGFB1 in AR samples, providing preliminary supportive evidence. Gene set enrichment analysis indicated involvement in the MAPK and p53 signaling pathways, suggesting roles in cell proliferation, apoptosis, cell cycle regulation, and stress responses. CONCLUSIONS EGR2 and TGFB1 offer potential immunoregulatory biomarkers for AR diagnosis and may provide preliminary insights into AR pathogenesis and potential treatment strategies.
Heart failure (HF) is increasingly recognized as a systemic disorder that extends beyond the heart and affects neurovascular tissues, including the retina. However, the mechanisms by which circulating factors from HF trigger retinal neuroinflammation remain unclear.HF was induced in adult mice by transverse aortic constriction (TAC). Retinal structure and function were evaluated using optical coherence tomography (OCT) and electroretinography (ERG). Parabiosis and plasma transfer experiments were performed to assess the role of circulating factors. Endothelial senescence, microglial activation, and inflammatory signaling were analyzed using immunofluorescence, qPCR, and molecular assays. The functional relevance of TGFβ2 and microglia was tested using anti-TGFβ2 antibody administration and microglial depletion with PLX5622 treatment.TAC mice exhibited pronounced retinal thinning, diminished electroretinography (ERG) amplitudes, and reduced vascular density. Exposure of healthy mice to HF plasma reproduced these abnormalities, indicating that circulating mediators drive retinal injuries. TGFβ2 levels were markedly elevated in the plasma of both patients with HF and TAC mice. Mechanistically, TGFβ2 activated the pSMAD2/EP300 pathway in retinal endothelial cells, promoting H3K9 acetylation, P21 induction, and endothelial cell senescence. Senescent endothelial cells release proinflammatory factors that activate retinal microglia, leading to hypertrophic morphology, enhanced synaptic phagocytosis, and upregulation of cytokines such as IL1β, TNFα, and IL6. Neutralization of TGFβ2 or microglial depletion markedly reduced inflammation, preserved the retinal architecture, and restored visual function.Elevated TGFβ2 levels in heart failure drive retinal endothelial epigenetic senescence, which secondarily activates microglia and induces neuroinflammation. Endothelial-specific disruption of TGFβ2 signaling is sufficient to protect the retina independently of primary cardiac recovery. Targeting the TGFβ2-endothelial-microglia axis may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for preventing retinal neurovascular degeneration associated with systemic cardiac disease.© The author(s).
CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ dendritic cells (DCs) are pivotal players in orchestrating anti-tumor immune responses, particularly within tumor tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS). However, their heterogeneity, differentiation trajectories, and clinical relevance in bladder cancer remain incompletely defined. This study integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data (16 bladder cancer patients, 113,905 post-quality-control cells) and spatial transcriptomics to characterize CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets, their differentiation pathways (via Velocyto trajectory analysis), and intercellular crosstalk (via receptor-ligand mapping). A risk model (DTscore) was constructed using marker genes of these cells and validated in the IMvigor210 (atezolizumab-treated bladder cancer) and TCGA-BLCA cohorts. scRNA-seq clustering identified 10 immune and 3 nonimmune cell types, with T cells stratified into 8 subpopulations (including CD4+CXCL13+ T cells and CD8+CXCL13+ T cells) and DCs into 9 subgroups (including LAMP3+ DCs). Receptor-ligand mapping and spatial transcriptomics confirmed functional crosstalk between CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ DCs via key pairs (e.g., CCR7-CCL19, CXCR5-CXCL13, PDCD1-CD274) within TLS. The DTscore was developed using 8 marker genes (TSHZ2, ALOX5AP, GADD45G, TXN, CHN1, CCL19, CXCL13, ICA1) and exhibited robust prognostic and predictive performance: In the IMvigor210 cohort, high DTscore correlated with significantly poorer overall survival (OS) and a 3.27-fold lower immunotherapy response rate (11% vs. 36%, p = 4.23e-07); multivariate Cox regression confirmed DTscore as an independent OS predictor (hazard ratio = 1.97, p < 0.001). DTscore retained prognostic value in TCGA-BLCA (OS: p = 0.003; disease-specific survival: p < 0.001) and effectively predicted atezolizumab response even in the "immune desert" phenotype (p = 0.04). Combining DTscore with tumor mutational burden/tumor neoantigen burden yielded an AUC of 0.8122 for response prediction. Additionally, high DTscore was associated with higher OS hazard ratios in patients with wild-type TTN, RB1, EP300, or FGFR3 (all p < 0.01), while FGFR3 mutations correlated with lower immune checkpoint/CXCL13 expression. This study delineates the heterogeneity and interactions of CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets in bladder cancer TLS and validates DTscore as a robust tool for predicting OS and immunotherapy response, offering a potential guide for personalized bladder cancer treatment.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Gene network enrichment analysis (GNEA) offers a robust approach for interpreting the complex molecular mechanisms underlying phenotypic variability. Despite its utility, prevailing GNEA methodologies are predominantly optimized for binary phenotypes, leading to substantial information loss when applied to continuous biological traits such as drug sensitivity, cancer progression, etc. Additionally, traditional enrichment strategies often exhibit conceptual inconsistency between their null models and test hypotheses, as they rely on permuting phenotype labels rather than genes. To address these limitations, we introduce cell line-specific gene network enrichment analysis (CellGNEA), a computational strategy designed to identify pathway-level molecular interactions associated with continuous phenotypes in a cell line-specific manner. CellGNEA constructs gene regulatory networks tailored to individual cell lines and assesses molecular interplays within these networks by integrating multiple network-derived metrics, including clustering coefficient, PageRank, and regulatory effects. Associations between gene networks and continuous phenotypes are quantified using a Kolmogorov-Smirnov-based statistic, with statistical significance determined via a gene permutation strategy that aligns the null model with the tested hypothesis. Monte Carlo simulation studies indicate that CellGNEA exhibits robustness and enhanced sensitivity in detecting network enrichment linked to continuous phenotypes. Applications of CellGNEA to drug sensitivity-specific gene networks enable the identification of leukemia-related pathways with molecular interactions significantly associated with therapeutic response. Notably, our analysis revealed that imatinib, quizartinib, and ruxolitinib consistently correlate with network-level remodeling across acute myeloid leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, and chronic myeloid leukemia pathways, and identified resistance-associated genes including PTPN11, MS4A1, and BTK. Overall, CellGNEA establishes a systematic, scalable framework for functional network analysis of continuous phenotypes, facilitating comprehensive characterization of cell line-specific biological properties and providing valuable insights for systems biology and precision medicine.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is genetically heterogeneous. We aimed to define a compartment-aware driver mutation landscape of DLBCL by integrating tumor tissue and circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) sequencing, and to assess its biological and prognostic relevance.Somatic mutations were analyzed from targeted sequencing of tumor tissue or bone marrow and cfDNA from peripheral blood or cerebrospinal fluid, including paired tissue-liquid samples, together with whole-genome sequencing data from TCGA. Driver genes were identified using four complementary algorithms. Functional enrichment and protein-protein interaction analyses were performed. Prognostic relevance was evaluated using multigene expression-based modeling with Cox and LASSO regression in independent cohorts.Recurrent driver alterations converged on core pathogenic pathways, including B-cell receptor signaling, NF-κB activation, epigenetic regulation, and immune escape. Twenty-two high-confidence driver genes, including PIM1, KMT2D, CD79B, B2M, TP53, MYC, and EZH2, were consistently identified across clinical cohorts and supported by TCGA data. cfDNA profiling showed substantial concordance with tissue-derived drivers while revealing gene-specific differences in mutation burden and co-mutation patterns, indicating complementary capture of clinically relevant heterogeneity. Network analysis highlighted TP53, MYC, EP300, and CREBBP as central hubs. A four-gene expression-based model (MYC, PLCL1, IRF8, LNPEP) stratified patients by overall survival and modestly improved prognostic discrimination beyond the International Prognostic Index.Integrated analysis of tumor tissue and cfDNA sequencing defines a clinically relevant driver framework for DLBCL. cfDNA preserves core oncogenic signals while complementing tissue profiling, supporting refined genomic risk stratification.
This retrospective real-world cohort study evaluated the effectiveness and safety of recombinant human growth hormone therapy in Chinese children with Noonan syndrome, with a predefined comparison between short-acting growth hormone and long-acting growth hormone during the first 2 years of treatment. Twenty children with Noonan syndrome were included; 16 were boys, and the median age at recombinant human growth hormone initiation was 5.55 years. The baseline height standard deviation score was-3.01. During the first 2 years, 10 patients received short-acting growth hormone and 10 patients received long-acting growth hormone. The median height standard deviation score increased to-2.20 after 1 year and-1.84 after 2 years, with significant longitudinal improvement over time. The cumulative change in height standard deviation score did not differ significantly between short-acting growth hormone and long-acting growth hormone at year 1 (0.58 vs. 0.71) or year 2 (1.01 vs. 1.30). First-year growth velocity was comparable between groups, whereas the apparent second-year difference was no longer significant after excluding short-acting growth hormone-treated patients who entered puberty and received adjunctive therapy. Among 16 patients with PTPN11 variants, the median cumulative change in height standard deviation score was 1.20 and 56.3% achieved an HtSDS of above-2 standard deviation score at the last follow-up. No diabetes mellitus, malignancy, new cardiovascular events, intracranial hypertension, or slipped capital femoral epiphysis occurred. Insulin-like growth factor-1 standard deviation score elevations were transient. Recombinant human growth hormone therapy was associated with sustained linear growth in children with Noonan syndrome, and short-acting growth hormone and long-acting growth hormone showed broadly comparable short-term efficacy under regular safety monitoring.Thieme. All rights reserved.
This study aims to delineate the prenatal ultrasound characteristics of four cases of Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome type 2 (RSTS2) and explore potential associations with this condition as detected through prenatal ultrasound.Whole exome sequencing (WES) and Sanger sequencing were conducted on four fetuses diagnosed with RSTS2. Prenatal ultrasound data were systematically collected and analyzed.All four fetuses were found to have previously unreported EP300 variants, which were absent from ClinVar and the Human Gene Mutation Database (HGMD). The prenatal ultrasound findings were diverse; in the second trimester, two fetuses exhibited growth parameters below minus two standard deviations (M-2SD). One fetus showed an abnormal foot posture and thickened plantar skin, another was found to have exencephaly in the first trimester, and one case presented with fetal rhabdomyoma.This study prenatal ultrasound phenotypes associated with EP300 variants may add to the phenotypic profile of RSTS2 and could serve as a reference for prenatal diagnosis and counseling.Copyright © 2026 Ge, Qi, Deng, Song, Hui, Cao, Wang, Zhang and Lin.
Recurrent pregnancy loss (RPL) is characterized by two or more pregnancy losses. Despite its etiology encompassing known risk factors, over half of the cases remain idiopathic. In this sense, the search for molecular and cellular mechanisms that could be related to this condition is essential for explaining, at least in part, these cases. Cellular senescence (CS) is a state of cell cycle arrest that is present during reproduction and development; however, its impact on pregnancy remains unclear. Thus, our purpose was to evaluate the involvement of CS-related genes in the RPL context.First, differential gene expression (DGE) of CDKN1A, CDKN2A, AKT1, EP300, TNF, and IFNG was assessed through a secondary analysis of publicly available datasets in the placenta and endometrium of RPL patients. Then, genetic variants (rs2395655, rs11515, rs1130233, rs20551, rs361525, and rs2430561, respectively) of these genes were evaluated in 107 women with RPL and 118 fertile controls. No difference in the expression of the genes assessed was found between the groups. On the other hand, the frequency of the CDKN1A allele A rs2395655 was more present in RPL patients than in fertile controls. In addition, a multiple comparison revealed two genotype combinations that were differently distributed between the groups (rs2395655 AG and rs11515 GG were more frequent in the RPL group; rs2395655 AG and rs11515 CG were more frequent in the controls), which might indicate them as associated with increased and decreased susceptibility factors, respectively, for RPL.Although our data are preliminary, we hypothesize that CS may represent a fraction of RPL cases.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42513110 is a review article
Juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML) is a rare RAS/MAPK-driven pediatric myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasm. The phenotype and survival relevance of NRAS/KRAS alterations remain difficult to interpret because of co-mutations, evolving sequencing, incomplete germline confirmation, and post-diagnostic HSCT.We retrospectively reviewed 34 children with JMML and classifiable NRAS and/or KRAS alterations diagnosed between November 2010 and September 2022. Patients were classified as NRAS-only, KRAS-only, or NRAS/KRAS co-mutated. Direct comparisons used single-subtype cases. OS was analyzed in evaluable patients, with HSCT modeled as a time-dependent covariate.The cohort included 20 NRAS-only, 12 KRAS-only, and 2 NRAS/KRAS co-mutated cases. KRAS-only cases had higher monocyte percentage (27.2% vs. 16.7%; p = 0.023) and lymphocyte percentage (48.1% vs. 39.0%; p = 0.018), whereas absolute monocyte count was comparable (4.0 vs. 4.0 × 109/L; p = 0.930). PTPN11 was the most frequent non-RAS co-mutation (7/34) and occurred in both NRAS/KRAS co-mutated cases. Methylation status was available in 11 patients and analyzed descriptively. NRAS/KRAS subtype did not significantly stratify OS (HR for KRAS-only vs. NRAS-only, 0.55; 95% CI, 0.18-1.62; p = 0.276). HbF did not significantly stratify OS, while diagnostic total hemoglobin showed only an exploratory univariable association. Exact HSCT dates were retrieved for all 11 transplanted patients; time-dependent Cox analysis showed a significant association between HSCT and better OS (HR, 0.11; 95% CI, 0.02-0.56; p = 0.007).NRAS/KRAS status defined a limited diagnosis-time phenotype but did not independently stratify survival. JMML survival analyses should integrate co-mutations, germline and testing-era limitations, HbF/hemoglobin risk context, and time-dependent HSCT handling.
Reproductive characteristics in pigs exhibit low heritability levels. Performing genome-wide association studies (GWAS) to pinpoint candidate genes for these characteristics is crucial for enhancing swine fertility. In this research, hair samples were gathered from 689 French Large White sows within the primary breeding population for DNA extraction purposes. Genotyping was carried out using a 50K liquid-phase SNP chip. Four statistical approaches-MLM, CMLM, FarmCPU, and BLINK-were utilized to perform GWAS on nine reproductive characteristics: total number born (TNB), litter birth weight (LBW), number born alive (NBA), number of healthy births (NHB), number of weak piglets (NWP), number of stillbirths (NSB), number of mummies (MUM), number of deformed fetuses (NDF), and adjusted 21-day litter weight (ALW). siRNAs targeting significantly associated genes were designed, and viral transfection was employed to introduce them into the ovarian granulosa cells of Large White sows to explore gene functions; transcriptome sequencing of granulosa cells treated with DNAH6 siRNA was conducted to investigate the gene's action mechanism. The analysis indicated that both MLM and CMLM models identified a significant locus linked to the total number of piglets born, with the SNP positioned at 3-60064515, associated with the DNAH6 gene. Disruption of the DNAH6 gene notably reduced the proliferation of ovarian granulosa cells (p < 0.05). Transcriptome sequencing results suggest that DNAH6 may support the normal transcriptional activity of the cAMP signaling pathway by maintaining EP300 and CREBBP expression in porcine ovarian granulosa cells, while potentially inhibiting the anti-proliferative effects of the FoxO pathway. This potential mechanism may help sustain the proliferative ability of granulosa cells and promote normal follicular development, which may ultimately contribute to an increase in the total number of piglets born in sows. These results offer a potential candidate marker for enhancing the total number born of French Large White sows.
Mutations in STRA6, the high-affinity receptor for retinol-binding protein, cause Matthew-Wood syndrome, a congenital disorder characterized by striking phenotypic variability ranging from isolated ocular anomalies to severe multisystem malformations. The mechanisms underlying this variable expressivity and incomplete penetrance remain poorly understood. Here, we used mice to determine how maternal vitamin A status and embryonic Stra6 genotype interact to shape ocular development. Using Stra6-deficient mice bred under defined dietary conditions, we demonstrate that maternal vitamin A availability is a major modifier of phenotypic outcome. Maternal vitamin A restriction resulted in microphthalmia and markedly reduced postnatal survival of the offspring. Remarkably, offspring of Stra6-/- dams maintained on a vitamin A-sufficient diet, corresponding to the recommended dietary allowance for mice, also developed pronounced ocular abnormalities, including retinal dysplasia and impaired rod and cone opsin differentiation. In contrast, supraphysiological maternal vitamin A intake, as provided by a standard chow, partially rescued ocular development and produced near-normal eye morphology in the offspring. Strikingly, heterozygous Stra6+/- offspring born to Stra6-/- dams were protected from both lethality and ocular malformations despite maternal STRA6 deficiency and dietary vitamin A restriction. Biochemical analyses revealed that ocular retinoid availability strictly depended on the Stra6 genotype of the offspring, whereas some circulating retinol remained detectable even under maternal vitamin A deficiency. Together, these findings identify a gene-nutrient interaction that explains the variable expressivity of STRA6-associated disease and establish maternal vitamin A status as a critical determinant of ocular development and postnatal survival.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42550466 is a review article
KBG syndrome is a rare genetic disease caused by loss-of function of the ANKRD11 gene.The aim of this study was to summarize, through a systematic literature review, the maxillofacial manifestations of KBGS.This systematic review follows PRISMA guidelines. The search was performed on PubMed, Scopus, Google Scholar, and Web of Science databases, using the following search terms: ["KBG syndrome" AND ("maxillofacial" OR "orofacial" OR "craniofacial")] up to December 2025. All articles describing oral and maxillofacial manifestations in KBGS were eligible.Studies published from 1975 to December 2025 were screened. Eligible studies included cohort studies, original articles, case series, and case reports involving human subjects with KBGS reporting oral, dental, or maxillofacial features.Fifty-four articles, comprising 1038 patients, were included. In these 54 studies, 614 patients had KBG syndrome. The most frequent clinical manifestation found was the macrodontia of the central upper incisors (87%). Then, the facial dysmorphism comprised the following signs, in descending order: triangular face (77%), synophrys (43%), prominent nasal bridge (40%), and long philtrum (20%).KBG Syndrome should be systematically investigated in any patient presenting with malformative symptoms such as macrodontia of the central upper incisors, confirmed by radiographic evidence. Management must be multidisciplinary, involving both a maxillofacial surgeon and an orthodontist, to ensure good dentofacial harmony.Copyright © 2026 by Mutaz B. Habal, MD.
Genes that define cell identity are often highly transcribed, but how their activity is regulated to prevent pathological dysregulation remains elusive. Using a two-tiered genetic screen, we identify a network of genes regulating hypertranscribed loci, which is notably enriched for genes mutated in developmental disorders. Among these, ANKRD11, a chromatin regulator haploinsufficient in KBG syndrome, exerts progressively stronger repression on more highly transcribed genes. ANKRD11 enriches around hypertranscribed loci and forms biomolecular condensates via charge-block-patterned intrinsically disordered regions. These condensates spatially sequester elongation factors away from RNA polymerase II, thereby restricting transcription elongation. In mice, Ankrd11 loss abrogates this restriction, causing aberrant developmental gene activation, disrupted organogenesis, and embryonic lethality. Critically, KBG patient cells with ANKRD11 mutations show defective condensate formation and consequent overactivation of hypertranscribed genes. These results uncover a condensate-mediated mechanism that restricts hypertranscribed genes and suggest its disruption underlies developmental disorders such as KBG syndrome.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Stimulated by retinoic acid 6 (STRA6) is widely recognized for its roles in the pathogenesis and progression of multiple cancers. However, its biological functions and molecular mechanisms in rectal cancer (RC) remain poorly understood. This study aims to elucidate the functional roles of STRA6 and investigate the mechanisms underlying its dysregulation in RC.We employed RNA-seq to identify differentially expressed genes. STRA6 expression levels and activation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway in RC were assessed using reverse transcription-quantitative PCR and Western blotting. Functional implications of these genes were investigated through a series of assays, such as CCK-8, flow cytometry and transwell assays. Potential upstream transcription factors regulating STRA6 were predicted bioinformatically and validated using a dual-luciferase reporter assay. Finally, the in vivo relevance of these findings was evaluated in a xenograft mouse model.A marked increase in STRA6 and One cut domain family member 2 (ONECUT2) expression was observed in RC tissues, with particularly elevated levels detected in radiation -resistant RC tissues. Functionally, STRA6 overexpression enhanced RC cell proliferation, migration and invasion, while reducing apoptosis. Rescue experiments demonstrated that the oncogenic effects of ONECUT2 were partially reversed upon STRA6 knockdown. Mechanistically, ONECUT2 was identified as a transcription factor that binds directly to the STRA6 promoter and upregulates its expression, thereby activating the Wnt/β-catenin pathway to facilitate RC progression and radiation resistance.ONECUT2/STRA6 axis exerts an oncogenic function in RC through activation of Wnt/β-catenin pathway, suggesting its potential as a therapeutic target.STRA6 is widely recognized for its roles in the pathogenesis and progression of multiple cancers. but its role in rectal cancer (RC) remains unclear. This study clarified STRA6's function in RC and identified ONECUT2 as its upstream transcription factor regulating the Wnt/β-catenin pathway to facilitate RC progression and radiation resistance. The findings provide novel insights into the prognostic and functional role of STRA6 in RC and underscore its potential as a promising therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Hexafluoropropylene oxide dimer acid (GenX), an emerging per- and polyfluoroalkyl substance (PFAS) detected in environmental matrices and drinking water sources, raises significant environmental health concerns due to its persistence and potential toxicity. This study investigated the hepatotoxic mechanisms of GenX through multi-omics approaches using in vivo (zebrafish) and in vitro (HepG2 cells) models. Environmentally relevant GenX exposure induced dose-dependent increases of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), total cholesterol (TC), and triacylglycerol (TAG), accompanied by hepatic histopathological damage. Multi-omics analyses revealed that GenX disrupted hepatic lipid homeostasis by activating de novo lipogenesis (DNL) and TAG biosynthesis pathways, with retinol binding protein 4 (RBP4) identified as a critical molecular mediator. Mechanistically, GenX may trigger downstream signaling by enhancing the RBP4-STRA6 interaction, promoting excessive fatty acid synthesis and subsequent hepatic lipid accumulation. Genetic inhibition of RBP4 attenuated GenX-induced lipid deposition. Overall, our findings elucidate a novel RBP4-mediated mechanism underlying GenX-driven hepatotoxicity and provide critical insights into the health implications of PFAS alternatives.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pangenomes of several species have been assembled recently, facilitating the detection and genotyping of structural variants. As part of the FarmGTEx Project, we previously constructed a Holstein pangenome (H20D) based on 40 phased haploid assemblies. Here, we use this breed specific pangenome to genotype 93,059 structural variants from whole-genome sequences of 1,571 cattle. We then develop a Holstein pangenome variation imputation reference panel we name HolPIP. Leveraging HolPIP, we impute 86.65% (68,354/78,886) of structural variants for 50,299 bulls with Beagle R² ≥ 0.8. Using these imputed structural variants and phenotypes for 43 complex traits, we conduct GWAS, identifying 1,225 structural variant-trait associations. We next use fine-mapping to prioritize 32 high-confidence candidate structural variants, including a 75-bp deletion in ANKRD11 linked to dairy form, rump width, and stature, as well as an insertion in DHX32 associated with RNA metabolism. Compared to SNPs across various functional annotations, structural variants show a stronger genome-wide enrichment across most complex traits in cattle, suggesting that structural variants may have an important contribution to the genetic basis of dairy traits.© 2026. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
Intense fishing pressure can drive rapid evolution in wild populations, yet the underlying genomic mechanisms often remain elusive. Here, we investigate the genomic consequences of five decades of intense harvesting on the cichlid fish Copadichromis mloto in Lake Malombe, Malawi. By comparing whole-genome data from almost 200 individuals from the heavily fished Lake Malombe with less-fished populations in Lake Malawi, we identified a widespread signal of recent, population-specific positive selection. This genomic footprint, spanning hundreds of loci, is consistent with a rapid, polygenic adaptive response. The candidate genes under selection were significantly enriched for high-level developmental processes, including neurogenesis and the formation of the heart and muscle, providing a plausible mechanistic link to the dramatic reduction in size and age at maturity observed in this population. Furthermore, our strongest candidate loci include genes with known roles in controlling somatic growth (zdhhc13, myh7, csrp3, gnb1l) and reproductive timing (mpped2a, kitlga, kat6a, stra6). We also found that candidate genes were nearly five-fold more likely to be differentially expressed in male gonad tissue, providing a strong link between selection and regulatory changes in a key reproductive organ. Our findings point towards a polygenic basis for fisheries-induced evolution in this tropical system and highlight how intense harvesting can rapidly reshape the genetic architecture of complex life-history traits, with important implications for the long-term resilience of exploited fish stocks.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Ecology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Ankyrin repeat domain 11 gene (ANKRD11) is the key disease gene for autosomal dominant KBG syndrome, and a subset of affected individuals develop epilepsy. However, comprehensive characterization of epilepsy-related phenotypes and genotype-phenotype correlations in ANKRD11 variant carriers remains limited. We aimed to integrate a single-center cohort with previously reported cases to delineate the epilepsy phenotype spectrum, evaluate genotype-phenotype associations, and provide clinical information for ANKRD11-related epilepsy.Whole exome sequencing was performed in nine unrelated individuals identified at our center. In addition, a systematic search of PubMed (keywords: "ANKRD11" AND "epilepsy") was performed up to October 2025, and eligible cases were aggregated for pooled analyses of clinical features.We identified nine individuals with heterozygous ANKRD11 variants at our center; four had epilepsy, and three variants were novel. In silico analyses suggested stronger predicted deleterious effects for missense variants within repression domain (RD; including RD1 and RD2)-related regions, and localization to RD2 may be associated with potential genotype-phenotype correlations. In a pooled cohort of 163 individuals with ANKRD11 variants and epilepsy, seizure onset occurred at a median age of 4.0 years (interquartile range = 1.5-8.0). Focal and generalized epilepsies were similarly represented, and absence seizures were reported in 22.8%. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) abnormalities were observed in 45.9% of individuals with available data; 63.2% of patients in the overall cohort achieved seizure freedom, with 36.8% exhibiting drug-resistant epilepsy. Frameshift variants predominated (60.1%), and variants showed domain-specific enrichment, with missense variants clustering in RD2 and truncating variants enriched outside RD2. Individuals with missense variants tended to have later onset, normal MRI, and higher seizure control rates.This integrated analysis expands the mutational spectrum of ANKRD11 and provides a consolidated genotype-phenotype landscape of ANKRD11-related epilepsy. Variant class and domain-specific clustering patterns, together with differences in clinical profiles and outcomes, support domain-informed variant interpretation and may improve clinical counseling and management for patients.© 2026 The Author(s). Epilepsia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International League Against Epilepsy.
Although recognized as a key regulator of gastrointestinal tissues, Wnt signaling pathway function in the stomach is poorly understood. This study aimed to define Wnt functions and identify Wnt-regulated genes in the stomach. Reporter mouse analysis localized Wnt signaling to the base and proliferative region in both the corpus and the antrum. Canonical Wnt inhibition in vivo using Sox2-CreERT2; Ctnnb1fl/fl mice reduced epithelial cell proliferation with loss of gastric stem cells. Wnt-regulated genes and potential effector pathways were studied by bulk RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) analysis of corpus and antral organoids 24 h after Wnt inhibition in vitro. Cell signature analysis revealed that gastric organoids adopt a surface cell transcriptional profile following Wnt inhibition instead of a basal cell profile. Furthermore, retinoid metabolism terms were differentially expressed after Wnt inhibition, with decreased expression of retinoic acid target genes. Inhibition of retinoic acid signaling in corpus and antral organoids showed a marked increase in surface cell marker expression, consistent with the effects of Wnt inhibition. In the mouse, immunostaining showed differential localization of retinoid metabolic components in luminal pit cells (ALDH3A1) and basal chief/deep mucous cells (STRA6), with expression changes after β-catenin deletion in Sox2-CreERT2; Ctnnb1fl/fl mice, consistent with the Wnt-regulated cell fate changes observed in organoids. Together, these studies showed that Wnt signaling is required for gastric stem cell survival and promotes differentiation of cell types at the gland base. We identified retinoid metabolism as a candidate Wnt-regulated pathway, with cell-specific expression of key components, and regulation of surface cell marker expression by retinoic acid signaling.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Using mouse genetic and organoid models, we show that canonical Wnt signaling promotes gastric epithelial cell proliferation and regulates differentiation along the base-lumen gland axis in the stomach. Transcription profiling of Wnt-inhibited gastric organoids identified retinoic acid signaling as a potential Wnt-regulated effector pathway in the stomach. Accordingly, manipulation of retinoic acid signaling in organoids altered differentiated marker expression consistent with Wnt inhibition, supporting the presence of a Wnt-retinoic acid signaling axis in the stomach.
Glioma pathophysiology is robustly regulated by interactions with neurons. Key to these interactions is the role of neuroligin-3 (NLGN3), a synaptic adhesion molecule shed in response to neuronal activity that functions as a paracrine factor crucial for glioma growth. Here we elucidate the mechanistic pathway whereby shed NLGN3 interacts with glioma and their normal glial counterparts. NLGN3 binds to chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan 4 (CSPG4, also known as NG2) on both glioma and healthy oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs), facilitating CSPG4 shedding by ADAM10. NLGN3-CSPG4 interactions alter membrane tension, thereby activating mechanotransducers, primarily PIEZO1, leading to membrane depolarization and subsequent ADAM10-mediated CSPG4 shedding. The NLGN3-CSPG4-PIEZO1 pathway maintains OPCs in an undifferentiated, stem-like state and promotes glioma proliferation, underscoring its dual roles in healthy and malignant contexts.© 2026. The Author(s).
Gain-of-function (GoF) missense variants in the two-pore domain (K2P) K+ channel TASK-1 (KCNK3) result in developmental delay with sleep apnea (DDSA), a neurodevelopmental channelopathy, while loss-of-function (LoF) variants cause pulmonary arterial hypertension. However, for the related TASK-3 channel (KCNK9), both LoF and GoF variants underlie a distinct neurodevelopmental disorder, KCNK9 imprinting syndrome (KIS). The relationship between genotype and phenotype in these disorders is further complicated because TASK-1 and TASK-3 can co-assemble into heteromeric channels with distinct functional properties. Here, we report additional patients with missense variants in KCNK3 and KCNK9 and investigate the effect of four novel genetic variants on the functional properties of homomeric and heteromeric TASK channels. Interestingly, two of these new pathogenic GoF variants (R131H and L122V) are found in both TASK-1 and TASK-3 and have equivalent functional effects on heteromeric TASK-1/TASK-3 channel activity, yet result in different clinical phenotypes. We have also determined a cryo-EM structure for the pathogenic L122V mutant TASK-3 channel, which suggests that subtle changes in gating and permeation within the inner cavity are responsible for its activatory effect. Overall, these results highlight the dominant role that homomeric TASK channels likely play in defining their associated channelopathies as well as the complexity of interpreting K+ channel dysfunction in pathophysiology.© 2026 Crowther et al.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common progressive and irreversible neurodegenerative disorder in humans that affects memory, thinking and behavior. Impairment in synaptic plasticity is one of the hallmarks in AD, with most of the impairment occurring in the hippocampal region, a key part of the brain for memory and learning. Therefore, the upregulation of hippocampal plasticity is critical to remediate the progression of AD and preserve memory formation and cognitive functions. Recent studies have described β-hydroxy-β-methylbutyrate (HMB), a body building supplement commonly used by athletes, as a candidate molecule for improving hippocampal plasticity. Clinically, AD is characterized by the abnormal accumulation of beta amyloid (Aβ) plaques, coupled with intracellular aggregates of hyperphosphorylated tau protein. In addition to enhancing hippocampal plasticity, HMB has been also demonstrated to lower amyloid plaques in a mouse model of AD. Although liver is rich in peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα), recent findings have established the presence of PPARα in hippocampus and other parts of the brain. Interestingly, HMB has been shown to utilize PPARα for lowering plaques and increasing hippocampal plasticity. Here, we discuss these newly described features of HMB with possible implications for the use of HMB supplement in patients with dementia and AD.
Sick sinus syndrome (SSS) is caused primarily by sinoatrial node (SAN) dysfunction, often necessitating permanent pacemaker implantation. Although effective, electronic pacing has inherent limitations and hardware-related complications. Here, we developed a reproducible large-animal model of SSS to test the concept of "hardware-free" biological pacemaker therapy via percutaneous T-box transcription factor 18 (human) (TBX18) gene delivery.This study sought to create a preclinical model of SSS and rescue the phenoytpe by percutaneous delivery of TBX18 biological pacemaker.Healthy pigs underwent high-resolution electroanatomical mapping followed by targeted radiofrequency ablation of the SAN to induce sinus arrest. A backup electronic pacemaker was implanted to provide hemodynamic support. Two weeks postablation, after verification of SSS, the animals received percutaneous endovascular injection of either phosphate-buffered saline (n = 9) or TBX18 adenovirus (n = 9) into the lower atrial septum. Continuous electrocardiographic telemetry was performed for 4 weeks postinjection.By 2 weeks, TBX18-injected pigs exhibited higher intrinsic heart rates than controls (controls: 71.4 ± 4.0 beats/min vs TBX18: 96.3 ± 7.0 beats/min, P = 0.007) and reduced backup pacemaker use (P = 0.009). Heart rate variability analysis demonstrated improved rhythm stability in TBX18-injected animals (SD1/SD2, P = 0.0005), with fewer sinoatrial pauses and tachyarrhythmic episodes. Patch-clamp analysis of cells from the injection site revealed spontaneous action potentials and sinus node-like morphology, confirming the reprogramming of atrial myocytes into induced SAN-like cells.In this preclinical large-animal model of SSS, percutaneous TBX18 gene therapy successfully restored supraventricular pacemaker function, improved heart rate dynamics, and reduced reliance on electronic pacing. These findings support the use of biological pacemakers as a potential alternative to conventional device-based therapies for SSS.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Atrial fibrillation (AF), the most common sustained arrhythmia, is driven by electrical and structural remodelling, including altered ion channel expression. The atrial-specific potassium channel TASK-1 regulates action potential duration (APD) and is differentially expressed in AF and left ventricular dysfunction, but the mechanisms controlling its expression are not well understood.This study examines whether the transcription factor ETV1 regulates TASK-1 and contributes to atrial electrical remodelling.Atrial tissue from patients with and without AF was analysed to assess the relationship between ETV1 and TASK-1 (KCNK3) expression. In HL-1 cardiomyocyte-like cells and native fibroblasts, ETV1 activity was reduced using pharmacological inhibition or siRNA-mediated knockdown. TASK-1 expression, TASK-1 current, and APD at 90% repolarization were measured. Pacing experiments tested activity-dependent TASK-1 regulation. Direct transcriptional regulation was evaluated using ChIP-qPCR and ChIP-seq to detect ETV1 binding at the KCNK3 promoter.ETV1 and TASK-1 levels were positively correlated in human atrial tissue. In HL-1 cells and fibroblasts, ETV1 inhibition or knockdown decreased TASK-1 expression and current and selectively prolonged APD90. Pacing-induced upregulation of TASK-1 was prevented by ETV1 inhibition, indicating a protective effect against pro-arrhythmic remodelling. ChIP-qPCR and ChIP-seq confirmed direct ETV1 binding to the KCNK3 promoter.ETV1 directly regulates TASK-1 expression and contributes to atrial electrical remodelling, identifying ETV1 as a potential upstream therapeutic target in AF.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) and subsequent post-hemorrhagic hydrocephalus (PHH) are common, severe complications of preterm birth associated with substantial morbidity and mortality. The pathophysiology of IVH/PHH involves the disruption of N-cadherin-mediated cell junctions in the ventricular zone (VZ), impaired differentiation of radial glial cells into ependymal cells, and reactive astrogliosis. A disintegrin and metalloproteinase domain-containing protein 10 (ADAM10) is a widely distributed metalloproteinase known to cleave cell junction proteins under inflammatory conditions similar to IVH/PHH. We hypothesize that ADAM10 hyperactivity mediates the cleavage of N-cadherin, leading to VZ disruption and the development of ventriculomegaly in PHH. Human postmortem samples with IVH were examined by immunofluorescence. Two/four-day-old (P2-P4) mice received intraventricular injections of lysed blood to model IVH and subsequent PHH. Additionally, the ADAM10 agonist α-hemolysin (Hla) and the specific inhibitor GI254023X were used to modulate its enzyme activity in vivo and in vitro [using neural stem cell (NSC)/ependymal cultures]. Human IVH samples showed NSC-ependyma alterations associated with ADAM10-dependent N-cadherin cleavage. Similarly, mice injected with blood-induced PHH displayed VZ disruption, N-cadherin cleavage, and ADAM10 activation compared to controls (p < 0.05). In vitro, Hla-induced ADAM10 activation triggered N-cadherin cleavage in NSC-ependymal cells (p = 0.0286), an effect that was rescued by the ADAM10 inhibitor GI254023X. In vivo, Hla injection alone was sufficient to induce VZ disruption and significant ventriculomegaly (p = 0.0015). ADAM10 inhibition with GI254023X prevented both N-cadherin loss (p = 0.0087) and the development of ventriculomegaly (p = 0.0015). These results identify ADAM10 as a key mediator of VZ disruption and N-cadherin cleavage in the context of IVH/PHH. Pharmacological inhibition of ADAM10 represents a promising non-surgical therapeutic strategy for IVH and PHH, and other neuroinflammatory disorders.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by early synaptic dysfunction followed by progressive amyloid beta (Aβ) accumulation, neuroinflammation, and cognitive decline. We previously identified secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (SFRP1) as a multifactorial contributor to AD pathogenesis and provided initial evidence that its neutralization ameliorates pathological AD-like traits in mice. Here we evaluate the pharmacodynamics, biodistribution, and therapeutic window of an anti-SFRP1 monoclonal antibody (α-SFRP1) in double transgenic amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilin-1 (PS1) mice (APP/PS1).Pharmacokinetics and target engagement of α-SFRP1 were assessed in groups of both male and female APP/PS1 mice using biotinylated or Zirconium-89 labeled (89Zr) antibodies, with tissue distribution and α-SFRP1 levels quantified by in-house enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) or positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT). Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated by administering α-SFRP1 or the SFRP1 inhibitor WAY-316606 at different stages of disease progression via retro-orbital injection, followed by analysis of AD-like pathology using ELISA and quantitative immunofluorescence assays and statistical analysis.Using 89Zr-labeled antibodies, we show that intravenously administered α-SFRP1 engages its target systemically and reaches the brain, although at substantially lower levels and with a rapid 24-h clearance. Treatment with α-SFRP1 had no apparent systemic side effects or sex-dependent differences, but its therapeutic efficacy against AD-like brain pathology was strongly dependent on disease stage. Although early administration reduced amyloid pathology in previous studies, treatment initiated at intermediate or advanced stages showed minimal benefit at standard doses. Higher antibody doses reduced amyloid burden and dystrophic neurites but were associated with increased mortality. Pharmacological inhibition of SFRP1 using a small-molecule inhibitor similarly failed to ameliorate pathology at intermediate stages.Together, these findings demonstrate that SFRP1 remains a relevant therapeutic target in AD, but its effective modulation is constrained by limited brain exposure and a narrow therapeutic window, underscoring the importance of early intervention and prompting the search for improved brain-targeted delivery strategies.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511561 is a review article
Cold exposure is a well-known trigger for thermogenesis, primarily through skin cold-sensitive neurons activating adipose metabolism via the central nervous system (CNS). However, whether the lungs-also exposed to cold air-function as a cold sensor and regulate metabolism remains unknown. Here, using CC10-Cre- and adeno-associated virus (AAV)-based mouse models, we uncover a pulmonary cold sensing system that drives thermogenesis, establishing a peripheral thermoregulatory mechanism. Specifically, we identify KCNK2 channels in Club cells within the bronchial epithelium as primary pulmonary cold sensors, where cold exposure enhances Irisin expression and secretion via Ca²⁺ fluctuations to drive thermogenesis in adipose tissue. Notably, pharmacological activation of this pathway via fluoxetine tracheal infusion enhances thermogenesis and ameliorates obesity in mice, highlighting a potential anti-obesity delivery strategy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Rearrangements involving MECOM at chromosome 3q26.2 are recurrent in myeloid neoplasms, classically represented by inv(3)(q21q26.2) and t(3;3)(q21;q26.2), which reposition the GATA2-distal haematopoietic enhancer and drive aberrant EVI1 overexpression. However, the full structural and mechanistic diversity of MECOM rearrangements (MECOM-r) is yet to be explored. We retrospectively analysed 97 cases with cytogenetically defined MECOM-r and identified 12 with complex rearrangements using GTG-banded karyotyping and tri-colour interphase/metaphase fluorescence in situ hybridisation analyses. These 12 cases demonstrated remarkable structural heterogeneity. The abnormalities encompassed translocations, inversions, insertions, duplications, and deletions, which often coexisted within the same specimen as multiple rearranged subclones. Insertional events emerged as a distinct mechanism of MECOM activation. These encompassed insertions of MYNN and/or MECOM into chromosomes 1 and 6, insertion of chromosome 8 segment into MECOM, and inverted insertions between homologous chromosome 3 segments. Recurrent breakpoints at 3q21 across multiple cases, together with localised copy number imbalances frequently involving the MYNN and GOLIM4 loci at 3q26.2, underscore the architectural fragility of these two regions. Co-occurring abnormalities such as -5/del(5q), -7/del(7q), and TP53 loss were common, reflecting a permissive genomic background for chromosomal reassembly. Our findings expand the mechanistic landscape of MECOM-r beyond canonical inv(3)/t(3;3), establishing 3q21 and 3q26.2 as structural 'hotspots' and genomic instability hubs. Distinct from fusion-driven oncogenes such as KMT2A, MECOM activation results from enhancer hijacking and regional structural remodelling, leading to EVI1 overexpression and clonal evolution in myeloid malignancies.Copyright © 2026 Royal College of Pathologists of Australasia. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Germline GATA2 deficiency is a pleiotropic condition 1-8 characterized by numerous phenotypes, including monocytopenia, immunodeficiency, microbial susceptibilities, and high rates of myeloid malignancies 1,8. Accurate curation of germline GATA2 variants is critical for patient care and requires well-defined phenotypes associated with GATA2 deficiency. The many phenotypes attributed to the condition render a simple description of GATA2 deficiency difficult, complicating the development of GATA2 variant curation rules. Therefore, the Myeloid Malignancy Variant Curation Expert Panel (MM-VCEP) sought to define GATA2 deficiency based on a statistical comparison of phenotype data. To do so, the MM-VCEP systematically analyzed phenotype data and applied statistical comparisons to define the phenotypic features of GATA2 deficiency to inform germline variant curation. The MM-VCEP assembled an international cohort of 339 people with clinically diagnosed GATA2 deficiency from 16 centers in seven countries. The 73 phenotypes of these individuals were compared statistically to those of control participants from the UK Biobank (UKBB). We compared single phenotypes as well as combinations of two, three, and four phenotypes in people with clinically diagnosed GATA2 deficiency to UKBB controls. We defined GATA2 deficiency as any of the 2,903 combinations of two or three phenotypes with log10Odds Ratio ≥3 (OR ≥ 1000). This definition of GATA2 deficiency will inform gene-specific phenotypic criteria used in GATA2 variant curation guidelines that will facilitate standardized variant curation by clinical laboratories worldwide.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Coagulation and inflammation play crucial roles in the initiation and progression of cancer, and they exhibit a synergistic effect. However, a hematological biomarker and risk model based on coagulation and inflammatory have not yet been established in breast cancer.This study retrospectively analyzed 749 breast cancer patients at our institution. We established a coagulation-inflammation-related genes (CIRGs) risk model using the TCGA-BRCA dataset as the training set and GEO datasets (GSE20685, GSE21653) as the testing sets. Immunohistochemical staining was performed on tumor tissues to validate protein-level expression of key genes. Additionally, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was applied to investigate the expression of the CIRGs and explore intercellular communication differences.All enrolled cases were stratified by median systemic coagulation-inflammation index (SCI) into high- and low-SCI groups. The low-SCI group had longer disease-free survival and overall survival than the high-SCI group, with higher SCI levels noted in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). SCI exhibited a linear correlation with survival outcomes and superior survival predictive performance compared to the platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio. LASSO regression selected 21 prognosis-related CIRGs to construct a prognostic model, which showed robust predictive efficacy across three datasets. Tumor microenvironment analysis indicated that the high-risk group was associated with immune suppression. Drug sensitivity analysis identified 6 potential candidate drugs for low- and high-risk groups. Four hub genes (ABCA1, IL1R1, SERPINE1, and HPN) were identified among CIRGs, showing strong correlations with tumor stage and prognosis. scRNA-seq analysis revealed high expression of the CIRGs in myeloid, endothelial, and epithelial cells, with higher AUCell scores of the CIRGs in TNBC. Significant intercellular communication differences were observed between the two risk groups, especially in fibroblast/endothelial cell-to-T/B cell signaling pathways.This study deeply explores the roles and clinical significance of coagulation and inflammation in breast cancer. The hematological indicator SCI and the CIRGs risk model can serve as reliable biomarkers for breast cancer personalized treatment.Copyright © 2026 Li, Gao, Xia, Wang, Su, Chen, Ba, Jia, Li, Wang and Xiao.
MECOM rearrangements (MECOM-r) are high-risk events in myeloid neoplasms often cryptic or incompletely characterized by conventional karyotype analysis. We used optical genome mapping (OGM) to define the frequency and spectrum of MECOM-r in an unselected, consecutively collected cohort of individuals with high-grade myeloid neoplasms (HGMNs) and compared these findings with standard cytogenetic approaches.A total of 252 HGMN specimens, including 224 with definitive diagnoses of acute myeloid leukemia, were processed over a 2-year period using OGM, G-banded karyotyping and, in some cases, reflex fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for the MECOM locus. Cases were retrospectively reviewed to determine whether the identification of MECOM-r by OGM refined diagnosis and/or prognosis.Our diagnostic workflow identified MECOM-r in 12 cases (4.7%), only 6 of which were identified by combined karyotype and FISH analyses, the latter for suspected chromosome 3 abnormalities. The remaining 6 cases were cryptic due to normal karyotypes, highly complex karyotypes lacking apparent chromosome 3 involvement, or culture failure and thus were identified by OGM and reflex FISH. Furthermore, OGM clarified complex architectures, resolved genetic alterations, and identified diverse partner loci, including GATA2, THADA, MYC, PHACTR1, MB21D2, XR_001744423.2, IL12A-AS1, TRIM59, CDK6, and MSI2. Detection of these structural alterations prompted diagnostic and/or risk reclassification in 5 cases.Optical genome mapping doubled the detection rate and improved the structural resolution of MECOM-r by identifying rearrangements incompletely resolved or missed by conventional cytogenetics. Implementation of OGM showed that MECOM-r can be cryptic and frequently overlooked, highlighting the value of high-resolution testing in HGMNs.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pathology.
Severe asthma affects 3%-5% of children and may remain uncontrolled despite high-dose inhaled corticosteroids and other controller therapies. Omalizumab, an anti-IgE monoclonal antibody, is approved for children ≥6 years with severe asthma, however treatment response shows substantial interindividual variability.This study aimed to investigate whether selected single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes involved in IgE signaling and immune regulation are associated with clinical response to omalizumab in pediatric severe asthma.In this retrospective cohort study, 30 children with severe asthma treated with omalizumab for 12 months were genotyped for selected SNPs in FCER1B, FCGR2A, FCGR3A, C3, and GATA2 genes. Clinical response was defined as: (i) ≥10% improvement in FEV1%, (ii) ≥50% reduction or absence of asthma exacerbations, and (iii) ≥50% reduction or discontinuation of oral corticosteroids (OCS). A combined response was defined as meeting at least two of these outcomes. Changes in GINA step were also assessed separately.FEV1% improvement showed a nominal association with the variant allele of GATA2 rs4857855 (p = 0.044). Reduction in exacerbation was nominally associated to variant alleles of FCER1B rs573790 (p = 0.003), and GATA2 rs4857855 (p = 0.032). OCS reduction was nominally associated with variant alleles of FCER1B rs573790 (p = 0.037) and FCGR3A rs396991 (p = 0.014). A combined response was nominally associated with FCER1B rs573790 and GATA2 rs4857855 variant alleles (p = 0.012). No SNP was associated with all three outcomes or GINA step reduction.Genetic variability in IgE- and Fc receptor-related pathways may contribute to differential response to omalizumab in children with severe asthma. These findings are exploratory and require validation in larger prospective studies.Copyright © 2026 Rottura, Pirrotta, Cullotta, Marino, Sacco, Gianguzzo, Irrera, Arcoraci, Alibrandi, Galletta, Corso, Leonardi, Manti and Pallio.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42543656 is a review article
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection is the principal etiological factor for gastric cancer (GC), which ranks as the fourth leading cause of cancer-related mortality globally. Although the Correa cascade describes the stepwise progression from chronic gastritis to intestinal-type GC, the molecular events underlying this "inflammation-to-cancer" transition remain incompletely characterized.This study aimed to delineate stage-specific proteomic alterations across H. pylori-associated gastric mucosal lesions and to identify candidate progression-associated biomarkers in GC.Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis (LC-MS/MS) was performed on gastric tissue specimens from 22 patients stratified into four histopathological stages: H. pylori-negative chronic non-atrophic gastritis (HpN-CG), H. pylori-positive chronic non-atrophic gastritis (HpC-CG), H. pylori-positive chronic atrophic gastritis (HpC-CAG), and intestinal-type GC. Functional enrichment (GO, KEGG), temporal clustering (Mfuzz), and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analyses were conducted. Key hub genes were externally assessed using GEPIA RNA-seq data from TCGA and GTEx.A total of 6,019 proteins were quantified. Differential expression analysis identified 771 DEPs between HpC-CG and HpN-CG, 101 DEPs between HpC-CAG and HpC-CG, and 535 DEPs between GC and HpC-CAG. Immune response pathways were up-regulated upon H. pylori infection, whereas oxidative phosphorylation was progressively suppressed throughout disease progression. Mfuzz clustering revealed that Cluster 4 ribosome-biogenesis proteins, including NIP7 and PDCD11 identified in the proteomic/PPI analysis, exhibited continuous up-regulation from precancerous stages to GC. External RNA-expression validation supported significant up-regulation of seven Cluster 4 hub genes, whereas Cluster 6 proteins did not show concordant transcript-level down-regulation.This study provides a comprehensive proteomic landscape of H. pylori-driven gastric carcinogenesis. Cluster 4 ribosome-biogenesis proteins represent candidate progression-associated protein markers requiring further protein-level validation, while the progressive decline in oxidative phosphorylation underscores mitochondrial dysfunction as a hallmark of disease progression.Copyright: © 2026 Huang et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Follow-up of potential germline variants revealed by diagnostic targeted sequencing (TS) for myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) has been proposed by clinical guidelines. However, their feasibility and clinical yield in routine MDS practice remain uncertain. We evaluated real-world applicability of systematic germline follow-up in an unselected cohort of 716 patients (median age 74 years) evaluated for MDS. Their diagnostic TS data was analyzed to identify variants in CEBPA, DDX41, ETV6, GATA2, and RUNX1 with a variant allele frequency ≥35%. In total, 98 variants were identified in 87 (12.2%) patients. Germline investigation was possible for 62 patients; for the remaining 25 without biobanked material, medical charts were reviewed. We identified pathogenic/likely pathogenic (P/LP) germline variants in 19 patients (2.7%). Most P/LP variants were found in DDX41 (73.7%), followed by 10.5%, 10.5%, and 5.3% in RUNX1, GATA2, and ETV6, for germline conversion rates between 5.4% and 93.3%. Patients with P/LP variants had a median age at diagnosis of 73 years, with marked male predominance (3.75:1). Most patients were diagnosed with MDS-EB1 or MDS-EB2 (68.4%) and had normal cytogenetics (95%). A review of medical charts in younger patients (<50 years) revealed germline predisposition in other genes in additional five patients, revisiting the prevalence of predisposition to 3.4% overall and to 16.7% in those under 50. Our results show that systematic germline follow-up after diagnostic TS succeeds in identifying predisposition in nearly 3% of patients at a typical adult MDS clinic. Germline testing for genes not routinely assessed by diagnostic TS is required in younger patients.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Aristolochic Acid I (AAI) is a potent nephrotoxin and Group 1 carcinogen. Despite stringent regulatory restrictions, AAI-containing herbal remedies are still sporadically used to treat respiratory symptoms, presenting a previously underappreciated exposure risk for patients with lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). However, the specific tumor-promoting effects of AAI on preexisting LUAD remain to be fully elucidated.In this study, we integrated network toxicology, TCGA transcriptomic analysis, and molecular docking to identify core oncogenic networks potentially affected by AAI. The associated pro-tumor phenotypes and transcriptional regulatory abnormalities were subsequently investigated through a series of in vitro and in vivo experiments.Network analysis and TCGA data mining identified a cluster of seven hub genes-including ERBB2, SERPINE1, CCNA2, and CHEK1-that are crucial to LUAD progression and significantly associated with poor clinical prognosis. Molecular docking simulations suggested potential binding affinities between AAI and these target proteins. Functional assays demonstrated that acute AAI exposure significantly accelerated the proliferation, migration, and invasion of LUAD cell lines (PC9 and NCI-H1299) in vitro, while promoting macroscopic xenograft tumor growth in vivo. The RT-qPCR and WB results showed that AAI exposure was accompanied by an increase in the expression of core genes.Our findings suggest that, beyond its established chronic mutagenic toxicity, AAI may act as a potent tumor promoter in LUAD. By potentially influencing key oncogenic networks, AAI accelerates the malignant progression of LUAD, underscoring the severe clinical hazards of AAI exposure in patients with preexisting lung malignancies.Copyright © 2026 Mo, Yu, Peng, He, Xie, Wu, Zhang, Wang, Zhao, Ouyang, Yi, Wang, Peng, Huang, Hu, Luo, Chen and Yang.
EphA4 signaling is a key negative regulator of axonal regeneration and a genetic modifier of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), making EphA4 an attractive but mechanistically underexplored therapeutic target. Although EphA4-targeting nanobodies have shown inhibitory potential, the structural principles governing their binding and inhibitory mechanisms remain largely unknown. Here, we report high-resolution crystal structures of the EphA4 ligand-binding domain (LBD) in complex with four nanobodies (Nb50, Nb53, Nb57, and Nb60), resolved at 1.34-2.21 Å. Nb50, Nb53, and Nb57 competitively engage the canonical ephrin-binding pocket through deep CDR3 insertion, directly mimicking ephrin recognition. In contrast, Nb60 adopts a previously unrecognized binding mode, contacting two EphA4 molecules at noncanonical sites in the crystal structure through framework-dominated interactions and supporting a structural model for steric and allosteric restriction of ephrin access. Integrated biophysical analyses reveal distinct thermodynamic and kinetic signatures underlying these binding mechanisms. Together, our findings uncover unexpected structural diversity in nanobody-mediated EphA4 recognition and provide a framework for rational development of EphA4-targeted modulators for ALS and related neurodegenerative conditions.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42538417 is a review article
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the most prevalent subtype of lung cancer and a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Current targeted therapies are limited by acquired resistance, highlighting the urgent need for novel therapeutic agents and targets. The aim of this study is to investigate the anti-tumor efficacy of oxypeucedanin (OPD) against LUAD and elucidate its underlying molecular mechanism.In vitro functional assays, bioinformatics prediction, molecular docking, and binding validation experiments were employed to identify the direct target of OPD. Ubiquitination assays, co-immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectrometry, and proteomic analysis were used to delineate the downstream pathway. Genetic knockdown/ overexpression rescue experiments were performed, and in vivo efficacy was evaluated using patient-derived organoids and mouse xenograft models.OPD potently suppressed LUAD cell proliferation and induced apoptosis both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, OPD directly bound to the motor protein KIF11 and promoted its ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation via the E3 ligase TRIM21. KIF11 degradation led to destabilization of its interacting partner, MCM2, consequently downregulating the CDK1/ Cyclin B1 complex and ultimately triggering G2/M phase cell cycle arrest.OPD functions as a novel molecular degrader of KIF11, exerting its anti-LUAD effects by promoting KIF11 ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation. These results highlight OPD as a promising therapeutic strategy for LUAD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Incomplete partition type III (IP-III) is a congenital inner ear malformation characterized by a deficient separation between the cochlear modiolus and the internal auditory canal (IAC). In patients with IP-III and severe-to-profound sensorineural hearing loss, cochlear implantation (CI) remains the most effective therapeutic option. Its surgical placement is challenging. There is an increased risk of electrode array misplacement toward the IAC, and opening the cochlea always involves a gusher that must be addressed. Sequential CI was performed in a case with bilateral IP-III malformation due to a hemizygous pathogenic variant, c.84delG p.(Ser29Valfs*30), in the POU3F4 gene. The right ear went very swiftly with a correct placement in the scala tympani. Electrode insertion into the scala tympani of the left ear consistently resulted in the electrode ending up in the IAC during re-insertion attempts. The electrode placement was successful when a scala vestibuli insertion was chosen. The objective of this case report is to compare the surgical and audiological outcomes of cochlear implantation in the scala tympani versus the scala vestibuli in a patient with an IP-III malformation.Copyright © 2026 by Mutaz B. Habal, MD.
Homologous recombination (HR) mediated large-size fragment knock-in (ls-KI) remains inefficient in mammalian cells, even with the assistance of CRISPR/Cas9. We hypothesized that adding DNA helicase activity to CRISPR/Cas9 could enhance ls-KI efficiency. To test this, we fused MCM5, a subunit of the eukaryotic MCM2-7 helicase complex, to the N-terminus of spCas9. The resulting fusion protein, termed MCCas, markedly increased knock-in rates across multiple loci in different human cell lines, significantly outperforming spCas9. Remarkably, MCCas enabled efficient ls-KI with donor templates of up to 10 kb in size. MCCas mediated ls-KI, in comparison to those mediated by spCas9, is also associated with reduced frequencies of on-target and off-target insertion and deletion (indel) events. Mechanistic investigations revealed that MCCas-mediated ls-KI relies on the canonical HR pathway, as inhibition of key processes such as end resection and strand invasion abolished the enhancement. To further validate its application, we employed MCCas to knock in the human ACE2 (hACE2) coding sequence to the rabbit genome. Consistent with our findings in human cells, MCCas led to more than two-fold increase in ls-KI rates in rabbit embryos compared to spCas9. Collectively, our results establish MCCas as a promising gene editing tool with enhanced ls-KI capacity.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Post-Acute Sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC) is increasingly associated with long-term cardiovascular complications, yet the underlying molecular mechanisms, remain poorly understood. Host genetic susceptibility is likely to modulate post-viral cardiac vulnerability, but its interaction with persistent molecular remodelling after SARS-CoV-2 infection has not been systematically investigated. We employed an integrative multi-omics framework combining a pilot genome-wide association study (GWAS) of Indian PASC patients with post-acute cardiac transcriptomic profiling from a SARS-CoV-2-infected Golden Syrian hamster (GSH) model. GWAS signals were mapped to differentially expressed genes, followed by integrative stratification based on genetic risk and transcriptional perturbation. Consequences of genetic variations were quantified using structural bioinformatics approaches involving Molecular Dynamics. GWAS identified multiple loci associated with PASC, including genes implicated in arrhythmia, myocardial remodelling, vascular signaling, and cardiometabolic regulation. Integration with post-acute cardiac transcriptomics of GSH revealed 15 genes with convergent genetic and transcriptional evidence. Although no global monotonic correlation was observed between genetic risk and expression magnitude, genes segregated into distinct mechanistic classes, including genetically primed and virally activated drivers, inherited susceptibility genes with minimal post-viral expression change, and virus-driven transcriptional responses. Structural and molecular dynamics analyses of EYA2, TTN, VAV2, and KCNQ1 demonstrated variant-specific destabilization affecting myocardial stress adaptation, sarcomeric mechanics, vascular signalling, and cardiac electrical stability. These findings support a model where inherited genetic susceptibility interacts with persistent post-infectious cardiac remodelling to drive chronic cardiovascular dysfunction observed in PASC patients. Integrative host genomics provides a mechanistic framework for risk stratification and precision surveillance of post-COVID cardiovascular disease (CVD).Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In this study, we modeled gene expression profile data from Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) and healthy cases. At first, the GEO-GSE9476 dataset was processed, and a total of 341 genes were identified as differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in patients, and 599 DEGs in healthy individuals. Gene Ontology and pathway analysis on DEGs led to the identification of 5 Transcription Factors for patients and 3 for healthy cases. Analysis of the respective metabolic pathways revealed a common region in the metabolic pathway between AML and Tuberculosis (TB) that confirmed the validity of our procedure due to the consistency with similar reports. Upon PPI network analysis, Hub genes and three modules containing 41 up-regulated and down-regulated genes in AML patients were identified. Survival analysis on these genes results in reducing the number of identified effective genes into 3 upregulated (ITGAM, ITGAL and CD163) and 5 downregulated genes (MCM2, MCM3, RFC4, RFC5 and FEN1). Finally, drug sensitivity analysis was performed on these genes demonstrating complexity in drug-resistance due to the pattern of gene expression. This knowledge could potentially enable personalized treatment approaches based on individual patient responses due to the epigenetics and life style which affect gene expression pattern.Copyright: © 2026 Aghajan et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Objective: To understand the potential parent-of-origin effect (POE) of imprinted gene KCNQ1 on the risk for hypertension by using a family-based design. Methods: Probands and their relatives in 9 rural areas in Fangshan District, Beijing, were included in this study. Mixed-effects model was used to evaluate the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the KCNQ1 gene and hypertension. The POE effects were evaluated by adopting log-linear model, and the interactions between POE and environmental factors, including smoking, alcohol consumption, were analyzed by using Wald χ2 test. The POE was assessed by the ratio of maternal relative risk to paternal relative risk (RRm/RRf). Results: A total of 195 SNPs in the KCNQ1 gene were included in the analysis after quality control. The association analysis in 1 261 study participants identified 13 loci in the KCNQ1 gene associated with hypertension (all P<0.05). POE analysis, involving 167 study participants from 54 core families, identified 6 loci that showed possible POE with hypertension (all P<0.05). The most significant locus was rs231879, with an RRm/RRf of 3.46 (95%CI: 1.36-8.57, P=0.009), indicating that the relative risk of inheriting the risk allele from mother was 3.46 times higher than that from father. Analysis on the interactions between POE and environmental exposure revealed that sleep duration might potentially modify the POE of rs170786 (interaction for P=0.023). Conclusion: The imprinted gene KCNQ1 might be associated with the risk for hypertension through POE.
Leptomeningeal collaterals form a critical vascular network that enlarges to support retrograde reperfusion after ischemic stroke, yet the cellular mechanisms governing their structural plasticity remain poorly defined. Here we identify an immune-responsive vascular niche and uncover a central role for bone marrow-derived monocytes in regulating collateral remodeling.GFP (green fluorescent protein)+ bone marrow chimeric mice and inducible monocyte-specific Ccr2-CreERT2/EphA4f/f and Ccr2-CreERT2/EphA4f/f/Tie2f/f mice underwent permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion to assess monocyte recruitment, collateral remodeling, cerebral blood flow, infarct volume, and functional recovery. Mechanistic studies evaluated EphA4 (ephrin receptor A4)/Tie2-PI3K (phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase) α signaling in macrophages, while serum sTie2 (soluble Tie2) levels and immune transcriptomic profiles were analyzed in patients with acute large vessel occlusion and correlated with angiographic collateral grade.We observed rapid recruitment of EphA4-expressing monocytes to pial collateral vessels after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion. EphA4 knockout chimeric mice show a marked increase in monocyte recruitment, enhanced collateral diameters, improved cerebral blood flow, reduced infarct volume, and accelerated motor recovery. EphA4-null macrophages exhibited elevated Tie2, p-Akt, and PI3Kα, a phenotype reversed by PI3Kα inhibition or sTie2. We further show enhanced permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion-induced collateral enlargement, neuroprotection, and monocyte recruitment using Ccr2-CreERT2/EphA4f/f mice, which is attenuated in Ccr2-CreERT2/EphA4f/f/Tie2f/f double-knockout mice. Notably, we find that serum sTie2 levels are elevated in human patients with large vessel occlusion, and these levels correlate with improved digital subtraction angiography collateral scoring and key immune-specific bulk transcriptomic changes.Together, these findings establish immune cell-intrinsic EphA4/Tie2 signaling as a key regulator of leptomeningeal collateral enlargement and reveal a therapeutic axis for augmenting perfusion after stroke.
Missense variants in the potassium channel KCNQ1 underlie most cases of congenital long QT syndrome (LQTS), one of the most common genetic arrhythmias. Variants affect protein stability, trafficking, and function, which are measurable properties that support variant interpretation. Leveraging the extensive experimental data generated by our laboratories, we developed random forest classifiers that predict seven KCNQ1 metrics: four electrophysiology and three trafficking measurements. The features for our classifiers integrate predictions from large machine learning models with protein-specific biophysical values, outperforming using either set of features alone. We applied our classifiers to interpret ClinVar variants of uncertain significance and AlphaMissense-ambiguous variants and developed global dysfunction and mistrafficking scores which distinguished benign from pathogenic variants. Global scores complemented AlphaMissense predictions, linking variants with LQTS-causing mechanisms. While effective for KCNQ1, our approach to variant prediction is generalizable to other ion channels and we recommend systematic benchmarking as done in this work to fully assess performance of future variant effect predictors.
Herpes B virus (BV; Macacine alphaherpesvirus 1) is a zoonotic alphaherpesvirus endemic in macaques that can cause severe, often fatal encephalomyelitis in humans. However, genomic data from wild macaque populations remain limited. Here, we report the isolation and genomic characterization of a BV strain from a wild long-tailed macaque (Macaca fascicularis) in Thailand and assess its zoonotic potential. Among 138 macaques screened across six populations, BV shedding was detected in a single oral swab (0.72%). The virus (BV/Thailand/Ranong_TPK5/2024) was successfully isolated and propagated in Vero and LLC-MK2 cells, with higher replication efficiency observed in Vero cells. The TPK5 isolate exhibited a high infectious titre (8 × 10⁷ PFU/mL), and transmission electron microscopy confirmed typical herpesvirus morphology. Whole-genome sequencing achieved deep coverage (∼20,974×) and revealed 98.4% identity to a reference strain (E90-136) from captive long-tailed macaques. Phylogenetic analyses of 12 envelope glycoproteins demonstrated host-associated clustering, with the TPK5 isolate grouping within the long-tailed macaque lineage. Key entry glycoproteins (gB, gD, gH, and gL) were highly conserved among macaques but diverged from human herpes simplex viruses. In contrast, host receptors nectin-1 and nectin-2 were highly conserved between macaques and humans (≥95% identity), suggesting preserved receptor compatibility. Despite the low prevalence of shedding, the isolation of an infectious BV strain from an asymptomatic macaque highlights an ongoing zoonotic risk. Conservation of viral entry mechanisms and host receptors supports the potential for cross-species transmission in high human-macaque interface settings.
The alphaherpesvirus Pseudorabies virus (PRV), which causes Aujeszky's disease (AD), primarily infects swine but has zoonotic potential and can infect multiple species, including humans. Upon infection, interferons (IFNs) trigger the expression of hundreds of interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), thereby establishing a robust cellular antiviral state. However, ISGs exhibiting anti-alphaherpesvirus activity have not yet been fully characterized. Here, we perform an unbiased screen of 268 ISGs and identify Nectin4, also known as PVRL4, as a potent antiviral ISG against alphaherpesvirus, including herpes simplex virus (HSV). Mechanistically, Nectin4 inhibits viral internalization into host cells, in which the IgV domain plays a critical role. Specifically, Nectin4 interacts with the viral gD protein through this domain, thereby inhibiting the interaction between gD and viral receptor, Nectin1, and blocking gD-mediated viral entry. Together, our data identify a previously unrecognized function of Nectin4 in host anti-alphaherpesvirus immunity and highlight a novel cellular barrier that restricts alphaherpesvirus infection.Interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) are the major mediators of the host antiviral innate immunity, yet most remain functionally uncharacterized against alphaherpesviruses. Here, we identify interferon-stimulated Nectin4 (PVRL4) as a potent alphaherpesvirus restriction factor. By directly engaging the viral glycoprotein D (gD) and blocking its interaction with the entry receptor Nectin1, Nectin4 suppresses viral internalization. These findings broaden our understanding of the host-alphaherpesvirus interaction and highlight Nectin4 as a potential target for antiviral intervention against alphaherpesviruses.
This study explored the effects of dietary riboflavin supplementation on breast meat quality, muscle fiber characteristics, metabonomics, transcriptomics, and phosphoproteomics of Pekin ducks. A total of 96 14-day-old ducks were randomly allotted to two treatment groups, each with 8 replicates of 6 birds, and were fed diets supplemented with 0 or 10 mg/kg riboflavin for 28 days. Compared to the control group without riboflavin supplementation, dietary riboflavin supplementation significantly increased breast muscle shear force, myofiber diameter, perimeter, and cross-sectional area, as well as myofibril diameter. Dietary riboflavin supplementation increased gene expression involved in myogenic differentiation of breast muscle in Pekin ducks, including MYOD, MRF4, and MYF5. Breast muscle metabolomics revealed that riboflavin stimulated fatty acid beta oxidation, as most carnitine-related metabolites were upregulated. Transcriptomics analysis revealed that riboflavin upregulated seven genes involved in muscle contraction (MYO3A, MYO5B, MYH11, MYBPC1, TNNI1, TNNT2, A2M), and ten genes involved in fatty acid synthesis, oxidation, and transport processes, which may contribute to enhanced intramuscular fat content. Furthermore, phosphoproteomics analysis indicated dietary riboflavin supplementation altered the phosphorylation levels of proteins involved in muscle contraction and glycolysis (PGM1, ENO1, and TPI1), which may lead to an increase in pH. In conclusion, riboflavin supplementation in the diet improved the breast meat quality and fiber development of ducks probably by activating fatty acid beta oxidation, synthesis, and transport, as well as muscle contraction, while simultaneously depressing glycolysis process.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42406201 is a review article
The solute carrier family 26 (SLC26) encodes multifunctional anion transporters that mediate the transmembrane exchange of monovalent and divalent anions. While pathogenic variants in several SLC26 genes cause inherited disorders, only SLC26A4 and SLC26A5 have been linked to hereditary hearing loss (HHL).Exome sequencing performed in probands from nine unrelated Moroccan families with sensorineural hearing loss identified eight SLC26A4 variants, including previously reported and novel variants, as well as a homozygous canonical splice-site variant in SLC26A5 (c.1311 + 1G > T). Sanger sequencing confirmed co-segregation of all identified variants, and in silico prediction tools consistently supported their pathogenicity. Molecular dynamics simulations performed on three SLC26A4 missense variants (p. Ser353Ala, p. Phe555Cys, and p. Leu582Pro) indicated significant, state-dependent alteration in pendrin's structural stability, suggesting impaired conformational transitions required for efficient Cl⁻/HCO₃⁻ exchange.This study provides a comprehensive molecular characterization of SLC26A4- and SLC26A5-related hearing loss in Moroccan families and significantly expands the mutational landscape of hereditary hearing loss in North Africa.© 2026. The Author(s).
The ATP2B2 is associated with the development of hereditary conditions, including ataxia, dystonia, and intellectual disabilities. Recent research has established a connection between the ATP2B2 gene and a newly identified disorder characterized by delays in mental, speech, and motor development. This article presents a case study involving a patient diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder and intellectual disability, who possesses a previously unreported heterozygous variant in the ATP2B2 gene. This variant results in the loss of the stop codon, potentially leading to an elongation of the protein chain (c.3732G>C/p.Ter1244TyrextTer137, NM_001001331.2). The findings also provide additional data on the phenotype associated with this novel ATP2B2-related neurodevelopmental disorder, thereby enriching the understanding of this rare condition.
Background and Objectives: Hereditary hearing loss is the most common auditory disability among various disabilities. Consanguineous populations have been found to have autosomal recessive disorders twice as often as in the general population. This study aimed to highlight the phenotypic and genetic complexity of non-syndromic hearing loss (NSHL) in South Indian consanguineous families. Materials and Methods: Whole-exome sequencing (WES) was performed on individuals with NSHL who were negative for common deafness-causing genes (GJB2, GJB6, SLC26A4, and MTRNR1). The candidate variants identified were correlated with ROH regions identified using the Automap tool. Sanger sequencing was performed for validation, followed by segregation analysis for the available family members. The effects of the candidate variants were analyzed using an in silico structural approach and the ACMG guidelines. Results: WES identified variants, including a stop-gain, an indel, and a missense mutation, in the genes SIX1, MYO7A, MYO3A, and MYO15A. Three variants were classified as likely pathogenic, one variant as a variant of uncertain significance (VUS), and one variant as likely benign. Homozygous variants in MYO15A and MYO7A were identified within ROH regions, indicating autosomal recessive inheritance. Additionally, two heterozygous variants in the SIX1 and MYO3A genes were identified. This study indicates a high degree of genotypic and phenotypic heterogeneity of hearing loss among affected individuals. Conclusions: This integrated approach, which combines homozygosity mapping with WES, could be effective for diagnosing NSHL in affected individuals. Further genetic screening and characterization of NSHL in consanguineous families is also warranted. Genetic testing in high-risk populations could be a valuable method for diagnosing genetic hearing loss in children.
Prestin (SLC26A5), a membrane protein in cochlear outer hair cells, drives electromechanical transduction essential for mammalian hearing. Unlike other SLC26 anion transporters, prestin functions as a voltage-dependent molecular motor, transitioning between compact and expanded conformations. How this transition relates to the transporter cycle of SLC26 family members remains unclear. Here, multi-microsecond molecular dynamics simulations starting from the compact state reveal a rapid, spontaneous transition to an expanded state that resembles the inward-facing conformation of the anion exchanger pendrin (SLC26A4 from mouse). An accompanying transmembrane area expansion is localized to the inner membrane leaflet, likely leading to membrane bending. In line with this observation, reduced unitary sensor charge movement accompanies neutralization of charged residues localized near the inner leaflet. Simulations also uncover a previously uncharacterized compact conformation resembling outward-facing pendrin and predict an extracellular anion-binding site in prestin. In fact, in the presence of thiocyanate anions, we observe a previously unresolved binding site in a 3.27-Å cryo-electron microscopy structure of prestin. Furthermore, like prestin, pendrin exhibits a non-linear capacitance, an indication of voltage-dependent conformational switching. Together, these findings suggest that prestin and pendrin share core structural and functional properties, notably parallels between expansion-contraction states and transporter function, though transition speeds may differ.
Coordinated mammalian locomotion relies on spinal circuits where DMRT3 regulates strides and alternative gaits. However, DMRT3 does not explain differences between the Colombian paso horse breed's specialized gaits, Colombian trocha and Colombian trot. We used inertial sensors and machine learning to develop accurate phenotyping (n = 225 horses), before performing genome-wide association analysis (n = 85 horses, 670K array). We identified a 2.43 Mb quantitative trait locus (QTL) on ECA16, where haplotypes featuring lead variants (rs1147402472, p = 1.95 × 10-8; rs1136628503, p = 8.52 × 10-8) explained 48.6% of gait variance (p < 0.001). The QTL contained 11 genes linked to neurodevelopment and muscle regulation, including LHFPL4, SRGAP3, and ATP2B2. Interaction analyses suggested a functional link between the latter genes. rs1147402472-C was common across diverse gaited horse breeds, but the Colombian trot-specific haplotype (rs1147402472-C/rs1136628503-T) was absent elsewhere. These findings demonstrate that fine-scale genetic differentiation at ECA16 underlies neural adaptations distinguishing complex locomotor traits and highlight the power of AI-assisted phenotyping in genomics.© 2026 The Authors.
Oncolytic virotherapy represents a promising yet under-explored approach for precision cancer treatment, particularly when tailored to tumor-specific molecular profiles. Patients with high-grade isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) mutant astrocytomas have limited treatment options and poor prognoses. Here, we investigate the therapeutic efficacy of rQNestin34.5 v.2 (CAN-3110), an engineered oncolytic herpes simplex virus 1 (oHSV-1), in IDH1-R132H-mutant diffuse gliomas. We demonstrate that the IDH1-R132H mutation enhances glioma susceptibility to viral infection through upregulation of Nectin-1, the main HSV-1 entry receptor. Concurrently, IDH1-R132H-driven DNA hypermethylation suppresses interferon (IFN) signaling, creating a permissive microenvironment that facilitates viral replication and tumor cell apoptosis. In immunocompetent murine glioma models, intratumoral administration of rQNestin34.5 v.2 induces robust antitumor immune activation, including increased immune infiltration and systemic IFN-γ release. However, elevated expression of poliovirus receptor (PVR) and the immune checkpoint T-cell immunoreceptor with immunoglobulin and ITIM domain (TIGIT) on tumor-infiltrating leukocytes suggests a potential resistance mechanism to virotherapy. Combining rQNestin34.5 v.2 with TIGIT blockade enhances therapeutic efficacy compared to monotherapy, identifying IDH1-R132H as a potential predictive biomarker for oncolytic virotherapy response.© 2026. The Author(s).
Bovine tuberculosis (bTB), caused by Mycobacterium bovis, causes major economic losses in the global livestock industry and threatens public health. Macrophages are essential for pathogen clearance, yet serve as the primary intracellular niche for mycobacterial survival. These characteristics emphasize the importance of identifying host factors that regulate macrophage functions during infection. To systematically uncover such factors, we constructed a genome-wide CRISPR-KO library in Bomac cells (the bovine macrophage cell line) and performed iterative infection screening under high selective pressure. Here, the host protein SH3PXD2B was identified as a key host factor to promote mycobacterial invasion: SH3PXD2B was significantly enriched in the screening. M. bovis infection significantly increases the expression of SH3PXD2B. The phagocytic activity of macrophages is enhanced in an SH3PXD2B-dependent manner, and the high expression of SH3PXD2B inhibits the migration of macrophages, causing macrophages to remain at the site of infection and promoting the entry of more mycobacteria into macrophages to establish infection. Further results indicate that macrophage migration inhibitory factor is positively regulated by SH3PXD2B and plays an important role in SH3PXD2B-mediated macrophage migration and phagocytic activity. These results indicate that SH3PXD2B is a critical host factor manipulated by M. bovis to promote infection. It provides a new potential target for genetic breeding against bTB.IMPORTANCEThere is a complex interaction between Mycobacterium bovis and the host, which has an important impact on the occurrence and development of bTB. However, the host gene regulatory network for M. bovis infection is still incomplete, and the specific genes that play a key role in the infection process are still unclear. Bovine tuberculosis remains a major economic and public health burden worldwide. This study identifies SH3PXD2B as a novel host factor that is exploited by M. bovis to promote macrophage phagocytosis and inhibit migration, thereby facilitating bacterial invasion. These findings reveal a new pathogenic strategy and suggest that SH3PXD2B may represent a potential target for host-directed therapy and genetic breeding against bTB.
Olfactory dysfunction is a debilitating condition with no established treatment. This study evaluated the efficacy of intranasal (i.n.) NAD administration in restoring olfactory function. Cultured human olfactory stem cells (hOSCs) were treated with NAD and assessed by immunofluorescence staining, PCR, and western blot analyses. In vivo, mice with ZnSO4-induced anosmia were treated with i.n. NAD, intraperitoneal dexamethasone, or PBS and evaluated by histological analysis, behavioral tests, bulk RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq), and in situ hybridization. NAD promoted hOSC differentiation into olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs), evidenced by increased stem cell (SOX2 and nestin) and OSN markers (Tuj1 and OMP) expression, and upregulated neuronal differentiation-related genes (SOX2, NESTIN, NEUROD1, NEUROG1, and OMP). In vivo, the NAD group showed significant olfactory function improvement and marked olfactory epithelium repair. Bulk RNA-seq of the olfactory turbinate tissue identified 113 differentially expressed genes (cluster T1) upregulated in control and NAD groups. The Gene Ontology (GO) term "modulation of chemical synaptic transmission" was associated with cluster T1, and 25 genes implicated in this GO were upregulated in the NAD group. Integration with publicly available single-cell RNA-seq data identified six neuronal marker genes - ABHD2, DLGAP2, FOXO3, HIPK2, KCNMA1, and PCDH17 - upregulated by NAD. Protein expression of DLGAP2 and PCDH17 was higher in differentiated hOSCs treated with NAD. In situ hybridization confirmed that Dlgap2, Foxo3, and Pcdh17 expression was restored in anosmic mice treated with i.n. NAD. The potential therapeutic efficacy of i.n. NAD administration was demonstrated by showing regeneration of OSNs in hOSCs and restoring olfactory function in an anosmia mouse model.© 2026. The Author(s).
To investigate the role and molecular mechanism of the NECTIN3-TIGIT axis in melanoma lymph node metastasis.Single-cell RNA sequencing was performed on human primary melanoma and lymph node metastatic tissues. A tumor lymph node metastasis-on-a-chip model incorporating vascular, lymphatic, and dual-tumor modules was constructed, along with in vitro coculture systems using CD8+ T cells and regulatory T cells. Functional blockade was achieved via NECTIN3 knockdown, TIGIT inhibitor (Tiragolumab), and combined antiPD1 therapy.The NECTIN3-TIGIT axis was identified as a core immune ligand-receptor pair in the highmetastasis subgroup, associated with increased regulatory T cell infiltration and CD8+ T cell exhaustion. Both NECTIN3 and TIGIT expression were significantly elevated in metastatic lesions and correlated with reduced overall survival. The chip model recapitulated melanoma lymphatic migration and confirmed the immunosuppressive microenvironment. Mechanistically, the NECTIN3-TIGIT axis induced CD8+ T cell exhaustion via the SHIP-1/TRAF6 pathway and promoted regulatory T cell activation by inhibiting AKT/mTORC1 signaling. NECTIN3 knockdown or Tiragolumab treatment suppressed tumor lymphatic migration, while combined antiPD1 and Tiragolumab most effectively reversed T cell exhaustion, impaired regulatory T cell function, and reduced metastasis.The NECTIN3-TIGIT axis promotes melanoma lymph node metastasis by remodeling the immunosuppressive microenvironment. Combined blockade of NECTIN3-TIGIT and PD1 pathways represents a promising therapeutic strategy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cells are exposed to a variety of mechanical forces, including flow and stretch. Several transmembrane receptors have been implicated in mechanosignaling, but most cell-cell adhesion receptors have not been tested. Here, we use a siRNA screen targeting cell-cell junction-associated proteins to identify novel force-sensing receptors, measuring nuclear localization of the mechanosensitive transcription factor YAP. This screen identifies Nectin family cell-cell adhesion receptors as mechansensors. Of the Nectins, NECL5 depletion shows the lowest levels of YAP nuclear localization and reduces actin filament alignment. Nectin-3 (a known NECL5 interactor) also decreases YAP nuclear localization. In response to flow or stretch forces, NECL5 knockdown in endothelial cells reduces YAP signaling, acting through the PI3K/AKT pathway. NECL5 also mediates actin filament alignment induced by flow. Mechanical stimuli increase NECL5 localization to cell-cell junctions in vitro and in aortas in vivo. Together, these results indicate that the Nectin NECL5 plays a central role in mechanosignaling.© 2026. The Author(s).
While Nectin-3 is a recognized marker for maintaining stem and progenitor "side populations" in non-neural epithelia, its role and distribution within the mammalian retina remain largely uncharacterized. Identifying such rare populations is a critical step toward unlocking the regenerative potential of the retina after injury. This study provides a comprehensive spatiotemporal characterization of Nectin-3+ cells from embryonic development through adulthood. Using fluorescence-activated cell sorting, a distinct Nectin-3+ population was identified across all examined stages, representing 1.27% ± 0.24 of viable cells at E18, peaking at P5 (3.62% ± 0.58), and persisting in the adult retina (1.43% ± 0.14). At this mature stage, triple-positive (Nectin-3+/CD117+/Sca-1+) cells displayed a robust molecular signature defined by the significant up-regulation of Chx10, Nestin, Pax6, Rax, and the RGC marker Rbpms, despite a lack of synaptic transcript (Syp) enrichment. Morphological analysis via confocal microscopy demonstrated that Nectin-3+ cells undergo dynamic changes during development. In the adult retina, these cells showed colocalization with RBPMS, while remaining distinct from the Müller glial scaffold. Principal Component Analysis highlighted that adult cells retain transcriptional features typically associated with early development, indicating a specialized neuronal identity that is molecularly distinct from the surrounding retinal environment. By defining this fraction, we provide a practical tool for studying retinal diversity and a foundation for investigating the potential regenerative capacity of these rare cells.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mycobacterium bovis (M. bovis) is a major pathogen that causes zoonotic tuberculosis. It is transmitted via aerosols, colonizes the lungs of the host and causes oxidative stress in macrophages, resulting in tissue damage. The mechanisms underlying the oxidative damage to cells induced by this infection have not yet been fully elucidated. This study investigated the effects of SH3PXD2B on the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and antioxidant mechanisms during M. bovis infection. The results showed that SH3PXD2B expression was significantly upregulated after M. bovis infection, and promoted the production of cellular NOX-dependent ROS and the lipid peroxidation marker MDA. Additionally, overexpression of SH3PXD2B inhibited the Nrf2 antioxidant pathway and reduced the activities of antioxidant enzymes such as CAT, SOD, and GPx. Conversely, knockdown of SH3PXD2B exerted the opposite effect and improved cell viability. In summary, SH3PXD2B orchestrates M. bovis-induced oxidative stress in macrophages through a dual mechanism: amplifying ROS production while simultaneously crippling the host's antioxidant capacity. These findings provide novel mechanistic insights into M. bovis pathogenesis and suggest that SH3PXD2B may be a potential molecular target for future research into disease resistance in cattle and the development of new therapies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42228282 is a review article
Prenatal exposure to opioids such as morphine poses significant risks to fetal neurodevelopment, particularly in brain regions critical for cognition, such as the hippocampus. Despite the prescription and use of opioids during pregnancy, the molecular and histological consequences of such exposure remain insufficiently explored. To evaluate the effects of short-term prenatal morphine exposure on the expression of key neurodevelopmental genes and the structural integrity of the hippocampus in neonatal rats.Pregnant Sprague Dawley rats were administered intraperitoneal injections of morphine sulfate (10 mg/kg) on gestational days 15 and 16. On postnatal day 12, offspring (n = 6 per group) were euthanized, and their hippocampal tissues were collected. Quantitative real-time PCR was performed to assess the expression levels of neurodevelopmental genes, including MDH2, Neurog1, and BDNF. Histological evaluations were conducted using hematoxylin and eosin and cresyl violet staining to assess cellular architecture and neuronal viability. Immunohistochemical staining for GFAP, S100, and synaptophysin was used to evaluate astrocytic integrity and synaptic density.The morphine-exposed group showed significant up-reglation of MDH2, Neurog1, and BDNF (P<0.05). Histological analyses revealed neuronal degeneration and inflammatory infiltration in the hippocampus. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated a marked reduction of GFAP, S100, and synaptophysin signals, indicating substantial glial loss and synaptic disruption.Prenatal morphine exposure leads to marked molecular and histopathological changes in the developing hippocampus, suggesting long-term risks for neurocognitive dysfunction. These findings emphasize the importance of limiting opioid use during pregnancy and identifying molecular targets for future therapeutic interventions.
Puncta adherentia junctions (PAJs) have been observed at glutamatergic excitatory synapses on glutamatergic excitatory neurons (E→E synapses) in the mouse hippocampus and are considered to be the mechanical adhesion sites between axon terminals and dendritic shafts. However, it remains unclear whether they are present at other types of synapses, such as glutamatergic synapses on GABAergic inhibitory neurons (E→I synapses) and GABAergic synapses on excitatory neurons (I→E synapses) and inhibitory neurons (I→I synapses). We showed here that the PAJ components, such as nectin-1, nectin-3, l-afadin, N-cadherin, β-catenin, and αN-catenin, were observed at all four types of synapses in cultured mouse hippocampal neurons. In the adult mouse hippocampus, these PAJ components were observed at a subset of I→I synapses on parvalbumin-positive GABAergic inhibitory neurons, similarly to their presence at E→E synapses in the CA1 and CA3 regions. In contrast, several PAJ components, including nectin-3, l-afadin, N-cadherin, β-catenin, and αN-catenin, were observed at E→I and I→E synapses, whereas nectin-1 was absent. These results indicate that the PAJs are formed at a subset of I→I synapses in addition to E→E synapses, where all examined PAJ components are present, whereas E→I and I→E synapses exhibit only partial localization of these components, reflecting molecular diversity among different synapses in the adult mouse hippocampus.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Comparative Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
VESTIGIAL-LIKE proteins constitute a family of evolutionarily conserved proteins that act as cofactors in regulating gene expression through their binding to TEAD transcription factors. Among the four members of this family in vertebrates, VESTIGIAL-LIKE 4 has emerged as a tumor suppressor that competes with YAP in binding TEADs, thus inhibiting the HIPPO pathway downstream of YAP. Nevertheless, very few studies have addressed its function during early vertebrate development. Here, we used gain- and loss-of-function strategies to investigate the role of vestigial-like 4 during Xenopus laevis development. Our data show that vestigial-like 4 is a key regulator of neurogenesis and neural crest formation. In embryos depleted of vestigial-like 4, neurogenesis is severely impaired, and neither neurog1 nor neurod1 is able to stimulate neurogenesis. Vestigial-like 4 is also required for neural crest formation through pax3 and sox9 regulation, and this property does not necessarily require its interaction with tead. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that vestigial-like 4 is an important regulator of neurogenesis and neural crest formation. Although vestigial-like 4 can bind to tead proteins in the embryo, its function does not depend solely on this interaction, suggesting a complex level of regulation with which vestigial-like 4 regulates early steps in development and differentiation.
Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) are the most common mesenchymal tumors of the gastrointestinal tract. Current tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) targeting oncogenic KIT and PDGFRA have improved patient outcomes, yet off-target toxicities and drug resistance mutations remain major clinical challenges. Many approved TKIs, often repurposed from other cancer indications, harbor diverse hinge-binding motifs that limit activity against resistance mutations clustering in the ATP-binding pocket of the kinase domain. Here, we describe a structure-based scaffold-hopping strategy to design kinase inhibitors with selectivity for mutant KIT/PDGFRA. Using structure-activity relationship (SAR) studies and 14 determined co-crystal structures, including a structure of the PDGFRA-G680R solvent-front mutation, we define key molecular interactions underlying resistance and inhibitor selectivity. Our lead 6,7-quinazoline-based inhibitors show high potency against clinically relevant KIT/PDGFRA mutations and effectively suppress downstream signaling. These compounds provide selective chemical tools to interrogate resistance mechanisms, and the PDGFRA-G680R structure shows the molecular basis for targeting solvent-front mutations across oncogenic kinases.© 2026. The Author(s).
Di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) is a widespread plasticizer, but its role in subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) remains unclear. Integrating network toxicology, machine learning, transcriptomics, immune infiltration, molecular docking/dynamics, single-cell RNA sequencing, and in vivo/ in vitro experiments, we identified 264 DEHP-SAH overlapping targets enriched in PI3K-Akt/MAPK pathways. Three core genes (ADORA1, PDGFRA, PTGS2) were screened, with ADORA1 specifically upregulated in astrocytes under SAH. Chronic DEHP exposure exacerbated neurological deficits, neuronal damage, astrocyte proliferation/activation, apoptosis, and inflammatory cytokines in SAH mice, while reducing antioxidant enzymes. In primary astrocytes, DEHP suppressed viability, activated PI3K-Akt/MAPK, and induced oxidative stress and inflammation, synergizing with Hemin. An adverse outcome pathway framework was constructed. These findings reveal that DEHP aggravates SAH neurotoxicity via ADORA1-mediated astrocyte inflammation and oxidative stress through the PI3K-Akt/MAPK axis, providing new insights into environmental pollutant neurotoxicity.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
We report a case of pulmonary artery intimal sarcoma successfully treated with surgical resection followed by weekly paclitaxel. The tumor harbored a tumor protein p53 mutation, amplifications of epidermal growth factor receptor, platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha, and KIT, and focal positivity for mouse double minute 2.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is a major complication of prematurity, characterized by impaired alveolar epithelium regeneration and long-term respiratory morbidity. The cellular basis of this defect and the underlying epithelial-mesenchymal signals remain unclear. To define alveolar type 2 (AT2) cell heterogeneity and regenerative capacity, we analyzed lineage-traced AT2 cells in neonatal mice exposed to hyperoxia (85% O2, postnatal days 1-14). We assessed cellular states and function by flow cytometry, transcriptomics, and organoid assays. During normal lung development, AT2 cells gradually segregated into two transcriptionally distinct subpopulations, TomHigh and TomLow. TomHigh cells exhibited canonical AT2 identity, lipid metabolism, and enhanced mitochondrial function, showing strong organoid-forming and differentiation potential. TomLow cells displayed metabolic restriction and limited regenerative capacity. Hyperoxia caused alveolar simplification, expanding TomLow cells at the expense of TomHigh cells. AT2 cells entered a proliferative state and became Krt8+ transitional cells, but RNA velocity and lineage analyses showed impaired maturation toward AT1 cells, leading to persistent AT1 deficiency. Hyperoxia induced Sfrp1 and Frzb expression in a rare but detectable Sftpc+Acta2+ AT2 subset, and more prominently in Pdgfra+ fibroblasts, which adopted a myofibroblast-like phenotype. Fibroblast-epithelial co-culture and fibroblast-specific Sfrp1/Frzb overexpression impaired organoid formation and reduced AT2-to-AT1 differentiation. These findings identify a fibroblast-dominated Sfrp1/Frzb-mediated niche that constrains AT2 differentiation into AT1 cells, providing a cellular basis for impaired alveolar regeneration in BPD and suggesting potential therapeutic targets.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Thoracic Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Pediatric gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are rare, often lacking KIT or platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha (PDGFRA) mutations and driven by succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) deficiency. We report four pediatric patients (three females and one male) managed over a 19-year period. Two female patients had SDH-deficient tumors; one suffered metastatic relapse, illustrating the recurrent clinical course of this subtype. Of the two remaining cases, one SDH-intact female remains in remission 8 years post-diagnosis. The male patient demonstrated imatinib resistance but responded to sunitinib, facilitating gastrectomy. Despite a local recurrence managed by secondary wedge resection, he remains in remission. Comprehensive molecular profiling is essential for navigating GIST's clinical heterogeneity.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Myxoid glioneuronal tumor (MGT) is a newly delineated CNS WHO grade 1 neoplasm genetically characterized by PDGFRA p.K385L/I mutation. We describe a 14-year-old boy presenting with gelastic seizures caused by an intraventricular MGT. Intraoperative frozen section allowed minimal resection, preserving surrounding eloquent structures. Histology showed oligodendrocyte-like cells within myxoid stroma and scattered floating neurons, while molecular analysis revealed the canonical PDGFRA p.K385L mutation. At 13-month follow-up, the residual tumor remained stable without any further neurological dysfunction. This case highlights the importance of intraoperative diagnosis for surgical safety in MGT.© 2026. The Author(s).
The functional and molecular definition of progenitors giving rise to blood vessel endothelium in vivo remains disputed. Upon investigating the overlap of seemingly divergent reports currently defining putative endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) using single-cell RNA-sequencing and flow cytometry, Protein C Receptor (PROCR) and Platelet-Derived Growth Factor Receptor Alpha (PDGFRA) largely overlapped with previously characterized murine aorta's CD34+CD31low endovascular progenitors (EVPs). Functional assays and lineage tracing in homeostatic aorta and excisional wounds demonstrated increased clonogenic capacity, engraftment potential, and ability to form differentiated endothelial (D) cells of PROCR+ PDGFRA+ EPCs, termed as refined endothelial progenitor cell (rEPC), as compared to PROCRnegPDGFRAneg EVPs. Similar PROCR and PDGFRA expression in normal human aorta, and increased clonogenic capacity of CD34+CD31lowPROCR+ endothelial cells from freshly isolated human term placenta were observed as compared to controls. Functional validation of human rEPCs is supported by PROCR enrichment, while PDGFRA co‑expression in human endothelial progenitor-like cells is supported at the transcriptomic level only. Thus, overlapping PROCR and PDGFRA expression in EVPs narrows the population with true functional progenitor capacity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Glioblastoma (GBM) is characterized by pronounced chromosomal instability (CIN), which can activate the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase-stimulator of interferon genes (cGAS-STING) pathway and promote anti-tumor immunity. How CIN engages cGAS-STING in immunologically "cold" GBM and its relation to clinical outcomes remain unclear.CIN was quantified in 74 tissue cores from 34 patients with isocitrate dehydrogenase-wildtype GBM by chromosome 7/10 fluorescence in situ hybridization; aneuploidy score (AS) and heterogeneity score were derived. Immunohistochemistry assessed cGAS, STING, phosphorylated IRF3 (p-IRF3), and immune markers (CD3, CD4, CD8, CD163, IBA-1). Polyploid giant cancer cells (PGCCs) were identified using hematoxylin and eosin staining. EGFR, PDGFRA, CDKN2A, and PTEN copy-number alterations were assessed by multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification. The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA)-GBM cohort served as an independent dataset.High AS (≥1.36) was associated with longer overall survival (22.7 vs. 16.0 months, P = .039). cGAS expression correlated positively with AS (P = .019), consistent with cGAS engagement in highly aneuploid tumors. Conversely, STING was rarely expressed in tumor cells, restricted to stromal and vascular compartments, without accompanying immune infiltration. STING-positive regions were enriched for PGCCs (P = .045), suggesting stress adaptation rather than immune activation. p-IRF3 modestly correlated with AS (Spearman r = 0.39, P = .0006) and was reduced in EGFR-amplified or PTEN-loss cores (P = .003 each). In TCGA-GBM, surrogate AS stratification revealed a biphasic survival pattern consistent with our findings.CIN was associated with cGAS upregulation but not functional STING-mediated immunity in GBM, suggesting that CIN-associated intrinsic stress adaptation may contribute to immunotherapy resistance in GBM.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press, the Society for Neuro-Oncology and the European Association of Neuro-Oncology.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42557821
Genome-wide analyses of transcription factor (TF) motif binding sites have largely emphasized individual high-affinity sites, while overlooking the regulatory importance of locally repetitive motif clusters. Such clusters, including combinations of weak and strong binding sites, can collectively enhance TF occupancy and regulatory activity. Here we present Motif-Cluster, an open-source framework for motif-driven prioritization and visualization of TF binding clusters using sequence information alone. Motif-Cluster integrates a density-based clustering strategy with flexible modeling of binding-site gaps and affinity signals, enabling the identification and ranking of candidate regulatory regions without requiring experimental binding data. Through simulations and multiple real-data analyses, we show that combining gap distributions with binding affinity effectively balances cluster size and signal strength while reducing noise from weak sites. Application to ZNF410 successfully recovers the previously characterized binding clusters in the CHD4 promoter, which are conserved between human and mouse. Additional case studies involving PHB1, TWIST1, and EGR1 further demonstrate the general applicability of the method across diverse transcription factors. Motif-Cluster also provides intuitive visualization and reproducible workflows to facilitate interpretation of spatially dense motif patterns. Overall, Motif-Cluster offers a robust and flexible approach for prioritizing transcription factor regulatory regions from genome-wide motif scans, enabling biological discovery and guiding experimental design, particularly in settings where direct genome-wide binding assays are unavailable.Copyright: © 2026 Zhou, Yao. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42546854 is a review article
Metastatic dissemination is the principal cause of death in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), yet the molecular determinants that enable this process remain poorly understood. Here, we identify the axon guidance receptor UNC5B as a central regulator of PDAC metastasis. Using both genetically engineered KPCU and orthotopic mouse models, we demonstrate that loss of UNC5B completely abolishes metastatic spread, reduces tumor proliferative capacity, increases intratumoral necrosis, confining tumors to the pancreas with no invasion into adjacent tissues or lymph nodes and preserving epithelial morphology. Mechanistically, UNC5B drives epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and invasion through activation of the SRC-ZEB1 axis. Notably, UNC5B specifically engages ZEB1 to drive EMT, without altering other canonical EMT transcription factors such as SNAIL or TWIST1. Pharmacological degradation of exogenous UNC5B using a targeted protein degrader (degron) modulated EMT and invasive behavior in PDAC cells. Acute depletion of UNC5B resulted in a marked reduction in EMT scores, accompanied by decreased ZEB1 and SRC levels. Together, these findings identify UNC5B as a central molecular hub governing metastatic competence in PDAC by promoting EMT and invasion.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42527167
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42522970
Background: Novel Sézary syndrome (SS) biomarker genes identified previously through transcription profiling were examined for changes in expression after mogamulizumab treatment. Incorporating new biomarkers for measuring response to disease would improve clinical care. Objective: To assess novel SS biomarker and cytokine genes in patients treated with mogamulizumab with clinical response, blood response, and immunologic parameters. Methods: We performed a real-world case-control and case-case study analyzing the expression of SS biomarker genes in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from six SS patients treated with mogamulizumab using qRT-PCR. Results: We demonstrated a reduced expression of SS biomarker genes in PBMCs of SS patients following mogamulizumab therapy. In our cohort, five of the SS biomarker genes (PLS3, TWIST1, KCNK1, DNM3 and TOX) showed statistically consistent high expression compared to normal PBMCs at baseline. After treatment with mogamalizumab, these five SS biomarkers showed significant correlations with skin response (p < 0.05) and three (TOX, TCRL3 and DNM3) with blood response (p < 0.05). A decrease in GATA3 expression correlated to an improvement in skin severity, and STAT4 inversely correlated to Sézary cell decrease (p < 0.05). Two cytokine genes, IL4 and IFNG, reflective of an immune response that is abnormal in SS, showed a trend to normalized expression with IL-4 decreasing and IFNG increasing after treatment. Limitations: This was a real-world study of patients who failed prior treatments, with a small sample size and variable timing between patient sample collection. Conclusions: Unique SS biomarker, cytokine and T cell transcription factor genes are valuable in assessing molecular and immune responses following treatment.
Background: Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a heterogeneous disease, and improved biomarkers are needed to support prognostic assessment. This study aimed to characterize hub genes in CRC and evaluate whether a gene signature provides biologically meaningful and prognostic information in clinical-genomic models. Methods: We integrated three GEO microarray datasets (GSE110223, GSE110224, and GSE23878) to identify common differentially expressed genes using adjusted p<0.05 and ∣log2FC∣>1. Hub genes and protein expression were identified through protein-protein interaction network analysis using maximal clique centrality and Human Protein Atlas, respectively. Prognostic relevance was evaluated in TCGA-COAD/READ using Kaplan-Meier analysis, multivariable Cox regression, Cox-derived prognostic indices, time-dependent ROC analysis, and regression-based machine learning for internal robustness. Principal component analysis (PCA) was used to derive a standardized PC1-based score from the 10-hub gene signature. Results: A ten-gene mitotic hub signature (TPX2, UBE2C, AURKA, NEK2, PRC1, CCNB1, CDK1, CEP55, FOXM1, and RRM2) was consistently upregulated across the three datasets and enriched for cell-cycle and mitotic pathways. Protein-level and survival analyses supported the biological relevance of several hub genes. In TCGA-COAD/READ, the signature showed limited standalone prognostic value and did not retain independent significance after adjustment for clinical variables, although it contributed modestly in integrated clinical-genomic models. PCA showed a one-dimensional signature, with PC1 capturing the dominant shared expression pattern. Gradient Boosting Regressor (R2 = 0.8035, MSE = 0.0473) supported the internal robustness of the DEG-based expression pattern. Conclusions: The ten-gene mitotic hub signature represents a coherent CRC-related proliferative program with limited value as an isolated prognostic marker, but it may still be useful as part of integrated risk models that require external validation.
Recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis type 1 (RIC1), historically also known as BRIC 1 (benign recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis typr 1),is an autosomal recessive disorder presenting with intermittent episodes of cholestatic jaundice and caused by pathogenic variants of adenosine triphosphatase phospholipid transporting 8B1 (ATP8B1). Here, we describe two unusual RIC1-affected siblings, whose clinical courses and findings deviate from the classical RIC1 patients, emphasizing the potential adverse effects associated with recurrent cholestasis. Additionally, we have for the first time presented specific genetic, clinical and pathological evidence demonstrating that two novel compound heterozygous variants of ATP8B1 (c.749 T > C and c.3261 + 5G > A) had a significant effect on the expression of the ATP8B1 encoded protein, thereby contributing to cholestasis attacks.Copyright © 2026 Li, Wei, Liu, Lv, Ding, Guo, Hu and Ning.
To understand the cellular and spatial composition of conventional ameloblastoma and its alteration after marsupialization treatment.We applied single-cell RNA sequencing and spatial transcriptomics on pre- and post-marsupialization conventional ameloblastoma slices, followed by cluster, trajectory, network analysis, and immunofluorescence validation.We found a continuous cell trajectory from pre-marsupialization epithelium-like cell types to post-marsupialization mesenchyme-like cell types. Comparison with our recently established human embryonic dental cell atlas revealed that epithelium-like cells resembled the most primitive outer enamel progenitors, whereas mesenchyme-like cells did not resemble any embryonic mesenchymal cells, representing a differentiated and abnormal state. Transcription factors DLX5 and TWIST1, together with their target genes, showed profound alterations that paralleled the epithelium-to-mesenchyme transition (EMT). We verified the existence of EMT by double immunofluorescence of two EMT markers FN1 and VIM, and verified the specific expression of KRT15 in pre-marsupialization tissues. Lastly, mesenchyme-derived proteins MMP13 and THBS2 exert feedback regulatory effects on EMT.We constructed the cellular and spatial landscape of conventional ameloblastoma before and after marsupialization. Our findings indicate that the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) process, potentially regulated by DLX5 and MMP13, contributes to the treatment effect of marsupialization.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Kashin-Beck disease (KBD) is a chronic, endemic osteoarticular disorder associated with T-2 toxin exposure, which is rapidly metabolized to HT-2 toxin in vivo. However, the role of zinc transporter ZIP6 in HT-2 toxin-induced extracellular matrix metabolic disturbance in chondrocytes remains unclear. This study established HT-2 toxin intervention and ZIP6 knockdown chondrocyte models, combined with quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and transcriptome sequencing, to investigate the regulatory mechanisms of ZIP6 in chondrocyte injury. Following HT-2 toxin exposure, altered chondrocyte morphology and reduced cell viability were observed; ZIP6, COL2A1, MTF1, and MTF2 expression were significantly downregulated, whereas MMP1, MMP13, and COL10A1 were upregulated. ZIP6 knockdown significantly upregulated COL2A1, MTF1, and MTF2, downregulated MMP1 and COL10A1, but did not alter MMP13 expression. Differentially expressed genes following ZIP6 knockdown were predominantly enriched in FoxO, cAMP, and TNF signaling pathways. qRT-PCR validation confirmed consistent expression changes in FOXO4, TNFSF10, COLEC10, UCA1, and LRRC17 with transcriptome sequencing results. Collectively, HT-2 toxin suppresses ZIP6, MTF1, and MTF2 expression, disrupting chondrocyte extracellular matrix metabolism; conversely, ZIP6 knockdown ameliorates matrix metabolic abnormalities through modulation of relevant signaling pathways. These findings reveal differential regulatory effects of HT-2 toxin and ZIP6 on cartilage matrix metabolism, providing experimental evidence for elucidating molecular mechanisms underlying cartilage injury-related diseases.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Biochemical and Molecular Toxicology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) rearrangements are rare in lung squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC), with the clinical efficacy of ALK tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) in patients harboring uncommon ALK fusions remaining poorly characterized. We report here the first identification of a novel MTHFD1L-ALK fusion in a 63-year-old male with a heavy smoking history diagnosed with stage IIIC LSCC. The patient initially received induction therapy with the ALK TKI iruplinalkib, achieving a best response of stable disease (SD). Although subsequent chemoradiotherapy yielded a partial response (PR), disease progression occurred after four cycles of maintenance iruplinalkib, with a progression-free survival (PFS) of 8.28 months. Subsequent lorlatinib provided limited benefit, with disease progression at 5.3 months following treatment self-discontinuation. Retrospective immunohistochemical staining of ALK (D5F3) was negative despite the positive genomic finding. This case demonstrates limited clinical benefit from ALK inhibitors in LSCC with this novel fusion, expands the known mutational spectrum in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), and underscores the critical importance of confirming novel fusions at the protein expression level through multimodal testing.© 2026 The Author(s). Thoracic Cancer published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Carpenter syndrome, caused by biallelic mutations in MEGF8 or RAB23, manifests with craniosynostosis through incompletely defined mechanisms. While both genes encode negative regulators of Hedgehog (Hh) signaling, we demonstrate that MEGF8 maintains cranial suture patency through a distinct, Hh-independent pathway. Loss of MEGF8 disrupts ubiquitination and lysosomal degradation of BMPR1A, leading to BMPR1A accumulation and hyperactivation of canonical BMP-SMAD1/5/9 signaling, which accelerates osteogenic differentiation of cranial mesenchyme. Using Megf8 mutant mice, we show tissue-specific specialization: limb defects are Hh-dependent and rescued by SMO inhibition, whereas craniosynostosis is BMP-driven and refractory to Hh blockade, with BMP type I receptor inhibition selectively rescuing the cranial phenotype. Comparative analyses reveal that MEGF8 and RAB23 promote osteogenic differentiation through distinct mechanisms-MEGF8 via ubiquitin-mediated BMPR1A turnover and BMP-SMAD activation, RAB23 through FGF-ERK signaling-despite both affecting GLI1-mediated transcription. Reintroduction of human MEGF8 in MEGF8-knockdown cells restores BMPR1A protein levels, validating the specificity of MEGF8-mediated BMPR1A regulation. These findings suggest that MEGF8 modulates BMP signaling post-transcriptionally, establishes tissue-specific regulatory mechanisms in syndromic disorders, and demonstrates how divergent pathways converge on shared phenotypes, with implications for pathway-specific therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
In vitro maturation (IVM) is a critical step affecting the efficiency of bovine in vitro embryo production; however, oxidative stress during in vitro culture can impair oocyte quality and subsequent developmental competence. This study investigated the effects of cysteine supplementation on bovine oocyte IVM, redox homeostasis, mitochondrial status, and transcriptomic changes. Bovine cumulus-oocyte complexes were cultured in IVM medium supplemented with 0, 25, 50, 75, 100, or 125 μM cysteine, and 75 μM was identified as the optimal concentration. Compared with the control group, 75 μM cysteine increased the first polar body extrusion rate from approximately 78% to 81% and improved the fertilization/cleavage rate from approximately 74% to 82%. It also significantly increased the proportions of 2-cell, 4-cell, and 8-cell embryos, whereas morula and blastocyst rates were not significantly affected. At the cellular level, 75 μM cysteine significantly reduced ROS levels and increased GSH content, as indicated by changes in relative fluorescence intensity. JC-1 staining showed that the JC-1 monomer signal decreased from approximately 16.0 to 13.5, whereas the JC-1 aggregate signal increased from approximately 13.2 to 14.8, indicating improved mitochondrial membrane potential status. In addition, lipid droplet fluorescence intensity increased from approximately 11.8 to 13.4, mitochondrial fluorescence intensity increased from approximately 6.0 to 7.0, and cytoskeletal fluorescence intensity showed no significant difference between groups. Smart-seq2 transcriptomic analysis identified 1935 differentially expressed genes, including 1778 upregulated and 157 downregulated genes, which were mainly enriched in translation, ribosomal structural components, RNA binding, oxidative phosphorylation, and metabolism-related pathways. qRT-PCR further confirmed the upregulation of key genes, including NDUFS2, VDAC3, ANXA2, MTHFD1L, and SCD. Overall, 75 μM cysteine improves bovine oocyte IVM quality by enhancing antioxidant capacity, improving mitochondrial membrane potential, increasing lipid-derived energy substrate storage, and regulating genes related to energy metabolism and developmental competence.
BackgroundThe main aim of this study is to identify prognostic biomarkers through integrating bioinformatics analysis in gastric cancer, which is a significant global health challenge.MethodsGene expression datasets related to blood, tissue, and saliva in gastric cancer were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and analyzed. The bioinformatics approaches included the identification of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and enrichment analysis, as well as Kaplan-Meier Plotter survival analysis. The DEGs were also validated through The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Additionally, DEGs-associated lncRNAs and microRNAs were identified. Subsequently, Tumor and Immune System Interaction Database (TISIDB) was utilized to examine the correlation of the genes of interest with immune and molecular subtypes.ResultsTwenty-six common DEGs were identified across blood, tissue, and saliva samples. Among them, 17 genes showed significant expression based on TCGA data. RAB23, LOX, ELL2, ELK3, CENPF, CD44, ANP32E, AKR1C2, and SMAD5 displayed significant association with patient survival. Particularly, ELL2 exhibit decreased expression in all specimens. The results indicated that ELL2 has a significant correlation with the immune system. The ELL2 gene regulates immune cell functions in gastric cancer, potentially influencing cancer immune responses, and tumor progression.ConclusionELL2 downregulated expression and its correlation with survival across blood, tissue, and saliva samples using bioinformatics analysis underscores the necessity of more investigation to fully comprehend its function in cancer immunology.
Bladder cancer (BLCA) is a common malignant tumor of the urinary system with a poor prognosis, especially in cases of invasive or advanced patients. Although mitochondrial dysfunction is associated with tumor progression, there are relatively few mitochondrial-related prognostic models for bladder cancer. The intention of study was to construct a five-gene mitochondrial-related prognostic marker for bladder cancer, and perform external validation, and then explore its association with the tumor immune microenvironment and potential immune treatment response.Transcriptome and clinical data were obtained from TCGA and GEO databases - intersecting bladder cancer-related differentially expressed genes (BLCA-related DEGs) with the mitochondrial-related gene database (MitoCarta 3.0 genes) to find the mitochondria-related differentially expressed genes (Mitochondria-related DEGs). Construction of a prognosis model using univariate (uni), lasso, and multivariate Cox regression analyses, was used for verificaiotn in 2 gene expression profile public databases (GEO cohorts). Functional enrichment (func enrich), tumor microenvironment (tumor microenv), immune infiltration (immune infil), mutation (mut), and single-cell transcriptomic analyses were carried out.A prognosis model was created containing five genes: COX7A1, MTHFD1L, MTG1, SCO2, and ACP6. The survival rate of high-risk patients was found to be poorer compared with that of low-risk patients. The high-risk tumor stromal score was higher, the fibroblast-related characteristics were enriched, with differences in the immune pattern. Single-cell analysis found COX7A1 in endothelial cells and mast cells, MTHFD1L in T cells, and SCO2 in endothelial cells. Functional analysis associated the high-risk group with extracellular matrix remodeling, stromal activation, and changes in immune pathways. This model also has potential value in estimating the response to immunotherapy.A five-gene prognosis marker related to mitochondria for bladder cancer was developed and verified. This model may become a useful tool for survival stratification of bladder cancer patients and characterization of tumor microenvironment heterogeneity.IJCEP Copyright © 2026.
Receptor-type E3 ubiquitin ligases enable extracellular signals to control ubiquitylation in the cytoplasm, playing widespread roles in development, metabolism, and immunity. Using cryoelectron microscopy, integrated with biophysical and functional studies, we visualized a human E3 complex composed of two transmembrane proteins, MEGF8 and MOSMO, and the intracellular RING-family protein MGRN1. This MEGF8-MOSMO-MGRN1 (MMM) complex attenuates Hedgehog signaling by ubiquitylating Smoothened (SMO), a G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) that transduces morphogen signals. A long helix in the MMM complex engages SMO using an intramembrane degron and extends into the cytoplasm to suspend an activated and precisely oriented RING domain below the plasma membrane. This architecture enables ubiquitylation of the cytoplasmic surface of SMO, reducing SMO abundance at primary cilia. Our structure provides insights into MEGF8 mutations, which cause multi-organ birth defects, and defines a paradigm for how transmembrane E3 ligases control the cell surface abundance of GPCRs and other signaling receptors.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) originates from damaged hepatocytes in chronic liver injury. Though HCC development requires oncoproteins-mediated p53 inhibition, both genetic deletion and continous activation of p53 specifically in mouse hepatocytes are shown to promote liver tumorigenesis, suggesting that chronic liver injury firstly activates p53, and p53 activity needs to be dynamically regulated for preventing hepatocarcinogenesis. Yet, it remains unaddressed how liver injury stresses trigger signaling pathways to rapidly activate p53 prior to its inactivation in a physiological setting. Two pathways, ribosomal proteins (RPs)-MDM2 and 14-3-3-MDMX, are shown to activate p53 upon stresses, and mutations of MDM2 or MDMX that may disrupt these pathways have been found in human cancers including HCC. Using our unique double knock-in (DKI) mice that contain wild-type p53 while harbor defects in these two pathways, we unveiled that basal level of p53 in DKI mice is sufficient for maintaining liver function, however, carcinogen- or unhealthy diet-induced HCC initiation is accelerated in DKI mice. The two p53-pathways are also activated in human cirrhotic livers. We futher identified a one-carbon metabolism (1CM) enzyme methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase 1 like (MTHFD1L) as the p53-suppressed player in HCC initiation. We found that MTHFD1L is upregulated in human early HCC and correlated with p53 status, and promotes mouse HCC initiation by enhancing autonomous growth and immune evasion of HCC initiating cells (HCICs). With Nanopore RNA-m6A-sequencing, we unveiled that MTHFD1L fulfills these bi-functions by fueling methionine cycle that produces methyl groups to maintain the mRNA m6A of Snail (an HCC early tumorigenesis driver) and B2m (a light chain of MHC-I required for antigen presentation to CD8+ T) in HCICs. Our findings demonstrate that the two stress-triggered p53-pathways are crucial for preventing liver early tumorigenesis by reversing MTHFD1L upregulation-associated 1CM reprogramming and subsequent Snail and B2m mRNA-m6A-mediated cell autonomous growth and immune evasion.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) can significantly impair vision and lead to blindness. Vitamin D (VD) has been shown to enhance the production of anti-inflammatory factors, alleviating the effects of hyperglycemia. However, downstream genes and molecular networks associated with VD signaling in DR remain unidentified. This study aimed to employ a systems biology approach to nominate high-priority candidate genes and cellular contexts as a hypothesis-generating effort to facilitate future functional studies on the role of VD in DR.DR-related datasets were obtained from public databases to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Seven canonical VD metabolism-related genes (VDRGs) were subjected to weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) to identify VD signaling-associated model genes. Candidate genes were selected based on the intersection of DEGs and model genes. "Boruta" and support vector machine-recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE), along with expression validation, were used to screen for biomarkers. Further analyses included immune infiltration, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), regulatory network construction, and drug prediction. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was utilized to assess cellular heterogeneity, identifying distinct cell clusters and key cells based on gene expression profiles. Cell-cell communication within immune cells was also examined. Biomarker expression levels in clinical samples were validated through real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR).The biomarkers SLC36A1 and RAB23 were identified as VD signaling-associated downstream candidates and validated. GSEA revealed their primary association with glucose metabolism. B cells and CD4 T cells were identified as differentially expressed immune cells. Both biomarkers were regulated by a competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) network, and the drug "methyl methanesulfonate" targeted both biomarkers simultaneously. Single-cell analysis identified 11 distinct cell types, including classical monocytes, B cells, and T cells. B cells and classical monocytes were identified as key cells due to the differential expression of biomarkers. The cell-cell communication network highlighted interactions, particularly between classical monocytes, B cells, and T cells. The differentiation of key cells and the stage of biomarker expression were also uncovered. RT-qPCR analysis revealed a significant upregulation of SLC36A1 and RAB23 in the DR group compared to controls (F = 5.184 p = 0.027 < 0.05; F = 4.147 p = 0.047 < 0.05).SLC36A1 and RAB23 were identified as VD signaling-associated downstream biomarkers in DR, providing a framework for exploring the potential link between VD signaling and DR pathogenesis through these candidate genes.Copyright © 2026 Pengfei Chen et al. Journal of Diabetes Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The Clinical Genome Resource Craniofacial Malformations Gene Curation Expert Panel (Cranio GCEP) was formed in 2020 with an initial target of evaluating genes implicated in craniosynostosis and skull abnormalities. The current work summarizes the findings of the Cranio GCEP during its first round of curation and aims to provide expert guidance on the clinical validity of gene-disease relationships in the context of craniofacial malformations.The curation scope of the GCEP was separated into multiple rounds based on the frequency of occurrence and the uniqueness of associated features. Twelve genes (EFNB1, ERF, FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, MEGF8, MSX2, POR, RAB23, SKI, TCF12, and TWIST1) were selected based on literature review, multi-gene sequencing panels from the Genetic Testing Registry, and expert input.On average, there were 2 disease relationships per gene, ranging from 1 to 6. In total, the Cranio GCEP curated 23 gene-disease pairs. Of these curations, 17 (74%) were classified as definitive, 3 (13%) as moderate, and 3 (13%) as limited.The classification of gene-disease relationships in round one curation of the Cranio GCEP has contributed to systematically evaluating the validity of gene-disease relationships for craniofacial malformations, to establish accurate testing panels, and improve patient care. By bringing together content experts to focus on gene curation, the Cranio GCEP facilitates education, fosters new collaborations, and encourages the publication of clinical cases involving previously discovered genes, reflecting the broadening spectrum of gene-disease relationships in the craniofacial malformation and craniosynostosis literature.Copyright © 2026 American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a one of the common microvascular complication of diabetes that involves oxidative stress, inflammation, activation and overexpression of Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB), and chronic renal dysfunction. In this study, we evaluated the renoprotective role of perillaldehyde (PA) in protecting kidneys from diabetic nephropathy using in vitro and in vivo models of Streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy. PA pre-treatment of NRK-52E cells under high-glucose conditions resulted in a significant reduction of reactive oxygen species formation, up-regulation of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), suppression of Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (Keap1), and elevation of antioxidant enzyme biomarkers, such as heme oxygenase 1, superoxide dismutase 1, and NAD(P)H dehydrogenase quinone 1. PA also inhibited the overexpression of NF-κB, inducible nitric oxide synthase, and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase in high-glucose exposed NRK-52E cells. Administration of PA (35 and 70 mg/kg) to streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats showed beneficial effects on renal function parameters such as creatinine and blood urea nitrogen. PA treatment attenuated glomerular and tubular structural damage, as evidenced by H&E and PAS staining. At molecular level, PA was found to maintain the redox balance in the kidneys by stimulating the Nrf2/Keap1/HO-1 signalling pathway and inhibiting the NF-κB-dependent inflammatory response. Moreover, PA lowered lipid peroxidation and enhanced antioxidant status via reduction in MDA and elevation in GSH. The above results indicated that PA showed considerable reno-protective actions through coordinated regulation of both oxidative stress and inflammation pathways in experimental models of diabetic nephropathy.© 2026 International Federation of Cell Biology.
To evaluate the effectiveness of Tofersen in patients with superoxide dismutase 1 gene (SOD1-ALS) patients in France in a real-world setting, using disease progression within patient comparisons and with a historical cohort.Patients with SOD1-ALS were included from across 19 French FILSLAN network centers. Baseline was defined as the treatment initiation date. Main endpoints were the ALSFRS-R progression rate and plasmatic neurofilament light chain (NfL) levels at baseline and 12 months after baseline.In the Tofersen Cohort (N=46), within-group comparisons showed that the mean ALS functional rating scale revised (ALSFRS-R) progression rate slowed from 0.53 ± 0.5 at baseline to 0.22 ± 0.3 point/month at 12 months (P=.006). NfL levels significantly decreased from 89.0 ± 9.0 pg/ml at baseline to 29.2 ± 19.5.5 at 12 months (P=.004). Exploratory comparisons with a propensity score (PS) matched historical cohort (39 matched pairs) using a mixed-effects model, ALSFRS-R progression rate at baseline, 6 months, and 12 months after baseline, showed no statistically significant differences between groups P=.30, whereas longitudinal ALSFRS-R scores differed significantly between groups (time-treatment interaction P=.006). The mean survival of the PS matched population was longer in the Tofersen Cohort (42.6 months) than the Historical Cohort (31.8 months) P=.004. Time-dependent adjusted cox analysis showed that Tofersen was associated with a reduction in mortality risk (adjusted HR=0.34; 95% CI, 0.12-0.91; P=.03).Tofersen seems to be associated with slower functional decline and reduced NfL levels. While limitations of retrospective design and ALSFRS-R sensitivity must be acknowledged, these findings provide real-world evidence suggesting a clinical benefit of Tofersen.© 2026 The Authors.
The role of adenosine receptor 3 (AR3) signaling in adipogenesis remains unclear. Here, we show that AR3 antagonism by MRS1220 inhibited adipogenic differentiation in both C3H10T1/2 and 3T3-L1 cells, as evidenced by reduced lipid accumulation in both models and suppressed PPARγ2 expression in C3H10T1/2 cells. Transcriptomic profiling and pathway analysis performed in C3H10T1/2 cells suggested that the Ereg gene, which encodes epiregulin (EREG), is a potential target of MRS1220 mediated adipogenesis inhibition. Mechanistically, MRS1220 induced EREG expression, leading to EGFR activation and leptin upregulation, which were critical for its anti-adipogenic effect. Recombinant EREG mimicked, and EREG neutralization reversed, MRS1220's inhibitory activity. EGFR inhibition abolished MRS1220-induced leptin expression and restored adipogenesis. Notably, AR3 knockdown abrogated MRS1220's effects on EREG induction, EGFR phosphorylation, leptin induction, and lipid accumulation. In contrast, the AR3 agonist CF101 enhanced adipogenesis independent of the EREG-EGFR-leptin axis. These findings establish AR3 as a key regulator of adipogenic differentiation and uncover an AR3-EREG-EGFR-leptin signaling cascade as a mechanism by which AR3 antagonism inhibits adipogenesis. Targeting AR3 may offer a novel strategy to modulate adipose tissue formation in metabolic diseases.© 2026 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
Post-ovulatory aging (POA) reduces oocyte quality, yet effective interventions remain limited. Here we demonstrate that early intervention with vitamin K2 (menaquinone-4 isoform, MK-4) alleviates POA by inhibiting iron-disorder-induced oxidative stress. Western blot revealed that the expressions of ferroptosis suppressor protein 1 (FSP1) and vitamin K epoxide reductase-like protein (VKORC1L1) were significantly decreased in mouse POA oocytes; however, MK-4 attenuated these changes. Further, MK-4 inhibited ferritinophagy by downregulating NCOA4 and LC3II, markedly restored ferritin level, reduced intracellular Fe2+ amount, thus attenuating oxidative stress. These results were characterized by reducing lipid peroxidation marker malondialdehyde (MDA) and acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 4 (ACSL4) expression, decreasing γ-H2AX and 8-Hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), and enhancing expression of the mitochondrial antioxidant enzyme superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1). Additionally, MK-4 suppressed mitophagy by downregulating PINK1 and Parkin, and upregulating Rab7 improving mitochondrial membrane potential. Consequently, abnormalities in chromosomes, spindles, and the cytoskeleton were significantly ameliorated in POA oocytes receiving early MK-4 intervention. Notably, in vitro-aging oocytes expressed higher FSP1 and VKORC1L1 but lower ACSL4 and MDA versus the in vivo counterparts, suggesting a milder lipid peroxidation in vitro. Collectively, our findings uncover a novel anti-aging mechanism triggered by MK-4, highlighting its potential to establish a preventive strategy for female reproductive aging.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Does NR5A2 (nuclear receptor subfamily 5 group A member 2) play a role in the dysregulation of granulosa cells in polyendocrine metabolic ovarian syndrome (PMOS), which is a common endocrine disorder and a leading cause of anovulatory infertility, and what are its underlying regulatory mechanisms?The mRNA expression levels of NR5A2 and related genes were assessed in human granulosa cells (HGCs) isolated from patients with or without PMOS. To investigate the effects of NR5A2 on inflammation and proliferation of granulosa cells, as well as the underlying molecular mechanisms, in-vitro experiments were conducted using the KGN human granulosa-like cell line.Overexpression of NR5A2 promoted cell proliferation and induced G1-to-S phase transition in KGN cells, at least in part by upregulating cyclin D1 (CCND1) expression. NR5A2 acted as a co-activator of NF-κB p65 (also known as RelA) by increasing its phosphorylation and nuclear localization, thereby increasing CCND1 expression through transcriptional regulation. Furthermore, NR5A2 regulated the IL-1β positive self-regulatory loop via the NF-κB p65 signalling pathway.Up-regulated NR5A2 may contribute to chronic inflammation and aberrant proliferation of granulosa cells by increasing NF-κB p65 activity. These findings highlight NR5A2 as a potential therapeutic target for ameliorating ovarian dysfunction in patients with PMOS.Copyright © 2026 Reproductive Healthcare Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Some forms of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are associated with sequence variants in the superoxide dismutase 1 gene (SOD1). The mechanisms by which these variants contribute to ALS disease pathogenesis are poorly understood. Degenerative myelopathy (DM), a naturally occurring canine disease, shares similarities with some forms of SOD1-associated ALS, especially cases with sensory impairment. While motor pathway involvement in ALS has been extensively studied, sensory pathology has received comparatively less attention. To investigate whether pathology in the general proprioceptive pathway is associated with pelvic limb general proprioceptive ataxia, an early DM sign, we examined sensory system components of this pathway from Pembroke Welsh Corgis with early- and late-stage DM and age-matched controls. The disease was characterized by axonal pathology in the spinocerebellar tracts and the fasciculus gracilis, pronounced accumulation of SOD1-positive inclusions in nucleus thoracicus and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons, and altered SOD1 immunolabeling in dorsal and ventral root axons and ensheathing myelin. Axonal pathology was also observed in a pelvic limb sensory nerve. These findings suggest that pathology in the proprioceptive sensory pathways may play a significant role in general proprioceptive ataxia in DM. Some dogs that were homozygous for the SOD1 risk allele did not develop clinical disease or the associated neuropathology, indicating that other factors in addition to the SOD1 mutation influence disease onset and progression.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Background: Breast cancer is the most common malignancy among women and a leading cause of cancer-related deaths globally. Its development involves hormonal, genetic, environmental and inflammatory factors. Among environmental contributors, cadmium (Cd2+), a metalloestrogen known to induce redox imbalance, as well as estrogen metabolites, may exert divergent biological effects. Methods: This study investigated the effects of 17β-estradiol (E2) and its metabolites-2-methoxyestradiol (2-MeOE2) and 4-hydroxyestradiol (4-OHE2)-administered alone or in combination with CdCl2, on estrogen receptor--positive MCF-7 breast cancer cells and their doxorubicin-resistant cells (MCF-7/DOX). We evaluated cytotoxicity, interaction profiles (synergism/antagonism), and redox-related enzymes associated with drug resistance, including superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) and glutathione S-transferase pi (GST-pi). There are no known examples of these types of interactions, especially those involving estrogen metabolites with opposing biological activities-anticancer 2-MeOE2 and procarcinogenic-4-OHE2 in combination with cadmium. Cell viability was assessed after 48 h exposure to individual and combined treatments of CdCl2. Interaction types (synergism/antagonism) were determined via the combination index method. Antioxidative enzymes were evaluated by quantitative and immunocytochemical analysis of SOD1, GST and GST-pi expression. Results: All tested compounds reduced cell viability in a concentration-dependent manner, with CdCl2 showing the highest cytotoxicity. MCF-7 cell lines were generally more sensitive to CdCl2, E2, and 2-MeOE2, whereas MCF-7/DOX cell lines exhibited greater sensitivity to 4-OHE2. Combination studies revealed predominantly antagonistic interactions, particularly for CdCl2 + 2-MeOE2, suggesting a protective redox-modulating effect of this metabolite. Resistant cells consistently displayed higher SOD1 activity and GST-pi expression, indicating enhanced adaptive responses to oxidative stress. Conclusions: Our study underscores the importance of concentration-dependent interactions between environmental Cd2+ and pathways regulated by 17β-estradiol and its metabolites, particularly in the context of cytotoxicity and redox imbalance relevant to breast cancer progression and therapy resistance.
Microplastic exposure is an emerging environmental risk factor for cardiovascular health; however, whether cardiovascular alterations can be detected after exposure cessation remains unclear. This study investigated subclinical cardiovascular alterations following repeated oral exposure to polystyrene microplastics (PSMPs), with particular emphasis on redox imbalance and mitochondrial function in delayed cardiovascular alterations. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were administered 0.5 μm PSMPs via oral gavage at varying dosages of 5 or 20 mg/kg every 5 days for 70 days, followed by a 35-day exposure-free period. Repeated exposure to PSMPs did not affect body or organ weights but altered cardiac serum biochemical markers. Cardiac tissue exhibited elevated NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX4) expression and decreased superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), SOD2, and catalase (CAT) activities, whereas malondialdehyde (MDA) levels remained unchanged, indicating a state of chronic, low-level oxidative stress. Mitochondrial respiratory chain activities, including nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide cytochrome c reductase (NCCR) and succinate cytochrome c reductase (SCCR), were significantly reduced. Ultrastructural analysis revealed mitochondrial swelling and cristae disruption. In parallel, mitochondrial biogenesis-related proteins, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 alpha (PGC-1α), nuclear respiratory factor 1 (NRF-1), and mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM), were downregulated, while mitophagy markers, including PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1), Parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (Parkin), microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3), and sequestosome 1 (p62), were upregulated. Notably, most significant alterations were primarily observed in the high-dose group. Furthermore, the aorta showed increased oxidative stress markers without overt structural remodeling. These findings suggest that repeated exposure to PSMP is associated with subclinical cardiac redox-mitochondrial dysregulation, potentially involving redox imbalance, impaired mitochondrial respiratory chain activity, reduced mitochondrial biogenesis, and altered mitochondrial quality-control markers.
Which factors influence clinical pregnancy outcomes in vitrified-warmed single euploid embryo transfer cycles using machine learning models?This retrospective cohort study included 4300 vitrified-warmed single euploid embryo transfer cycles derived exclusively from intracytoplasmic sperm injection or intracytoplasmic morphologically selected sperm injection performed at the Assisted Reproductive Technology and Reproductive Genetics Centre of Sisli Memorial Hospital, Istanbul, Turkey between October 2011 and February 2023. Twenty-six clinical, demographic and embryological variables were analysed using multiple machine learning algorithms, namely Adaptive Boosting (AdaBoost), Random Forest, Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost), Light Gradient Boosting Machine, and Extremely Randomized Trees. Model performance was evaluated using five-fold cross-validation, F1-score and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC). SHapley Additive exPlanations were used to interpret model outputs.Seven clinically relevant factors influencing clinical pregnancy were identified: number of previous cycles, anti-Müllerian hormone concentration, endometrial thickness, post-warming embryo quality, maternal age, number of vitrified embryos, and endometrial preparation method. Discriminatory performance was mostly comparable across models, with AUC values ranging from 0.760 (AdaBoost) to 0.778 (XGBoost). Calibration analysis demonstrated that Random Forest and LGBM achieved the best performance in the full feature setting (Brier scores 0.178 and 0.179, respectively), whereas XGBoost showed optimal calibration in the selected feature setting (Brier score 0.201). Pairwise bootstrap analysis (1000 iterations) identified a significant AUC difference between XGBoost and Random Forest (P = 0.048), with no other significant pairwise differences.Machine learning models identified key determinants of clinical pregnancy in euploid embryo transfer cycles. These insights may facilitate risk stratification and optimize IVF treatment strategies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Platelet-Released Growth Factors (PRGF) are a standardized, cell- and fibrin-free platelet lysate with translational potential for tissue repair. PRGF enhance tissue regeneration, particularly in contexts where angiogenesis is critical for restoring perfusion in chronic and non-healing wounds. Here, we present the first in vitro study demonstrating that PRGF exert pro-angiogenic effects at a working concentration of 10%. The study employs an endothelial cell-based model integrating targeted gene expression analysis, array-based profiling of angiogenesis-related proteins, and functional endothelial tube formation assays. In this setting, screening-level transcriptional and proteomic profiling indicated higher transcript levels of angiogenesis-related genes and increased signals of representative angiogenesis-associated mediators (e.g., Platelet Factor 4, Angiopoietin-1, Angiogenin) following PRGF stimulation. Functional tube formation assays demonstrated significant enhancement of multiple pro-angiogenic parameters in response to PRGF, including number of pieces (P < 0.001), junctions (P < 0.01), and segments (P < 0.05). These findings suggest that 10% PRGF may support angiogenesis and tissue regeneration and provide a foundation for further validation in more complex multicellular systems and in vivo models.© 2026. The Author(s).
Oligodendrogliomas (OG) are indolent yet inevitably progressive gliomas in which angiogenesis is tightly linked to malignant transformation, but the underlying epigenetic mechanisms remain unclear. By integrating public datasets of primary and malignant transformed OG specimens, patient-derived cell lines and orthotopic xenograft models, we identify angiogenin (ANG) as a key pro-angiogenic regulator whose high expression correlates with increased microvessel density, enhanced proliferation and poor overall survival. Promoter methylation analyses reveal that ANG is heavily methylated in low-grade tumors and that hypomethylation of three CpG-rich regions including the prognostic site e.g., cg10850001, associates with increased ANG expression, higher tumor grade and worse outcome. Functional studies show that ANG knockdown suppresses VEGFA and Ki67 expression, reduces endothelial tube formation and intratumoral microvessel density, and significantly prolongs survival in Oligodendroglioma PDOX mice, whereas pharmacologic demethylation with decitabine decreases methylation at the ANG CpG hotspot (CpG islands 5 and 6-7), upregulates ANG and accelerates malignant phenotypes. Among TET dioxygenases, TET2 is selectively upregulated in malignant oligodendroglioma, directly binds to the ANG upstream regulatory region, with enrichment at the ANG CpG hotspot, and enhances its activity; TET2 depletion increases methylation at the ANG CpG hotspot, downregulates ANG and pro-angiogenic markers, and impairs angiogenesis, effects that are rescued by ANG re-expression. The cell-permeable itaconate derivative 4-octyl itaconate (OI), an itaconate derivative reported to inhibit TET activity, restores methylation at the ANG CpG hotspot, suppresses TET2-ANG signaling and cooperates with Temozolomide (TMZ) to inhibit tumor growth and extend survival in PDOX models. These findings define a TET2-ANG-angiogenesis axis that promotes an angiogenic program associated with malignant progression in oligodendroglioma and support itaconate-based pharmacologic TET modulation as a promising but still preclinical potential therapeutic strategy. Schematic diagram. Proposed TET2-ANG axis in oligodendroglioma progression. Solid arrows indicate relationships directly supported by experimental evidence in this study, including TET2-dependent demethylation of the ANG promoter, increased ANG expression, and downstream changes in VEGFA expression, angiogenesis, and malignant progression. These downstream effects are also supported by our previous study6. Dashed arrows indicate proposed or indirectly supported steps that were not directly tested for causality here (e.g., VEGFA secretion/transfer to the extracellular space, VEGFA-mediated activation of endothelial cells, and the contribution of angiogenesis to malignant progression). The inhibitory bar denotes pharmacologic inhibition; a dashed inhibitory bar indicates putative target engagement inferred from downstream readouts.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
To evaluate the impact of metabolic bariatric surgery on menstrual function, hormonal profiles, and reproductive health in women of reproductive age.In this prospective cohort study, women aged 18-45 years undergoing Roux-en-Y gastric bypass or sleeve gastrectomy were recruited from a UK bariatric centre and followed for up to 24 months. Control participants were women with obesity receiving non-surgical weight management. Participants consented to clinical, biochemical, ultrasonographic, and questionnaire-based assessments of menstruation and pregnancy intentions.Eighty-four women underwent surgery (49 bypass, 35 sleeve); 18 controls without surgery. By 24 months, 15 were lost to follow-up; mean excess weight loss was 64-73% with no difference between procedures. Anti-Mullerian Hormone (AMH) (n = 33) decreased post-surgery (16.6 to 16.0 pmol/L; P < 0.001); sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) increased (30.6 to 66.8 nmol/L; P < 0.001), and free androgen index (FAI) decreased (3.92 to 1.84; P < 0.001). Irregular menstruation and hirsutism decreased. Among 66 women with baseline transvaginal ultrasound scans, 33% had polycystic ovarian morphology, reducing to 10% postoperatively (n = 17); ovarian volume decreased significantly. At baseline (n = 76), 31% of surgical participants expressed a desire for pregnancy. Twenty pregnancies occurred, most 12-24 months post-surgery.Metabolic bariatric surgery was associated with > 30 kg weight loss by 24 months, reduced FAI, and improvements in menstrual regularity, and ovarian morphology, suggesting potential improvement in fertility-related parameters. Given high pregnancy intention, findings support the need for integrated reproductive counselling and preconception care within bariatric pathways.© 2026. The Author(s).
BackgroundAnti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) is a key biomarker of ovarian reserve, yet population-specific reference values remain limited for Middle Eastern women.ObjectivesEstablishing preliminary age-specific population estimates of AMH and gonadotropin is essential for improving clinical interpretation in this demographic.DesignCross-sectional, population-based exploratory study conducted between March 2025 and February 2026.Methods90 healthy women aged 19-47 years were recruited. Serum AMH, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and luteinizing hormone (LH) were measured on cycle day 3. Age-specific distributions were summarized as preliminary population-based estimates, given the modest sample size within each age stratum. Linear regression models were used to assess whether AMH independently predicted FSH, LH, or the LH/FSH ratio after adjusting for age.ResultsAMH showed a strong inverse correlation with age (r=-0.54). ROC analysis demonstrated that lower AMH levels were strongly associated with being older than 35 years, with an AMH value of 1.8 ng/mL (AUC≈0.80; sensitivity 0.94; specificity 0.61), indicating high sensitivity but limited specificity. FSH increased progressively with age (r=0.29), while LH remained relatively stable, resulting in a declining LH/FSH ratio. Regression analysis showed that AMH was independently associated with the LH/FSH ratio (β = 0.100, p < 0.001), but not FSH or LH after adjusting for age.ConclusionThis study provides the first preliminary age-specific population estimates of AMH and gonadotropins in Syrian women, demonstrating patterns consistent with global ovarian-aging trajectories. However, the absence of data on BMI, smoking, and lifestyle factors, along with the modest sample size, may limit the precision and generalizability of these estimates.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42550233
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common endocrine disorder characterized by hyperandrogenism, ovulatory dysfunction,and metabolic disturbances. Chronic low-grade inflammation and insulin resistance are key components of its pathophysiology.Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection has been associated with systemic inflammation and metabolic alterations and may potentially affectendocrine function. The aim of this study was to assess whether H. pylori infection is associated with changes in hormonal parameters,including increased severity of hyperandrogenism, in women with PCOS.A total of 150 patients aged 18-40 years were included and classified according to PCOS diagnosis and H. pyloriinfection status into four groups. PCOS was diagnosed based on the Rotterdam criteria. Active H. pylori infection was assessed usinga stool antigen test. Anthropometric measurements were obtained, and fasting blood samples were analyzed for hormonal (including totaland free testosterone, androstenedione, DHEAS, SHBG, LH, FSH, AMH, prolactin, cortisol) and metabolic parameters (glucose, insulin,HOMA-IR). Statistical analysis included non-parametric tests for between-group comparisons and categorical analyses, with correctionfor multiple comparisons where appropriate.No significant differences in age, BMI, or WHR were observed between H. pylori-positive and H. pylori-negative groups. Amongpatients with PCOS, H. pylori infection was not associated with significant differences in androgen concentrations (total and free testosterone,androstenedione, DHEAS, FAI) or other hormonal parameters. No significant differences were observed in gonadotropins, AMH,prolactin, cortisol, or metabolic parameters, including glucose, insulin, and HOMA-IR. In patients without PCOS, minor differences inhormonal parameters were observed; however, these were not statistically significant after correction for multiple comparisons. The frequencyof abnormal laboratory results did not differ between groups.In this cohort of young women, H. pylori infection, detected using a stool antigen test, was not associated with clinically meaningful alterations in androgen levels or ovarian reserve in women with PCOS. These findings suggest that the endocrine profile inPCOS is primarily determined by intrinsic pathophysiological mechanisms of the syndrome, which may mask the potential impact ofchronic H. pylori infection.
Osteoporosis (OP) occurs with decreased bone mass and deterioration of the bone microarchitecture. This can lead to an increased incidence of bone fractures. In traditional Chinese medicine, the herbal pair of Eucommia ulmoides and Achyranthes bidentata is used to tonify the liver and kidney in order to strengthen bones. This study examined the network pharmacology and molecular docking of the pair to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of the drug pair against OP. Active compounds were retrieved from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology database if they had an oral bioavailability of 30% or greater and a drug-likeness score of 0.18 or greater. OP-associated targets were identified from the GeneCards and Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man databases. The compound-target-disease network and protein-protein interaction network were built using Cytoscape and the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins, respectively. Key pathways were identified using the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery functional enrichment analysis. To predict the potential binding interactions between the major compounds and the hub targets, molecular docking was used. In total, 49 active compounds (28 from E ulmoides and 21 from A bidentata) and 95 overlapping therapeutic targets were found. Quercetin, kaempferol, β-sitosterol, stigmasterol and wogonin were identified as key bioactive components within the network analysis. Fourteen hub targets, including interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, were identified through protein-protein interaction analysis. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment revealed involvement in tumor necrosis factor, mitogen-activated protein kinase, hypoxia-inducible factor 1, Toll-like receptor, and NOD-like receptor signaling pathways. Molecular docking demonstrated favorable binding affinities between the key compounds and core proteins, suggesting potential interactions consistent with the network pharmacology predictions. The Eucommia-Achyranthes herbal pair may exert potential therapeutic effects on OP through multicomponent, multi-target, and multi-pathway interactions. Its main bioactive compounds may potentially interact with inflammatory and osteogenic signaling pathways via key targets such as interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, which may be associated with bone metabolism and structural integrity. These findings provide a theoretical foundation for future experimental and clinical validation.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Knee osteoarthritis (KOA) is the most common joint disorder and causes pain and functional limitation. Patients who are refractory to conservative treatment or unsuitable for surgery owing to advanced age or comorbidities have limited options. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is implicated in synovitis, angiogenesis and pain in KOA. microRNA (miRNA) based therapies have recently attracted attentions. This study aimed to investigate whether intra-articular delivery of VEGF-targeting miRNA can reduce synovitis and pain.Human synovial sarcoma cell line HS-SY-II was used for screening of VEGF-targeting miRNAs and primary synovial fibroblasts derived from KOA patients was used for confirmation of the efficacy. miRNA mimics were transfected and VEGF production was quantified. In vivo analyses, KOA was induced by anterior cruciate ligament transection and medial meniscectomy (ACLT model). Wistar rats were randomly allocated to 5 groups in 2 cohorts (n = 5 per group per cohort): normal (no ACLT), ACLT + negative control miRNA (NC), ACLT + miR-126-3p, ACLT + miR-140-5p, and ACLT + a combination of miR-126-3p and miR-140-5p (miR-Mix). miRNA mimics were injected intra-articularly. Hindlimb weight-bearing was assessed using incapacitance tester. Synovitis and cartilage degeneration were evaluated histologically. VEGF levels in synovial fluid, synovium and cartilage were quantified by Simple Western analysis. Non-parametric tests and repeated-measures analyses were performed, with p < 0.05 considered statistically significant.Combination of miR-126-3p and miR-140-5p suppressed VEGF production in HS-SY-II cells than either miRNA alone and the suppressive activity on VEGF production was confirmed in primary synovial fibroblasts from KOA patients. In ACLT rats, synovial VEGF levels were increased in NC group compared with normal rats and tended to be lower in all miRNA-treated groups. Hindlimb weight-bearing ratios were reduced to about 30% after ACLT and remained low in the NC group, whereas they gradually improved in the miR-126-3p and miR-140-5p monotherapy groups and almost recovered in the miR-Mix group. At final time point, weight-bearing ratio was significantly higher in miR-Mix group than NC group. Histologically, Krenn scores were tend to lower in miR-126-3p and miR-Mix groups than NC group, indicating amelioration of synovitis, whereas OARSI histopathology scores for femoral cartilage did not differ significantly among groups and tended to be higher in miR-treated groups. There was a strong negative correlation between Krenn synovitis score and hindlimb weight-bearing ratio (Spearman's ρ = -0.7, p < 0.001).Intra-articular administration of VEGF-suppressive miR-Mix ameliorated synovitis and pain-related behaviour. In highly unstable traumatic model, however, structural protection of articular cartilage was not observed and cartilage degeneration even tended to be worse in miR-treated groups, possibly due to increased weight-bearing following pain relief.These findings suggest intra-articular delivery of VEGF-suppresive miRNAs may represent novel analgesic strategies for KOA by reducing synovitis within joint. miRNA-based modulation of VEGF production could potentially be translated into future disease-modifying and analgesic treatments, however further studies using non-traumatic KOA models, safety evaluation and clarifying molecular mechanisms are required.© 2026 The Authors.
Pancreatic islet transplantation can restore insulin production in patients with severe diabetes, but donor material is scarce, and early engraftment is constrained by inflammatory and mechanical stress and a prolonged avascular phase, during which oxygen and nutrient delivery are limited by diffusion. Revascularization relies primarily on stress-induced vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), prolonging metabolic compromise, increasing autophagic burden, and rendering grafts vulnerable to secondary stress. Accelerating vascular integration during this time window is therefore critical for graft health. We show that β-cell-targeted aptamer-VEGF-A small activating RNA (saRNA) chimeras selectively induce robust VEGF-A expression in mouse and human islets independently of hypoxia- or nutrient-stress pathways, without activating autophagy or stress-responsive genes. In vivo, chimera-primed islets transplanted into anterior chamber and kidney capsule models exhibited accelerated vascular migration, earlier perfusion, and faster resolution of LC3-dependent autophagic stress without altering endpoint vascular density. Functionally, marginal-mass mouse and human grafts restored glucose control more effectively, preserved intra-islet architecture, and delayed hyperglycemia following STZ-induced β-cell loss. The RNA chimera's modular architecture of RNA chimeras allows transient, tissue-adaptable transcriptional activation across species and cell sources. These findings establish that brief, ex vivo RNA-mediated priming preconditions islets to withstand early engraftment stress, enhancing vascular integration and functional outcomes. This scalable, stress-independent strategy may lower the minimum effective transplant mass and expand access to cellular therapies for diabetes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Bevacizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody against vascular endothelial growth factor A. Its long half-life and low volume of distribution allow circulating drug to persist in the body for weeks, which becomes clinically relevant when urgent or emergent surgery is needed. Because bevacizumab is largely intravascular, therapeutic plasma exchange (TPE) is attractive, though published experience is limited. We describe four adults who underwent TPE to facilitate surgery or postoperative wound healing after bevacizumab exposure: two with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) before craniotomy, one with GBM after bowel resection with primary anastomosis, and one with metastatic rectal adenocarcinoma before craniotomy for a hemorrhagic brain mass. Patients received one to three sessions with albumin replacement, with fresh frozen plasma added in one case. No postoperative hemorrhage or delayed wound healing occurred. These cases support a practical role for TPE when residual bevacizumab exposure remains relevant and awaiting spontaneous clearance is not feasible.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Cannabidiol (CBD), a major non-psychoactive phytocannabinoid derived from Cannabis sativa L., has shown therapeutic potential in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, the mechanisms by which CBD modulates synovial angiogenesis remain unclear.This study aimed to investigate whether CBD attenuates RA progression by suppressing synovial angiogenesis and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.An adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA) rat model was established to evaluate the therapeutic effects of CBD in vivo using arthritis scoring, micro-CT, and histopathological, immunohistochemical, and immunofluorescence analyses. In vitro, cytotoxicity was determined using the CCK-8 assay, followed by evaluations of CBD's direct effects on the proliferation, migration, invasion, and inflammatory responses of RA fibroblast-like synoviocytes (RA-FLS) were evaluated, alongside Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) for cytotoxicity screening. Furthermore, the paracrine regulation of angiogenesis was assessed using a conditioned medium (CM) transfer system from hypoxia-stimulated RA-FLS applied to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Molecular mechanisms were analyzed via Western blotting, RT-qPCR, ELISA, co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), molecular docking, and targeted proteasome inhibition (MG132).In vivo, CBD (5 and 10 mg/kg) treatment markedly alleviated joint inflammation, synovial angiogenesis, and structural bone destruction in AIA rats. In vitro, non-cytotoxic concentrations of CBD (2.4-4.8 μM) significantly suppressed aberrant RA-FLS proliferation, migration, invasion, and pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion. Mechanistically, CBD abrogated the hypoxia-induced accumulation of hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) protein in RA-FLS without significantly altering HIF1A mRNA expression. This reduction was effectively reversed by MG132. Co-IP and molecular docking analyses revealed that CBD directly enhances the polyubiquitination of HIF-1α through stable structural interactions, driving a ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent degradation mechanism. Consequently, CBD dose-dependently decreased the extracellular secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) and angiopoietin-2 (ANG-2) from RA-FLS. Functionally, CM from CBD-treated RA-FLS disrupted the pro-angiogenic paracrine crosstalk-independent of direct CBD carryover-significantly impairing HUVEC migration, capillary-like tube formation, and downstream VEGFR2 (Tyr1175) phosphorylation.CBD attenuates RA pathogenesis not only by directly suppressing RA-FLS hyperactivity but also by severing the pro-angiogenic paracrine crosstalk between RA-FLS and endothelial cells. These effects are driven by the ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent degradation of HIF-1α in RA-FLS via direct structural engagement, which depletes VEGFA/ANG-2 production and subsequent endothelial VEGFR2 activation. These findings highlight CBD as a promising disease-modifying anti-angiogenic therapeutic agent for RA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Wet age-related macular degeneration (wAMD) is a leading cause of irreversible vision loss characterized by pathological choroidal neovascularization (CNV). While anti-VEGF therapies are the standard of care, limitations such as treatment resistance and side effects necessitate novel therapeutic agents. This study evaluates the therapeutic efficacy and mechanism of EV30, a novel pterostilbene derivative, in suppressing CNV. EV30 was synthesized based on the pterostilbene template. In vitro, the effects of EV30 on human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) proliferation, migration, and tube formation were assessed using Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), scratch wound, and tube formation assays, respectively. Mechanistic pathways were investigated via Western blotting and RT-qPCR. In vivo, a laser-induced CNV mouse model was treated with intravitreal EV30. Efficacy was evaluated utilizing fundus photography, fluorescein angiography (FFA), optical coherence tomography (OCT), and choroidal flat mounts (IB4 staining). Finally, biosafety was assessed through histology (H&E), electroretinography (ERG), and blood analysis. EV30 demonstrated potent anti-angiogenic properties in vitro, significantly inhibiting HUVEC proliferation, migration, and tube formation in a dose- and time-dependent manner. EV30 reduced vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) expression and modulated the phosphorylation status of proteins associated with the mTOR/NF-κB/p38 MAPK signaling pathway. In the laser-induced CNV model, EV30 effectively reduced lesion area and vascular leakage comparable to bevacizumab. Furthermore, ERG analysis revealed that EV30 partially preserved retinal electrophysiological function, as indicated by improved scotopic a-wave amplitudes, suggesting functional protection of the retina in the CNV model. EV30 exerted anti-angiogenic effects and was associated with modulation of mTOR/NF-κB/p38 MAPK signaling activity. Together, these findings suggest that EV30 represents a potential therapeutic candidate for CNV by suppressing pathological angiogenesis and modulating inflammation-associated signaling pathways.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Chronic intrauterine hypoxia (IUH) is a cause not only of early postnatal mortality but also of delayed central nervous system (CNS) impairments in offspring, including increased risks of acute cerebrovascular disorders, epilepsy, and neurodegenerative diseases. The above necessitates the urgent development of targeted neuroprotective strategies for newborns following IUH. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of the 70 kDa heat shock protein (HSP70) modulators (angiolin, thiotriazolin, cerebrocurin, tamoxifen, glutaredoxin, and heat shock factor 1 (HSF-1)), as well as reference drugs, based on their impact on molecular markers of endothelial dysfunction (vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), nitrotyrosine), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), nerve growth factor (NGF), and caspase-8 in the brains of offspring after IUH at 1 and 2 months of age.Chronic hemic IUH was modeled in pregnant rats by daily administration of sodium nitrite (50 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) on days 16-21 of pregnancy. The male offspring were treated with the study drugs for 30 days starting on P1. Brain homogenates of offspring at P30 and P60 were analyzed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for VEGF-A, eNOS, iNOS, nitrotyrosine, BDNF, NGF, and caspase-8.IUH caused persistent endothelial dysfunction, characterized by decreased VEGF and eNOS levels, and nitrosative stress, associated with increased iNOS and nitrotyrosine levels. These changes were accompanied by decreased neurotrophin levels, including BDNF and NGF, and increased caspase-8 levels. Course administration of angiolin, cerebrocurin, HSF-1, thiotriazolin, and glutaredoxin improved the eNOS/iNOS balance, increased VEGF levels, and decreased nitrotyrosine levels, with the effect persisting until P60. Cerebrocurin and angiolin demonstrated the strongest recovery of neurotrophic factors (normalization or exceeding normal BDNF/NGF levels by P60) and effectively suppressed caspase-8 to near-normal levels. A positive correlation was established between BDNF, NGF, and HSP70 levels.Pharmacological modulators of HSP70 provide effective multimodal neuroprotection due to endothelioprotective and neurotrophic effects. Angiolin and Cerebrocurin demonstrate significant therapeutic potential, offering a promising strategy for mitigating the long-term neurological sequelae of IUH.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Zearalenone is a common mycotoxin that impairs reproductive function, particularly by damaging ovarian granulosa cells. This study investigated the protective effect and underlying mechanism of scutellarin against zearalenone-induced injury in porcine ovarian granulosa cells. Cells were isolated and identified by follicle-stimulating hormone receptor immunofluorescence. Cell viability, cell-cycle distribution, and related molecular changes were evaluated using the MTT assay, flow cytometry, qRT-PCR, and Western blot. Scutellarin showed no obvious cytotoxicity within the tested range and attenuated the zearalenone-induced reduction in cell viability. Flow cytometry analysis demonstrated that scutellarin alleviated zearalenone-induced cell-cycle disturbance. At the molecular level, scutellarin upregulated the expression of cell-cycle-related factors, including CDK1, CDK2, CDK4, and PCNA, and increased the expression of Wnt/β-catenin signaling-related proteins, including WNT5A, β-catenin, c-MYC, and CCND1. WNT5A knockdown further indicated that scutellarin-mediated regulation of PCNA, CDK1, and CDK4 is WNT5A-dependent, whereas its effect on CDK2 may involve a WNT5A-independent mechanism. These findings indicate that scutellarin alleviates zearalenone-induced granulosa cell injury partly through WNT5A-associated modulation of cell-cycle-related proteins, providing mechanistic insights for its protective effects.
This study investigated the association between anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH), gonadotropin levels, and the follicle stimulating hormone receptor (FSHR) rs6166 polymorphism in Iraqi women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).A case-control study was conducted from October 2024 to May 2025, enrolling PCOS patients and age-matched eumenorrheic controls. Serum luteinizing hormone (LH), FSH, and AMH were measured via immunoassay, and FSHR rs6166 genotyping was performed using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism.Serum AMH was significantly higher in PCOS patients (9.24 ± 0.23 ng/mL) than in controls (4.03 ± 0.09 ng/mL; P < 0.0001). The AA genotype and A allele of FSHR rs6166 were significantly associated with increased PCOS risk (odds ratio [OR] = 3.55 and 2.03, respectively). receiver operating characteristic curve analysis demonstrated that AMH had superior diagnostic performance (area under the curve [AUC] = 0.985) with an optimal cut-off of 6.17 ng/mL (94.3% sensitivity, 93.2% specificity), outperforming LH (AUC = 0.906) and FSH (AUC = 0.607). A strong positive correlation was found between AMH and LH levels (r = 0.627, P < 0.0001).Elevated AMH levels and the FSHR rs6166 A allele are significantly associated with PCOS risk in this population. AMH demonstrated exceptional diagnostic accuracy, suggesting its utility as a potent biomarker for PCOS detection and definition.Copyright: © 2026 Journal of Education and Health Promotion.
Mammalian fertility is dependent upon meiosis, a specialized cell division by which diploid progenitors undergo one round of DNA replication followed by two rounds of chromosomal segregation to produce haploid gametes. The germ line in the testis and ovary undergoes several rounds of mitotic divisions before ultimately transitioning to the meiotic cell cycle. This transition is achieved by replacing the mitotic cell cycle program with the meiotic one. Here, we discuss the molecular players that regulate the transition from mitosis to meiosis. In spermatogenesis, MEIOC, YTHDC2, and RBM46 form an RNA-binding complex that post-transcriptionally represses the mitotic cell cycle program, while in oogenesis, MEIOC inhibits mitotic cycling prior to meiotic initiation. STRA8 and MEIOSIN act as a transcription factor complex to drive meiotic initiation by upregulating genes involved in cell cycle progression and the unique chromosomal events of meiosis in oogenesis and spermatogenesis. These complexes are activated by upstream molecular players, including transcription factors, epigenetic regulators of chromatin structure, and extrinsic signaling factors, that form an intricate and reinforced molecular network to precisely regulate the transition from the mitotic to meiotic cell cycle. Here, we integrate current knowledge of the regulation of meiotic initiation in mammals and highlight key gaps in this regulatory program that remain to be explored.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Stem cell factor (SCF), also known as Kit ligand, is a pleiotropic cytokine that signals through the c-Kit receptor to regulate cellular development, survival, and proliferation. Although SCF is classically recognized for its essential role in hematopoiesis and mast cell biology, c-Kit is also expressed by innate lymphoid cell progenitors (ILCp) and subsets of mature innate lymphoid cells (ILCs), suggesting broader immunoregulatory functions. Group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) are critical mediators of type 2 airway inflammation and serve as an important source of type 2 cytokines during allergic responses. We previously demonstrated increased expression of the pro-inflammatory SCF248 isoform in the lungs of mice with chronic allergic inflammation, while elevated soluble SCF levels have also been reported in patients with asthma. In the present study, we further observed that SCF248 is upregulated in the bone marrow during allergic inflammation, suggesting that SCF248 may contribute to both local and systemic regulation of allergic immune responses. To define the role of SCF/c-Kit signaling in ILC2 biology, we first performed transcriptional profiling of SCF-deficient ILC2s, which revealed reduced expression of genes associated with cytokine signaling, activation, and effector function, including Il4, Stat5b, and PI3K-AKT pathway components, consistent with impaired inflammatory responsiveness. Mechanistically, pro-inflammatory and type 2 cytokines induced SCF248 expression in mesenchymal cells in vitro. To define its functional impact, ILC progenitors were cultured on OP9-DL1 stromal cells with upregulated SCF248 expression, which increased expression of ILC2-associated markers and the maturation program, supporting a role for SCF248 in enhancing ILC2 maturation and activation. In vivo validation using tamoxifen-inducible whole-body SCF-deficient mice (SCFfl/fl; UBC-CreERT2) in an Alternaria alternata model of allergic airway inflammation demonstrated that SCF deficiency reduced SCF248 expression, attenuated type 2 cytokine production, diminished lung inflammation, and decreased circulating and pulmonary ILC2 populations. Similarly, SCF248 blockade reduced allergic inflammation and altered bone marrow ILC compartments. Together, these findings identify SCF248 as a regulator of ILC2 maturation and activation, amplifying mucosal type 2 inflammation during allergic airway disease.Copyright © 2026 Asai, Lombardo, Ocadiz-Ruiz, Gu, Rasky, Garcia, Montoya, Montaño, Yagi and Fonseca.
The pituitary and gonads serve as central regulatory hubs and functional organs for gametogenesis and maturation. In this study, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) of the pituitary and ovary in pre-spawning Pelteobagrus fulvidraco to elucidate the cellular landscape and regulatory pathways governing gonadal development and oocyte maturation. Pituitaries from four female fish (weight: 43.8 ± 3.2 g; length: 14.1 ± 0.7 cm) and four male fish (weight: 78.2 ± 11.2 g; length: 18.9 ± 1.1 cm) were subjected to single-cell transcriptomic analysis. A total of 17 distinct cell types were identified in the female pituitary, whereas 15 cell types were detected in the male pituitary. Both male and female pituitaries comprised multiple hormone-secreting endocrine populations, indicating a largely conserved cellular composition. However, sex-specific differences were observed in thyrotrope subtypes, suggesting potential sexual dimorphism in pituitary endocrine regulation. Examination of receptor gene expression revealed cell-type-specific regulatory capacities, highlighting gonadotropin, steroid, and neuropeptide responsiveness across pituitary populations. In the ovary, 10 cell types were identified, with granulosa cells (~22.9%) and theca cells (~8.6%) showing distinct transcriptional profiles. Follicle-stimulating hormone receptor (fshr) was highly expressed in granulosa cells, whereas luteinizing hormone receptor (lhcgr) and steroidogenic genes (hsd3b1, pgr) were predominantly localized in theca cells, indicating functional compartmentalization of gonadotropin and steroid signaling. Prostaglandin (PG) and melatonin (MT) pathways were implicated in paracrine regulation: the prostaglandin synthase ptgs2a was expressed in theca, germ, and immune cells, while ptger2a was expressed in granulosa cells; melatonin synthesis genes (aanat1, aanat2, asmtl) were confined to granulosa cells, with receptors (mtnr1ab) in germ cells. These findings suggest that ovarian paracrine signaling complements systemic endocrine control to modulate oocyte maturation and ovulation. This single-cell atlas provides a high-resolution framework of reproductive cell types and signaling networks in P. fulvidraco, offering insights for improving artificial breeding and reproductive management in aquaculture.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42442675 is a review article
Natriuretic peptide receptor 2 (NPR2) expression in the hypertrophic zone of the growth plate is essential for endochondral ossification. Heterozygous variants in the NPR2 gene have been identified in 2-6 % of idiopathic short stature cases. Here, we present a large family with a novel heterozygous NPR2 variant, detailing endocrine features and long-term recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) therapy outcomes.A total of 18 subjects among the family exhibited short stature. The proband was a 5.2-year-old boy presenting with proportionate short stature, delayed bone age, facial abnormalities, premature delivery, small for gestational age and hypospadias. Whole-exome sequencing revealed a novel heterozygous variant, c.553G>A variant, in the NPR2 gene, leading to the missense variant site in the extracellular ligand-binding domain of NPR2 protein. All the family members with NPR2 gene mutation demonstrated marked short stature, except for four subjects. Five other children who received rhGH therapy were also included in the results. The difference between bone age and chronological age in all six children ranged from -2.3 to 0 years. The average height SDS before rhGH treatment ranged from -4.01 to -1.20 (-2.59 ± 1.16). The treatment has lasted for 4.68 ± 2.68 years, and height SDS improved by 1.54 ± 0.78 after rhGH therapy.Our study confirms NPR2 variants as a cause of familial short stature (FSS), with variability in phenotypes, clinical features, and rhGH response, even within families. Early genetic testing might be crucial for offspring with FSS, as it allows for timely initiation of rhGH therapy.© 2026 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.
Background Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common endocrine disorder characterized by granulosa cell dysfunction, including impaired proliferation, excessive apoptosis, and ferroptosis, which contribute to abnormal follicular development and ovarian dysfunction. This study aims to investigate the effects of Osteoglycin (OGN) on proliferation, apoptosis, and ferroptosis in human ovarian granulosa cells, and to analyze its regulation of follicle stimulating hormone receptor (FSHR), providing insights into granulosa cell dysfunction associated with PCOS. Methods This study investigated the function of OGN in KGN granulosa cells by transfecting them with OGN-plasmid for overexpression or OGN-siRNA for knockdown. Cell viability was assessed using the MTT assay, while apoptosis was analyzed by flow cytometry. Ferroptosis was evaluated by measuring intracellular ROS and MDA levels, and protein expression was examined via Western blotting. Additionally, RT-qPCR and Western blotting were used to assess mRNA and protein levels of FSHR to determine the regulatory effect of OGN on FSHR expression. Results Overexpression of OGN significantly promoted granulosa cell proliferation and inhibited apoptosis, whereas knockdown of OGN suppressed proliferation and induced apoptosis. Mechanistic studies revealed that knockdown of OGN upregulated cleaved-Caspase3 expression, increased intracellular ROS and MDA levels, and reduced GPX4 expression, indicating the activation of both apoptotic and ferroptotic pathways. Furthermore, OGN positively regulated FSHR expression, as FSHR levels were increased with OGN overexpression and decreased following OGN knockdown at both mRNA and protein levels. Conclusion This study demonstrates that OGN plays a critical role in regulating granulosa cell survival and ferroptosis and may contribute to follicular development and PCOS-related ovarian dysfunction by modulating FSHR.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
The parental imprinted GNAS complex locus encodes the α-subunit of the stimulatory G protein. Pseudohypoparathyroidism type Ib (PHP1B) is characterized by renal resistance to parathormone and is caused by epigenetic anomalies, ie, at least the loss of methylation (LOM) at the A/B differentially methylated region (DMR). LOM or gain of methylation (GOM) may also affect other DMRs and different transcripts expressions within the locus (NESP, exon H, AS1, XLαs, A/B). Most PHP1B are sporadic and result from abnormal methylation of all DMRs in the regulatory region of GNAS. Autosomal dominant PHP1B (AD-PHP1B) is usually caused by a recurrent STX16 gene microdeletion in the maternal allele which leads to isolated LOM at the A/B DMR. In this study, we investigated an AD-PHP1B family without STX16 deletion using whole genome sequencing (WGS). The two affected siblings presented a LOM at the A/B DMR and the half telomeric portion of the XLαs DMR and their healthy mother presented a partial GOM at the AS1 DMR and the half centromeric portion of the XLαs DMR. The WGS analysis revealed a 140-kb paracentric inversion with breakpoints located in the NPEPL1 gene and XLαs DMR. We identified the first inversion involving the regulatory region of GNAS locus leading to a maternally inherited AD-PHP1B. This observation provides additional insight into the methylation regulatory elements in the GNAS locus on both alleles, especially on NESP and exon H transcription-mediated methylation. This study will help design subsequent strategies for further studies.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Background and Clinical Significance: Rare adnexal tumors with Wolffian or sex cord-like differentiation may undergo major diagnostic reclassification after integrated histologic and molecular review. The contribution of minimally invasive surgery to this process has rarely been described in detail. Case Presentation: We focused on the case of a 33-year-old woman underwent laparoscopic right salpingectomy in October 2021 for a right-sided tubo-adnexal lesion initially diagnosed as adult granulosa cell tumor and later reinterpreted as high-grade endometrioid carcinoma. Completion staging in February 2022 was negative. Positron emission tomography/computed tomography in January 2023 raised concern for recurrence, and exploratory laparoscopy in March 2023 documented peritoneal metastatic disease, followed by four cycles of cisplatin given within the then-prevailing carcinoma-based diagnostic framework. A second laparoscopic reassessment in October 2023 was negative. Because of multifocal abdominal relapse, the patient underwent major cytoreductive surgery in October 2024. Integrated pathologic and molecular review then documented serine/threonine kinase 11 alteration together with forkhead box L2 negativity, favoring classification within the STK11-altered adnexal tumor spectrum. After external review, everolimus plus anastrozole was started in May 2025. Imaging in late 2025 documented persistent pelvic recurrence, and salvage xipho-pubic laparotomy in December 2025 revealed extensive disease involving both ureters, the bladder base, the rectosigmoid wall, and parietal peritoneum; recurrent tissue showed cluster of differentiation 117 positivity. At the most recent available follow-up in April 2026, the patient had no documented death and remained under postoperative surveillance. Discussion and Conclusions: This case illustrates the diagnostic importance of repeated tissue reassessment and the practical value of minimally invasive surgery as a relatively low-burden means of resection, restaging, and tissue acquisition in a rare molecularly reclassified adnexal tumor.
Vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) dedifferentiation is a key driver of peripheral artery disease (PAD), a common complication of atherosclerosis. Although matrix metallopeptidase 14 (MMP14) has been implicated in promoting VSMC dedifferentiation, the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely defined. Here, we demonstrate that MMP14 expression is markedly increased in PAD plaques, accompanied by elevated platelet-derived growth factor receptor-β (PDGFRβ) and reduced low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 6 (LRP6) levels, predominantly within VSMCs, compared with plaque-free arterial segments. Mechanistically, MMP14 selectively promoted LRP6 shedding without affecting LRP5 in VSMCs. Genetic or pharmacological inhibition of MMP14 increased LRP6 abundance, reduced PDGFRβ and SP1 expression, attenuated ERK phosphorylation, and suppressed VSMC proliferation and migration. In contrast, MMP14 overexpression produced opposite effects. Collectively, these findings indicate that MMP14 enhances VSMC proliferation and migration through modulation of the LRP6-PDGFRβ signaling axis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Premature ovarian insufficiency (POI) is a major cause of infertility, yet its underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. The double-mutant (DM) mouse, featuring oocyte-specific deletion of mannosyl (α-1,3-)-glycoprotein β-1,2-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (Mgat1) and core 1 β-1,3-galactosyltransferase (C1galt1), develops early-onset POI and offers a valuable system to investigate causes. This study explored whether autoimmunity leads to POI in DM mice. We transplanted control and DM neonatal ovaries into immunocompromised hosts. Three months post-transplantation, follicular development was assessed. While both DM and control ovarian grafts contained follicles, only control ovaries showed healthy progression through to the antral stage. In contrast, DM ovaries exhibited a marked developmental block at the primary stage. In DM follicles, oocytes were smaller, and granulosa cell (GC) number and area were reduced at all follicular stages present. There was a strong correlation between oocyte growth and GC proliferation in controls, but was weaker in DM, suggesting disrupted oocyte-somatic cell communication. Analyses showed strong anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) in Control GCs, whilst DM levels were less than half of the control, indicating compromised GC function in DM ovaries. Forkhead box L2 (FOXL2) was also reduced in DM follicles compared to control GCs. The persistence of follicular defects, including reduced AMH and FOXL2 levels, in DM ovaries even in severe combined immunodeficient mice reveals that POI is not due to autoimmunity and the phenotype results from intrinsic defects in follicular development caused by the oocyte-specific mutation. These findings underscore the role of oocyte-GC interactions in follicle development and contribute to our understanding of POI pathogenesis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Appendiceal cancer (AC) is a rare malignancy that often presents at advanced stages with significant histological variability influencing clinical outcomes. Precise genomic profiling is essential for accurate diagnosis and personalized patient management. This study interrogated DNA from appendiceal tumor tissue, buffy coat cells, and the cell-free DNA component of plasma using a 523-gene panel for comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP) to identify cancer-related genetic mutations in tumor and blood, evaluate tumor mutation burden, and determine genetic markers associated with histologic grade.A total of 73 patients provided blood samples comprising cell-free DNA (cfDNA) and germline buffy coat cells (bcDNA) for analysis compared with tumor tissues available from 56 of these patients. Concordance of mutations between matched tumor tissue and plasma samples (n = 51) was assessed and tumor-specific and germline variants were classified using OncoKB™ clinical criteria to delineate oncogenic and therapeutically actionable variants [level 1 mutations with U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved therapy]. Additionally, cfDNA concentrations were tested for association with clinical and pathologic features and oncologic outcome including disease-specific (DSS) and progression-free (PFS) survival.Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) from plasma cell-free DNA demonstrated high concordance with tumor genomic profiling, reaching 98.4% concordance [median, interquartile range (IQR) 13.5, 21.5] overall and 85.7% (IQR 64.6, 100) for therapeutically actionable level 1 mutations. Prevalent appendiceal tumor-specific mutations included KRAS proto-oncogene, GTPase (KRAS) (41%), GNAS complex locus (GNAS) (30%), tumor protein p53 (TP53) (30%), and SMAD family member 4 (SMAD4) (29%). Tumor-specific TP53, SMAD4, and spectrin alpha, erythrocytic 1 (SPTA1) mutations strongly correlated with intermediate and high-grade histology, whereas GNAS mutations predominated in low-grade tumors. Germline analysis identified coding mutations shared among this patient cohort in notch receptor 4 (NOTCH4) (55%) and BRCA1 associated RING domain 1 (BARD1) (48%) genes, with zinc finger homeobox 3 (ZFHX3) (29%) and adhesion G protein-coupled receptor A2 (ADGRA2), DNA polymerase epsilon (POLE), and transcription factor 3 (TCF3) mutations (all = 23%) specifically enriched in intermediate and high-grade AC. Both histological grade and cfDNA stratified by concentration tertiles independently predicted progression-free and disease-specific survival. Plasma samples exhibited consistently lower variant allele frequencies than solid tumors, limiting sensitivity for discovery of novel mutations exclusively from plasma.This study supports integrating comprehensive ctDNA assays into standard diagnostic and treatment pathways for AC using large gene panels. TP53, SMAD4, SPTA1, and GNAS mutations serve as prospective tumor-specific molecular classifiers for histological grade, while germline variants in NOTCH4 and BARD1 may further influence disease biology, with ZFHX3, ADGRA2, POLE, and TCF3 affecting grade stratification. Overall cfDNA concentration may serve as a potential prognostic biomarker in AC.© 2026. Society of Surgical Oncology.
Fibrous dysplasia (FD) is a bone mesenchymal stromal cells (BMSCs)-derived disorder caused by GNAS gene mutation, characterized by excessive fibrous tissue proliferation in bone and the formation of immature trabecular bone. Although impaired osteogenesis of BMSCs is central to FD pathogenesis, the underlying mechanism remains largely elusive. Here we demonstrate that hyperactivation of the cAMP-PRKA/PKA signaling axis disrupts mitochondrial homeostasis through impaired mitophagy, ultimately leading to diminished amorphous calcium phosphate (ACP) secretion and consequent mineralization failure in FD. Mechanistically, in FD BMSCs, PRKA activation inhibits DNM1L/DRP1 recruitment to mitochondria through phosphorylation at S637, thereby suppressing mitochondrial fission. Consequently, excessive mitochondrial fusion leads to an elevated mitochondrial membrane potential, impaired mitophagy, and diminished ACP release. Collectively, our findings reveal a novel signaling nexus linking cAMP-PRKA signaling, mitochondrial dynamics, and biomineralization processes in FD pathogenesis, providing critical insights into the molecular basis of this disorder.Abbreviation: ACP: amorphous calcium phosphate; ALPL: alkaline phosphatase, biomineralization associated; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; BGLAP/osteocalcin: bone gamma-carboxylglutamate protein; BMD: bone mineral density; BMSCs: bone marrow stromal cells; BV/TV: bone volume/tissue volume; cAMP: cyclic adenosine monophosphate; COL1: collagen type I; COX4/COXIV: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4; CsA: cyclosporin A; CT: computerized tomography; Cyto: cytoplasm; DAPI: diamino phenylindole; DEPs: differentially expressed proteins; DNM1L/DRP1: dynamin 1 like; ECL: electrochemiluminescence; ECM: extracellular matrix; FBS: fetal bovine serum; FCCP: carbonyl cyanide 4-(trifluoromethoxy) phenylhydrazone; FD: fibrous dysplasia; GNAS/guanine nucleotide-binding protein alpha-stimulating activity peptide: GNAS complex locus; GTPase: guanosine triphosphatase; HSPD1/HSP60: heat shock protein family D (Hsp60) member 1; Lyso: lysosome; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; Mdivi: mitochondrial division inhibitor 1; MEMα: minimum essential medium α; MFN1: mitofusin 1; MFN2: mitofusin 2; Mito: mitochondria; MMP: mitochondrial membrane potential; MOI: multiplicity of infection; MV: matrix vesicle; PRKN/parkin: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; PHEX: phosphate regulating endopeptidase X-Linked; PHOSPHO1: phosphoethanolamine/phosphocholine phosphatase 1; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKA/protein kinase A: protein kinase cAMP-activated; PVDF: polyvinylidene fluoride; SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; SEM: scanning electron microscopy; SOST: sclerostin; SP7/Osterix: Sp7 transcription factor; TA9: tyrphostin A9; Tb.N: trabecular. number; Tb.Sp: trabecular. separation; Tb.Th: trabecular. thickness; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TMRM: tetramethylrhodamine; UA: urolithin A.
Breast cancer is the most common form of cancer among women worldwide, and the rates of both new cases and deaths have increased over the past two decades. The aim of the study was to identify and validate molecular pathways that could potentially be targeted for therapeutic interventions.The bioinformatics resource WebGestalt was used to determine the functional annotation of the Gene Ontology, as well as enrichment analysis of Reactome and KEGG pathways in 2023-2024. GeneMANIA, a server for assessing protein-gene interactions, co-localization, pathways, co-expression, and protein-domain similarity of target genes and their interacting genes, was evaluated via this web tool. GEO was also used to determine mRNA expression levels in BRCA individuals. R packages were used to screen for differentially expressed genes for both datasets. On the other hand, the open cancer resources GENT2 TNMPlot, UCSCXena, ENCORI platform, BioXpress, OncoDB, OncoMX, and GEPIA2 were used to measure the differential expression of mRNAs in BRCA patients.Among the genes analyzed, matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP9) showed the greatest change. Similarly, matrix metallopeptidase 14 (MMP14) and Endogenous Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor-A (VEGFA) showed significant increases. Other up-regulated genes, including Apolipoprotein E (APOE), Hypoxia-Inducible Factor-1 Alpha (HIF1A), and Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF) showed minimal expression changes with minor fluctuations. Finally, Interleukin-1 alpha precursor (IL1A) exhibited a slight increase in expression. Validation of gene expression changes through microarray studies on the GSE37751 and GSE42568 datasets provided consistent and significant results for several of the studied genes. GO analysis further revealed significant molecular functions, cellular components, KEGG pathways, and biological processes that were enriched among the differentially expressed genes. Among the top pathways identified based on FDR and P value were receptor binding signaling, regulation of cell migration, the extracellular matrix, and the AGE-RAGE signaling pathway.The results predict that the hub genes correlated with angiogenesis may serve as potential therapeutic targets or could be biomarkers for breast cancer.Copyright: © Iranian Journal of Medical Sciences.
β-Carotene exhibits distinct biological effects that enhance reproductive performance in mammals; however, the mechanisms underlying these effects remain poorly understood. This study aimed to evaluate the effect of β-carotene on ovarian development in replacement gilts and to investigate its potential mechanisms.A total of 20 gilts, aged 130 d, were randomly assigned to control group or β-carotene group (β-C group, diet containing 10 mg/kg of β-carotene). Each group consisted of 10 replicates, with one gilt per replicate, over a 60-d trial. β-Carotene significantly increased the number of follicles measuring 2-5 mm in diameter, elevated estradiol concentrations in both blood and follicular fluid of replacement gilts (P < 0.05). Compared to the control group, the β-C group exhibited a significant increase in β-carotene concentration within ovarian follicular fluid (P < 0.05). Transcriptomic analysis of GCs revealed that β-carotene could significantly upregulated the expression of Forkhead Box L2 (FOXL2). When β-carotene and its metabolic product were administered to granulosa cells (GCs), validation of differentially expressed genes in the transcriptome suggests the possibility that β-carotene, rather than its metabolic product, is responsible for the upregulation of FOXL2 in ovarian GCs, which subsequently may regulate StAR and enhance estradiol synthesis. Furthermore, β-carotene is likely to promote lipolysis, providing essential substrates for estradiol and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) production. Concurrently, β-carotene appears to increase the activity of the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) and glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) in gilts, thereby reducing reactive oxygen species (ROS) (P < 0.05) and maintaining redox balance.Our findings suggest that β-carotene could promote lipolysis, activate the FOXL2-StAR pathway to increase estradiol synthesis in GCs, and alleviate oxidative stress, thereby contributing to follicle development.© 2026. The Author(s).
The transcription factors Forkhead box L2 (FOXL2) and SRY-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9), among others, are required for embryonic ovarian and testicular differentiation, respectively. In patients with complete androgen insensitivity syndrome (CAIS), the testes are usually undescended and may show histological changes similar to those sometimes seen in patients with undescended testes (UDT). The aim of this study was to explore the expression of FOXL2 and SOX9 in testes from patients with CAIS and UDT.Immunohistochemical staining with FOXL2 and SOX9 was performed on samples from 13 patients with CAIS and 20 with UDT.In addition to nuclear SOX9 expression in intratubular Sertoli cells, FOXL2 expression was present in stromal cells in 8 of 9 patients with CAIS and in 1 of 20 with UDT. Moreover, FOXL2 expression was found in the rete testis in three of nine samples that included this region.Expression of the ovarian-specific marker FOXL2 in regions of the testes of patients with CAIS and UDT has not previously been documented and suggests partial activation of the female pathway within these testes. Further research is needed, including FOXL2 protein expression studies in larger series and molecular studies, e.g., transcriptome analysis, to understand the pathophysiology and clinical significance of these novel findings.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder characterized by a triad of behavioral symptoms: involuntary movement, emotional change, and cognitive dysfunction. Although alterations in WNT signaling have been reported in HD, its precise role in pathogenesis remains unclear. In this study, we found that astrocytic WNT5B mRNA and protein levels are elevated in the striatum of both HD patients and HD model mice. The noncanonical WNT5B signaling pathway induced sustained expression of matrix metallopeptidase 14 (MMP14), an extracellular matrix (ECM)-degrading enzyme, via activation of the NFATc2 transcription factor in both human and primary mouse astrocytes. Robust upregulation of MMP14 led to ECM degradation, medium spiny neuron (MSN) damage, and increased mutant huntingtin aggregation in N171-82Q HD transgenic mice. Furthermore, WNT5B gain-of-function exacerbated neuropathology, impaired motor coordination, and shortened the lifespan of N171-82Q mice. We further demonstrated that the overexpression of the estrogen receptor α (ERα) suppresses NFATc2 transcriptional activity in vitro. A targeted therapy for the WNT5B-NFATc2-MMP14 signaling pathway by genistein, a phytoestrogen, reduced MMP14 transcription by antagonizing NFATc2 activity and preventing ECM degradation in N171-82Q mice. Genistein treatment also ameliorated neuropathology and motor deficits and prolonged the lifespan of HD mice. Together, these findings define a molecular pathological mechanism in which astrocytic MMP14 transcription, driven by the noncanonical WNT5B signaling pathway, promotes ECM degradation and MSN damage and accelerates neurodegeneration in HD. Modulation of the noncell-autonomous WNT5B-NFATc2-MMP14 signaling pathway by genistein may serve as a potential therapeutic strategy for mitigating HD pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) is an autosomal‑dominant vascular disease characterized by telangiectasias and visceral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs), commonly in the lungs, liver, and brain. HHT is linked to mutations in the genes Activin A Receptor Like Type 1 (ACVRL1), Endoglin (ENG), and SMAD Family Member 4 (SMAD4). The ACVRL1 gene encodes the receptor ACVRL1 (Activin A Receptor Like Type 1), also known as ALK1 (Activin Receptor-Like Kinase 1), and belongs to the Transforming Growth Factor-Beta (TGFβ) Superfamily of receptors. Approximately 20% of patients with ACVRL1-associated HHT develop pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). [1] In pediatric PAH cohorts, ACVRL1 mutations account for nearly 10% of identified genetic variants. [2] The reduced penetrance of PAH among ACVRL1 mutation carriers suggests that additional modifiers account for PAH development. [3]. Given the relevance of the bone‑morphogenetic‑protein (BMP) pathway to the pathogenesis of PAH, and the intimate relationship of TGFβ superfamily signaling partners including ACVRL1 and BMPR2, genes which modify BMP-TGFβ signaling balance may contribute to PAH development in children with ACVRL1‑positive HHT. One such gene is SMAD9 (Receptor Regulated SMAD 9); the protein product of SMAD 9 (SMAD8) which mediates downstream TGFβ signaling. Herein, we report what we believe to be the youngest reported case of PAH in ACVRL1‑mediated HHT, in a patient who co‑harbors a SMAD9 mutation.© 2026 The Author(s). Pulmonary Circulation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Pulmonary Vascular Research Institute.
BMPR1B is considered to be the main effector gene affecting polytocous trait in sheep and other animals, and co-regulates reproductive performance with BMP15. Individuals containing the BMPR1B mutation had significantly higher lambing numbers than the wild type in Small-tailed Han sheep. However, the mode of regulation of BMP15 in the three genotypes (FecB BB, FecB + + and FecB + B) of BMPR1B in the Small-tailed Han sheep remains unclear. To investigate the effect of BMP15 on the proliferation of granulosa cells (GCs) from sheep with different FecB genotypes via the TGF-β/SMAD signaling pathway, we established an in vitro three-stage culture model (24h, 48h, 72h) using isolated GCs of three genotypes. We observed that BMP15 promoted GCs proliferation across all genotypes, with proliferative activity increasing progressively over the culture period. This BMP15-mediated proliferative response was associated with the specific upregulation of key components within the TGF-β/SMAD pathway. Notably, the FecB BB genotype exhibited the highest proliferation efficiency. Furthermore, compared to the FecB + + and FecB + B genotypes, the FecB BB genotype displayed the highest mRNA and protein expression levels of both TGFβ receptor I (TGFβ-R1) and SMAD Family Member 4 (SMAD4). In summary, it was found that BMP15 regulated GCs proliferation by affecting the expression of genes related to the TGF-β/SMAD signalling pathway. Compared with the FecB + + and FecB + B genotypes, the FecB BB genotype responded more strongly to BMP15 treatment, suggesting a genotype-dependent response. These results provided a basis for further investigation of the molecular mechanisms by which BMP15 regulates GCs proliferation.
The human proteome represents a vast, largely untapped source of encrypted bioactive peptides with therapeutic potential. Here, we report the discovery and functional characterization of three antimicrobial encrypted peptides (EPs) derived from human matrix metallopeptidase-19 (residues 1-19, 1-33, and 247-279). These peptides exhibit potent, broad-spectrum activity against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, including clinical isolates and multidrug-resistant strains. Mechanistic studies reveal membrane depolarization and permeabilization as the primary mechanism of action. The peptides also inhibit biofilm formation, eradicate preformed biofilms, and exhibit selective antiviral activity against enveloped viruses. Importantly, they display negligible hemolysis and cytotoxicity toward mammalian cells while modulating inflammation through LPS neutralization. Synergy assays reveal synergistic or additive interactions with last-line antibiotics, and no resistance emerged after serial bacterial passaging. A fully d-amino acid analog of the lead peptide retained activity and exhibited cytocompatibility and in vivo efficacy in a murine skin infection model. These findings underscore the therapeutic promise of human protein-derived encrypted peptides and highlight proteome mining as a viable strategy for identifying host-compatible anti-infectives.© 2025 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
In colorectal carcinoma (CRC), 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) remains the cornerstone of adjuvant systemic therapy, with folic acid (FA) serving as an essential adjunct. Expression of genes related to the metabolism and action of 5-FU and FA can be influenced by patient- and tumor-specific biological factors. In this study, we explore differential gene expression profiles of 180 genes representing 14 different gene sets associated with different 5-FU and FA metabolism processes, at both gene and pathway levels across clinical and molecular subgroups. In 71 patients with CRC, paired tumors and normal colonic tissues were analyzed. In CRC tissue, several gene sets (including Cell Cycle Checkpoint, Oxidative Stress Response, and Signaling Pathway, etc.) were upregulated, while three gene sets (Apoptotic, Tumor Suppressor, and Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress) were downregulated. Kirsten rat sarcoma virus (KRAS), tumor protein p53 (TP53), and microsatellite instability (MSI) status impacted gene expression across molecular subgroups. At the individual gene level, among cell cycle genes, the BUB3 mitotic checkpoint protein (BUB3) was upregulated in MSI tumors compared to MSS, whereas SMAD family member 4 (SMAD4) was downregulated in MSS tumors compared to MSI. DNA fragmentation factor alpha (DFFA) was downregulated in MSI and upregulated in MSS. Notably, thymidylate synthetase (TYMS) was more upregulated in MSI tumors (1.65-fold; 95% CI: 1.27-2.13) compared to MSS (1.19-fold; 95% CI: 1.02-1.39). Dysregulation of these genes across these factors will broaden our understanding of 5-FU-based treatment in CRC. Furthermore, targeting dysregulated pathways could form the basis for improved precision therapies tailored to CRC subtypes.
Pancreatic cancer (PC) is among the deadliest digestive malignancies, with over half of patients showing liver metastases at diagnosis. Understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying PC liver metastasis is crucial for improving patient prognosis and extending survival. This study aimed to elucidate the role of integrin subunit beta 6 (ITGB6), a downstream target of transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ) signaling, in PC progression and metastasis, particularly focusing on its involvement in liver metastasis.First, ITGB6 was identified as a key TGFβ-pathway gene linked to liver metastasis in PC, with its enrichment further confirmed by SMAD family member 4 ( SMAD4 )-based subgroup analysis. A total of 37 paired clinical PC and adjacent normal tissue samples were obtained from patients who underwent surgical resection at Peking Union Medical College Hospital, and immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed to evaluate ITGB6 expression and its correlation with clinicopathological features. In vitro assays, including cell proliferation, apoptosis detection, and cell migration and invasion assays, were conducted to evaluate the role of ITGB6 in PC cell behavior. A SMAD4 wild-type (WT) PC cell line stably overexpressing ITGB6 was established, and its in vivo role was assessed using subcutaneous and liver metastasis xenograft models. To explore the transcriptional regulation of ITGB6 by TGFβ, chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (ChIP-qPCR) and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed. The effect of ITGB6-expressing PC cells on hepatic stellate cell (HSC) activation was evaluated using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), Western blotting, and IHC. Finally, the therapeutic potential of targeting ITGB6 was preliminarily assessed using a monoclonal antibody intervention strategy.TGFβ upregulates ITGB6 expression through a SMAD4-dependent pathway. Elevated ITGB6 expression not only promotes the migration and invasion of PC cells but also activates HSCs, thereby establishing a fibrotic microenvironment favorable for metastatic colonization. In mouse models, administration of an ITGB6 monoclonal antibody significantly attenuated HSC activation and suppressed the formation of liver metastases. Therefore, ITGB6 serves as a key downstream effector of TGFβ-mediated metastasis and represents a promising therapeutic target for liver metastasis in PC.The TGFβ-ITGB6 positive feedback axis plays a critical role in liver metastasis of SMAD4 WT PC, highlighting ITGB6 as a potential therapeutic target, especially for patients with intact SMAD4 function.Copyright © 2025 The Chinese Medical Association, produced by Wolters Kluwer, Inc. under the CC-BY-NC-ND license.
Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is a prevalent cause of lung injury in premature infants. The migration inhibitory factor (MIF), its receptor CD74, and the TGFβ/Smad signaling cascade play pivotal roles in the regulation of alveolar epithelial type II cells (AECIIs) during lung development. This study investigated whether the MIF/CD74 axis regulates AECIIs by modulating the TGFβ/Smad pathway in BPD.A rat model of BPD induced by intraamniotic LPS-injection and postnatal hyperoxia exposure was treated with various interventions and histopathological changes using hematoxylin and eosin staining. In vitro, AECIIs with CD74 or SMAD4 knockdown or overexpression were treated with LPS. Cell proliferation was assessed using BrdU and MTT assays, mRNA expression levels via RT-qPCR, while protein expression was analyzed using immunofluorescence, western blotting, and ELISA.Our findings revealed that LPS inhibited AECII proliferation, induced transdifferentiation, apoptosis, autophagy, and upregulated MIF, CD74, TGFβ, and phosphorylated Smad proteins both in vitro and in vivo. MIF supplementation and CD74/SMAD4 overexpression reversed LPS-induced effects by promoting proliferation and reducing transdifferentiation, apoptosis, and autophagy in AECIIs. Conversely, MIF inhibition or CD74/SMAD4 knockdown exacerbated these effects. In vivo, MIF and TGFβ1 counteracted the effects of LPS, whereas LL1 enhanced LPS-induced damage. The TGFβ/Smad pathway mediated the regulatory effects of the MIF/CD74 axis in AECIIs within the BPD context.The MIF/CD74 axis regulates AECII phenotypes in BPD via the TGFβ1/Smad4 pathway, underscoring the potential for targeted therapies against the MIF/CD74 axis and TGFβ/Smad signaling for the prevention and treatment of BPD.Not applicable.© 2025. The Author(s).
Curcumin is a natural polyphenolic compound extracted from the rhizomes of Curcuma longa, exhibiting a wide range of biological activities, including anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antitumor, antibacterial, antiviral, and neuroprotective effects. However, its low oral absorption rate and poor bioavailability limit its clinical application. To address this issue, this study synthesized a novel curcumin derivative, AN02, which significantly improves the absorption rate and bioavailability while enhancing its antitumor activity. This study focused on the antitumor mechanism of AN02 in ovarian cancer, particularly its ability to inhibit ovarian cancer cell proliferation, invasion, and migration by regulating the APC (Adenomatous Polyposis Coli)-SMAD4 (SMAD family member 4)-CTLA-4 (Cytotoxic T-Lymphocyte-Associated Protein 4) molecular axis. Experimental results demonstrated that AN02 significantly inhibited ovarian cancer cell proliferation at very low concentrations, with its half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) significantly lower than that of curcumin. Additionally, AN02 exerted its antitumor effects by activating the APC-SMAD4 molecular axis and inhibiting the CTLA-4 molecular axis. Silencing CTLA-4 inhibits the proliferation and immune escape of ovarian cancer. Further molecular mechanism studies revealed that APC directly regulates the SMAD4-CTLA-4 molecular axis, while SMAD4 forms a chaperone relationship with CTLA-4 and promotes CTLA-4 degradation through the K48-dependent ubiquitination pathway, thereby suppressing the malignant phenotype of ovarian cancer cells. These findings not only reveal the antitumor mechanism of AN02 but also provide new insights for the treatment of ovarian cancer. Animal experiments also demonstrated that AN02 significantly inhibits the proliferation of subcutaneous xenograft tumors in mice. As a novel curcumin derivative, AN02 exhibits significant antitumor activity and inhibits ovarian cancer progression by regulating the APC-SMAD4-CTLA-4 molecular axis. This study lays an important theoretical foundation for the development of novel antitumor drugs based on AN02, with significant clinical application potential. However, the long-term toxicity and safety of AN02 require further investigation to establish safe dosage standards for clinical use. Future studies will focus on exploring combination therapy strategies of AN02 in cisplatin-resistant ovarian cancer to provide new directions for precision treatment of ovarian cancer.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Adenomyosis is a gynecological disorder characterized by the presence of endometrial tissue within the myometrium, with incidence rates ranging from 10-65% among women of reproductive age.This study utilized transcriptomic analysis to identify significant biomarkers associated with inflammation in endometrial tissue from patients with adenomyosis.In this bioinformatics study, we utilized publicly available transcriptomic datasets. The research involved the systematic analysis of RNA sequencing data obtained from the NCBI-GEO database. Using a high-throughput RNA sequencing database from GSE190580 and GSE157718, we compared gene expression profiles between endometrium tissues of adenomyosis patients and healthy controls. Subsequently, pathways implicated in adenomyosis were analyzed through the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes and gene ontology.Pathway analysis revealed the aberration of inflammation-related pathways, including tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and Ras-related protein 1 signaling. Furthermore, gene ontology analysis uncovered key biological processes, such as macrophage differentiation and extracellular matrix organization, which are central to the inflammatory response in adenomyosis. Candidate biomarkers, including transmembrane protein kinases, were identified as potential therapeutic targets. We found the top 5 genes that play a role in inflammation in adenomyosis, including TNF-α-induced protein 6, matrix metalloproteinase 7, TNF-α-induced protein 3, leukemia inhibitory factor, and serum and glucocorticoid-regulated kinase 1. Statistical significance was determined with adjusted p < 0.05.These findings enhance our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of adenomyosis and propose novel biomarkers for more effective diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2025 Sianturi et al.
Myopia is one of the most common eye diseases affecting children and adolescents, with its etiology often attributed to a combination of genetic and environmental factors. This study utilized single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) technology to investigate gene expression differences between guinea pigs with spontaneous high myopia (SHM) and those with normal vision.Lens-induced myopia (LIM) and SHM guinea pigs exhibit significant retinal structural abnormalities and functional impairments, characterized by reduced retinal thickness and abnormal electroretinogram (ERG) responses, indicating progressive retinal dysfunction during myopia development. scRNA-seq and molecular experiments revealed that the ceramide synthase 5 (CERS5) / ceramide synthase 6 (CERS6) / alkaline ceramidase 3 (ACER3) / phospholipid phosphatase 1 (PLPP1) / prosaposin (PSAP) / UDP-glucose ceramide glucosyltransferase (UGCG) signaling axis is significantly activated in the retinas of myopic guinea pigs, suggesting dysregulation of sphingolipid metabolism. These changes were associated with an increased expression of SPHK1 and a shift in receptor expression from S1PR1 to S1PR2, indicating a transition in lipid signaling from a physiological state to a stress-related pathological state. Additionally, the activation of the P62/NRF2/KEAP1 pathway confirmed enhanced oxidative stress in the myopic retina. This study demonstrates that the CERS5/CERS6/ACER3/PLPP1/PSAP/UGCG signaling axis mediates disruption of sphingolipid metabolism and oxidative stress in the myopic guinea pig retina.The present study demonstrates that the CERS5/CERS6/ACER3/PLPP1/PSAP/UGCG signaling axis mediates sphingolipid metabolic dysregulation and oxidative stress in the retinas of myopic guinea pigs. Mechanistically, the abnormal activation of the SPHK1-S1P signaling pathway, the shift in receptors from S1PR1 to S1PR2, and the subsequent activation of the P62/KEAP1/NRF2 pathway collectively led to changes in retinal morphology (such as reduced thickness) and functional impairment. These findings establish a mechanistic link between lipid metabolic imbalance and retinal pathology in myopia offering potential therapeutic targets for preventing retinal damage associated with myopia.© 2026. The Author(s).
Subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) is a life-threatening cerebrovascular event frequently accompanied by consciousness disturbances, yet the underlying mechanisms remain poorly defined. Here, we identify oligodendrocytic prosaposin (PSAP) as a critical regulator of thalamocortical connectivity and consciousness following SAH. Using multimodal approaches, including electroencephalogram and electromyogram recordings, optogenetics, single-nucleus RNA sequencing, patch-clamp recording, and magnetic resonance imaging, we demonstrate that SAH disrupts the central lateral thalamus to medial prefrontal cortex pathway via Psap downregulation in oligodendrocytes, leading to impaired PSAP-GPR37 interactions, myelin damage and functional connectivity loss. Psap overexpression or recombinant human PSAP administration restored PSAP-GPR37 interactions, preserved myelin structure and rescued central lateral thalamus to medial prefrontal cortex connectivity after SAH, resulting in improved consciousness and spatial memory. Our findings highlight oligodendrocyte dysfunction as a key mechanism underlying SAH-induced disorders of consciousness and identify PSAP as a potential therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
Weaning stress is a prevalent pathological condition in pig farming, primarily triggered by factors such as nutritional imbalance, oxidative stress, inflammation, and bacterial infections. In this study, response surface methodology was first employed to optimize the preparation process of Codonopsis pilosula-Glycyrrhiza uralensis extract (CGe). Dietary supplementation with CGe for 28 days revealed that 1% CGe significantly increased the growth performance of weaned piglets, enhanced antioxidant capacity, and promoted intestinal microbiota balance, demonstrating a favorable safety profile. Subsequently, by integrating Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database mining with machine learning, we identified cathepsin D (CTSD), alpha-1-microglobulin/bikunin precursor (AMBP), and prosaposin (PSAP) as potential biomarkers of weaning stress. Among these biomarkers, AMBP showed significant positive correlations with M0 macrophages, mast cells, and neutrophils, and a negative correlation with M1 macrophages, suggesting its involvement in macrophage polarization during weaning stress. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations further revealed that liquiritin, a key bioactive component of CGe, formed a stable interaction with AMBP and exhibited low binding energy. This interaction likely underpins its potential to mediate anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant effects. These results indicate that AMBP is a promising target for alleviating weaning stress, and CGe has potential as an eco-friendly feed additive for improving the health of weaned piglets.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury remains a leading cause of cardiovascular morbidity. However, due to the unclear underlying molecular mechanisms, effective therapeutic approaches are still lacking. This study aims to investigate the function and downstream mechanism of the lysosomal protein prosaposin (PSAP) in regulating ceramide homeostasis and cardiomyocyte apoptosis during acute I/R injury. In our study, we found that PSAP expression was significantly downregulated in the heart subjected to acute I/R surgery. Restoration of PSAP protein via AAV9-PSAP-OE in vivo significantly reduced infarct size and attenuated cardiomyocyte apoptosis. Similarly, PSAP overexpression in OGD/R-treated primary cardiomyocytes (NRCMs) decreased apoptosis, while PSAP knockdown exacerbated apoptosis. Mechanistically, PSAP accelerates the ceramide degradation pathway by rescuing the expression of the lysosomal N-acylsphingosine amidohydrolase 1 (ASAH1), thereby attenuating I/R-induced ceramide accumulation and cardiomyocyte apoptosis. Our results reveal a novel mechanism of PSAP function and highlight its potential as a therapeutic target for acute myocardial I/R injury.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) is an essential lipid-soluble antioxidant and a key component of the mitochondrial electron transport chain, playing critical roles in cellular redox homeostasis and energy metabolism. Although organ-specific differences in CoQ10 levels have been reported in humans, the mechanisms underlying tissue-specific regulation of CoQ10 remain poorly understood. Moreover, species differences in the predominant CoQ isoform limit the suitability of conventional rodent models for studying human CoQ10 metabolism, aging, and disease. In this study, we aimed to explore factors contributing to organ-specific CoQ10 levels and to establish fundamental reference data for medaka (Oryzias latipes), a vertebrate model that endogenously synthesizes CoQ10. CoQ10 concentrations in multiple organs were quantified by high-performance liquid chromatography. Levels of vitamin E and free cholesterol were also measured. Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) content was assessed as an index of mitochondrial abundance, and expression of CoQ10 biosynthetic enzymes, the CoQ-binding protein prosaposin (Psap), and 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase was analyzed by RT-qPCR. CoQ10 was detected in all organs examined, with the highest levels observed in the heart and liver, followed by the kidney and brain, and lower levels in skeletal muscle and the digestive tract. No significant sex-dependent differences were observed. CoQ10 levels were positively associated with PDSS2 expression and mtDNA content, while Psap expression showed strong positive correlations with multiple CoQ-related genes. These findings provide insight into factors associated with tissue-specific CoQ10 distribution and support medaka as a physiologically relevant model for investigating CoQ10 metabolism, oxidative stress, aging, and disease.
Postoperative immune suppression, driven by transforming growth factor β (TGFβ)-mediated dendritic cell (DC) dysfunction, significantly impairs antigen-specific T cell responses and elevates cancer recurrence risk. A key mechanism is TGFβ-mediated lysosomal incompetence in DCs, resulting from loss of lysosomal prosaposin (pSAP). Herein, we developed an in vivo-generated DC vaccine, BAIT (boosting antigen-delivering immunovaccine for T cell priming), which integrated DC recruitment, antigen delivery, and immune activation within a single platform. Inspired by arginine metabolism-driven lysosomal biogenesis and acidification, BAITs were designed with an arginine-enriched self-assembling peptide backbone, in which tumor lysate antigens and CCL20 co-assembled via coordination interactions. When administered early post-surgery, BAITs recruited DCs, promoted antigen internalization, and activated the mTOR pathway to upregulate pSAP expression. This BAIT-driven DC modulation reversed TGFβ-induced impairments in antigen digestion and MHC-peptide complex formation. To optimize precision immunotherapy, we employed a functional precision medicine approach by customizing tumor lysate preparations induced via ferroptosis, necroptosis, or apoptosis. In a murine postoperative cancer model, Apo-BAITs formulated with apoptotic lysates achieved an 85.5% reduction in tumor burden. These findings demonstrate that BAITs target the lysosomal mTOR-pSAP axis to restore DC function, providing a personalized postoperative cancer vaccine strategy to counter surgery-induced immune suppression.© 2026 The Authors. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd.
Heart rhythm and contraction are initiated by electrical impulses generated by the sinoatrial node (SAN) and modulated by intrinsic cardiac neural inputs. Despite its physiological importance, human in vitro systems that recapitulate neural-SAN interactions are lacking. Here, we develop SAN-plexus assembloids by integrating human pluripotent stem cell-derived SAN organoids (SANOs) with cardiac ganglionated plexus organoids (CGPOs), together with atrial-like cardiac organoids, to model pacemaker-to-atrial conduction in a tri-assembloid system. This platform exhibits molecular, structural, and electrophysiological features of human pacemaker activity and enables functional interrogation of neural control over SAN automaticity, including disease-associated conduction dysfunction. By integrating spatial transcriptomics of human SAN tissue with assembloid-based functional analyses, we identify a neuron-to-pacemaker signaling program in which CGPO-derived prosaposin engages the SAN-enriched receptor GPR37 to promote pacemaker maturation. Together, this work establishes SAN-plexus assembloids as a human platform for studying intrinsic neuro-cardiac interactions in pacemaker development and disease.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lipoxygenases peroxidise polyunsaturated fatty acids, resulting in oxylipins, which may act pro- or anti-inflammatory. Arachidonate 15-lipoxygenase type B was shown to play a role in the resolution of keratinocyte inflammation and is upregulated in psoriasis. Its murine ortholog, arachidonate 8-lipoxygenase (Alox8), differs in regiospecificity in that it adds molecular oxygen to the 8th and not 15th carbon of arachidonic acid. This study aimed to determine if Alox8 plays a role in the resolution of murine imiquimod-induced psoriasis. Alox8 knockout (KO) mice, which are not commercially available, were generated with a functional KO targeting the enzyme's active site. Untargeted Lipidomics revealed changes in the skin lipidome from both imiquimod-induced psoriasis as well as between wild-type and KO mice. Furthermore, LC-MS/MS revealed a functional KO with reductions in Alox8-specific oxylipins. Lipid peroxidation marker 4-hydroxynonenal was elevated in the epidermis of wild-type mice from imiquimod treatment, however, it was significantly reduced in Alox8 KO mice. Alox8 KO mice exhibited a thickened epidermis, resulting from reduced DNA damage and increased proliferation. Moreover, immune cell infiltration was enhanced in Alox8 KO mice, including a higher abundance of γδ T cells. Elevated cytokine levels of interleukin-17 and -22, accompanied by keratinocyte-produced C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1, were detected in the skin of Alox8 KO mice. Additionally, cyclooxygenase 2 expression and prostaglandin E2 levels were enhanced in Alox8 KO mice. These data demonstrate an exacerbated and prolonged inflammatory psoriasis phenotype in Alox8 KO mice, implying that Alox8 aids in the resolution of murine psoriasis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Metabolites serve not only as metabolic intermediates but also as potent signaling molecules that orchestrate cell fate. However, decoding the specific "metabolite-target-phenotype" axis within complex pathophysiological environment remains a major challenge due to the lack of systematic target deconvolution strategies. Here, we developed Circulating Metabolite-Target Responsive Accessibility Profiling (CM-TRAP), an integrated multi-omics workflow that couples untargeted metabolomic screening with TRAP-based chemical proteomic target discovery. This analytical framework enables the direct linkage of disease characteristic metabolic alterations to their molecular targets.To investigate the signaling role of circulating metabolites during Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression, we performed comprehensive metabolomic profiling of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and serum from 3- and 12-month-old 5 × FAD transgenic mice, a well-established mouse model of AD, and identified an early disruption in purine metabolism and late alterations in amino acid and glycolytic pathways within the CSF. Specifically, xanthine emerged as a key stage-dependent metabolite significantly elevated in AD CSF. Functionally, xanthine acts as a pro-inflammatory modulator, potentiating the LPS-induced IL-6 secretion in a dose-dependent manner in BV2 microglial cells. To mechanistically link this pro-inflammatory phenotype with molecular function, we applied TRAP-based chemical proteomics to delineate the dose-dependent structural profiling of xanthine, which led to the identification of peptidase D (PEPD) and prosaposin (PSAP) as candidate targets with potential roles in neuroinflammatory regulation.CM-TRAP establishes an effective analytical strategy for functionally linking metabolic alterations to candidate protein targets, providing a framework for understanding metabolite-associated neuroinflammation. The identification of xanthine as a pro-inflammatory mediator and its engagement with PEPD and PSAP offers site-resolved insights into how a stage-specific metabolite may reshape the microglial proteome to propagate inflammatory signaling. With further validation, this platform could be broadly applicable for discovering bioactive metabolites and their cognate targets across diverse disease contexts.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Dynamic nanomachines capable of selectively engaging tumor-infiltrating immune cells and modulating their intrinsic functions represent a critical unmet need in cancer immunotherapy. Here, we develop an intelligent DNA nanomachine that selectively targets dendritic cells (DCs) within the tumor microenvironment and modulates their immunological function through regulation of prosaposin glycosylation. The nanomachine is constructed on a tetrahedral DNA nanostructure (TDN) and integrates an acid-responsive strand displacement cascade. Selective activation of this cascade in the acidic tumor microenvironment exposes a DC-SIGN-binding aptamer, thereby enabling preferential engagement with tumor-infiltrating DCs. In parallel, the nanomachine initiates RNA interference to silence St6Gal1, leading to suppression of aberrant prosaposin hyperglycosylation in melanoma-associated DCs. This spatiotemporally controlled modulation minimizes off-target interference with immune cells in normal tissues, restores the functional competence of intratumoral DCs, consequently enhances intratumoral T-cell infiltration, and markedly suppresses melanoma growth in mice. Collectively, this work establishes a programmable, strand-displacement-driven DNA nanomachine that integrates tumor microenvironment-triggered DC targeting with glycosylation-directed functional modulation, offering a generalizable strategy for precise remodeling of the tumor immune microenvironment.
Thirty-nine coumarins were isolated from the leaves and roots of Casimiroa edulis La Llave (Rutaceae). Three of these were identified as new prenylated furocoumarins, named casedulins A-C (1-3). Their structures, including absolute configurations, were determined by 2D-NMR spectral analyses and time-dependent density-functional theory (TDDFT) calculations of specific rotations and ECD spectra. This study provides the first detailed report on the diversity of coumarins in the roots of C. edulis, revealing that while linear furocoumarins are common to both the leaves and roots, simple bicyclic coumarins are specifically located in the roots. In a retinoic acid receptor α (RARα) luciferase reporter assay, 8-geranyloxypsoralen hydrate (18) was found to moderately promote gene transcription, with an EC50 value of 0.27 μM.
Hallux valgus (HV) is a common foot deformity influenced by genetic, pathological, and traumatic factors, yet its relationship with serum metabolites (SMs) remains unclear. This study employed two-sample Mendelian randomization (SMR) to investigate causal associations between 1400 SMs and HV, identifying Cysteine and Glycochenodeoxycholate 3-sulfate as negatively correlated with HV occurrence, with no significant reverse causal effect from HV on their levels. Focusing on Cysteine, 548 target genes were predicted from four databases (DrugBank, SuperPred, Genecards, and SwissTargetPrediction) and 793 HV-related genes were retrieved from Genecards, yielding 47 overlapping genes. KEGG enrichment analysis revealed that these intersecting genes were involved in pathways such as cellular senescence and the AGE-RAGE signaling pathway in diabetic complications. Among them, fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) showed a positive causal relationship with Cysteine and a negative causal relationship with HV, which was validated in patient samples showing significantly lower serum Cysteine levels and bone tissue FGFR2 expression in the HV group compared to non-HV controls (p < 0.001). Additionally, Isogranulatimide was identified as a marine-derived active compound targeting FGFR2, with molecular docking and dynamic simulations confirming favorable binding activity. These findings suggest that Cysteine may play a protective role in the development and progression of HV, with FGFR2 serving as a key mediating target that could reduce HV risk both indirectly through elevated Cysteine levels and directly through its own regulation, offering valuable reference for targeted diagnosis and therapy in clinical practice.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Opioid use disorder (OUD) remains a critical global health challenge. The nucleus accumbens (NAc), a key region of the brain reward system, plays an essential role in opioid-induced neuroadaptations. Characterizing gene expression alterations in reward-system regions, such as the NAc, is essential for elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying addiction. In recent years, bioinformatics has emerged as a rapidly advancing field and has played a pivotal role in elucidating molecular mechanisms and in advancing computational biology.This study aimed to characterize transcriptomic changes in the NAc of mice following chronic morphine administration using RNA sequencing and bioinformatic analysis.RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) data from morphine- and saline-treated mice were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus database via the Sequence Read Archive. Following quality control and alignment, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using the DESeq2 package in R. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses, as well as protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analyses, were performed to evaluate the functional implications of these genes.Principal component analysis (PCA) revealed distinct transcriptomic profiles between the morphine and control groups. A total of 143 DEGs were identified, including 125 up-regulated and 18 down-regulated genes. Enrichment analyses indicated significant involvement in synaptic signaling, ion transport, and neurodegenerative pathways. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis identified several hub genes, including fgf3 (fibroblast growth factor 3), mki67 (marker of proliferation Ki-67), grin2a/grin2b (glutamate receptor NMDA subunits 2A/2B), gli1 (GLI family zinc finger 1), and ago2 (argonaute RISC catalytic component 2), which are associated with synaptic plasticity, neurogenesis, and epigenetic regulation.Chronic morphine exposure induces widespread gene expression changes in the NAc, engaging pathways associated with synaptic remodeling, neuronal excitability, and addiction-related neuroplasticity. These findings provide a molecular framework for understanding opioid-induced adaptations and identify candidate targets, including N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunits, fgf3, and ago2, for potential therapeutic intervention. Future studies should functionally validate these targets and evaluate their translational relevance in the context of OUD.Copyright © 2026, Pourmand et al.
Patients with gastric cancer (GC) harboring fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) amplification showed significantly worse survival, compared with patients with FGFR2-unamplified GC. Although various targeted drugs have been developed, previous studies have shown that their efficacy remains suboptimal in most patients within this subgroup. We retrospectively present two cases of FGFR2-amplified advanced GC treated with FGFR inhibitors. Case 1 was a 52-year-old female diagnosed with stage IVB (cTxN+M1, bone and lymph node metastases, HER2-negative, CPS = 2) poorly differentiated signet-ring cell carcinoma, harboring high-level FGFR2 amplification (gene copy number=24.7). Due to extensive bone metastases resulting in severe anemia, pain, and limited mobility (performance status 3), the patient was intolerant to chemotherapy and immunotherapy. In the first-line setting, she received pemigatinib, achieving a progression-free survival (PFS) of 4.4 months and an overall survival (OS) of 8.3 months, accompanied by a significant decrease in tumor markers and rapid clinical symptom improvement. Case 2 was a 61-year-old female diagnosed with stage IVB (cT4bN+M1, liver and lymph node metastases, HER2-negative, CPS = 5) poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. In the third-line setting, she received infigratinib, attaining a PFS of 5.7 months and an OS of 18.5 months. Both patients experienced predictable and manageable FGFR inhibitor-related adverse events (e.g., keratitis, onychotoxicity, hyperphosphatemia). This case series offers hypothesis-generating observations suggesting potential activity of FGFR inhibitors (such as pemigatinib and infigratinib) in patients with FGFR2-amplified advanced gastric cancer who have limited conventional therapeutic options or are intolerant to chemotherapy, highlighting the importance of next-generation sequencing-guided precision therapy.Copyright © 2026 Li, Qian, Xu and Nie.
Fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 gene (FGFR2) rearrangements are among the most common oncogenic drivers in intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA). While FGFR inhibitors are clinically approved, primary and secondary resistance remain major limitations. Preclinical investigation of resistance mechanisms, including cancer cell-extrinsic crosstalk, is hampered by current models that rely on human FGFR2-fusion transgenes in immunodeficient hosts. We therefore aimed to generate an entirely murine FGFR2-fusion driven iCCA (Ff-iCCA) model to study immunomodulatory mechanisms in the tumor microenvironment (TME).A syngeneic cholangiocyte organoid-based iCCA mouse model was engineered via endogenous chromosomal rearrangement of the Fgfr2 gene combined with Trp53 deletion (PFf) and other co-occurring genetic alterations. KrasG12D-mutated lines (PK) served as comparison. TME characterization was performed using 30-plex spatial proteomics on ∼250,000 cells. Bulk RNA-sequencing was conducted on FGFR inhibitor-treated PFf and PK organoids. Pharmacodynamics of FGFR inhibition on Ff-iCCA were assessed by immunostaining and quantitative RT-PCR.Intrahepatic implantation produced well-differentiated Ff-iCCA with morphologic features resembling human small duct type iCCA. In immunocompetent hosts, additional co-alterations were required for tumor penetrance, with Pten deletion being most robust with 75%. Compared to KRAS-driven iCCA, Ff-iCCA showed a significantly increased infiltration by Ly-6C/G+ neutrophils (19-fold, p=0.004) and CD8+ T cells (8-fold, p<0.001). Transcriptome analysis revealed increased chemokine expression in PFf versus PK organoids, which was not reversed by FGFR inhibition. Ff-iCCA responded to FGFR inhibition with a 6.5-fold reduced proliferation in vivo (p=0.029), without observation of significant TME remodeling.Our syngeneic murine Ff-iCCA model recapitulates hallmarks of human FGFR2-fusion iCCA, providing a platform for functional investigation of cancer cell-TME crosstalk in this molecular subtype.This study introduces the first fully syngeneic, endogenously engineered murine model of FGFR2-fusion driven iCCA, overcoming the key limitation of prior models relying on human transgenes in immunodeficient hosts. The model faithfully recapitulates hallmarks of human FGFR2-fusion iCCA, including a small duct type morphology and a distinct neutrophil-enriched tumor immune microenvironment, validating its translational relevance. The finding that an upregulated chemotaxis signature in FGFR2-fusion persists despite FGFR inhibition, alongside upregulation of interferon-stimulated genes upon treatment, points to compensatory immunomodulatory mechanisms that remain to be mechanistically resolved. Overall, this work provides a physiologically relevant platform to interrogate cancer cell-tumor microenvironment crosstalk in FGFR2-fusion driven iCCA.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) drive multiple aggressive lymphomas, yet effective targeted therapies for these virus-associated malignancies remain limited. Using an unbiased kinome-wide screen combined with analysis of virus-positive patient tumors, we identified fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) as a selectively activated host kinase in EBV- and KSHV-associated lymphomas. Importantly, FGFR2 is required for efficient establishment of EBV latent infection, and its knockdown markedly impairs the formation of viral latency programs. Viral latency proteins EBV nuclear antigen 2 (EBNA2) and latency-associated nuclear antigen (LANA) recruit STAT3 and RBP-Jκ to the FGFR2 promoter to drive its transcription, enabling efficient establishment of EBV latency and activation of downstream STAT3/AKT signaling. This feed-forward signaling circuit suppresses apoptosis, promotes S-phase progression, and sustains proliferation of infected lymphoma cells. Targeting FGFR2 genetically or pharmacologically using clinically relevant inhibitors markedly suppresses tumor growth in vitro and in vivo. This study identifies FGFR2 as a critical oncogenic driver in EBV and KSHV infections, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target to inhibit tumor growth and treat associated viral malignancies.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42470704 is a review article
Fibroblast growth factor receptor-2 (FGFR2) translocations are frequently observed in intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA) and represent actionable therapeutic targets. While fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) is commonly used for their detection, its applicability to large cohorts, particularly on tissue microarrays (TMAs), is limited by time-consuming and error-prone manual scoring due to core disorientation. We therefore sought to develop an automated imaging workflow to enable efficient and scalable assessment of FGFR2 translocations in FISH-stained TMAs.Tumor samples from 86 iCCA patients were obtained to construct TMAs, which underwent FISH staining for the detection of FGFR2 translocations. Slides were imaged with an automated inverted wide-field fluorescence microscope. First, a whole-slide overview scan at low resolution was acquired to identify TMA cores. Subsequently, a high-resolution automated scan was performed across the identified regions of interest (ROI) using a custom-built general analysis script with optimized parameters for single-cell analysis. Images were stored with positional metadata for downstream evaluation.Of 86 cases, 85 yielded images with sufficient quality for FGFR2 translocation analysis. Interphase FISH evaluation of the generated images revealed that 8.2% (7/85) of patients tested positive, consistent with reported frequencies.We developed an automated imaging workflow for high-throughput acquisition and archiving of FISH-stained TMAs for FGFR2 translocation assessment in iCCA. By enabling standardized digital imaging, precise core identification, and permanent image preservation, the workflow facilitates efficient and reproducible review of FISH images from large TMA cohorts in both diagnostic and translational research settings. It is readily adaptable to other FISH-based assays and staining protocols, extending its utility beyond FGFR2 testing.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42442510 is a review article
The molecular mechanisms underlying obstructive jaundice (OJ)-induced liver injury and subsequent repair after biliary recanalization (R-OJ) remain incompletely elucidated. This study aimed to identify and validate core gene involved in regulating OJ-related liver injury and repair via integrated in vitro and in vivo models.Animal models (OJ and R-OJ groups) and cell models (OJ serum (OJS) and OJ serum depletion (OJSD) groups) were established. Liver function and histopathologic changes were evaluated. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened by RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), and candidate genes were selected by intersecting DEGs with functional gene sets associated with "injury" and "repair". Key genes were identified via protein-protein interaction (PPI) network and pathway enrichment analyses. Fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) expression was validated by quantitative reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR), Western blot, and immunohistochemistry (IHC). Functional involvement of FGFR2 was assessed by siRNA-mediated knockdown followed by assessment of downstream AKT signaling, proliferation (proliferating cell nuclear antigen, PCNA), and apoptosis maker cleaved caspase-3.OJ induced significant liver dysfunction and tissue damage, which partially recovered after R-OJ. Bioinformatic analyses identified FGFR2 as a core regulatory gene among 20 candidates. FGFR2 was downregulated during injury (OJS vs. Con, p < 0.05) and upregulated during repair (OJSD vs. OJS, p < 0.05) both in vivo and in vitro. FGFR2 knockdown in BRL-3A cells markedly reduced p-AKT levels by approximately 50% under all serum conditions (p < 0.01), significantly decreased PCNA expression, and altered cleaved caspase-3 levels, suggesting that FGFR2 may contribute to hepatocyte proliferation and survival, potentially through the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/AKT signaling.FGFR2 exhibits a dynamic expression pattern of downregulation during cholestatic injury and upregulation during repair, and is associated with hepatocyte proliferation and apoptosis, potentially through AKT signaling. These findings suggest that FGFR2 may represent a potential therapeutic target for improving liver repair in obstructive jaundice.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Metastasis is the leading cause of death in patients with lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD), highlighting the urgent need to identify novel therapeutic targets. GLIS family zinc finger 1 (GLIS1) is a transcription factor implicated in multiple cancers. However, its role in LUAD remains poorly defined. In this study, we first identified that GLIS1 was significantly upregulated in LUAD tissues. To modulate its expression, lentiviral vectors were constructed to knock down or overexpress GLIS1 in NCI-H1975 and A549 LUAD cell lines, respectively. In vitro gain- and loss-of-function experiments revealed that GLIS1 knockdown significantly inhibited the migratory and invasive capabilities of NCI-H1975 cells. Conversely, GLIS1 overexpression enhanced these malignant phenotypes in A549 cells. In vivo study demonstrated that GLIS1 knockdown substantially reduced liver and lung metastasis of NCI-H1975 cells in mice. Furthermore, we found that downregulation of GLIS1 suppressed LUAD cell migration by inhibiting Homeobox A9 (HOXA9) methylation, which led to the subsequent upregulation of HOXA9 expression. Mechanistically, GLIS1 knockdown transcriptionally suppressed the mRNA level of the DNA methyltransferase DNMT3B, thereby attenuating HOXA9 methylation. Specifically, overexpression of DNMT3B led to DNA hypermethylation and transcriptional suppression of HOXA9, thereby partially rescuing the tumor-suppressive effects resulting from GLIS1 knockdown. Our work is the first to implicate the GLIS1/DNMT3B axis in the epigenetic silencing of HOXA9 in LUAD, highlighting the therapeutic potential of targeting GLIS1.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Obesity is recognized as a key contributor to the impaired endometrial receptivity that results in infertility; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying endometrial dysfunction remain incompletely understood. In this study, proteomic and ubiquitination analyses of secretory-phase endometrial tissue revealed a significant upregulation of SNCA/synuclein alpha and dysregulation of macroautophagy/autophagy in women with obesity. SNCA is best known for its role in neurodegenerative protein aggregation disorders. Proteomic and ubiquitination analysis of secretory-phase endometrial tissue revealed a significant upregulation of SNCA and dysregulation of autophagy in women with obesity. This study aimed to elucidate the role and mechanistic basis of SNCA and autophagy in obesity-associated endometrial receptivity defects. We demonstrated that elevated SNCA expression in endometrium and endometrial stromal cells (ESCs) correlated with impaired autophagy and disrupted decidualization in vivo and vitro. Mechanistically, SNCA directly interacted with the E3 ubiquitin ligase STUB1 (STIP1 homology and U-box containing protein 1) in ESCs, thereby disrupting the association between STUB1 and phosphorylated TFEB (transcription factor EB; p-TFEB). This interaction attenuated p‑TFEB degradation, leading to suppressed autophagic flux and ultimately compromised decidualization of ESCs. Conversely, snca knockout alleviated obesity-induced endometrial impairments in mice. Moreover, STUB1 overexpression rescued decidualization and autophagy defects. Notably, metformin intervention restored autophagic activity and endometrial receptivity in obese mice by downregulation of SNCA independent of its autophagy-modulating effects. Together, these findings uncovered a novel pathogenic mechanism in which obesity-driven SNCA overexpression impairs endometrial receptivity by inhibiting STUB1-TFEB-mediated autophagy, positioning the SNCA-STUB1-TFEB axis as a promising therapeutic target for obesity-related endometrial infertility.Abbreviations: BECN1: beclin 1; CCK-8: Cell Counting Kit-8; CQ: chloroquine; DEPs: differentially expressed proteins; DIO: diet-induced obese; ESCs: endometrial stromal cells; FBS: fetal bovine serum; GD7: gestational day 7; GSEA: Gene Set Enrichment Analysis; HFD: high-fat diet; HOXA10: homeobox A10; IGFBP1: insulin like growth factor binding protein 1; IPGTT: intraperitoneal glucose tolerance test; LIF: LIF interleukin 6 family cytokine; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PRL: prolactin; Rapa: rapamycin; SNCA/synuclein alpha; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STUB1: STIP1 homology and U-box containing protein 1; TC: total cholesterol; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFEB: transcription factor EB; UPS: ubiquitin-proteasome system; WOI: window of implantation.
Radiation-induced intestinal injury (RIII) represents a significant dose-limiting complication of radiotherapy, characterized by substantial loss of intestinal epithelial cells (IECs). While the activation of cannabinoid receptor 2 (CB2R) is protective in immune‑mediated colitis, the intrinsic role of CB2R in IECs and its potential therapeutic relevance in RIII have not been defined.An RIII mouse model was established in wild-type and CB2R-/- mice. Small-molecule CB2R agonists were screened for radioprotective efficacy, followed by pharmacological and siRNA-based interrogation of CB2R signaling in intestinal epithelial cell lines and primary mouse intestinal epithelial cells. RNA sequencing and bioinformatics were combined with permeability assays, immunofluorescence, electron microscopy, and molecular analyses of oxidative stress and ferroptosis to elucidate underlying mechanisms.Irradiation induced CB2R expression in the intestinal epithelium, and genetic ablation of CB2R markedly aggravated RIII. A focused pharmacological screen identified a recently synthesized dual‑target compound, CB2R/FAAH modulator‑2 (CF‑2), which combines CB2R agonistic activity with fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) inhibition and significantly mitigated radiation‑induced colonic injury while exerting protective effects on the small intestine and spleen. Mechanistically, CB2R activation attenuated irradiation‑induced ferroptosis and preserved intestinal epithelial integrity. Integrative transcriptomic analyses identified Homeobox A10 (HoxA10) as a critical epithelial‑enriched transcriptional amplifier that reinforced CB2R/β‑catenin signaling through a positive‑feedback loop, thereby enhancing CB2R‑mediated epithelial protection.This study defines an epithelial‑intrinsic CB2R signaling axis in RIII, linking ferroptosis suppression to preservation of intestinal barrier integrity. CF‑2 is positioned as a promising mechanism‑based candidate for radioprotection.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42098518 is a review article
Copper and levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine devices (IUDs) primarily prevent pregnancy through pre-fertilization mechanisms; however, their potential effects on endometrial receptivity remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to compare the regulation of selected adhesive and anti-adhesive endometrial receptivity markers in women using copper and levonorgestrel-releasing IUDs.Observational cross-sectional study was conducted at a tertiary referral center between November 2025 and January 2026. Endometrial samples were obtained from women undergoing elective IUD removal, including copper IUD users (n = 20), levonorgestrel-releasing IUD (LNG-IUD) users (n = 20), and age-matched controls (n = 15). After histological evaluation, secretory-phase samples from copper IUD users and controls were included, whereas all LNG-IUD samples were analyzed due to uniform endometrial atrophy. Quantitative real-time PCR was performed to assess mRNA expression of podocalyxin (PCX) and homeobox A10 (HOXA10).PCX expression was significantly increased in copper IUD users and significantly decreased in LNG-IUD users compared with controls (both p < 0.001). HOXA10 expression was significantly reduced in both IUD groups compared with controls (p < 0.001). A significant negative correlation between PCX and HOXA10 was observed exclusively in copper IUD users (r = -0.653, p = 0.001).Copper and levonorgestrel-releasing IUDs are associated with distinct patterns of endometrial receptivity marker regulation, suggesting different local molecular environments that may contribute to their contraceptive effects.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) involves a progressive deterioration of cognitive abilities, memory loss, and persistent brain inflammation. Emerging evidence indicates that pyroptosis mediated by the NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome, contributes significantly to AD development. Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) has demonstrated neuroprotective properties; however, the precise mechanisms by which it modulates pyroptosis in AD have yet to remained incompletely elucidated.To explore the role of DHA in modulating microglial pyroptosis via the HOXA9-NLRP3 pathway in an AD model.Effects of DHA on Aβ25-35-induced pyroptosis were assessed in human microglial clone 3 (HMC3) human microglial cells using CCK-8, western blotting, immunofluorescence, and Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) assays. The role of homeobox A9 (HOXA9) in pyroptosis regulation was evaluated through overexpression and knockdown experiments. Dual-luciferase reporter assays together with chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) were used to verify the interaction of HOXA9 to NLRP3 promoter. Amyloid precursor protein / Presenilin-1 double-transgenic (APP/PS1) transgenic AD mice underwent DHA treatment in vivo, and cognitive performance was assessed using the Morris water maze paradigm. Expression of HOXA9, NLRP3, and pyroptosis-related proteins were analyzed by Quantitative Real-time Reverse Transcription PCR (qRT-PCR), Western blotting, and immunofluorescence.DHA treatment significantly reduced Aβ25-35-induced microglial pyroptosis, as indicated by decreased levels of p30-Gasdermin D (GSDMD), cleaved-caspase-1, IL-1β, and IL-18. HOXA9 overexpression reversed the protective effects of DHA, whereas NLRP3 inhibition by MCC950 enhanced DHA inhibition of pyroptosis. Dual-luciferase and ChIP assays confirmed that HOXA9 directly regulates NLRP3 transcription. In APP/PS1 mice, DHA administration enhanced cognitive performance while simultaneously decreasing the expression of pyroptosis-related markers and inflammatory mediators in brain. Inhibition of NLRP3 signaling by MCC950 further strengthened the neuroprotective actions of DHA.DHA ameliorates AD-related cognitive decline and reduces microglial pyroptosis through suppressing the HOXA9-NLRP3 axis. These results offer novel insights into the molecular basis of DHA-mediated neuroprotection and highlight potential therapeutic targets for AD.© Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Identifying biomarkers of epithelial‒mesenchymal transition (EMT) and metastasis play a decisive role in the prognosis and clinical management of Oral cancer (OC). Homeobox A9 (HOXA9), an imperative regulator of embryogenesis and endothelial cell proliferation, is aberrantly expressed in several malignancies, including OC. To date, HOXA9-mediated molecular mechanisms and their functional roles in EMT and OC metastasis remain poorly understood. In this study, we observed significant upregulation of HOXA9 in OC samples with lymph node-positive stage and higher histological grade. Notably, we demonstrated that retroviral-mediated knockdown of HOXA9 impairs proliferation, migration, and invasion while promoting apoptosis and cell cycle arrest. A substantial reduction in tumor volume and diminished lung metastasis was observed in nude mice receiving HOXA9-knockdown cells. Transcriptomic analysis of HOXA9-depleted cells revealed the downregulation of multiple pathways, with the most significant being "pathways in cancer". We further demonstrated that HOXA9 transcriptionally activates VIM to promote EMT and it also facilitates β-catenin nuclear translocation, which subsequently activates downstream target genes driving Wnt/β-catenin cascade. Our study also unveils HOXA9-driven molecular interplay in which HOXA9-dependent transcriptional activation of VIM triggers Wnt/β-catenin cascade in OC. Furthermore, we demonstrated that hypomethylated CpGs at HOXA9 promoter (spanning -4201bp to -3574bp upstream of TSS) in stage III/IV tumors showed a significant inverse correlation between hypomethylation and gene upregulation. Consistently, analysis of the same distal promoter region revealed the enrichment of activating histone modifications, further supporting its transcriptional permissive state. Collectively, our study uncovers a novel mechanism by which epigenetically altered HOXA9 serves as a potential inducer of EMT through regulation of VIM/Wnt-β-catenin/EMT signaling axis. These findings signify HOXA9 as a promising biomarker in OC and targeting HOXA9 could be an effective strategy to improve clinical outcome of patients diagnosed with advanced stages.© 2026. The Author(s).
The aberrant upregulation of Homeobox A10 (HOXA10) has been implicated in the progression of nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC), but the mechanisms driving its upregulation are not fully elucidated. This study demonstrated that the E3 ubiquitin ligase SMAD ubiquitination regulatory factor 1 (SMURF1) promoted the ubiquitin-mediated degradation of CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF), thereby alleviating CTCF-mediated transcriptional repression on HOXA10. Consequently, elevated HOXA10 expression contributed to tumor progression in NPC. We confirmed that HOXA10 was significantly upregulated in NPC and promoted malignant phenotypes of NPC cells. CTCF was identified as a direct transcriptional repressor of HOXA10 and was downregulated in NPC. Moreover, SMURF1 was found to be increased in NPC, where it directly bound to CTCF and regulated its protein stability. Specifically, SMURF1 promoted K48-linked ubiquitination degradation of CTCF. In vitro functional assays revealed that SMURF1 knockdown inhibited NPC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. In vivo experiments further confirmed that SMURF1 knockdown suppressed NPC tumor growth and lung metastasis, accompanied by increased CTCF expression and decreased HOXA10 level in both tumor and lung tissues. Collectively, these findings revealed the SMURF1/CTCF/HOXA10 axis as a crucial mechanism in NPC pathogenesis, positioning SMURF1 as a promising therapeutic target for intervention.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
The Bushen Zhuyun Recipe (BSZYR) is a traditional Chinese formula for treating infertility that can improve the pregnancy outcome via enhancing endometrial receptivity during in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer in the treatment of infertility patients. However, its exact molecular mechanism remains unclear.Impaired endometrial receptivity is a major cause of embryo implantation failure. Kruppel-like factor 4 (KLF4) and the histone methyltransferase mixed-lineage leukemia 1 (MLL1) are known regulators of endometrial receptivity. This study investigates whether the BSZYR improves endometrial receptivity by modulating the expression and activity of KLF4 and MLL1, and further explores the underlying epigenetic mechanisms.Ultra high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry was applied to identify the major compounds in BSZYR. Using a controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) mouse model, we evaluated the effects of BSZYR on the number of embryo implantation sites and endometrial morphology. Endometrial epithelial cells were treated with BSZYR-containing serum, adenovirus-mediated KLF4 overexpression or knockdown, or siRNA targeting MLL1. The expression levels of homeobox A10 (HOXA10), MLL1, and KLF4 were assessed by qRT-PCR, immunofluorescence, and Western blot. H3K4me3 modification was detected via immunofluorescence and Western blot. Protein interaction between MLL1 and KLF4 was examined by co-immunoprecipitation, and chromatin immunoprecipitation was used to measure the binding of KLF4, MLL1, and H3K4me3 to the HOXA10 promoter region. Molecular docking was conducted to assess the potential binding interactions of BSZYR compounds with MLL1 and KLF4.BSZYR enhanced endometrial receptivity and promoted embryo implantation in a COH mouse model. It upregulates the expression of the receptivity marker HOXA10 both in vivo and in vitro. Notably, BSZYR induced KLF4 expression and promoted its nuclear translocation. Within the nucleus, KLF4 interacts with MLL1 and recruits it to the HOXA10 promoter region, thereby increasing H3K4me3 enrichment and activating HOXA10 transcription. This epigenetic mechanism ultimately enhances endometrial receptivity.BSZYR improved endometrial receptivity during COH. BSZYR enhances endometrial receptivity by facilitating functional cooperation between KLF4 and MLL1, leading to synergistic activation of HOXA10 transcription through epigenetic mechanisms. These findings not only reveal a novel regulatory axis in endometrial physiology but also provide substantial pharmacological support for BSZYR's clinical application.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
The complex tumor microenvironment (TME) of colorectal cancer (CRC), composed of diverse cellular components and dynamic interactions, constitutes a major barrier to effective immunotherapy and facilitates disease progression. There is a pressing need to elucidate CRC-intrinsic factors that induce the immunosuppressive TME. Here, we explored the role of homeobox D13 (HOXD13) in shaping the immune microenvironment of CRC and its contribution to immunosuppression.The expression level of HOXD13 was assessed using quantitative real-time PCR, immunoblotting, and immunohistochemistry. The role of HOXD13 in CRC was investigated using orthotopic allograft models and azoxymethane/dextran sulfate sodium-induced spontaneous tumor models in intestine-specific HOXD13 knockout and knock-in mice. The immune landscape of the CRC microenvironment was characterized via flow cytometry and immunofluorescence.Our study revealed the upregulation mechanism of HOXD13 in CRC and its functional role in fostering an immunosuppressive TME. HOXD13 was upregulated in CRC, particularly in metastatic cases, and patients exhibiting high HOXD13 expression showed poorer clinical outcomes. Mechanistically, HOXD13 promoted M2-type polarization of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and suppressed CD8+ T cells mediated antitumor immunity by transcriptionally upregulating amphiregulin (AREG) and paired immunoglobulin like type 2 receptor alpha (PILRA) in CRC cells. Concurrently, transforming growth factor beta 1 released from M2-polarized TAMs further augmented HOXD13 expression in CRC cells via activation of the Smad2/3 signaling pathway. This reciprocal interaction formed a self-reinforcing loop that sustained immunosuppression and thereby accelerated tumor progression. Notably, combined inhibition of AREG and programmed cell death ligand 1 effectively disrupted this crosstalk, restored antitumor immunity, and ultimately suppressed CRC progression.Our study identified HOXD13 as a pivotal regulator in the establishment of an immunosuppressive TME and suggested that targeting the HOXD13 signaling axis represents a promising strategy to sensitize CRC to immunotherapy.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder with an unclear pathogenesis. Growing evidence implicates excitatory/inhibitory (E/I) imbalance in ASD pathophysiology, prompting an investigation into gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-mediated inhibitory transmission. The transcription factor Paired Box 2 (Pax2), essential for GABAergic interneuron specification, participates in the regulation of neural developmental processes. Our previous work demonstrated an E/I imbalance in the neurotransmitter system and reduced GABAARα2-positive neurons in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) of Pax2 neuron-specific deletion mice, though the internal molecular regulatory mechanism remained elusive. In this study, we generated GABAergic neuron-specific Pax2 knockdown mice via injection of AAV-shPax2 virus and comprehensively evaluated ASD-related behaviors, revealing autism-like behaviors, such as impaired social novelty and repetitive behaviors. Molecular analysis revealed upregulation of Tcf7l2, a key downstream mediator of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. Functional assessment confirmed hyperactivation of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway in GABAergic neuron Pax2 knockdown mice. Notably, pharmacological intervention with esculetin, an inhibitor of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway, ameliorated the observed autism-like behaviors. These findings establish a pathogenic axis wherein GABAergic neuron-specific Pax2 deficiency induces hyperactivation of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway and disrupts E/I balance, ultimately driving autism-like behavioral phenotypes. Our results further identify inhibition of Wnt/β-catenin signaling as a promising therapeutic strategy for ASD.Copyright © 2026 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42417999 is a review article
Understanding sex determination mechanism is crucial for elucidating sexual evolution and sex control in animal husbandry. In this study, data showed that doublesex and mab-3 related transcription factor 2 (DMRT2) expression in gonads was developmentally regulated in a sex- and lateralization-specific manner. The nuclear localization signal of DMRT2 was identified, showing high expression in the female gonadal cortex. Transcriptome and chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing (ChIP-seq) analyses screened and validated target genes (component of inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase complex (CHUK) and SRY-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9)) and downstream signaling pathways (e.g., sex determination, cell apoptosis, and inflammation related). It was also validated that DMRT2 could promote cell proliferation and inhibit apoptosis. The effect of DMRT2 on apoptosis and inflammation was mediated by CHUK. These factors may potentially regulate apoptosis pathway and Wnt signaling pathway. In conclusion, DMRT2 participates in sex differentiation and development of chicken gonads by regulating proliferation, apoptosis, and inflammatory pathways through target genes such as CHUK and SOX9. The novel mechanism of DMRT2 regulating avian gonadal differentiation and development may deepen understanding of vertebrate sexual evolution and facilitate sex control in poultry.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) and lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) lack well-defined cellular origins, limiting treatment options. In this report, scRNA-seq of Tsc2+/- mouse renal cystadenomas revealed an 80-fold increase in a tumor cell subpopulation with neural crest features, expressing known cranial neural crest genes as SRY box transcription factor 9 (Sox9), transcription factor activator protein (Tfap2a), and candidate neurocristopathy markers, osteopontin (Spp1), lipocalin-2 (Lcn2), clusterin (Clu), and cytokeratin 18 (Krt18). These signatures were validated in mouse tumors and LAM patient lesions and serum, identifying a tumor phenotype distinct from traditional VEGFD detection. Pathway analysis indicated activation of WNT/SHH signaling, nephric duct formation, and protumorigenic signals, with transcription factor 7 (Tcf7) and ephrin-A ligands as key upstream regulators. Spp1 KO in cranial neural crest cells (CNCCs) significantly reduced proliferation (28%-33%), migration (54%-76%), and invasion (29%-64%) without affecting viability, while Tsc2 KO increased viability 3- to 6-fold with minimal effect on chemotaxis. Elevated serum levels of SPP1 and KRT18 in 1 subset of patients with LAM, decreased LCN2 in nearly all cases, and distinct increases in VEGFD in a separate subset suggest complementary roles for these biomarkers. Overall, findings support a neurocristopathic model of tumor development in TSC and LAM and identify potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets beyond mTOR inhibition.
Postpartum mammary gland involution is a coordinated process of cell death and remodeling that returns the tissue to a near pre-pregnant state following lactation and weaning. In models of postpartum breast cancer, defined as breast cancer diagnosed in women under age 45 and within 10 years of recent childbirth, involution induces durable phenotypes in breast tumor cells that promote progression and are associated with increased risk for therapeutic resistance, metastasis, and death in patients. SRY-Box Transcription Factor 9 (SOX9), a known regulator of mammary stem and progenitor cells, also promotes resistance to therapy and metastasis in breast cancers. Yet the contribution of SOX9 to the involution process is not well understood. We utilized single-cell RNA sequencing of mouse mammary glands during involution to delineate Sox9-expressing cell populations during lactation and involution. We found that Sox9 mRNA is primarily expressed in luminal progenitor cells that are largely absent during lactation and present during early involution. We also reveal that Sox9 is involved in a shift in cell state from lactational to non-lactational and is expressed in the surviving cells during involution. Prior work revealed that Semaphorin-7a (SEMA7A) also promotes cancer stem cell and prosurvival phenotypes in luminal progenitor cells during involution, and we observe a population of luminal progenitor cells that co-expresses Sox9 and Sema7a during involution. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that knockdown of Sox9 in cultured mammary epithelial cells results in increased SEMA7A expression, mesenchymal phenotypes, and loss of lactogenic differentiation capacity, identifying a potential regulatory axis where SOX9 balances SEMA7A expression in normal mammary epithelium and that disruption of this balance results in a dedifferentiated state that resembles mesenchymal cells. We validated a spatial relationship between SOX9 and SEMA7A proteins in a unique set of breast tissue samples from healthy human donors to show co-expression during early involution. In breast cancer datasets, we observe elevated expression of SOX9 and SEMA7A in triple-negative breast cancers, as well as in the mesenchymal subtype of triple-negative breast cancers, suggesting disruption of this regulatory axis in breast cancer. Finally, we observe that co-expression increases metastatic risk in both estrogen receptor-negative and -positive breast cancers. Collectively, these findings define a novel SOX9-SEMA7A relationship in healthy mammary tissues and illustrate how studies of normal progenitor cell phenotypes can delineate cellular mechanisms that contribute to breast tumor progression.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) exhibits substantial interpatient heterogeneity and is driven by intricate crosstalk between tumor-intrinsic mutations and the tumor microenvironment (TME), yet the mechanisms by which specific genetic alterations remodel the TME and regulate tumor stemness remain elusive. The SRY-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9) is a key regulator of intestinal homeostasis, with mutations implicated in CRC progression, but its single-cell level effects on TME dynamics have not been fully elucidated. To dissect the heterogeneity and cell-cell interactions underlying SOX9 mutation-driven CRC progression, we integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data of 23 CRC tumor samples with bulk sequencing and mutation data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) using the Scissor algorithm. We identified a malignant epithelial subpopulation (Scissor+) specifically associated with SOX9 mutations, which exhibits enhanced stemness signatures. Further, we predicted a significant upregulation of the COL1A1-CD44 axis in SOX9-mutant tumors via CellChat, which was supported by immunohistochemical analyses in patient tissues and mouse xenograft models. By integrating stemness-related genes and fibroblast-derived ligands, we established a 172-gene fibroblast-stemness signature that was associated with overall survival, recurrence-free survival, and disease-specific survival across multiple independent CRC cohorts. Functional validation via CD44 knockdown and in vivo xenograft assays confirmed that the COL1A1-CD44 axis mediates SOX9 mutation-driven stemness maintenance and tumor progression. Collectively, our data enhance understanding of how SOX9 mutations remodel the TME, pinpoint the COL1A1-CD44 axis as a promising therapeutic candidate for SOX9-mutant CRC, and support precise patient stratification and targeted interventions.© 2026. The Author(s).
Despite the widespread use of progesterone or progesterone receptor (PGR) blockers as contraceptives, the complete set of PGR-regulated genes and their roles in human ovulatory follicles remain unidentified. Here, we identified the PGR-regulated transcriptome, revealing numerous genes involved in metabolism, steroidogenesis, signaling activation, cell cycle regulation, and transcriptional control during ovulation using integrative omics and a primary human granulosa cell model that recapitulates the in vivo ovulatory phenomenon. These results led us to discover SRY-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9) as a human-specific, PGR-target gene during ovulation. Further functional studies showed that SOX9 regulates the expression of steroidogenesis-related genes, impacting progesterone production. In summary, we mapped the full spectrum of PGR-responsive genes in human ovulatory follicles and identified SOX9 as a human-specific mediator of the ovulatory process. These data provide critical insights into PGR-regulated ovulatory pathways, laying the foundation for developing targeted therapeutic strategies for infertility treatment and contraception.© 2026 The Authors.
Krüppel-like factor 15 is a metabolism-related transcription factor that has been implicated in the regulation of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. This study aimed to elucidate its function in cartilage, particularly its interaction with β-catenin, using inducible cartilage-specific knockout mice. Krüppel-like factor 15 knockout mice and control mice underwent destabilization of medial meniscal surgery to induce osteoarthritis. Histological analysis and immunohistochemistry were carried out, along with in vitro co-immunoprecipitation, double immunofluorescence, and subcellular fractionation, and a dual-luciferase reporter assay. The effects of Wnt3A stimulation and treatment with Wnt/β-catenin inhibitors were evaluated. Knockout mice showed significantly more cartilage degeneration at eight weeks after surgery when compared with control mice. Knockout mice also showed elevated Osteoarthritis Research Society International scores and increased expression of β-catenin, matrix metalloprotease-13, and a disintegrin-like metalloprotease with thrombospondin motifs-5, along with decreased expression of SRY-box transcription factor 9. Krüppel-like factor 15 was seen to physically interact and colocalize with β-catenin in chondrocyte nuclei. Its deficiency promoted canonical Wnt/β-catenin pathway activation and nuclear β-catenin accumulation. Consistently, dual-luciferase reporter assays demonstrated increased β-catenin/TCF transcriptional activity in Krüppel-like factor 15-deficient chondrocytes, which was further enhanced by Wnt3A stimulation. Wnt3A stimulation amplified catabolic gene expression and suppressed anabolic factor expression. However, administration of a Wnt/β-catenin signaling inhibitor canceled out these effects. This study indicates that Krüppel-like factor 15 interacts with β-catenin and functions as a negative regulator of Wnt/β-catenin signaling in cartilage, maintaining matrix homeostasis, and suppressing osteoarthritis progression. Deficiency of Krüppel-like factor 15 promotes catabolism and inhibits anabolism mediated by β-catenin in cartilage. These findings suggest that Krüppel-like factor 15 may be a potential therapeutic target for osteoarthritis, either by restoring its function or enhancing its interaction with β-catenin.© 2026. The Author(s).
Aberrant activation of the Sonic Hedgehog (SHH)-glioma-associated oncogene 1 (GLI1) signaling pathway is a determinant driver of basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and SHH-subgroup medulloblastoma (MBSHH). Here, we demonstrate the role of S-palmitoylation and depalmitoylation of GLI1 in the regulation of incidence and progression of MBSHH. High expression of acyltransferase ZDHHC13 in MBSHH induces S-palmitoylation of human GLI1 at Cys1034, stabilizes GLI1 by preventing its ubiquitin-dependent proteasomal degradation, and in turn activates this signaling pathway to promote the progression of MBSHH. Conversely, the deacylase ABHD17A depalmitoylates GLI1 at Cys1034, destabilizes GLI1, and in turn inactivates this signaling pathway. As a result, conditional knockout of Zdhhc13 in cerebellar granule neuron precursors (GNPs) significantly alleviates the severity of MBSHH induced by constitutively active Smoothened (Smo-M2) overexpression and markedly extends overall survival, whereas knockout of Abhd17a increases the incidence of MBSHH induced by Patched-1 ablation, rather than its progression. Together, these findings uncover the dynamic regulation of GLI1 palmitoylation and depalmitoylation by the ZDHHC13 and ABHD17A and subsequent GLI1 stabilization and destabilization as a hitherto uncharacterized mechanism controlling SHH/GLI1 signaling and may provide additional targets for therapeutic intervention of MBSHH.© 2026. The Author(s).
The kidney proximal tubule undergoes dramatic cell-state transformations during recovery from injury, serving as a unique model to study the dynamic transcriptional regulation of cell identity. The DNA-binding transcription factor paired box-8 (PAX8) contributes to proximal tubule development and recovery from injury. Here we report a mouse proximal-tubule-derived Pax2-null, Pax8-conditional cell line that enables assessment of the genome-wide effect of PAX8 on transcription and cellular function. PAX8-depleted cells lose the differentiated proximal tubule phenotype. Re-expression of Pax8 rescues the epithelial phenotype and restores expression of genes lost following PAX8 depletion. This model recapitulates the expression patterns and stress-resistance of PAX8-deficient proximal tubule cells in vivo, justifying its use to study the molecular mechanisms of PAX8 function. Across the genome, the changes in transcription caused by PAX8 loss are linked with PAX8-bound distal regulatory elements, where PAX8 can either activate or repress transcription. Among PAX8-activated genes, expression is tightly linked to PAX8-dependent H3K4me1 and H3K27ac at distal regulatory elements. In contrast, PAX8-repressed genes showed little change in these marks. These results indicate that PAX8 regulates enhancer histone marks dynamically and reversibly across the genome to control proximal-tubule-specific gene expression patterns.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42127989 is a review article
Renal angiomyolipomas (AMLs) are rare benign kidney tumors. Epithelioid angiomyolipoma (EAML) is a distinct variant with unique histopathological features and recognized malignant potential. This study highlights the diagnostic features and pitfalls of EAML. A 41-year-old woman was referred after an incidental left renal mass was detected on ultrasound. She was asymptomatic, with unremarkable examination and laboratory results, though her family history included several malignancies. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a 3.5-cm partly exophytic, posterior lower-pole renal mass without pelvicalyceal invasion. The patient underwent robotic-assisted left partial nephrectomy. Histopathology showed a tumor composed predominantly of epithelioid cells with reduced vascularity, thick-walled vessels, and adipose tissue. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated positivity for smooth muscle actin (SMA) and Human Melanoma Black-45 (HMB-45) and negativity for Paired box 8 (PAX-8), confirming EAML. EAML poses diagnostic and management challenges due to uncertain malignant potential and lack of guidelines. Surgical resection remains primary treatment, with long-term surveillance recommended.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press and JSCR Publishing Ltd.
Gorlin-Goltz syndrome, also called Basal cell nevus syndrome (BCNS), Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome (NBCCS), or Basal nevus cell carcinoma syndrome (BNCCS) is a rare, inherited, autosomal dominant genodermatoses, with variable expression and complete penetrance, characterized by the occurrence of multiple basal cell carcinomas (BCCs) at a young age, palmoplantar pits, keratocystic odontogenic tumors, intracranial ectopic calcifications, facial dysmorphism, and ocular and skeletal anomalies. It occurs due to a defective hedgehog cell signaling pathway, caused by heterozygous germ-line mutations in either Patched 1 (PTCH1), Suppressor of fused (SUFU), Smoothened (SMO), or Patched 2 (PTCH2) genes, leading to tumorigenesis and various developmental anomalies. Because of variable phenotypic expression, the syndrome is difficult to diagnose and is often diagnosed late, increasing the risk of morbidity and rarely mortality in the patients. The gene mutated also determines the phenotypic expression of the syndrome. Detection of the gene mutated plays an important role in, antenatal diagnosis, confirming the diagnosis when in doubt clinically and predictive diagnosis in family members of the affected individuals, which helps us to diagnose the syndrome early, hence screen for various clinical manifestations at the appropriate age according to the gene that is mutated and initiate early treatment to reduce morbidity and mortality.Copyright: © 2026 Indian Journal of Dermatology.
The liver is a common primary cancer site in humans. Actin-related protein 6 (ACTR6) plays a key role in liver cancer. The aim of this study was to further explore the regulatory molecular mechanism of ACTR6 in liver cancer.In this study, hepatoma cell HuH-7 was evaluated by 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine staining, colony formation, Transwell assay, and wound healing assay. The possible mechanism of the action of ACTR6 on hepatocellular carcinoma cells was evaluated by analyzing sphere formation, the key factors of the Hedgehog (Hh) signaling pathway, and molecules related to cell stemness. Then, xenografted mouse tumor models were used to demonstrate the promotion effect of ACTR6 on liver cancer in vivo.ACTR6 was highly expressed in HuH-7h and HepG2 cells (P < 0.001). Silencing ACTR6 inhibited the migration, invasion capacity, and activity of HuH-7 (P < 0.01). ACTR6 activated the Hh signaling pathway by upregulating the expression of Sonic Hedgehog, patched 1, smoothened, and glioma-associated transcription factor 1. In addition, ACTR6 increased the molecular level of cell stemness by increasing the level of cellular myelocytomatosis oncogene, octamer-binding transcription factor 4, Nanog homeobox, and SRY-box transcription factor 2. Vismodegib reversed the promoting effect of ACTR6 on the Hh signaling pathway and stem-related proteins in cells.ACTR6 regulates the molecular basis of stemness maintenance of liver cancer cells through the Hh signaling pathway and promotes the occurrence of liver cancer. This study provides possible targets for the clinical treatment of liver cancer.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
The intestinal epithelium supports antimicrobial programs and epithelial barrier function; while epigenetic mechanisms are increasingly implicated in these processes, how the differentiation stage shapes epigenetic regulation of key innate immune genes under inflammatory stress remains unclear. We investigated differentiation-stage-dependent epigenetic modulation of intestinal innate immunity-associated genes, focusing on α-defensin 5 (DEFA5) and SRY-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9), in a controlled Caco-2 differentiation framework. Human colon-derived Caco-2 cells were cultured for 2-14 days and transiently exposed to dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) as an in vitro epithelial inflammatory stressor. Promoter DNA methylation and gene expression of DEFA5, SOX9, odd-skipped-related transcription factor 1 (OSR1), and receptor-interacting protein 140 (RIP140) were assessed. DSS exposure at the undifferentiated stage was associated with sustained suppression of DEFA5 and SOX9 accompanied by increased DNMT1/3B expression, together with altered expression of SOX9-associated transcription factors (OSR1 and RIP140). Transient DNMT1 inhibition with GSK-3484862 during early differentiation partially rescued DSS-imposed suppression of DEFA5 and SOX9 and shifted promoter methylation readouts toward the control direction. Overall, early-stage inflammatory exposure imposes a persistent epigenetic constraint on Paneth-associated innate immune gene programs in this in vitro model, providing insights into how epithelial differentiation stage may influence sustained innate immune dysregulation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic, progressive lung disease, marked by excessive fibrosis and activation of developmental signaling pathways. Candesartan (CAN), an angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1R) blocker, is primarily used to treat hypertension but also exhibits antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anti-apoptotic effects. AT1R signaling promotes fibrosis through upregulation of transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β). Chlorogenic acid (CGA), a natural antioxidant derived from caffeic and quinic acids, mitigates oxidative stress and inhibits TGF-β-induced apoptosis through glycogen synthase kinase-3β (GSK-3β). The current study aimed to evaluate the effects of CAN (10 mg/kg), CGA (15 mg/kg), and their combination in a bleomycin (BLM)-induced pulmonary fibrosis rat model, focusing on modulation of the Hedgehog signaling pathway. Treatment with CAN, CGA, and their combination significantly reversed BLM-induced elevation in proinflammatory cytokines interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and interleukin-6 (IL-6), restored alveolar and bronchiolar architecture, decreased collagen deposition, and downregulated TGF-β expression, indicating anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic effects. Importantly, all treatments suppressed Hedgehog pathway activation by downregulating Sonic hedgehog (Shh) and Patched 1 (Ptch1) gene expression, along with reduced expression of glioma-associated oncogene homologs (Gli) 1 and Gli3. Increased levels of Gli3 repressor (Gli3-REP) and decreased GSK-3β phosphorylation further confirmed Hedgehog pathway inhibition. In conclusion, the current study provides the first evidence that CAN, CGA, and their combination modulate the Hedgehog pathway, suggesting their potential as novel therapeutic strategies for IPF.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Oncocytic thyroid follicular neoplasms (ONs), including oncocytic adenoma (OA) and oncocytic carcinoma (OC), are distinct follicular cell-derived tumors with unique molecular profiles. Oncocytic changes can also occur in other situations, such as papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) and thyroiditis. Due to overlapping cytological features, distinguishing benign from malignant ONs preoperatively remains challenging. This study examines cytological patterns and genetic alterations in ONs and aims to enhance diagnostic accuracy.We retrospectively analyzed ON and oncocytic PTC (OPTC) cases from January 2018 to March 2025 at Cooper University Hospital, identifying 119 surgical resections (55 malignant, 62 benign, and two oncocytic non-invasive follicular thyroid neoplasms with papillary-like nuclear features. Sixty-five cases had fine-needle aspiration biopsy results categorized using The Bethesda System for Reporting Thyroid Cytopathology. Molecular examinations were performed in Afirma, ThyroSeq, or ThyGeNEXT/ThyraMIR. Statistical analyses included Wilcoxon Rank Sum tests, logistic regression, and Fisher's exact tests.No significant differences were observed between benign and malignant groups in terms of patient sex or tumor size; however, younger patient age was associated with malignant neoplasm within the cytology tested samples (P = 0.0300). Molecular analysis showed that 3.6% (1/28) of malignant cases were negative for tested alterations, while 33.3% (12/36) of benign cases were negative (P = 0.0035). Common mutations included eukaryotic translation initiation factor 1A X-linked (EIF1AX) (27.3%) in OCs and Harvey rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (HRAS) Q61R (41.2%) in OPTCs. In contrast, OA exhibited a higher frequency of chromosomal copy number alterations (33.3%) and variable other genetic changes.ONs pose diagnostic challenges due to significant cytological and molecular overlap between benign and malignant cases. Current thyroid molecular testing reveals a broad range of genetic alterations in ONs but lack sufficient specificity to reliably distinguish benign from malignancy in most instances. In this study, genetic alterations were detected in 66.6% (24/36) of OAs, and telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) mutations - typically associated with malignancy - were identified in two OAs. However, notably, certain mutations were exclusive to specific groups, such as B-Raf proto-oncogene, serine/threonine kinase (BRAF), anaplastic lymphoma kinase/echinoderm microtubule-associated protein-like 4 (ALK/EML4), and paired box 8 - peroxisome proliferator activator receptor gamma (PAX8-PPARG) in OPTCs or EIF1AX in OCs. Importantly, only 3.6% (1/28) of malignant OPTC/ONs were tested negative on molecular analysis, suggesting that ONs with negative molecular test results are more likely to be benign than malignant.© 2025 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
Ashwagandha (W. somnifera), known for its broad health benefits, has shown potential in cancer prevention and treatment. The aim of this study was to investigate the potential effect of ashwagandha aqueous extract (ASH-AE) on cell proliferation and therapy resistance markers in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). An in vitro study was conducted using the HepG2 cell line. The HepG2 cells were divided into 4 groups according to the treatment regimen received. ASH-AE was extracted from the whole plant and characterized by GC-MS and HPLC. HepG2 cell viability was determined for all groups. The protein expression of cluster of differentiation 90 (CD90) was determined by flow cytometry technique. Also, the gene expression of Sonic Hedgehog (SHH), Patched 1(PTCH1) and ATP-binding cassette subfamily C1 (ABCC1) was assayed by qRT-PCR. The protein expression and localization of glioma-associated oncogene 1 (Gli1) in HepG2 cells were determined by immunocytochemistry (ICC) assay. The results indicated that ASH-AE either alone or in combination with sorafenib (SOR) significantly reduced HepG2 cell viability in a concentration dependent manner (P ˂0.001) with IC50 was 6.65 mg/ml for ASH-AE, 11.3 µM for SOR, and 5.6 mg/ml + 18.6 µM for ASH-AE in combination with SOR. Moreover, SOR significantly increased the percentage of CD90+ cells and Gli1 protein expression and nuclear translocation as well as ABCC1 gene expression compared to untreated cells. On the other hand, ASH-AE either alone or in combination with SOR significantly decreased the percentage of CD90+ cells and Gli1 expression and nuclear translocation as well as SHH, PTCH1 and ABCC1 gene expression compared to untreated cells and that treated with SOR. We concluded for the first time that the combination of SOR and ASH-AE generates antagonistic antitumor effect in HepG2 cells. Moreover, ASH-AE can inhibit proliferation of HepG2 cells and mitigate sorafenib-induced resistance-associated markers in HepG2 cells by targeting CD90+ cells via Hedgehog pathway modulation.© 2025. The Author(s).
Resistance of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) to sorafenib represents a major clinical challenge, involving complex metabolic alterations and epigenetic regulatory changes. However, the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. In this study, we found that the level of histone H3 lysine 18 lactylation (H3K18la), derived from lactate, was significantly elevated in sorafenib-resistant HCC cells. Mechanistically, using Micrococcal Nuclease-Chromatin Immunoprecipitation-quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction and related techniques, we demonstrated that H3K18la is directly enriched at the promoter region of homeobox B13 (HOXB13) and functions as a potent transcriptional activator to upregulate its expression. Further mechanistic investigations revealed that HOXB13 stabilizes hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) protein expression, thereby activating the HIF-1 signaling pathway, promoting lipid metabolism reprogramming, and enhancing lipid accumulation. Functional experiments demonstrated that the inhibition of H3K18la or knockdown of HOXB13 effectively reversed lipid accumulation and significantly increased cellular sensitivity to sorafenib. This study systematically delineates a signaling cascade (the H3K18la-HOXB13-HIF-1 axis) spanning metabolites, epigenetic modifications, transcriptional regulation, and downstream metabolic phenotypes, thereby deepening our understanding of tumor drug resistance mechanisms and providing potential therapeutic targets for overcoming HCC resistance to sorafenib.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cell Communication and Signaling published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Transcription factors represent one of the major groups of proteins, whose suppression leads to tumor growth arrest. Different types of cancer express a specific set of transcription factors that create and maintain unique patterns of gene expression. In prostate cancer cells, one of the key transcriptional regulators is the HOXB13 (Homeobox B13) protein. HOXB13 is known to be an important regulator of embryonic development and terminal cell differentiation. HOXB13 regulates the transcription of many genes in normal and transformed prostate cells and is also capable of acting as a pioneer factor that opens chromatin in the regulatory regions of genes. However, little is known about the protein partners and functions of HOXB13 in prostate cells. In the present study, we searched for protein partners of HOXB13 by immunoaffinity purification followed by high-throughput mass spectrometric analysis (IP/LC-MS) using the PC-3 prostate cancer cell line as a model. The main partners of HOXB13 were found to be transcription factors with different types of DNA-binding domains, including the TBX3, TBX2, ZFHX4, ZFHX3, RUNX1, NFAT5 proteins. Using the DepMap resource, we have shown that one of the identified partners, the TBX3 protein is as critical for the growth and proliferation of prostate cancer cell lines in vitro as HOXB13. Analysis of individual prostate cancer cell lines revealed that knockout of both genes, HOXB13 and TBX3, leads to the death of the same lines: VCaP, LNCaP (clone FGC), PC-3 and 22Rv1. Thus, HOXB13 and TBX3 can be considered together as potential targets for the development of specific inhibitors that suppress prostate cancer cell growth.Copyright © AUTHORS.
Our study aimed to investigate the expression characteristics of the homeobox B13 (HOXB13) gene in placental tissues of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) and its impact on placental metabolic function. Placental tissues from 30 GDM patients and normal pregnancy cases were collected. The expression of HOX family genes (including HOXB13 and HOXA2 among seven genes) was screened using quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and the protein expression of HOXB13 was validated by Western blot and immunohistochemistry. Untargeted metabolomics analysis using ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry was performed to examine metabolic differences in placental tissues, and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment was applied to interpret metabolic regulation networks. The results showed that the mRNA and protein expression of HOXB13 were significantly lower in the GDM placentas compared to the normal pregnancy group. A total of 337 differential metabolites were identified, with the highest proportion being lipids and lipid-like molecules (37.96%). The levels of glucose and galactose in the GDM group were significantly reduced. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analysis showed that these differential metabolites were enriched in pathways related to steroid hormone biosynthesis, retinol metabolism, and arachidonic acid metabolism. We conclude that HOXB13 is downregulated in GDM placentas, and its expression is closely associated with dysregulated glucose-lipid metabolism and abnormalities in key metabolic pathways. HOXB13 may serve as a potential biomarker and therapeutic target for GDM. Notre étude visait à étudier les caractéristiques d'expression du gène homéobox B13 (HOXB13) dans les tissus placentaires de patients atteints de diabète gestationnel (DG) et son impact sur la fonction métabolique placentaire. Des tissus placentaires de 30 patientes atteintes de DG et de cas de grossesse normale ont été prélevés. L'expression des gènes de la famille HOX (dont HOXB13 et HOXA2 parmi sept gènes) a été criblée par réaction en chaîne par polymérase quantitative, et l'expression protéique de HOXB13 a été validée par Western blot et immunohistochimie. Une analyse métabolomique non ciblée par chromatographie liquide à ultra haute performance couplée à une spectrométrie de masse à temps de vol quadripolaire a été réalisée afin d'examiner les différences métaboliques dans les tissus placentaires. L'enrichissement des voies de signalisation de l'Encyclopédie de Kyoto des gènes et des génomes a été appliqué pour interpréter les réseaux de régulation métabolique. Les résultats ont montré que l'expression de l'ARNm et des protéines de HOXB13 était significativement plus faible dans les placentas atteints de DG que dans le groupe de grossesse normale. Au total, 337 métabolites différentiels ont été identifiés, la proportion la plus élevée étant des lipides et des molécules de type lipidique (37,96 %). Les taux de glucose et de galactose dans le groupe GDM ont été significativement réduits. L'analyse des voies de signalisation de l'Encyclopédie des gènes et génomes de Kyoto a montré que ces métabolites différentiels étaient enrichis dans les voies liées à la biosynthèse des hormones stéroïdes, au métabolisme du rétinol et au métabolisme de l'acide arachidonique. Nous concluons que HOXB13 est sous-régulé dans les placentas du GDM, et que son expression est étroitement associée à un métabolisme glucose-lipides dérégulé et à des anomalies des principales voies métaboliques. HOXB13 pourrait servir de biomarqueur potentiel et de cible thérapeutique pour le GDM.African Journal of Reproductive Health © 2025.
IntroductionTransgender men are assigned female sex at birth, but identify with a masculine gender identity, prompting them to undergo gender-affirming surgery, usually following androgen therapy, which induces changes in histology of hormone sensitive gynecologic organs.MethodsTransgender men undergoing gender-affirming gynecologic surgery, following testosterone therapy (September 2019 to April 2025) were retrospectively included. Histopathology slides were reviewed for features associated with androgen exposure.ResultsTwenty patients (aged 16-35 years) underwent hysterectomy, following androgen therapy (mean duration 21.7 ± 17.8 [4-63] months). Endometrium was histologically inactive (15 of 20; 75%), with prominent ciliated cell metaplasia (n = 11; 55%), stromal expansion and decidua-like change (n = 13; 65%). Cervix (55% and 60%) and vagina (100% and 50%) revealed transitional and prostatic-type metaplasia. NK3 homeobox 1 (NKX3.1)-positive basal keratinocytes were present in all the patients (n = 20; 100%), in a focal to diffuse distribution along the basal squamous epithelium. Bilateral ovaries showed numerous cystic follicles (n = 14; 70%), with evidence of follicular maturation (n = 12; 60%). Cervix specimens from 25 benign cisgender hysterectomies (in reproductive age group) revealed focal NKX3.1-positive basal keratinocytes in 2 patients (8%), but no transitional metaplasia or prostatic-type metaplastic glands. Ovaries in the transgender group were frequently multicystic, and one patient each showed ovarian endometriosis and mucinous cyst adenofibroma. Fallopian tubes show paratubal mesonephric remnants, but no hypertrophy of these remnants was present.ConclusionsDistinctive histologic alterations are seen in gender-affirming gynecologic surgery samples from transmasculine patients receiving preoperative androgen therapy. Awareness of these changes is vital for pathologists to avoid diagnostic errors and facilitate better patient management.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second most common cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide is highly associated with distant organ metastasis. Lethal(2) giant larvae protein homolog 2 (LLGL2) is often dysregulated in various tumors; however, the pathogenesis of CRC remains unclean. This study highlighted the tumor suppressor function of LLGL2 in CRC. Depleted LLGL2 exhibits the pro-CRC effects. RNA sequencing reveals that LLGL2 suppresses CRC progression by inhibiting the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-protein kinase B (PKB)/Akt pathway. Further analysis using RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing and shotgun mass spectrometry indicated that LLGL2 primarily regulates the stability of thrombospondin 3 (THBS3) mRNA by interacting with CCR4-NOT transcription complex subunit 1 (CNOT1), thus inactivating the PI3K-Akt pathway. Additionally, MDM2 acts as an upstream modulator of LLGL2 and promotes its degradation via the proteasomal pathway. This novel mechanism reveals potential therapeutic targets for CRC treatment and enhanced the understanding of how CRC progression can be controlled.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
In this study, we define the mechanistic association between long noncoding RNA: ENST00000495536 (lnc-536) and transcription factor HOXB13 (homeobox B13) in mediating proproliferative smooth muscle phenotype associated with pulmonary hypertension.In vitro knockdown or knockin, along with RNA pull-down and immunoprecipitation studies, were used to evaluate the role of lnc-536 and HOXB13 in regulating pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cell (PASMCs) phenotype. The in vivo role was determined by injecting lnc-536 antisense oligos in pulmonary hypertensive rats.Increased levels of lnc-536 promote the proliferative phenotype of PASMCs by downregulating the expression of the tumor suppressor: HOXB13. Knockdown of lnc-536 and overexpression of HOXB13 in proliferative PASMCs resulted in increased expression of VGLL4 (vestigial-like family member 4), a negative regulator of Hippo and Wnt (Wingless-related integration site) signaling pathways, with a corresponding decrease in TEAD4 (TEA domain family member 1) expression. The lnc-536 pull-down assay and RNA-immunoprecipitation demonstrated the interactions of lnc-536 with RBP (RNA-binding protein): RBM25 (RNA-binding motif 25) and direct interactions of RBM25 with SFPQ (splicing factor proline/glutamine-rich), a transcriptional regulator that has a binding motif on HOXB13. The knockdown of RBM25 in the hyperproliferative PASMCs resulted in increased interactions of SFPQ and HOXB13 mRNA while attenuating PASMC proliferation. Furthermore, the increased levels of lnc-536 and decreased levels of HOXB13 were observed in PASMCs from idiopathic pulmonary hypertension patients but not in cells from familial pulmonary hypertension patients. We confirmed that lnc-536 contributes to the RBM25-mediated remodeling of the SFPQ-HOXB13 complex in the idiopathic PAH-PASMCs as well. Finally, in vivo inhibition of lnc-536 using GapmeRs (Gapmer antisense oligonucleotides) in Sugen-hypoxia and HIV-transgenic pulmonary hypertension rats prevented the increase in right ventricular systolic pressure, right ventricular hypertrophy/fibrosis, and pulmonary vascular remodeling with a parallel increase in HOXB13 expression in rat PASMCs.Lnc-536 acts as a decoy for RBM25, which in turn sequesters SFPQ, leading to a decrease in HOXB13 expression and hyperproliferation of smooth muscle cells by potentially regulating Wnt and Hippo signaling associated with PAH development.
Obesity exacerbates hormonal dysregulation, inflammation, and oxidative stress, factors associated with Prostate Cancer (PCa) development. The (epi)genetic influences of obesity may be transgenerationally transmitted, potentially impacting PCa susceptibility in the offspring of fathers with obesity. Thus, we studied the impact of early-life or lifelong exposure to a high-fat diet (HFD) on PCa biomarkers [Homeobox B13 (HOXB13) and the Androgen Receptor (AR)] and their correlation with obesity-related markers. Furthermore, we focused on the offspring's PCa biomarkers outcomes and explored their potential link with paternal diet. A transgenerational Mus musculus model was established, with F0 males exposed to different diets (200 days): standard chow, lifelong HFD (HFD), and transient diet (60 days HFD, plus 140 days of standard chow) (HFDt). AR expression in the prostates was unaffected, whereas HOXB13, Fat Mass and Obesity Associated gene (FTO), and Tumor Necrosis Factor-Alpha (TNF-α) expression decreased in the F1 HFDt group. HOXB13 and AR prostate expression were positively correlated. There was also a positive correlation between FTO prostate expression and PCa biomarkers, and between TNF-α expression and FTO and PCa biomarkers. HOXB13 promoter methylation levels were unaffected, however, were positively correlated with FTO and HOXB13 expression. Finally, protein nitration remained unchanged in the prostates, while lipid peroxidation was increased in the F0 HFD group and decreased in the F1 and F2 HFD and HFDt groups. Our study highlights the intergenerational interplay between obesity-related factors and PCa biomarkers, suggesting that offspring of male progenitors subjected to HFD may face an increased risk for elevated PCa biomarkers expression.© 2025. The Author(s).
The efficacy of most immunotherapies for prostate cancer is limited by poor tumor immunogenicity as evidenced by minimal T-cell infiltration. Treatment with T cells engineered to express T-cell receptors (TCR) targeting prostate-specific antigens offers a potential solution by bypassing endogenous T-cell repertoire limitations. Through differential gene expression analysis, we have identified kallikrein-related peptidases 2, 3, and 4 (KLK2, KLK3, and KLK4) and homeobox B13 (HOXB13) as strictly prostate lineage-specific genes with high expression in prostate cancer and no expression in healthy tissues of risk. Naturally processed peptides derived from these antigens were identified, enabling T-cell enrichment using peptide-MHC multimers. High-avidity T cells targeting these antigens were isolated from allogeneic HLA-mismatched donors. After screening for on-target tumor specificity and absence of off-target reactivity, TCRs recognizing KLK4 in HLA-A*02:01 and KLK3 in HLA-B*35:01 were sequenced and further tested. TCRs were expressed in T cells through TCR gene transfer and TCRs with best performance were selected. Using combinatorial peptide library scanning, the cross-reactive potential of the KLK4-A2 and KLK3-B35 TCRs was analyzed. The KLK3-B35 TCR exhibited cross-reactivity against two additional peptides derived from LOXHD1 and CDH23, with broad tissue expression, and was therefore excluded. The KLK4-A2 TCR was highly specific for the KLK4 peptide. Further testing confirmed effective cytotoxic killing potential of KLK4-A2 TCR in vitro and in vivo, underscoring its therapeutic potential. These findings highlight the promise of the KLK4-A2 TCR for prostate cancer immunotherapy and demonstrate that prostate-specific antigens can be effectively targeted using TCR gene transfer strategies.©2025 American Association for Cancer Research.
Acute Myocardial Infarction (AMI) is a significant contributor to cardiovascular death, with rising prevalence in Bangladesh. Although DNA damage contributes to AMI pathogenesis, the role of DNA damage repair (DDR) genes remains poorly characterized. This study aims to identify key DDR genes associated with AMI, and develop a machine learning-based risk prediction model for the Bangladeshi population. Differentially expressed DDR genes in AMI were identified via bioinformatics analysis, with WGCNA revealing AMI-associated hub genes. These candidates were validated by qRT-PCR in Bangladeshi patients. A machine learning model using demographic and gene expression data was then trained using five classifiers. Differential expression and WGCNA identified Nibrin (NBN) and 8-Oxoguanine glycosylase (OGG1) as key dysregulated DDR genes. RT-qPCR confirmed a ~ 2.78-fold upregulation of OGG1 (p < 0.001) in AMI patients, while NBN expression was significantly higher in smokers (p < 0.05). Feature selection identified age, smoking, hypertension, diabetes, BMI, and OGG1 as critical AMI risk predictors. Logistic regression showed the best performance (accuracy 87.3%, AUC = 0.903). This study provides novel evidence linking DDR genes to AMI and presents a strong ML-based risk stratification model for the first time, integrating transcriptomic and clinical data from Bangladeshi patients to advance personalized AMI management.© 2026. The Author(s).
Nijmegen breakage syndrome is a rare disease manifesting approximately in 1 out of 95 000 live births. It is caused, in most cases, by a deletion of 5 nucleotides in exon 6 of nibrin gene, resulting in production of truncated protein and chromosomal instability as functional nibrin is an important part of the homologous recombination pathway. Common symptoms include microcephaly, mild growth retardation, combined humoral and cellular immunodeficiency as well as high susceptibility to malignancies. We have reprogrammed fibroblasts from a patient carrying the founder mutation (homozygous) into pluripotent stem cells, obtaining a cellular model with no detectable nibrin expression.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Long-term exposure to low-dose food contact materials (FCMs) has raised concerns regarding developmental toxicity. In the present study, we prioritized FCMs with potential developmental toxicity using a weight-of-evidence computational model, which predicted 127 chemicals to be of high concern. From these, we selected 7 chemicals-representing both high and low concern categories-and evaluated their potential embryotoxicity using the mouse embryonic stem cell test (mEST). Among the selected chemicals, thiram most strongly inhibited cardiac differentiation in mEST. We further examined the effects of thiram on morphology and expression of differentiation-related genes in mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs). Treatment with thiram inhibited 50% early differentiation in mESCs, suppressed the expression of markers associated with the three-germ layers, but increased the expression of neurectoderm markers during early embryogenesis. Additionally, treatment with 20 ng/mL thiram, which was the lowest-observed-effect concentration of cytotoxicity, disrupted neuronal differentiation in both mESCs and human pluripotent embryonal carcinoma NT2 cells. Finally, based on transcriptome analysis, 20 and 30 ng/mL thiram disrupted the neural crest differentiation pathway, altering the expression of genes including homeobox A1 (HOXA1), homeobox B1 (HOXB1), Heart And Neural Crest Derivatives Expressed 1 (HAND1), Distal-Less Homeobox 5 (DLX5), and transcription factor AP-2 alpha (TFAP2A) in NT2 cells. Therefore, disruption of neural crest differentiation is one of the potential mechanisms underlying thiram-induced embryotoxicity. The integrated alternative approach adopted in the present study to identify mechanism-based biomarkers for thiram-induced embryotoxicity in a human-relevant model could facilitate safety assessment for data-poor chemicals in future.© 2026 The Author(s). Environmental Toxicology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Placenta enriched 1 (PLAC1) is a conserved X chromosome-linked gene expressed in the mammalian placenta. We investigated the biology of PLAC1 in the rat and human placenta. Plac1 transcripts were expressed in the junctional zone of the rat placenta and in intrauterine invasive trophoblast cells. Genome-edited Plac1 mutant animals exhibited placentomegaly. Enlarged placentas were characterized by an expanded junctional zone, an irregular junctional zone-labyrinth zone boundary, a deficiency of intrauterine invasive trophoblast cells, and a late-gestation-stage uterine-placental interface infiltrated with natural killer cells. PLAC1 facilitated rat trophoblast cell differentiation. In contrast, PLAC1 showed minimal contributions to the regulation of the human invasive/extravillous trophoblast cell lineage, but instead PLAC1 expression and actions were linked to syncytiotrophoblast differentiation. Furthermore, the impact of PLAC1 on cellular function is linked to furin (paired basic amino acid cleaving enzyme) in rat and human trophoblast cells. Thus, PLAC1 plays an important role in hemochorial placentation; however, the responsive trophoblast cell lineages and its contributions to placentation are fundamentally distinct in the rat versus human.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41976281 is a review article
Nijmegen Breakage Syndrome (NBS) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by chromosomal instability, immunodeficiency, radiosensitivity, and a strong predisposition to lymphoid malignancies. It is caused by mutations in the NBN gene encoding nibrin (NBS1) protein, a core component of the MRE11-RAD50-NBS1 (MRN) complex that senses DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) and coordinates DNA damage response, including ATM activation. Despite the importance of NBS1, in the Chinese hamster system, which offers significant advantages in radiation biology and toxicology, no mutant lines deficient in the NBS1 gene have been isolated. In this study, we generated two novel NBS1 mutant Chinese hamster cell lines using CRISPR/Cas9, each carrying distinct NBN mutations leading to either null or hypomorphic mutations. These mutants exhibited growth retardation, marked sensitivity to ionizing radiation and various DNA damaging agents and elevated radiation induced chromosomal aberrations, recapitulating key NBS phenotypes. Notably, NBS1 mutant cells displayed pronounced hypersensitivity to ionizing radiation when co-treated with an ATR inhibitor, but not with a DNA-PK inhibitor. The ATR inhibitor also markedly sensitized NBS1 mutants to Etoposide, suggesting that ATR functions as a compensatory pathway in the absence of functional NBS1 during specific types of DNA damage. Collectively, our findings establish valuable NBS1-deficient Chinese hamster cell models that expand understanding of NBS1 function and highlight their utility for investigating DNA repair deficiencies and developing targeted therapeutic approaches for chromosomal instability disorders and cancers with NBS1 mutations.Copyright © 2026 Badakul, Maeda and Kato.
Background: Lung cancer remains a major global health burden. RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) play crucial roles in post-transcriptional gene regulation, and their dysregulation is frequently implicated in tumorigenesis. The present study aimed to elucidate the molecular network governed by the highly expressed RBP TIMELESS in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) and determine its mechanistic role in LUAD progression. Methods: The Cancer Genome Atlas-LUAD, Gene Expression Omnibus, and single-cell RNA sequencing datasets were analyzed to identify aberrantly expressed RBP genes. The RBP gene TIMELESS exhibited the most significant effect on LUAD cell death and was selected for further study. Photoactivatable ribonucleoside-enhanced crosslinking and immunoprecipitation sequencing and RNA sequencing were employed to identify ferroptosis-related targets directly bound by TIMELESS. Molecular mechanisms underlying the TIMELESS-mediated regulation of ferroptosis in LUAD were investigated via immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry, glutathione S-transferase pull-down, immunofluorescence-fluorescence in situ hybridization, RNA immunoprecipitation, poly(A)-tail, and RNA stability assays. In an orthotopic lung cancer mouse model treated with erastin (a ferroptosis inducer) and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) blockade, the role of TIMELESS in therapeutic response was assessed via flow cytometry and multiplex immunofluorescence (mIF). Infiltrating immune cells in LUAD were analyzed by tissue microarrays (TMAs) via mIF. Results: TIMELESS significantly affected LUAD cell proliferation and death, and TIMELESS knockdown significantly enriched RNA-binding and ferroptosis pathways. Transferrin (TF) was identified as a direct TIMELESS target governing ferroptosis. TIMELESS was revealed to bind Ccr4-Not transcription complex subunit 3 (CNOT3) to promote TF mRNA degradation. TIMELESS depletion combined with erastin and PD-1 blockade enhances efficacy, prolongs survival, increases T cell and M1 macrophage infiltration, and reduces M2 macrophage infiltration. Further, high TIMELESS expression was inversely correlated with ferroptosis marker 4-hydroxynonenal but positively correlated with programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1), reduced T cell and M1 macrophage infiltration, and increased M2 macrophage infiltration. Conclusions: TIMELESS recruits CNOT3 to accelerate TF mRNA degradation, thereby suppressing ferroptosis and promoting LUAD growth. These findings suggest that the TIMELESS/TF regulatory axis may be a promising therapeutic target for LUAD.Copyright © 2026 Chenchen Hu et al.
Ovarian aging (OA), which is characterized by a decline in the quality and quantity of oocytes, represents a major challenge in reproductive medicine. However, the therapeutic targets and therapeutic methods of OA remain poorly defined. Previous studies have suggested that the embryonic stem cells (ESCs) resist mammalian OA, yet the underlying molecular mechanisms are unclear.To assess CNOT3's role in OA and oocyte maturation, we employed RT-qPCR, Western blotting, micro-injection, and RNA seq. RNA-seq, RT-qPCR, and Western blot were used to prove the effects of Cnot3 on the differentiation of mouse ESCs into primordial germ cell-like cells (PGCLCs). Mouse ESCs were injected into mice to evaluate the therapeutic benefit of ESCs on OA.In this study, we demonstrated that the CCR4-NOT transcription complex subunit 3 (CNOT3) played a critical regulator of OA resistance. Our results revealed that the expression of CNOT3 significantly decreased in aging ovaries of pigs and mice, compared with young ovaries. Using RNA-seq and micro-injection, we proved that CNOT3 resisted porcine OA by accelerating oocyte maturation. Moreover, Cnot3 upregulated the expressions of pluripotent genes in mouse ESCs and promoted the differentiation of ESCs into PGCLCs in vitro. Importantly, we found that tail vein injection of ESCs resisted mouse OA, while the therapeutic effects of ESCs on OA were reversed by knockdown of Cnot3.Overall, our results indicated that CNOT3 counteracted OA and enhanced the therapeutic benefit of ESCs on OA. These findings will provide useful information for the improvement of therapeutic methods of OA.© 2026. The Author(s).
Oxymetholone, a synthetic anabolic steroid, is widely used for medical and performance-enhancing purposes but is associated with significant toxicity. Zinc oxide nanoparticles (ZnO-NPs) have attracted attention for their antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, which may counteract such toxic effects. This study investigates the protective role of ZnO-NPs against oxymetholone-induced liver and kidney damage in rats. Twenty-four rats were randomly assigned to four groups and treated orally as follows: control, oxymetholone (10 mg/kg), ZnO-NPs (5 mg/kg), and oxymetholone + ZnO-NPs. Oxymetholone administration significantly increased serum levels of urea, creatinine, alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and aspartate aminotransferase (AST). Furthermore, oxidative stress markers, such as malondialdehyde (MDA), were significantly elevated, whereas reduced glutathione (GSH) levels were decreased in both hepatic and renal tissues. Oxymetholone exposure also upregulated the expression of pro-inflammatory and stress-related genes, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB), signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), and nibrin (NBN). In contrast, it downregulated antioxidant genes such as nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), catalase (CAT), and superoxide dismutase (SOD). Histopathological examination revealed extensive liver and kidney damage, with immunohistochemistry demonstrating marked NF-κB expression. However, concurrent administration of ZnO-NPs mitigated these toxic effects by restoring antioxidant balance, modulating inflammatory pathways, and preserving tissue integrity. These findings suggest that ZnO-NPs have a protective role against oxymetholone-induced oxidative stress, inflammation, and tissue damage in hepatic and renal tissues.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Galectin-1 (Gal-1), a member of the galectin family, has emerged as a regulator of tumor progression. Several studies have reported the upregulation of Gal-1 expression in multiple cancer cells and its promotion on tumor proliferation. However, the mechanism by which Gal-1 promotes tumor growth remains to be thoroughly understood. In this study, it was discovered that high expression of Gal-1 in various cancers was inversely correlated with the overall survival of patients. Through constructing Gal-1-overexpressing cell lines, it was uncovered that cell proliferation and colony formation were significantly improved. The results of transcriptomic and proximity-labeling-based proteomic analyses indicated that Gal-1 interacted with poly [ADP-ribose] polymerase 1 (PARP1) and histone H1.2 in lung cancer cells. In the case of etoposide treatment leading to DNA double-strand break, Gal-1 accelerated the degradation of H1.2 by enhancing its interaction with PARP1 and promoting its PARylation. It caused the activation of downstream DNA repair pathways such as the serine-protein kinase ATM and nibrin (NBS1) signaling pathways, thus reducing apoptosis, and the Gal-1 inhibitor thiodigalactoside (TDG) could restore cell sensitivity to etoposide. Upon knockdown of Gal-1, DNA damage led to impaired activation of ATM and NBS1 phosphorylation, thereby increasing the sensitivity of the A549 cell line to etoposide. Finally, using a tumor-bearing mouse model, we observed that, in tumors with high Gal-1 expression, the combination treatment of TDG and etoposide significantly inhibited tumor growth. This study provides new clues for the role of Gal-1 in the development of tumors and renders suggestions for the medication of patients with high Gal-1 expression in the clinic.© 2025 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein 1 (HINT1) is a small and evolutionarily conserved HIT family protein with putative tumor suppressor function. It has been implicated in the negative regulation of several transcription factors, but a role for HINT1 in Myocardin-related transcription factor A (MRTF-A)/serum response factor (SRF) signaling has not been described. Here, we examined whether HINT1 functionally interacts with MRTF-A in fibroblasts. HINT1 reduced MRTF-A-dependent reporter activity in a dose-dependent manner, whereas a histidine triad mutant did not. Repression by HINT1 was retained upon deletion of the N-terminal RPEL motifs of MRTF-A, indicating that the effect was not confined to the inhibition of Rho-actin signaling. In parallel, HINT1-WT increased the MRTF-A protein abundance, which required the C-terminal part of MRTF-A. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments revealed the physical association of HINT1 with MRTF-A, whereas the histidine triad mutant or a C-terminally truncated MRTF-A did not show complex formation. Thus, our work suggests that HINT1 acts as a negative regulator of MRTF-A-dependent transcription by binding to the MRTF-A C-terminal part, which appears to require the histidine triad region and is accompanied by a separable increase in MRTF-A abundance.© 2026 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.
Elucidating novel signaling pathways that drive myotube hypertrophy may provide new insights into the mechanisms regulating skeletal muscle growth. We previously reported that 5-hydroxy-7-methoxyflavone (HMF) induces hypertrophy of murine C2C12 myotubes; however, the underlying molecular mechanism remains unclear. Here, loss- and gain-of-function analyses revealed that GPR97 positively regulates myotube size. Furthermore, knockdown and rescue experiments demonstrated that GPR97 is required for HMF-induced myotube hypertrophy. HMF activated mTORC1 signaling in myotubes, and intramuscular administration of HMF also activated mTORC1 signaling in mouse skeletal muscle in vivo. Gpr97 knockdown abolished HMF-induced mTORC1 signaling and protein synthesis. Furthermore, depletion of Gna12 and expression of dominant-negative Gα12 abolished HMF-induced myotube hypertrophy. Gna12 depletion also suppressed HMF-induced mTORC1 signaling and protein synthesis. Beclomethasone dipropionate, a reported GPR97 ligand, suppressed HMF-induced hypertrophy and mTORC1 signaling, while further enhancing HMF-induced serum response factor (SRF)-dependent transcription. Although dominant-negative RhoA inhibited HMF-induced SRF-dependent transcriptional activity, it did not affect myotube hypertrophy. These findings indicate that GPR97-Gα12-mTORC1 signaling promotes hypertrophy independent of the Gα12-RhoA-SRF pathway. GPR97 was predominantly expressed on the myotube surface as a C-terminal fragment generated by N-terminal fragment (NTF) cleavage, and HMF reduced its surface expression. HMF induced hypertrophy in myotubes expressing an NTF cleavage-resistant GPR97 mutant, but not in those expressing an NTF-deleted mutant. These results indicate that NTF cleavage is dispensable and suggest that NTF contributes to GPR97-mediated hypertrophic signaling. These findings identify a novel GPR97-Gα12-mTORC1 signaling axis that mediates HMF-induced myotube hypertrophy.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a life-threatening cardiovascular disease for which no effective pharmacological treatments exist. Histone deacetylases (HDACs) have emerged as critical regulators of cardiovascular pathophysiology; however, the contributions of individual HDAC isoforms to AAA formation remain largely undefined. Here, we identified sirtuin 7 (SIRT7) as the most markedly downregulation isoform among 18 HDAC family members in human AAA tissues. Global and vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC)-specific Sirt7 knockout exacerbated AAA formation, whereas SIRT7 overexpression attenuated aneurysm progression. Mechanistically, SIRT7 deacetylates serum response factor (SRF) at lysine 154, thereby preventing SRF nuclear-to-cytoplasmic translocation and ubiquitin-mediated degradation and preserving the VSMC contractile phenotype. Consequently, SIRT7 deficiency enhances SRF acetylation, accelerates its degradation, and promotes VSMC phenotypic switching, ultimately facilitating AAA progression. Pharmacological activation of SIRT7 with the NAD⁺ precursor nicotinamide mononucleotide attenuated aortic dilation. Collectively, our findings reveal a crucial role for SIRT7-mediated SRF-K154 deacetylation in limiting AAA progression and suggest that nicotinamide mononucleotide supplementation may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for AAA.© 2026. The Author(s).
To explore the regulation and function of serum response factor (SRF)/Cellular communication network factor 1 (CCN1) pathway in ferroptosis in ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) acute kidney injury (AKI).The level of SRF, CCN1, ferroptosis markers (TFR1, ACSL4, xCT, GPX4), ROS and SOD were examined in HK-2 cells under hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) treatment or rat renal tissue samples after I/R treatment. SRF was overexpressed by pcDNA-SRF plasmid and suppressed by CCG-1423 (a small molecule inhibitor of SRF) or SRF siRNA to study how SRF influences ferroptosis through CCN1 in I/R AKI.In HK-2 cells under H/R treatment and renal tissue from I/R rats, the SRF along with CCN1, TFR1 and ACSL4 expression was upregulated, while xCT and GPX4 expression was downregulated. SRF upregulation in HK-2 cells increased CCN1 expression and was associated with ferroptosis-related changes. Blockade of SRF by CCG-1423 or an SRF-specific siRNA reduced CCN1 induction, protected renal tubular epithelial cells from ferroptosis-related injury, and alleviated I/R AKI both in vitro and in vivo.Increased SRF/CCN1 pathway activity may be associated with ferroptosis-related injury and dysfunction in renal tubular epithelial cells during AKI. Targeting SRF with CCG-1423 may represent a potential therapeutic strategy of AKI.© 2026 Asian Pacific Society of Nephrology.
Stroke remains a leading cause of long-term disability, and recovery is often limited by impaired neurorestoration and glial scar-mediated inhibition of axonal regeneration. Although fibroblast growth factor 17 (FGF17) regulates oligodendrocyte plasticity during aging, its therapeutic potential and underlying mechanisms in ischemic stroke remain unclear. We investigated whether FGF17 could promote functional recovery by enhancing neuronal restoration and overcoming glial scar-associated inhibition. Fgf17-positive cell distribution was mapped using Fgf17-reporter mice (Fgf17CreERT2/+;Rosa-CAG-LSL-tdTomato). Focal ischemia was induced in the motor cortex and anterior cingulate cortex of wild-type and Fgf17-deficient (Fgf17-/-) mice via photothrombosis. Recombinant FGF17 was administered intranasally. Functional recovery was evaluated using motor and cognitive behavioral tests. Mechanistic studies were performed using viral tracing, immunofluorescence, and molecular assays focusing on the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (Erk)-serum response factor (SRF) and phospholipase C gamma (PLCγ)-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) signaling pathways. FGF17 was predominantly expressed in neurons, whereas its receptor, fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3), was widely distributed. Fgf17-/- mice exhibited larger infarcts and more severe functional deficits, whereas intranasal FGF17 significantly improved motor and cognitive outcomes in both wild-type and knockout mice. Mechanistically, FGF17 promoted oligodendrogenesis and myelin repair by upregulating SRF through the Erk signaling pathway. Concurrently, FGF17 activated the PLCγ-adenylyl cyclase axis, increased intracellular cAMP levels, and enabled axonal regeneration within the inhibitory microenvironment through downregulation of mRNA levels of oligodendrocyte myelin glycoprotein, neurite outgrowth inhibitor A, and myelin-associated glycoprotein. In addition, FGF17 enhanced neuronal survival and preserved dendritic spines via the PI3K-Akt pathway. Overall, FGF17 promotes oligodendrogenesis and enhances the intrinsic regenerative capacity of neurons. These findings identify FGF17 signaling as a promising therapeutic target for neurorestoration after stroke.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cardiac regeneration strategies increasingly leverage transient reprogramming to restore function in damaged myocardium. Here, we show that delivery of modRNA encoding STEMIN, a modified serum response factor, together with YAP5SA, a constitutively active YAP1 variant, induces coordinated chromatin remodeling and transcriptional reprogramming in cardiomyocytes. Using ATAC-seq and RNA-seq in rat and human cardiomyocytes, we identify the activation of cell cycle, DNA replication, and survival-associated pathways, alongside a robust induction of microRNAs linked to apoptosis resistance. Exosome profiling reveals selective packaging and release of these miRNAs, which may target key regulators of intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways, including caspases and TP53-associated signaling. Functional assays demonstrate reduced apoptosis in vitro and in vivo. These findings support a model in which reprogramming factor-induced exosomal signaling enhances cardiomyocyte survival by inhibiting apoptosis, and highlight a potential therapeutic framework that integrates modRNA delivery with paracrine mechanisms for cardiac repair.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is often accompanied by symptoms of gastric dysmotility, such as gastroparesis. Gastroparesis not only seriously affects the life quality of PD patients, but also causes fluctuations in drug absorption rate, exacerbating the motor symptoms of PD. The previous studies of our laboratory have shown that PD model rats also exhibit gastroparesis, with increased pro-inflammatory cytokines in the gastric muscularis. The markers of related neurons were abnormal. Additionally, the contractile protein markers, as well as their transcriptional regulators, were reduced in smooth muscle cells (SMCs). Continuous gastric feeding of Qizhiweitong particles (QZWT) for seven days improved gastric motility in PD rats with gastroparesis by suppressing inflammation. However, whether QZWT can restore neurons in the gastric muscularis and the differentiated phenotype of SMCs remains to be further investigated. In this study, we detected expressions of neuronal markers in the gastric muscularis and contractile markers of SMCs by immunofluorescence staining, Western blotting, and real-time quantitative PCR, and observed the ultrastructure of SMCs by transmission electron microscopy techniques, aiming to explore the potential mechanisms underlying the improvement effect of QZWT on gastric dysmotility in PD rats and provide new ideas for the treatment of PD gastroparesis. Our results showed that after QZWT administration, there was no change in neuronal markers tyrosine hydroxylase, choline acetyltransferase, and neuronal nitric oxide synthase in the muscular layer of gastric corpus of the PD gastroparesis rats. However, compared to the PD rats, the protein and mRNA expression levels of myosin heavy chain 11 and myosin light chain 20 were significantly up-regulated in the smooth muscle layer of gastric corpus of PD rats with QZWT treatment. Furthermore, the protein and mRNA expression levels of serum response factor (SRF), which regulates the transcription of SMC contractile protein genes, as well as the mRNA level of the transcription related cofactor myocardin (MYOCD), were significantly up-regulated. In addition, the ultrastructure feature of gastric corpus showed that the morphology of SMCs in the PD rats with QZWT treatment was improved, displaying clear dense patches and dense bodies. The vacuoles in the SMCs disappeared. These results suggest that QZWT treatment up-regulates the expression of SRF and MYOCD, which may be associated with its effect of inhibiting inflammation, and further increases the expression of contractile proteins and restores the morphology of the SMCs, promoting gastric smooth muscle contractions in PD gastroparesis rats, thereby leading to improved gastric motility.
AGAMOUS (AG) is a C-class Mcm1, Agamous, Deficiens, and Serum response factor (MADS)-box transcription factor classically defined by its roles in specifying stamen and carpel identity and enforcing floral meristem determinacy. Accumulating evidence now indicates that AG also coordinates a series of late developmental programs whose outputs are rewired over time based on tissue context, chromatin state, and phytohormone-mediated inter-organ communication. In the gynoecium, AG promotes regional patterning and tissue differentiation by regulating downstream target genes, thereby supporting ovule- and fruit-related development while safeguarding epidermal fate by repressing ectopic leaf-like traits and inappropriate stomatal differentiation. In stamens, AG integrates epigenetic timing with plant hormonal signaling, where delayed activation of AG targets is associated with the gradual dilution of H3K27me3 marks, and AG-dependent induction of jasmonic acid biosynthesis supports filament elongation and anther progression. Notably, AG activity also extends beyond its expression domain by shaping perianth fate in a non-cell-autonomous manner: jasmonic acid produced in reproductive organs activates transcriptional and autophagy-related programs at the bases of petals, promoting senescence and abscission after anthesis. Together, these findings support a unified view of AG as a regulator of spatiotemporal systems that links the specification of organ identity to late morphogenesis, reproductive maturation, and coordinated organ disposal. This review summarizes recent advances in AG-mediated regulatory networks and highlights how dynamic, multilayered control enables AG to orchestrate late flower development across multiple organs.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Japanese Society of Plant Physiologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Prenatal alcohol exposure (PAE) has a strongly documented effect on the structure and function of brain vasculature including effects on brain microvascular endothelial cell (BMVEC) behavior, impacting appropriate angiogenesis in development. We previously demonstrated that the effects of PAE on BMVEC behavior are partially mediated by the upregulation of miR-150-5p, a negative regulator of angiogenesis. Here, we characterize transcriptional mechanisms by which alcohol exposure results in upregulated miR-150-5p in BMVECs. We provide evidence for increased transcription of the miR-150 gene with alcohol exposure; specifically, we show elevated pri-miR-150 abundance, an altered miR-150 promoter methylation landscape, and overall increased miR-150 promoter activity. The alterations to the methylation landscape prompted investigation of enzymes responsible for DNA methylation dynamics, and we show altered expression of DNA methyltransferase (Dnmt) genes and Tet methylcytosine dioxygenase 1 (Tet1). We also illuminate alterations to the activation of a wide array of transcription factors throughout the nucleus as well as altered association between transcription factors and the miR-150 promoter. Overall, we uncover a novel mechanism of gene expression dysregulation by alcohol exposure in BMVECs through differential transcription factor binding as a result of altered DNA methylation mediated primarily by elevated Tet1.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Elevation of miR-150-5p in the brain vasculature during prenatal alcohol exposure occurs partially through increased transcription. This increase in transcription is mediated by the upregulation of Tet1; the elevated TET1 protein partially demethylates the miR-150 promoter into a 5hmC-rich sequence. Consequently, transcription factor binding to the promoter sequence is altered, resulting in increased miR-150 transcription.
Laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC) is a common malignant tumor originating from the mucosal epithelium of the larynx. MicroRNA (miR)‑488‑3p has non‑negligible multifaceted roles in some types of cancer; however, its association with LSCC has not yet been reported. Our prior RNA sequencing data indicated that miR‑488‑3p expression is downregulated in LSCC tissue, yet the detailed function and regulatory mechanism of miR‑488‑3p in LSCC remain unknown. In the present study, quantitative PCR analysis corroborated the significant downregulation of miR‑488‑3p in LSCC tumor tissues, with this downregulation being strongly associated with malignant progression in LSCC. Furthermore, overexpression of miR‑488‑3p suppressed LSCC cell proliferation, colony formation, migration, invasion, xenograft tumor growth and epithelial‑mesenchymal transition. Mechanistically, miR‑488‑3p directly interacted with the 3' untranslated region of activin A receptor type 1C (ACVR1C) and downregulated ACVR1C expression. Functional experiments revealed that miR‑488‑3p suppressed the malignant phenotypes of LSCC via ACVR1C. Additionally, bioinformatics analysis coupled with chromatin immunoprecipitation assay revealed that myeloid ecotropic viral integration site 1 (MEIS1) promoted the expression of miR‑488‑3p transcriptionally by directly binding its promoter region. Collectively, the results demonstrated that miR‑488‑3p acts as a tumor suppressor molecule in LSCC, and a role was established for the MEIS1/miR‑488‑3p/ACVR1C axis in regulating LSCC progression, thus providing novel potential biomarkers and targets for patients with LSCC.
Two landmark studies demonstrate synergistic approaches to gastrointestinal cancer management. Lin et al identified activin A receptor type 1C polymorphisms (rs4556933/rs77886248) as esophageal squamous cell carcinoma risk modifiers in Chinese Han populations through a case-control study (1264 patients/1361 controls), revealing transforming growth factor-beta pathway-mediated susceptibility in older male smokers (P < 0.001). Concurrently, Luo et al established imaging-based differentiation of pancreatic cancer subtypes (pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma vs neuroendocrine tumors) via retrospective analysis of 500 cases (area under the curve = 0.89), enabling earlier intervention. These findings underscore the transformative potential of combining genetic risk stratification with advanced imaging to guide precision screening and therapeutic strategies, addressing critical gaps in esophageal and pancreatic cancer outcomes.©The Author(s) 2025. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved.
Lin et al's investigation on the association of activin A receptor type 1C (ACVR1C) (transforming growth factor beta type I receptor) single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) risk in the Chinese population is a scientific approach. This study explores the susceptibility of ACVR1C polymorphism towards ESCC in the Chinese population, highlighting the polymorphism's potentiality as an early diagnostic and therapeutic target. The author assessed about a thousand ESCC Chinese patients' samples for ACVR1C SNPs in a hospital-based cohort study using the ligation detection reaction method. Further, the hypothesis was tested using appropriate statistical genetic models and stratified analysis. ACVR1C SNPs can help assess ESCC susceptibility stratification and provide valuable information for individual diagnosis and treatment of ESCC patients. In order to account for confounding variables, find genuine SNP-disease relationships, boost statistical power, and make biological interpretation easier, it is imperative that genetic association studies of ESCC incorporate pertinent clinical aspects.©The Author(s) 2025. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved.
Transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) superfamily plays an important role in tumor progression and metastasis. Activin A receptor type 1C (ACVR1C) is a TGF-β type I receptor that is involved in tumorigenesis through binding to different ligands.To evaluate the correlation between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of ACVR1C and susceptibility to esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) in Chinese Han population.In this hospital-based cohort study, 1043 ESCC patients and 1143 healthy controls were enrolled. Five SNPs (rs4664229, rs4556933, rs77886248, rs77263459, rs6734630) of ACVR1C were assessed by the ligation detection reaction method. Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium test, genetic model analysis, stratified analysis, linkage disequilibrium test, and haplotype analysis were conducted.Participants carrying ACVR1C rs4556933 GA mutant had significantly decreased risk of ESCC, and those with rs77886248 TA mutant were related with higher risk, especially in older male smokers. In the haplotype analysis, ACVR1C Trs4664229Ars4556933Trs77886248Crs77263459Ars6734630 increased risk of ESCC, while Trs4664229Grs4556933Trs77886248Crs77263459Ars6734630 was associated with lower susceptibility to ESCC.ACVR1C rs4556933 and rs77886248 SNPs were associated with the susceptibility to ESCC, which could provide a potential target for early diagnosis and treatment of ESCC in Chinese Han population.©The Author(s) 2025. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved.
Oxoguanine glycosylase 1 (OGG1) is widely known to repair the reactive oxygen species (ROS)-initiated DNA lesion 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG), and more recently was shown to act as an epigenetic modifier. We have previously shown that saline-exposed Ogg1 -/- knockout progeny exhibited learning and memory deficits, which were enhanced by in utero exposure to a single low dose of ethanol (EtOH) in both Ogg1 +/+ and -/- progeny, but more so in Ogg1 -/- progeny. Herein, OGG1-deficient progeny exposed in utero to a single low dose of EtOH or its saline vehicle exhibited OGG1- and/or EtOH-dependent alterations in global histone methylation and acetylation, DNA methylation and gene expression (Tet1 (Tet Methylcytosine Dioxygenase 1), Nlgn3 (Neuroligin 3), Hdac2 (Histone Deacetylase 2), Reln (Reelin) and Esr1 (Estrogen Receptor 1)) in fetal brains, and behavioural changes in open field activity, social interaction and ultrasonic vocalization, but not prepulse inhibition. OGG1- and EtOH-dependent changes in Esr1 and Esr2 mRNA and protein levels were sex-dependent, as was the association of Esr1 gene expression with gene activation mark histone H3 lysine 4 trimethylation (H3K4me3) and gene repression mark histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27me3) measured via ChIP-qPCR. The OGG1-dependent changes in global epigenetic marks and gene/protein expression in fetal brains, and postnatal behavioural changes, observed in both saline- and EtOH-exposed progeny, suggest the involvement of epigenetic mechanisms in developmental disorders mediated by 8-oxoG and/or OGG1. Epigenetic effects of OGG1 may be involved in ESR1-mediated gene regulation, which may be altered by physiological and EtOH-enhanced levels of ROS formation, possibly contributing to sex-dependent developmental disorders observed in Ogg1 knockout mice. The OGG1- and EtOH-dependent associations provide a basis for more comprehensive mechanistic studies to determine the causal involvement of oxidative DNA damage and epigenetic changes in ROS-mediated neurodevelopmental disorders.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common type of cardiac arrhythmia. Nonetheless, the accurate diagnosis of this condition continues to pose a challenge when relying on conventional diagnostic techniques. Cell death is a key factor in the pathogenesis of AF. Existing investigations suggest that cuproptosis may also contribute to AF. This investigation aimed to identify a novel diagnostic gene signature associated with cuproptosis for AF using ensemble learning methods and discover the connection between AF and cuproptosis.Two genes connected to cuproptosis, including solute carrier family 31 member 1 (SLC31A1) and lipoic acid synthetase (LIAS), were selected by integration of random forests and eXtreme Gradient Boosting algorithms. Subsequently, a diagnostic model was constructed that includes the two genes for AF using the Light Gradient Boosting Machine (LightGBM) algorithm with good performance (the area under the curve value > 0.75). The microRNA-transcription factor-messenger RNA network revealed that homeobox A9 (HOXA9) and Tet methylcytosine dioxygenase 1 (TET1) could target SLC31A1 and LIAS in AF. Functional enrichment analysis indicated that cuproptosis might be connected to immunocyte activities. Immunocyte infiltration analysis using the CIBERSORT algorithm suggested a greater level of neutrophils in the AF group. According to the outcomes of Spearman's rank correlation analysis, there was a negative relation between SLC31A1 and resting dendritic cells and eosinophils. The study found a positive relationship between LIAS and eosinophils along with resting memory CD4+ T cells. Conversely, a negative correlation was detected between LIAS and CD8+ T cells and regulatory T cells.This study successfully constructed a cuproptosis-related diagnostic model for AF based on the LightGBM algorithm and validated its diagnostic efficacy. Cuproptosis may be regulated by HOXA9 and TET1 in AF. Cuproptosis might interact with infiltrating immunocytes in AF.© 2023. Mendelian Society of Lund and BioMed Central Ltd.
Vascular endothelial polarity induced by blood flow plays crucial roles in the development of atherosclerosis. Loss of endothelial polarity leads to an increase in permeability and leukocyte recruitment, which are crucial hallmarks of atherosclerotic initiation. Endothelial cells exhibit a morphological adaptation to hemodynamic shear stress and possesses planar cell polarity to the direction of blood flow. However, the mechanism of how hemodynamic shear stress regulates endothelial planar cell polarity has not been firmly established. Here, we found that TET1s, a short isoform of Tet methylcytosine dioxygenase 1, was a mediator in the regulation of the planar cell polarity in endothelial cells in response to hemodynamic shear stress. In the process, low expression of TET1s induced by oscillatory shear stress led to the endothelial planar polarity damage through inhibition of F-actin polymerization. TET1s can regulate demethylation level of the sFRP-1 promoter to alter the expression of sFRP-1, which affects the interaction of sFRP-1/Fzd4 and F-actin polymerization. Our study revealed the mechanism of how TET1s mediates endothelial planar cell polarity in response to hemodynamic shear stress and provides a new insight for the prevention of atherosclerosis.© 2023 Author(s).
Enhanced glucose metabolism is a feature of most tumors, but downstream functional effects of aberrant glucose flux are difficult to mechanistically determine. Metabolic diseases including obesity and diabetes have a hyperglycemia component and are correlated with elevated pre-menopausal cancer risk for triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). However, determining pathways for hyperglycemic disease-coupled cancer risk remains a major unmet need. One aspect of cellular sugar utilization is the addition of the glucose-derived protein modification O-GlcNAc (O-linked N-acetylglucosamine) via the single human enzyme that catalyzes this process, O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT). The data in this report implicate roles of OGT and O-GlcNAc within a pathway leading to cancer stem-like cell (CSC) expansion. CSCs are the minor fraction of tumor cells recognized as a source of tumors as well as fueling metastatic recurrence. The objective of this study was to identify a novel pathway for glucose-driven expansion of CSC as a potential molecular link between hyperglycemic conditions and CSC tumor risk factors.We used chemical biology tools to track how a metabolite of glucose, GlcNAc, became linked to the transcriptional regulatory protein tet-methylcytosine dioxygenase 1 (TET1) as an O-GlcNAc post-translational modification in three TNBC cell lines. Using biochemical approaches, genetic models, diet-induced obese animals, and chemical biology labeling, we evaluated the impact of hyperglycemia on CSC pathways driven by OGT in TNBC model systems.We showed that OGT levels were higher in TNBC cell lines compared to non-tumor breast cells, matching patient data. Our data identified that hyperglycemia drove O-GlcNAcylation of the protein TET1 via OGT-catalyzed activity. Suppression of pathway proteins by inhibition, RNA silencing, and overexpression confirmed a mechanism for glucose-driven CSC expansion via TET1-O-GlcNAc. Furthermore, activation of the pathway led to higher levels of OGT production via feed-forward regulation in hyperglycemic conditions. We showed that diet-induced obesity led to elevated tumor OGT expression and O-GlcNAc levels in mice compared to lean littermates, suggesting relevance of this pathway in an animal model of the hyperglycemic TNBC microenvironment.Taken together, our data revealed a mechanism whereby hyperglycemic conditions activated a CSC pathway in TNBC models. This pathway can be potentially targeted to reduce hyperglycemia-driven breast cancer risk, for instance in metabolic diseases. Because pre-menopausal TNBC risk and mortality are correlated with metabolic diseases, our results could lead to new directions including OGT inhibition for mitigating hyperglycemia as a risk factor for TNBC tumorigenesis and progression.© 2023. The Author(s).
Porphyromonas gingivalis is involved in the pathogenesis of multiple polymicrobial biofilm-induced inflammatory diseases, including apical periodontitis, and it triggers pyroptosis accompanied by robust inflammatory responses. Tet methylcytosine dioxygenase 1 (TET1), an epigenetic modifier enzyme, has been is correlated with inflammation, though an association of TET1 and P. gingivalis-related pyroptosis in cementoblasts and the molecular mechanisms has not been shown. Our study here demonstrated that P. gingivalis downregulated Tet1 expression and elicited CASP11- and GSDMD-dependent pyroptosis. Additionally, Tet1 mRNA silencing in cementoblasts appeared to result in a more severe pyroptotic phenotype, where levels of CASP11 and GSDMD cleavage, lactate dehydrogenase release, and IL-1β and IL-18 production were significantly increased. Moreover, Tet1 overexpression resulted in blockade of pyroptosis activation accompanied by inflammation moderation. Further analyses revealed that TET1 modulated glycolysis, confirmed by the application of the specific inhibitor 2-deoxy-d-glucose (2-DG). The pyroptosis phenotype enhanced by Tet1 silencing was moderated by 2-DG upon P. gingivalis invasion. Taken together, these data show the effects and underlying mechanisms of TET1 on pyroptosis and inflammatory phenotype induced by P. gingivalis in cementoblasts, and provides insight into the involvement of P. gingivalis in apical periodontitis and, possibly, other inflammatory diseases.© 2023 New York Academy of Sciences.
Although benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC), a major compound found in cruciferous vegetables, has been reported to exert antitumor effects in various cancers, its apoptotic mechanism remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the apoptotic mechanism of BITC by investigating its role in inhibiting Warburg effect in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells. BITC suppressed cell proliferation, increased the sub-G1 population, Annexin V/PI and reduced the expression of pro-poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (pro-PARP), pro-caspase-3, CCR4-NOT transcription complex subunit 2 (CNOT2), c-Myc, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), and phosphorylated Janus kinase 1 (p-JAK1) in SK-Hep1 and Huh7 HCC cell lines. Notably, knockdown of STAT3 or its upstream regulator CNOT2 further enhanced BITC-induced apoptosis, as evidenced by decreased pro-PARP and pro-caspase-3 expression in SK-Hep1 cells. Additionally, BITC attenuated the expression of hexokinase 2 (HK2), pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) along with reduced LDH production and glucose in SK-Hep1 and Huh7 cells. However, treatment of pyruvate or overexpression of CNOT2 or c-Myc reversed the capacity of BITC to reduce the expression of HK2, pro-caspase-3, and pro-PARP in SK-Hep1 cells. Immunoprecipitation assays further revealed that BITC disrupted the interactions between CNOT2 and STAT3 or c-Myc. Collectively, these findings suggest that the CNOT2/c-Myc/STAT3 signaling axis plays a critical role in glycolysis mediated apoptosis of BITC in HCC cells.
Intestinal fibrosis in Crohn's disease (CD) frequently leads to stricture formation, with current treatment options limited to endoscopic balloon dilation and surgery. This underscores the urgent need for anti-fibrotic therapies. Our objective was to identify therapeutic targets and compounds capable of reversing the fibrotic gene expression profile of mucosal fibroblasts in CD.We derived a fibrotic gene signature via fibroblasts isolated from stricturing CD tissue and conducted a meta-regression analysis across three publicly available transcriptomic datasets, to identify key differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in fibrostenotic CD. Drug repurposing platforms (iLINCS, L1000, CLUE-io) were implemented to screen compounds with high druggability, for their potential to reverse this pro-fibrotic profile. Transcription factors, microRNAs, and drugs targeting the fibrostenotic signature were identified using the TRRUST, miRWalk, and DGIdb databases, ultimately forming a drug-gene interaction network. The STITCH platform was used to predict compound-protein binding affinities. Promising compounds were subsequently evaluated in vitro, using mucosal fibroblasts derived from fibrostenotic CD patients, and the effect on the expression of selected protein targets was measured via ELISA and immunofluorescence staining.The top upregulated DEGs included fibroblast activation protein (FAP), IL-7 receptor, and transcription factor AP-2 gamma. The drug-gene interaction network analysis identified IL-6 among the most druggable targets. Of 6783 pharmaceutical agents, PI3K inhibitors and histone deacetylase blockers were the most effective in reversing the fibrotic signature via a FAP- and IL-6-dependent mechanism.This integrative approach identified potential anti-fibrotic compounds and molecular targets in CD-associated fibrostenosis, supporting future development of effective therapies.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Journal of Crohn’s and Colitis.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40864769 is a review article
Transcription factor AP-2 gamma (TFAP2C) plays a pro-cancer role in various malignancies. Yet, the action of TFAP2C in glioblastoma (GBM) is unknown. This study aimed to investigate the effects of TFAP2C in GBM and the potential mechanism. TFAP2C knockdown in GBM cell lines was employed to examine its impact on cell proliferation, migration, and invasion (PMI), as well as epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) development, and its association with the PI3K/AKT/mTOR (PAM) pathway by co-overexpressing PI3K or SC79 treatment (AKT agonist). The binding of TFAP2C and the PI3K promoter was predicted and validated. Finally, the above effects and mechanisms were verified in in vivo animal experiments. TFAP2C expression was strikingly heightened in human GBM cell lines and showed a negative correlation with patient survival. TFAP2C silencing inhibited GBM cell PMI, N-cadherin and Vimentin expression, and the PAM pathway, and activated E-cadherin and ZO-1 expression. Overexpression of PI3K or SC79 treatment reversed the above changes, suggesting that TFAP2C promotes GBM cell PMI and EMT via the PAM pathway. Mechanistically, TFAP2C binds to the promoter of PI3K and regulates PI3K transcription. Finally, the in vitro results were further validated in animal experiments. In conclusion, TFAP2C promotes PI3K transcription through direct binding to the promoter of PI3K and activates the PAM pathway to promote GBM proliferation and EMT, providing a potential therapeutic target for GBM.© 2025 International Federation for Cell Biology.
Gastric Squamous Cell Carcinoma (GSCC) is a rare but aggressive subtype of gastric cancer with unique histopathology, whose etiology remains poorly understood. Here, we perform genomics analyses of twenty GSCC samples and find that epigenetic regulation genes are among the most frequently mutated genes, including Enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2). Ezh2 loss induces squamous feature both in gastric organoids in vitro and in vivo mouse model. Ezh2 deficiency, together with Trp53 and Pten loss, both of which are also frequently mutated in GSCC, give rise to full-blown GSCC in mice. Mechanistically, we find that Ezh2 could repress the expression of Transcription factor AP-2 gamma (Tfap2c), a transcription factor with the ability to initiate epidermal squamous differentiation, through H3K27 methylation. Disruption of Tfap2c reduces the squamous characteristics of the Ezh2 loss-driven GSCC and reverses its resistance to chemo treatment. Our findings elucidate key molecular mechanisms underlying GSCC pathogenesis and identify potential therapeutic targets for this aggressive malignancy.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 40515876 is a review article
The long non-coding RNA EP300-AS1 (lncRNA EP300-AS1), identified as a potential regulatory factor in various cancers, remains underexplored in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). This study investigated EP300-AS1's regulatory mechanisms in NPC, particularly its interaction with transcription factor AP-2 Gamma (TFAP2C) and its effect on cystatin E/M (CST6) expression. Employing clinical samples and NPC cell lines, we conducted in vitro and in vivo xenograft experiments to assess the impacts of modulating EP300-AS1 expression. Techniques such as CCK8, migration, scratch, apoptosis assays, cell cycle analysis, immunoblotting, and fluorescence experiments elucidated EP300-AS1's role in NPC. The interaction between EP300-AS1 and TFAP2C in regulating CST6 expression was verified using FISH, ChIP, RNA pull-down, and silver staining assays. Results indicated lower expression levels of EP300-AS1 and CST6 in NPC, with EP300-AS1 suppression inhibiting cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, while promoting apoptosis and maintaining the cell cycle in the G1 phase. EP300-AS1 also modulated epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) marker expression, suggesting a role in metastasis control. Conclusively, EP300-AS1 acts as a potential tumor suppressor in NPC by interacting with TFAP2C and targeting CST6, offering novel biomarkers and therapeutic targets through its influence on methylation and the tumor microenvironment.AJCR Copyright © 2025.
Six-transmembrane epithelial antigen of prostate 3 (STEAP3) is associated with the progression of several human malignancies. However, its role in lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) remains unclear. We measured STEAP3 expression in LUSC cell lines and tissues. LUSC cells with stable STEAP3 overexpression and knockdown were obtained through G418 selection. Multiple assays were used to evaluate the malignant phenotypes of LUSC cells and the activation of the β-catenin signaling. The potential transcriptional regulatory factors of STEAP3 were predicted using the JASPAR database, and the correlation between transcription factor AP-2 gamma (TFAP2C) and STEAP3 was analyzed through the GEPIA database. The study evaluated the regulatory relationship between a potential transcription factor and STEAP3 through ChIP and luciferase reporter assays. Additionally, rescue assays were utilized to ascertain whether TFAP2C serves as the upstream regulatory factor of STEAP3, contributing to LUSC progression. Finally, tumor growth and metastasis were evaluated in vivo. STEAP3 expression was notably higher in LUSC, and its overexpression was linked to a poor prognosis. Moreover, STEAP3 overexpression activated the β-catenin pathway, thereby accelerating cell proliferation and metastasis. Conversely, STEAP3 knockdown had an anti-tumor effect in LUSC. Additionally, TFAP2C bound directly to the STEAP3 promoter and positively regulate its expression in LUSC. The anti-tumor effects of TFAP2C knockdown were partially reversed by STEAP3 overexpression. The study indicates that the TFAP2C/STEAP3 axis may be a therapeutic target for LUSC treatment. This enhances our understanding of lung carcinogenesis.© 2024. The Author(s).
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301525
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301702
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 41911374
Transcription factor AP-2 gamma (TFAP2C) has been identified as a key regulator of the trophoblast cell lineage and hemochorial placentation. The rat possesses deep placentation characterized by extensive intrauterine trophoblast cell invasion, which resembles human placentation. Tfap2c is expressed in multiple trophoblast cell lineages, including invasive trophoblast cells situated within the uterine-placental interface of the rat placentation site. Global genome editing was used to explore the biology of Tfap2c in rat placenta development. Homozygous global disruption of Tfap2c resulted in prenatal lethality. Heterozygous global disruption of Tfap2c was associated with diminished invasive trophoblast cell infiltration into the uterus. The role of TFAP2C in the invasive trophoblast cell lineage was explored using Cre-lox conditional mutagenesis. Invasive trophoblast cell-specific disruption of Tfap2c resulted in inhibition of intrauterine trophoblast cell invasion and intrauterine and postnatal growth restriction. The invasive trophoblast cell lineage was not impaired following conditional monoallelic disruption of Tfap2c. In summary, TFAP2C contributes to the progression of distinct stages of placental development. TFAP2C is a driver of early events in trophoblast cell development and reappears later in gestation as an essential regulator of the invasive trophoblast cell lineage. A subset of TFAP2C actions on trophoblast cells are dependent on gene dosage.
Transcription factor AP-2 gamma ( TFAP2C ) has been identified as a key regulator of the trophoblast cell lineage and hemochorial placentation. The rat possesses deep placentation characterized by extensive intrauterine trophoblast cell invasion, which resembles human placentation. Tfap2c is expressed in multiple trophoblast cell lineages, including invasive trophoblast cells situated within the uterine-placental interface of the rat placentation site. Global genome-editing was used to explore the biology of Tfap2c in rat placenta development. Homozygous global disruption of Tfap2c resulted in prenatal lethality. Heterozygous global disruption of Tfap2c was associated with diminished invasive trophoblast cell infiltration into the uterus. The role of TFAP2C in the invasive trophoblast cell lineage was explored using Cre-lox conditional mutagenesis. Invasive trophoblast cell-specific disruption of Tfap2c resulted in inhibition of intrauterine trophoblast cell invasion and intrauterine and postnatal growth restriction. The invasive trophoblast cell lineage was not impaired following conditional monoallelic disruption of Tfap2c . In summary, TFAP2C contributes to the progression of distinct stages of placental development. TFAP2C is a driver of early events in trophoblast cell development and reappears later in gestation as an essential regulator of the invasive trophoblast cell lineage. A subset of TFAP2C actions on trophoblast cells are dependent on gene dosage.
The prevalence of diabetes mellitus (DM) is increasing daily worldwide. DM patients suffer from numerous complications, including the development of chronic wounds that can lead to amputation. These complications necessitate innovative approaches. As part of these innovative approaches, this study synthesized four chalcone derivatives and evaluated their activities in an in vitro diabetic wound model. Several spectroscopic techniques, including 1 H and 13 C NMR and HR-MS, were used to confirm the structures of the newly synthesized compounds. After investigating the inhibition of α-glucosidase in HDF-1 cells treated with D-glucose (50 mM), MTT tests and scratch tests were performed. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β), total antioxidant status (TAS), and procollagen type-1 were analyzed using an ELISA kit. Additionally, proliferation (Ki67), inflammatory (Nuclear factor kappa B; NFκB), and growth factor (Platelet-derived growth factor subunit A; PDGFA) markers in fibroblasts were assessed by immunohistochemistry. All compounds exhibited strong α-glucosidase inhibitory activity, with IC₅₀ values ranging from 1.115 to 1.612 µg/mL. Cytotoxicity analysis demonstrated that all compounds were biocompatible, maintaining over 85% cell viability in HDF-1 cells. Under diabetic conditions, treatment significantly improved cell viability and promoted wound closure, particularly in C4. In addition, the compounds reduced pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF-α and IL-1β while increasing TAS and procollagen type I levels. Immunocytochemical findings revealed enhanced Ki67 and PDGFA expression and decreased NFκB activation in treated groups. Molecular docking analysis supported the experimental findings by demonstrating favorable binding interactions with α-glucosidase. In conclusion, chalcone derivatives-particularly compound C4-promote diabetic wound healing through multitarget mechanisms involving anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and pro-regenerative effects, highlighting their strong therapeutic potential.© 2026. The Author(s).
SUMO-specific protease 3 (SENP3) was reported to be dysregulated in osteosarcoma and ovarian cancer. However, the role of SENP3 in carcinogenesis of papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) has not been defined. Herein, we found that the expression of SENP3 protein was upregulated in PTC tissues and cell lines. Then, a PTC cell line, K-1 cells were transfected with SENP3 overexpression plasmid (pcDNA-SENP3) or small interfering RNA targeting SENP3 (SENP3 siRNA). We found that SENP3 overexpression facilitated cell proliferation and invasion, induced cell cycle arrest at G0/G1 phase and inhibited apoptosis in PTC cells, whereas SENP3 knockdown showed the opposite results. We further found that SET domain bifurcated 1 (SETDB1) can be regulated by SENP3-dependent deSUMOylation. Furthermore, SUMOylation of SETDB1 promoted SETDB1 to form a complex with MBD1-containing chromatin-associated factor 1 (MCAF1), and in turn to occupy the promoter locus of GLI family zinc finger 2 (GLI2) gene to suppress GLI2 expression through trimethylation of histone H3 Lys9 (H3K9me3). Then rescue experiments showed that GLI2 overexpression reversed the effects of SENP3 silencing on K-1 cell functions. The PI3K/AKT pathway inhibitor XL147 suppressed the effects of SENP3 overexpression on K-1 cell behaviors. Additionally, SENP3 knockdown significantly inhibited the xenograft tumor growth of PTC in vivo. This study revealed that SENP3 promoted PTC progression in vitro and in vivo by deSUMOylating SETDB1, thereby relieving SETDB1-mediated repression of GLI2 H3K9 trimethylation, which may provide a potential therapeutic target for PTC.
PANoptosis is a type of programmed cell death (PCD) that is characterized by the simultaneous activation of pyroptosis, necroptosis, and apoptosis. This process triggers amplified inflammatory responses, which may compromise the success of vital pulp therapy (VPT). In this study, a PANoptotic dental pulp cell (DPC) cluster was identified in single-cell RNA sequencing data from inflamed dental pulp tissue. The occurrence of PANoptosis was further confirmed in human clinical pulpitis samples, primary cultured DPCs, and a mouse experimental pulpitis model. We subsequently identified forkhead box E1 (FOXE1) as a key transcription factor that regulates PANoptosis in DPCs. Moreover, FOXE1 knockdown in DPCs and mouse dental pulp tissue effectively suppressed PANoptosis and attenuated inflammatory responses. Our study demonstrated that PANoptosis plays an important role in pulpitis and that FOXE1 may represent a promising therapeutic target for VPT by regulating the progression of pulp inflammation.© 2026 The Author(s).
The molecular mechanisms responsible for the "atopic march" of allergic skin disease to allergic airway disease are incompletely understood. Secreted phospholipase A2 group X (sPLA2-X) is implicated in human asthma and modulates airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) and inflammation in murine models of allergic asthma. We developed a complete proteolytic allergen model of dermal sensitization followed by airway challenge to mimic the "atopic march" and examined the role of sPLA2-X in regulating peripheral allergen sensitization, AHR, and airway inflammation. Pla2g10-/- mice receiving both house dust mite (HDM) peripheral sensitization and airway challenge had attenuated AHR relative to WT mice and lower airway eosinophils. Transgenic C57BL/6 hPLA2G10 mice (only expressing the human sPLA2-X gene) receiving treatment with a small molecule inhibitor of sPLA2-X (ROC0929) during the dermal sensitization phase demonstrated attenuated AHR and a reduction HDM-specific tissue-resident memory CD4+ T cells in the lung. Thus, sPLA2-X acts as an endogenous adjuvant to facilitate allergic sensitization in the periphery, which leads to AHR and airway inflammation following inhalation of the allergen. These results provide proof of concept that inhibition of sensitization in the periphery with a sPLA2-X inhibitor modulates subsequent allergen-induced airway dysfunction.
Activation of fibroblasts and excessive deposition of extracellular matrix are the primary causes of urethral stricture following injury. Pirfenidone (PFD) is an established antifibrotic drug approved for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, however, its potential role in preventing urethral stricture remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the effects of PFD on urethral stricture after injury and explored the underlying mechanisms both in vivo and in vitro. Our results demonstrated that PFD effectively attenuated urethral stricture and fibrosis in mice and suppressed fibroblast proliferation, migration, and invasion while promoting apoptosis. Mechanistically, RNA sequencing revealed that PFD significantly inhibited the expression of hyaluronan synthase 2 (HAS2), a key regulator of fibroblast activity. In addition, PFD suppressed GLI family zinc finger 2 (Gli2) expression in a Sonic hedgehog (Shh)–independent manner, which mediated the regulation of HAS2 by PFD. Furthermore, we found that Gli2 reduced HAS2 expression through the TGF-β1/Smad signaling pathway. Collectively, these findings indicate that PFD may serve as a promising therapeutic candidate for the prevention and treatment of urethral stricture.
MicroRNAs exhibit remarkable potential as biomarkers due to their multiple advantages in Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study aimed to explore the significance of miR-484 in AD.The study included 216 participants [70 healthy controls (HCs), 77 AD with nondepression, 69 AD with depression (AD-D)]. PCR measured serum and tissue miR-484 levels. Receiver operator characteristic curves evaluated miR-484 diagnostic potential for AD/AD-D. Logistic regression identified AD-D risk factors. Bioinformatics predicted miR-484 targets and functional pathways. Dual-luciferase assay validated the interaction between miR-484 and platelet derived growth factor subunit A (PDGFA). Chronic restraint stress (CRS) induced depression animal model by Kunming mice (20 each group × 6 groups). The effect of miR-484/PDGFA axis on depression-like behaviors was evaluated through behavioral tests (sucrose preference, forced swim, and open field).Serum miR-484 was downregulated in AD and further decreased in AD-D compared with HCs. MiR-484 downregulation diagnosed AD-D from AD. MiR-484 expression was correlated with amyloid β -protein 1-42 ( r = 0.682), total tau ( r = -0.575), Mini-Mental State Examination score ( r = 0.593), and Hamilton depression rating scale score ( r = -0.709). MiR-484 was a risk factor for depression in AD. In the depression mouse model, miR-484 overexpression ameliorated depression-like behaviors (sucrose preference, forced swim immobility time, locomotor activity) by regulating PDGFA.Downregulated miR-484 expression, correlating with cognitive function and depression degree, showed a diagnostic value on AD and AD-D. MiR-484 attenuated the CRS-induced depression-like behavior by regulating PDGFA.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
Alveolar ridge resorption after tooth extraction significantly impacts dental implantation and prosthodontic treatment outcomes. Sustaining alveolar bone mass remains a critical clinical challenge and a major focus of research. Notably, patients with tricho-dento-osseous (TDO) syndrome, characterized by distal-less homeobox 3(DLX3) loss-of function mutations, exhibit increased jaw bone density and demonstrate long-term preservation of alveolar bone mass post-tooth extraction. This study aimed to investigate the effects of DLX3 knockdown on bone remodeling following tooth extraction and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.we established a murine maxillary incisor extraction model to investigate alveolar bone healing. An empty adenoviral vector or an adenoviral vector designed to suppress Dlx3 gene expression was delivered into the alveolar sockets of wild-type C57BL/6 mice, respectively. Histological staining, micro-computed tomography (micro-CT), immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, and RNA sequencing were employed to evaluate the outcomes.Histological analysis revealed accelerated bone formation and increased alveolar bone mass in the Dlx3-knockdown group. This phenotype was attributed to the activation of osteoblasts, which promoted new bone formation, and the inhibition of osteoclasts, which reduced bone resorption, without compromising normal bone structure of newly formed bone. RNA sequencing identified thrombospondin 1(Thbs1) as a key downstream gene. Downregulation of Thbs1 following Dlx3-knockdown enhanced angiogenesis and osteogenesis. Conversely, the addition of recombinant THBS1 protein after Dlx3 inhibition partially reversed the enhanced osteogenic phenotype.Suppression of Dlx3 increased alveolar bone mass by down-regulation of Thbs1. Our study provides a theoretical foundation for developing novel strategies to preserve alveolar bone.© 2025 Association for Dental Sciences of the Republic of China. Publishing services by Elsevier B.Vé.
BACKGROUND: Irisin, a cleavage peptide by fibronectin type III domain-containing protein 5 (FNDC5), has been recognized as a promotor of osteogenesis to alleviate osteoporosis (OP). However, the detailed regulatory mechanism of osteogenesis remains unclear. This study uncovered the mechanisms underlying bone formation. METHODS: Osteogenic activity was evaluated by ALP and ARS staining. Expression of target molecules and osteogenic-related factors was assessed by RT-qPCR, Western blotting, and immunohistochemical staining. The binding of euchromatic histone lysine methyltransferase 2 (EHMT2) to distal-less homeobox 3 (DLX3) promoter was validated by ChIP and luciferase reporter assays. Protein interaction, ubiquitination, and small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) modification were determined by Co-IP or Ni2+-NTA pull-down assay. In vivo bone formation was evaluated in a mouse model. Histological analysis was performed by HE and Masson staining. RESULTS: EHMT2 expression was decreased, while DLX3 expression was increased during osteogenic differentiation in vitro. Down-regulation of EHMT2 facilitated osteogenesis via enhancing DLX3 transcription and expression with assistance of H3K9me2. Moreover, EHMT2 was down-regulated by S-phase kinase-associated protein 2 (SKP2)-mediated ubiquitination, whereas protein inhibitor of activated STAT 4 (PIAS4)-mediated SUMOylation exerted an opposite role. Finally, irisin down-regulated EHMT2 via repressing SUMOylation and promoting ubiquitination of EHMT2, thus contributing to bone formation. CONCLUSION: Epigenetic modification-mediated down-regulation of EHMT2 by irisin leads to transcriptional activation of DLX3, thus promoting bone formation.
Solid-type adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) is the most aggressive pathological type with the poorest prognosis. Extensive neovascularization and recruitment of cancer associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are the main characteristics, but the relationship between the two remains unclear.Single-cell RNA sequencing was performed to classify and characterize CAFs in ACC. Primary CAFs from ACC were isolated and purified, and the pro-angiogenic capacity of CAFs from solid-type and non-solid-type ACC were compared. Finally, the upstream regulatory mechanisms of pro-angiogenic factor transcription were studied both in vitro and in vivo.Compared to non-solid-type ACC, CAFs in solid-type ACC are predominantly composed of melanoma cell adhesion molecule (MCAM)+ myofibroblastic cancer-associated fibroblasts (myCAFs). The transcriptional levels of pro-angiogenic factors such as platelet-derived growth factor subunit A (PDGFA), platelet-derived growth factor subunit B (PDGFB), angiopoietin-1 (ANGPT1), and angiopoietin-2 (ANGPT2) in MCAM+ myCAFs were significantly upregulated and exhibited stronger pro-angiogenic activity than MCAM- fibroblasts from non-solid-type ACC. In vivo experiments showed that MCAM+ myCAFs mixed with the ACC cell line salivary gland adenoid cystic carcinoma cell line 83 (SACC83) had a stronger tumorigenic ability and induced more abundant microvascular formation compared to the implantation of SACC83 alone. Additionally, the transcription factor myocyte enhancer factor 2 C (MEF2C) was found to bind to the promoters of PDGFA, PDGFB, ANGPT1, and ANGPT2, initiating their transcription. Knockdown of MEF2C inhibited the pro-angiogenic activity of MCAM+ myCAFs both in vitro and in vivo CONCLUSION: MCAM+ myCAFs promote the transcription of pro-angiogenic factors through MEF2C, thereby enhancing angiogenesis and promoting tumor growth in solid-type ACC.© 2025. The Author(s).
In colorectal cancer (CRC), dysregulated Hedgehog (Hh) and fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3)-related pathways drive tumor progression, but their molecular crosstalk remains poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that the scaffold protein PDZ domain-containing1 (PDZK1) is significantly upregulated in CRC and associated with poor patient prognosis. Functionally, PDZK1 promotes CRC cell proliferation by serving as a direct transcriptional target of Gli family zinc finger 2 (Gli2), the key effector of Hh signaling. Knockdown of PDZK1 markedly attenuated Gli2-driven oncogenic effects, whereas enforced PDZK1 expression rescued the growth inhibition induced by Gli2 silencing, confirming its essential role in Hh signaling-mediated malignancy. Mechanistically, PDZK1 physically interacts with FGFR3 and facilitates its membrane trafficking, thereby enhancing receptor availability and downstream activation of AKT and STAT3 signaling. Our findings reveal PDZK1 as a critical oncogenic scaffold bridging Hh and FGFR3-related pathways in CRC, offering a potential therapeutic target for intervention.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Posterior capsular opacification (PCO) is a common complication of cataract surgery and is strongly associated with the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of lens epithelial cells (LECs). Integrin β3 (ITGB3) has been implicated in various pathological processes; however, its role in PCO remains insufficiently understood.To investigate the regulatory role of ITGB3 in PCO progression and determine whether ITGB3 modulates transforming growth factor-β2 (TGF-β2)-induced migration and EMT in human lens epithelial cells.Human lens epithelial HLE-B3 cells were treated with transforming growth factor-β2 (TGF-β2; 10 ng/mL) to establish an in vitro model of PCO. ITGB3 expression at the mRNA and protein levels was assessed using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blotting. Cell proliferation was evaluated using the 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assay, while cell migration was assessed using transwell and wound-healing assays.TGF-β2 stimulation significantly increased ITGB3 expression in HLE-B3 cells. Silencing of ITGB3 significantly reduced the proliferation of TGF-β2-treated cells and inhibited their migratory capacity, as demonstrated by both transwell and wound-healing assays. Exposure to TGF-β2 promoted EMT, whereas ITGB3 knockdown reversed this effect. Furthermore, activation of the TGF-β/Smad2/3 signaling pathway induced by TGF-β2 was attenuated following ITGB3 silencing.Knockdown of ITGB3 alleviates TGF-β2-induced migration and EMT in HLE-B3 cells by suppressing the TGF-β/Smad2/3 signaling pathway, supporting ITGB3 as a potential therapeutic target for the prevention and treatment of PCO.
Psoriasis is a T cell-mediated inflammatory and autoimmune skin disease characterized by aberrant adaptive immune responses against specific autoantigens. Among the autoantigens implicated, keratin 17 (K17), an intermediate filament protein overexpressed in psoriatic keratinocytes, has been proposed to form a "K17 loop" that amplifies inflammation. However, direct evidence linking presentation of this self-antigen to psoriatic inflammation remains limited. In this study, we identified a K17-positive keratinocyte subpopulation with enhanced antigen-presenting function in psoriatic skin. Mass spectrometry analysis revealed that activated keratinocytes expresses major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecules loaded with the K17-derived epitope, and subsequently activated CD4+ T cells in a human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-restricted manner. Using a graft versus host disease (GVHD) mouse model to validate functional K17 specific T cells, we adoptively transferred into mice challenged with imiquimod (IMQ) and observed exacerbated psoriasis-like skin inflammation. Our findings demonstrate that keratinocytes function as non-professional antigen-presenting cells, mediating K17-specific T cell responses and amplifying psoriatic inflammation. Together, this study characterizes HLA-restricted, keratinocyte-mediated K17 presentation and establishes its functional role in promoting psoriatic inflammation, suggesting that targeting K17 in keratinocyte-T cell interactions may represent a promising therapeutic strategy.Copyright © 2026 Society for Investigative Dermatology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42440815 is a review article
Cisplatin resistance is a major obstacle to effective chemotherapy in patients with cervical cancer and is associated with an immunosuppressive tumour microenvironment. Copper ions are essential trace elements that regulate redox and immune balance. However, the connections among copper ions, cisplatin resistance and immune regulation remain unclear. Here, higher serum copper levels correlated with increased pan-cancer mortality. Integrative transcriptomic and single-cell RNA sequencing analyses revealed lower copper-related transcriptional activity in CD8⁺ T cells from cervical cancer tissues. Multiomics analysis revealed that ATPase copper transporting alpha (ATP7A) expression was upregulated in cisplatin-resistant patients compared with sensitive patients and correlated with poor survival. ATP7A knockdown increased sensitivity to cisplatin and promoted cuproptosis, whereas ATP7A overexpression increased cisplatin resistance and impaired CD8⁺ T cells through copper ion efflux. Furthermore, excess copper ions directly bind to the lymphocyte-specific protein tyrosine kinase (LCK) activation loop (Tyr394), impairing T-cell receptor (TCR) signalling in CD8⁺ T cells. Sex-determining region Y-box 21 (SOX21) directly binds two conserved motifs within the ATP7A promoter (-372 bp and -245 bp) and enhances its transcriptional activity. These results revealed a SOX21/ATP7A/copper ion axis connecting copper ion efflux with immune suppression and cisplatin resistance. Targeting ATP7A or copper ion efflux may restore CD8⁺T-cell activity and enhance the efficacy of cisplatin for the treatment of cervical cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sijunzi decoction (SJZD) is a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) commonly used for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), but its mechanisms remain unclear. This study investigates its molecular basis using network pharmacology and molecular docking.Active compounds and targets of SJZD were identified via Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology (TCMSP) Database and Analysis Platform, and PDAC-related targets were retrieved from Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM) and GeneCards. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, Gene Ontology (GO)/Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment, and tissue distribution analyses were conducted. Molecular docking evaluated binding affinities between compounds and targets. The anti-PDAC effects of SJZD were evaluated in vitro using human pancreatic cancer cell lines (CFPAC-1 and MiaPaCa-2) and in vivo using a patient-derived xenograft (PDX) mouse model.SJZD comprises 131 compounds and 260 targets, with key targets such as AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (AKT1), BCL2 associated agonist of cell death (BAD), BCL2 apoptosis regulator (BCL2), and tumor protein p53 (TP53) identified through PPI analysis. Enrichment analyses highlighted the phosphatidylinositide 3-kinases (PI3K)/protein Kinase B (AKT)/mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase (mTOR) and apoptosis pathways as primary therapeutic mechanisms. SJZD exhibited cytotoxic effects against PDAC cells in vitro and suppressed tumor growth in vivo, with mechanistic analyses confirming its regulatory effects on the PI3K/AKT/mTOR and apoptosis pathways. Molecular docking revealed strong binding affinities, particularly for compounds targeting estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) and estrogen receptor 2 (ESR2). These findings suggest that SJZD exerts anti-PDAC effects via multi-target modulation, primarily through inhibition of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling axis, induction of apoptosis and autophagy, and anti-inflammatory activity. The involvement of classic compounds supports the rationale of its traditional use, while experimental validation provides a mechanistic foundation for future clinical development.This study clarifies the active components, targets, and mechanisms of SJZD in treating PDAC, offering insights into the therapeutic potential of TCM.
Urine cytology is recommended for noninvasive detection of urothelial carcinoma (UC) but shows limited sensitivity, particularly in low-grade disease. Keratin 17 (K17) has emerged as a promising immunocytochemical marker. This study evaluated the diagnostic performance and interobserver agreement of K17 in a routine setting.This prospective cross-sectional study included 184 urine samples from patients undergoing diagnostic evaluation for suspected UC. K17 immunocytochemistry was performed with a fully automated platform and independently evaluated by two blinded raters. Cytology was classified according to The Paris System for Reporting Urinary Cytology. UC status was determined by histology when available or by follow-up and multidisciplinary assessment. Diagnostic accuracy was assessed by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis; interobserver reliability was assessed with the Cohen κ and intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC). Multivariable logistic regression evaluated combined diagnostic approaches.K17 expression was significantly higher in UC than in non-UC samples (p < .001). Across raters, area under the ROC curve (AUC) values ranged from 0.68 to 0.71. Sensitivity was 52.9%-65.9%, with a specificity of 73.7%-82.8%. Sensitivity ranged from 45.5% to 54.5% for low-grade tumors and from 57.7% to 73.1% for high-grade tumors. In stage-based analyses, sensitivity was 49.2%-61.5% for non-muscle-invasive UC and 65%-80% for muscle-invasive UC. Combining K17 with cytology numerically improved diagnostic discrimination (AUC value, 0.76; 95% CI, 0.69-0.83). Interobserver agreement was moderate to substantial (κ = 0.684; ICC, 0.653). Limitations included single-center design, partial histological verification (81%), and post hoc optimized cutoffs.K17 immunocytochemistry is a reproducible adjunct to urine cytology, with moderate diagnostic performance. It may warrant further evaluation as an adjunctive marker, particularly in low-grade and cytologically equivocal cases.© 2026 American Cancer Society.
Acetaminophen (APAP)-induced acute liver injury (AILI) is a prevalent clinical liver condition caused mostly by oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage. Dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs) possess antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and immunomodulatory capabilities, demonstrating significant potential in liver diseases. However, during in vitro culture, they are typically maintained under normoxic conditions (21% O2), which is very different from the hypoxic oxygen level that is found in vivo. It remains unclear whether hypoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells (Hyp-DPSCs) exhibit superior therapeutic effects compared to normoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells (Nor-DPSCs). This study demonstrated that 24-h exposure to 1% O2 significantly enhanced HIF1A/HIF-1α expression in DPSCs. It promoted mitophagy through the MYC-HIF1A-BNIP3 pathway, enhancing mitochondrial shape and function while reducing oxidative stress in DPSCs. Furthermore, in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that Hyp-DPSCs were far more potent than Nor-DPSCs in boosting the expression of hepatic antioxidant factors and enhancing macroautophagy/autophagy to reduce AILI. These findings revealed that hypoxia activated mitophagy in DPSCs, enhancing their therapeutic efficacy against AILI and providing a novel strategy for stem cell-based AILI treatment.Abbreviations: AILI: acetaminophen-induced acute liver injury; ANOVA: analysis of variance; APAP: acetaminophen; BAX: BCL2 associated X, apoptosis regulator; BCL2: BCL2 apoptosis regulator; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; BNIP3L: BCL2 interacting protein 3 like; CASP3: caspase 3; CAT: catalase; CCK-8: cell counting kit-8; CM: conditioned medium; COX4I1: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4I1; CPT1A: carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A; CQ: chloroquine; DPSCs: dental pulp stem cells; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; GO: Gene Ontology; GOT1/AST: glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT: glutamic - pyruvic transaminase; GPX4: glutathione peroxidase 4; GSH: glutathione; Hyp-DPSCs: hypoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells; H&E: hematoxylin and eosin; HIF1A/HIF-1α: hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit alpha; HMOX1/HO-1: heme oxygenase 1; HUVECs: human umbilical vein endothelial cells; IF: immunofluorescence; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IL1B/IL-1β: interleukin 1 beta; IL6: interleukin 6; i.p.: intraperitoneally; i.v.: intravenous injection; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MSCs: mesenchymal stem cells; MYC: MYC proto-oncogene, bHLH transcription factor; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NAPQI: N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine; NFE2L2/NRF2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; Nor-DPSCs: normoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells; PRKN/parkin: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; PLIN2: perilipin 2; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PPARA/PPARα: peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha; PPARG/PPARγ: peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SEM: standard error of the mean; SOD1: superoxide dismutase 1; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; VDAC1: voltage dependent anion channel 1; WB: western blot.
This randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial evaluated the clinical and biological effects of laser-assisted therapy on the healing of soft tissue at the pontic site prior to fixed partial denture rehabilitation.A total of 45 patients requiring a single-tooth extraction, followed by a three-unit fixed partial denture rehabilitation, were randomly allocated to one of three groups (n = 15 in each group). Gallium-Aluminum-Arsenide (GaAlAs) diode laser (GRR laser), Neodymium-doped Yttrium Aluminium Garnet laser (Nd: YAG) and placebo. Laser applications were performed once daily for five consecutive days following tooth extraction. Clinical healing was assessed using wound dimension measurements and the healing index (HI) at baseline, day 7, and day 14. Postoperative pain was evaluated using visual analog scale (VAS) scores recorded daily from postoperative day 1 to day 7. Gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) samples were collected at the same time points and analysed for transforming growth factor beta 2 (TGF-β2) levels using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Intergroup and intragroup comparisons were performed using the appropriate statistical tests (α = 0.05).No significant differences were observed among groups at baseline for any evaluated parameter (p > 0.05). At day 7 and day 14, significant intergroup differences were detected for wound dimensions, clinical healing index scores, VAS pain scores, and GCF TGF-β2 levels (p < 0.001). The GRR laser group demonstrated significantly greater wound size reduction, higher clinical healing index scores, lower postoperative pain levels, and higher TGF-β2 concentrations compared with the Nd: YAG laser and placebo groups. Nd: YAG laser group showed improved outcomes compared with placebo, although these differences were less significant than those observed in the GRR group.Laser-assisted therapy accelerated the healing of soft tissue at the pontic site prior to fixed partial denture rehabilitation. The GRR laser protocol achieved superior clinical and biological outcomes compared to the Nd: YAG laser and the placebo. These results suggest that optimised low-level laser therapy (LLLT) could be a valuable additional treatment for accelerating pontic site maturation and making the prosthetic workflow more predictable.NCT07415434, Retrospectively registered (09.02.2026).© 2026. The Author(s).
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a lethal lung disease involving injury and a dysregulated repair response of an ageing epithelium. Here we investigate the contribution of senescence and telomere shortening to bleomycin-induced injury in alveolar epithelial cells (EpCs) derived from lung parenchymal tissue of patients with pulmonary fibrosis (PF), predominantly IPF, in vitro.Injury responses of EpCs in air-liquid interface (ALI) culture were assessed by ELISA, qPCR and/or immunofluorescence at 48 and 96 h post-bleomycin (30 μg·mL-1) treatment. Telomere length was evaluated by qPCR and corroborated by fluorescence in situ hybridisation.Bleomycin treatment increased markers of inflammation (i.e. interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-36γ) and senescence (i.e. p16 and p21) in EpCs from PF patients (PF EpCs) (p<0.05); responses markedly higher than control EpCs (Ctrl EpCs). Conversely, the effects of bleomycin on the expression of type I and type II alveolar EpC markers were supressed or downregulated in cultures of PF EpCs (when compared with Ctrl EpCs), whereas the percentage of keratin 17-positive type I and II intermediate EpCs were increased (p<0.05). Telomere length was also significantly shorter in PF than Ctrl EpCs at baseline and further reduced post-bleomycin treatment (p<0.05). Induction of telomere shortening by cell passaging augmented bleomycin-induced PF EpC injury, whereas pharmacological telomerase activation and selected senotherapeutics were protective.This study provides evidence that senescence-associated telomere shortening increases the susceptibility of IPF lung EpCs to injury. Our cell-based lung epithelial injury model has utility as a pre-clinical tool for drug discovery and the evaluation of potential senotherapeutics for IPF treatment.Copyright ©The authors 2026.
Breast cancer (BC) is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide and has a high recurrence rate. This study aimed to evaluate the expression levels of three biomarkers: DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1), histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1), and metallothionein 1E (MT1E) in BC patients.Peripheral blood and tissue samples from 95 female BC patients and 50 age-matched (±5 years) healthy female controls were analyzed using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Diagnostic potential was assessed through receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. In silico analyses identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs), Gene Ontology (GO) terms, pathway enrichment, correlation analysis, miRNA-mRNA interactions, and drug-gene networks.Both experimental and computational results revealed significantly higher levels of DNMT1 and HDAC1 but lower levels of MT1E in BC patients compared to controls (p-value < 0.0001). Furthermore, tumor expression of these genes correlated with molecular subtypes, showing distinct expression patterns in triple-negative BC (TNBC). Advanced-stage tumors also exhibited increased HDAC1 and DNMT1 expression. GO enrichment analysis indicated that these DEGs are involved in cell division, differentiation, and nuclear functions. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis linked DNMT1 to the p53 pathway, HDAC1 to mismatch repair, and MT1E to cytokine receptor interactions. The strongest gene correlations were DNMT1-ILF3, HDAC1-RBBP4, and MT1E-MT2A. Additionally, miRNA-mRNA interaction analysis revealed that DNMT1, HDAC1, and MT1E are targeted by multiple miRNAs, with the top interacting miRNAs being hsa-miR-103a-3p for DNMT1, hsa-miR-34a-5p for HDAC1, and hsa-miR-126-3p for MT1E. DNMT1 showed the highest number of miRNA interactions among the three genes. Moreover, 98 drugs were found to interact with these three genes. ROC analysis demonstrated promising diagnostic performance, with areas under the curve (AUC) of 0.916 for DNMT1, 0.792 for HDAC1, and 0.683 for MT1E (95% confidence interval [CI]).These findings suggest that DNMT1, HDAC1, and MT1E show potential as complementary biomarkers in BC diagnosis. However, further validation in larger cohorts and functional studies are warranted.Copyright © 2026 Sedigheh Akhtartavan et al. Analytical Cellular Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Fibronectin (FN) and transglutaminase 2 (TG2) engage in a high-affinity interaction. This interaction affects anchoring, migration and survival of cells, and high cellular expression of TG2 is associated with metastasis potential of cancers. Previous work has mapped the interaction to involve the N-terminal part of TG2 and an N-terminally located 45 kDa domain of FN (FN45). In particular, the I8 module of FN45 is reported to be necessary and sufficient for TG2 binding. Here, we present the cryo-EM structure of a complex between human TG2 and FN45 at 2.8 Å resolution. In the structure, the distal region of the TG2 N-terminal domain binds the FN45 I8 module, whereas the proximal N-terminal region and adjacent catalytic core segment bind the FN45 I7 module and, to a lesser extent, the FN45 II2 module. The FN45 I7 and FN45 I8 modules have about equal buried surface areas in their interaction with TG2. A glycine residue at position 127 of TG2 is crucial for interaction with Trp553 of the FN45 I8 module. Mutation of this residue to isoleucine, which is carried by transglutaminase 3 that does not bind FN45, abrogates the binding of FN45 to TG2. This finding suggests that the interaction of the FN45 I7 module with TG2 is contingent on the FN45 I8 module making an interaction with TG2. Further, this finding highlights the region surrounding residue 127 of TG2 as a promising target for structure-based design of anticancer drugs aimed at disrupting the TG2-FN interaction.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Periodontitis is a chronic inflammatory disease that affects the supporting tissues around teeth. A reduction in the pluripotency of periodontal ligament stem cells (PDLSCs) has been identified as a pivotal factor in age-related alveolar bone loss. This study investigated the effects of special AT-rich binding protein 1 (SATB1) on the osteogenic differentiation capacity of PDLSCs under H2O2-induced senescent conditions and its potential mechanisms, thereby providing new insights into periodontal regeneration in patients with periodontitis.The osteogenic differentiation capacity of PDLSCs was determined by alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, alizarin red S (ARS) staining, and western blotting. Co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) was used to detect the binding of SATB1 to histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) and a ubiquitination assay was employed to detect the protein stability of SATB1.Under normal and H2O2-stimulation conditions, SATB1 enhances osteogenic differentiation of PDLSCs by activating the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling pathways. The Co-IP results indicated that SATB1 could physically bind to HDAC1 and the binding of SATB1 and HDAC1 proteins decreased under H2O2-induced senescent conditions. In addition, HDAC1 promoted the expression of SATB1 and rescued the osteogenic differentiation capacity of PDLSCs via the activation of the p38 MAPK pathway under senescent conditions. Nevertheless, HDAC1 deacetylation mutant (HDAC1-H141A-MUT) did not affect the binding of SATB1 and HDAC1 but lost the effect of upregulating the expression of SATB1. Moreover, HDAC1-H141A-MUT lost the ability to promote the osteogenic differentiation of PDLSCs and the activation of the p38 MAPK signaling pathway. Furthermore, protein half-life experiments indicated that HDAC1 hindered the degradation of the SATB1 protein, whereas HDAC1-H141A-MUT lost this function. In the end, ubiquitination assay demonstrated that HDAC1 inhibited the ubiquitination of SATB1, while HDAC1-H141A-MUT has no effect on the ubiquitination of SATB1 protein.SATB1 modulated the osteogenic differentiation of PDLSCs through HDAC1 mediated non-histone protein deacetylation and ubiquitination and through the p38 MAPK pathway under H2O2-induced senescence conditions. Therefore, this new mechanism provides a feasible strategy for promoting periodontal tissue regeneration.© 2026. The Author(s).
SNAIL is a transcription factor that plays a role in development and cancer. SNAIL contains an N-terminal SNAG domain that is a high-affinity ligand for the histone substrate binding lysine-specific demethylase 1 (LSD1). SNAIL also contains a C-terminal zinc finger domain that binds to DNA E-box sequences. SNAIL and related transcription factor family members are known to recruit LSD1-containing protein complexes to specific sites in chromatin to regulate gene expression. LSD1 can form a multiprotein complex with histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) and CoREST scaffolding protein (LHC). In this study, we use a purified system to analyze the role of SNAIL in modulating nucleosome deacetylation by the LHC complex. We find that SNAIL enhances nucleosome deacetylase activity of the LHC complex at multiple histone H3 sites through multivalent interactions. Enhanced nucleosome deacetylation is dependent on SNAIL's SNAG and zinc finger domains. Unexpectedly, we find that SNAIL-stimulated nucleosome deacetylation by LHC also involves interactions of the nucleosome histone acidic patch, including histone H2A acidic residues. Modeling and mutagenesis experiments suggest that this acidic patch could engage a basic patch in the disordered segment of LSD1. Together, these findings reveal how a transcription factor can influence a cascade of molecular recognition events to regulate chromatin structure.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
A novel signal-switchable fluorescent biosensing platform was rationally developed based on oxidized single-walled carbon nanohorns (oxSWCNHs) and FAM-labeled peptide probes for the highly sensitive detection, activity evaluation, and intracellular bioimaging of histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1). The FAM-modified peptide substrate could be tightly adsorbed on the oxSWCNHs. In the presence of HDAC1, the specific deacetylation of acetyl-lysine residues initiated the sequential enzymatic cleavage reaction triggered by carboxypeptidase Y (CPY), which led to the detachment of fluorophores from oxSWCNHs and the obvious recovery of fluorescence signals. Under optimized experimental conditions, the constructed biosensor exhibited excellent sensing performance toward HDAC1 with a low detection limit of 1.4 ng/mL. Meanwhile, the sensing system was effectively utilized to precisely detect HDAC1 in the serum of humans, quantitatively assess the inhibitory effect of trichostatin A (TSA), and achieve intracellular fluorescence imaging of endogenous HDAC1 in living cells. Featuring high sensitivity, favorable specificity, and simple operation, this fluorescent sensing strategy provides a promising and universal tool for clinical HDAC1 analysis, disease-related research and inhibitor screening.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH, DE part of Springer Nature.
Hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury (HIRI) is one of the common complications of liver transplantation. Rhomboid 5 homolog 2 (Rhbdf2) plays a crucial role in apoptosis, inflammation, and liver injury, but its role and regulatory mechanism in HIRI remain unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of Rhbdf2 in HIRI and elucidate its molecular mechanism.Rhbdf2 expression levels were detected in pre-ischemia-reperfusion (Pre) and post-ischemia-reperfusion (Post) livers. Western blot analysis, flow cytometry, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, and immunofluorescence staining were used to investigate the effects of Rhbdf2 on hepatic ischemia-reperfusion (HI/R). The potential molecular mechanisms of the effects of Rhbdf2 on HI/R were investigated by combining RNA sequencing and mass spectrometry analysis, as well as co-immunoprecipitation and in vitro ubiquitination assays.The level of Rhbdf2 protein was significantly increased in HI/R. Overexpression of Rhbdf2 in mice exacerbated HI/R-induced liver injury, apoptosis, and the inflammatory response, whereas knockdown of Rhbdf2 produced the opposite results. Mechanistically, overexpression of Rhbdf2 promoted the phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 7 (MAP3K7, also known as TAK1), thereby activating the JNK/p38 signaling pathway and ultimately exacerbating HIRI. Mass spectrometry analysis, co-immunoprecipitation, and in vitro ubiquitination assays revealed that the E3 ubiquitin ligase constitutive photomorphogenic 1 (Cop1) interacts with Rhbdf2 and mediates its degradation through K48-linked ubiquitination, thereby inhibiting the TAK1- JNK/p38 axis and reducing HIRI.This study revealed that Rhbdf2 exacerbates HIRI by activating the TAK1- JNK/p38 axis, whereas Cop1-mediated Rhbdf2 ubiquitination and degradation can significantly inhibit this process. These findings provide potential therapeutic targets and insights for the clinical treatment of HIRI.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neuroinflammation mediated by microglia activation is the key pathological mechanisms for cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury (CIRI). This study investigated the role and underlying molecular mechanism of Rhomboid 5 homolog 2 (RHBDF2) in neuroinflammation during CIRI.The in vivo middle cerebral artery occlusion and reperfusion (MCAO/R) mouse model and in vitro HMC3 microglia subjected to oxygen glucose deprivation and reperfusion (OGD/R) were established to mimic CIRI. Real-time PCR, western blot, immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, flow cytometry, and co-immunoprecipitation assays were used to confirm RHBDF2 expression and explore the molecular mechanism of microglia-specific RHBDF2 knockdown in CIRI. Methylated RNA immunoprecipitation was used to detect the m6A methylation level of RHBDF2 mRNA both in vivo and in vitro. RNA sequencing analysis was performed in OGD/R-treated HMC3 cells with or without RHBDF2 knockdown.Our finding showed that RHBDF2 expression increased in both in vivo and in vitro CIRI models. Microglial-specific RHBDF2 knockdown reduced brain injury in MCAO/R mice, as evidenced by the reduction in the cerebral infarct volume and amelioration of the neurological deficits. Furthermore, we demonstrated that RHBDF2 knockdown alleviated neuroinflammation by inhibiting microglial M1 polarization and promoting microglial M2 polarization in MCAO/R mouse ischemic penumbra. Mechanistically, RHBDF2 interacted with STING and promoted the activation of the STING-TBK1-IRF3/p65 signaling pathway. Rescue experiments confirmed that RHBDF2 knockdown suppressed inflammation via the inhibition of STING-TBK1 signaling pathway. In addition, the m6A methylation level of RHBDF2 mRNA was significantly increased in the MCAO/R mouse brain tissues and OGD/R-treated HMC3 cells. YTHDF1 recognized the m6A sites of RHBDF2 and promote its expression in an m6A manner. Through RNA-seq, the possible downstream effectors of RHBDF2 in CIRI was predicted.Microglial-specific RHBDF2 knockdown inhibits neuroinflammation in CIRI via STING-TBK1 signaling pathway, and is positively regulated by the m6A reader YTHDF1. This suggests RHBDF2 as a potential therapeutic target in ischemic stroke.© 2025. The Author(s).
Woolly hair (WH) is a hair shaft anomaly characterized by tightly curled hair that typically stops growing at a few inches. Autosomal recessive WH (ARWH; OMIM no. 278150/604379/616760) has been reported to be caused by variants in genes coding lysophosphatidic acid receptor 6 (LPAR6), lipase H (LIPH), or keratin 25 (KRT25). In this study, we conducted a scanning electron microscopic (SEM) examination of the hair of a 3-year-old Japanese ARWH patient. The SEM revealed that her affected hair had an irregular and rough cuticle compared to her mother's hair. Many irregular small projections and longitudinal grooves were seen on the surface of the patient's hair shaft, and some free margins of the hair cortex were raised or serrated. Her hairs were oval-shaped on the cross-section. Mutation analysis revealed a homozygous pathogenic variant (c.736 T > A; Cys246Ser) in exon 6 in LIPH. In our clinic, we identified three additional cases with the homozygous Cys246Ser variant and one case with compound heterozygous variants in LIPH: Cys246Ser and c.671C > G (Pro224Arg). Consequently, genetic analyses, including genotype-phenotype correlation involving rare LIPH variants, have become more crucial in the Japanese population.Copyright © 2024 Minakawa, Matsuzaki, Higashino, Suzuki, Tomita, Akasaka and Sawamura.
Currently, most models for hair follicle research have the limitation of not replicating some key features of the hair follicle microenvironment. To complement this, we transfected various factors for hair growth into dermal papilla cells (DPCs) by electroporation and cultured the spheroids with keratinocytes (KCs). We optimized the cell number and culture period for applying spheroids to hair-on-a-chip. Furthermore, we investigated the expression of hair growth factors in spheroids depending on the presence or absence of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) and transfection. In spheroids in which DPCs, KCs, and HUVECs were co-cultured for 21 days, the expression of lymphoid enhancer factor 1 (LEF1), T-cell factor 1 (TCF1), and keratin 25 (K25) in the center of the spheroid, the expression of keratin 17 (K17) on the outer surface of the spheroid, and the shape of hair extending outward from the spheroid surface were observed. From these results, it is expected that a hair-on-a-chip experiment in which short-term cultured TKH spheroids are injected into the dermis and co-cultured with KC will enable the production of full-thickness skin equivalents containing hair in vitro without transplantation into animals.
Hereditary palmoplantar keratoderma is a rare heterogenous group of genodermatoses characterised by hyperkeratosis of the palms and soles. Genetic alterations affecting proteins of the keratin cytoskeleton, cornified cell envelope, desmosomes and gap junction proteins have been implicated in the pathogenesis of inherited palmoplantar keratoderma. Reports of palmoplantar keratoderma in the African population are scarce. Herein, we report a case of a 29-year-old HIV-infected African female, who presented to a tertiary hospital with complaints of a painful left fourth toe, secondary to a constriction band. Her background history is significant for prior constriction bands involving her toes, some of which progressed to auto-amputations and childhood-onset thickening of the palmoplantar skin. Examination revealed diffuse transgrediens palmoplantar keratoderma with associated clinical findings of pseudo-ainhum and knuckle pads. A systemic workup was non-contributory. Next-generation sequencing genetic testing detected two variants of undetermined significance in gap junction protein beta 4, a connexin-encoding gene, and in the rhomboid 5 homolog 2 gene. Her phenotype remains discordant with our genetic findings. Her clinical features are instead consistent with overlapping phenotypes of gap junction protein beta 2-related connexin disorders: Vohwinkel syndrome and Bart-Pumphrey syndrome. Our case underlines the genetic heterogeneity of palmoplantar keratoderma and the diagnostic challenges it presents. Our patient required surgical amputation of the affected toe and is receiving ongoing dermatological management. Early recognition, appropriate referral and management are required to avert the debilitating consequences of mutilating keratoderma and improve the quality of life.© The Author(s) 2023.
Immune checkpoint inhibitors have been approved for the treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, immunotherapy requires the identification of suitable biomarkers to guide treatment. The gene for rhomboid 5 homolog 2 (IRHom2), which encodes the rhombus protease iRhom2, activates the MAP3K7-dependent pathway and promotes hepatic steatosis. Thus, we hypothesized an involvement of this gene in HCC. We report that RHBDF2 expression is dramatically upregulated in HCC. RHBDF2 upregulation is associated with tumor stage, lymph node metastasis, tumor protein P53 mutation, and worse prognoses in HCC patients. Gene Ontology, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes and gene set enrichment analysis enrichment analysis indicated that RHBDF2 was involved in immune signal pathways. Moreover, RHBDF2 expression was positively related not only to immune infiltration, but also to immune cell markers. Examination of several types of HCC infiltrated by immune cells revealed that the group with high expression of RHBDF2 showed the worst outcomes. Therefore, RHBDF2 may have potential as a novel biomarker for predicting prognosis and is related to immune infiltrates in HCC.© 2023 The Authors. FEBS Open Bio published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Systemic metabolic syndrome significantly increases the risk of morbidity and mortality in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). However, no effective therapeutic strategies are available, practically because our understanding of its complicated pathogenesis is poor. Here we identify the tripartite motif-containing protein 31 (Trim31) as an endogenous inhibitor of rhomboid 5 homolog 2 (Rhbdf2), and we further determine that Trim31 directly binds to Rhbdf2 and facilitates its proteasomal degradation. Hepatocyte-specific Trim31 ablation facilitates NAFLD-associated phenotypes in mice. Inversely, transgenic or ex vivo gene therapy-mediated Trim31 gain-of-function in mice with NAFLD phenotypes virtually alleviates severe deterioration and progression of steatohepatitis. The current findings suggest that Trim31 is an endogenous inhibitor of Rhbdf2 and downstream cascades in the pathogenic process of steatohepatitis and that it may serve as a feasible therapeutical target for the treatment of NAFLD/NASH and associated metabolic disorders.© 2022. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 34961738 is a review article
Skeletal muscle dysfunction (SMD) is a common extrapulmonary complication of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2) is closely involved in the suppression of inflammatory transcription and is progressively reduced during COPD progression. Exosomes mediate intercellular communication by transferring bioactive cargos, including proteins. This study aimed to elucidate the molecular mechanism by which alveolar epithelial cell-derived exosomes regulate HDAC2 and contribute to COPD-related SMD.Exosome inhibitor GW4869 was used to assess the role of exosomes in skeletal muscle injury induced by chronic cigarette smoke (CS) exposure. Exosomes isolated from the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) of CS-exposed mice and from cigarette smoke extract (CSE)-exposed mouse alveolar epithelial (MLE12) cells were applied to recipient mice and/or mouse myoblast (C2C12) cells to evaluate muscle phenotypes, myogenic differentiation and cellular senescence. Rescue experiments using HDAC2 overexpression or HDAC activator ITSA1 treatment, together with proteomics and protein interaction assays, were performed to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.GW4869 treatment ameliorated CS-induced muscle dysfunction in mice, as evidenced by increased grip strength (222.4 ± 15.91 g vs. 159.2 ± 11.65 g, p < 0.001) and muscle fibre cross-sectional area (404.0 ± 5.15 μm2 vs. 172.0 ± 5.39 μm2, p < 0.001), along with decreased muscle atrophy and senescence markers. In vitro, exosomes derived from 8% CSE-exposed MLE12 cells (Exo-CSE) impaired myogenic differentiation, decreased myotube diameter (10.50 ± 0.74 μm vs. 29.27 ± 0.48 μm, p < 0.001) and increased the number of senescent cells (206.7 ± 5.13 vs. 9.33 ± 1.53, p < 0.001). Exo-CSE significantly reduced HDAC2 expression in C2C12 cells (0.18 ± 0.03 vs. 0.53 ± 0.04, p < 0.001), whereas HDAC2 overexpression or ITSA1 treatment rescued impaired myogenic differentiation and cellular senescence caused by Exo-CSE. Proteomic analysis identified proline/arginine-rich end leucine-rich protein (PRELP) as a key exosomal cargo, and exosomes derived from PRELP-silenced CSE-exposed MLE12 cells markedly restored HDAC2 expression in recipient C2C12 cells (0.42 ± 0.02 vs. 0.18 ± 0.03, p < 0.001). Mechanistically, PRELP disrupted the stabilizing interaction between heat shock protein family A member 5 (HSPA5) and HDAC2, accelerating HDAC2 degradation, likely through the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. In vivo, the combination of PRELP knockdown and the HDAC activator ITSA1 synergistically alleviated CS-induced muscle atrophy and senescence.In COPD, CS-exposed alveolar epithelial cells release PRELP-enriched exosomes that promote SMD by disrupting HSPA5-mediated HDAC2 stabilization and accelerating HDAC2 degradation. Targeting the PRELP-HDAC2 axis may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for COPD-related SMD.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cachexia, Sarcopenia and Muscle published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2) critically regulates macrophage inflammatory responses and lipid metabolism, yet its potential as a therapeutic target in atherosclerosis (AS) remains to be fully established. This study investigates the therapeutic effects and molecular mechanisms of HDI-1, a novel selective HDAC2 inhibitor, in AS. Fluorescence affinity assays and molecular docking were employed to assess HDI-1 binding to HDAC2. Histone acetylation, lipid accumulation, and expression of lipid transporters (ABCA1, CD36) were evaluated in PMA-differentiated THP-1 macrophages using Western blot, Oil Red O staining, and immunofluorescence. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and Nrf2/HO-1 pathway activation were also measured. In vivo, the efficacy of HDI-1 was examined in high-fat diet-fed ApoE-/- mice. HDI-1 demonstrated high binding affinity for HDAC2, selectively inhibited its activity, and significantly increased H3K9 and H3K27 acetylation. In macrophages, HDI-1 concentration-dependently reduced ox-LDL uptake and lipid accumulation by upregulating ABCA1 and downregulating CD36. Additionally, HDI-1 activated the Nrf2/HO-1 pathway, suppressed ROS generation, and mitigated oxidative stress. In ApoE-/- mice, HDI-1 treatment attenuated aortic plaque formation and ameliorated associated pathological changes. By selectively targeting HDAC2, HDI-1 coordinately modulates macrophage lipid metabolism and oxidative stress responses, effectively attenuating AS progression. These findings position HDI-1 as a promising therapeutic candidate for AS.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Berberine and crocin, two valuable bioactive compounds in Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM), are known for their diverse pharmacological properties and have gained attention for their potential therapeutic effects in neurological disorders.This study investigates the potential synergistic efficacy of a berberine and crocin combination by targeting multiple molecular pathways implicated in neuroprotection, using both in-silico and in-vivo approaches.The in-silico docking analysis demonstrated favourable binding affinities for both compounds, indicating their preference to interact with these receptors effectively in a synergistic manner. Behavioural studies, along with biochemical assays for oxidative stress markers and inflammatory cytokines, indicated significant improvements in cognitive function and reductions in neuroinflammatory markers. The combination of berberine and crocin demonstrated a significant decline in cytokine levels (TNF-α, IL-6) and oxidative markers (MDA, NO). A rise in oxidative markers (GSH, SOD, and Catalase), IL-10 cytokine levels, and neuroprotective markers (BDNF, CREB) was also observed. A marked improvement in mitochondrial function was observed in the treatment groups. Moreover, histological analysis revealed decreased neuroinflammation in the brain.In-silico docking studies performed evaluated the interaction of berberine and crocin with key targets, viz. histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2), nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB), Nrf2/Keap1, Calcium channel and NMDA pathway. This interaction plays a significant role in neuroinflammation, oxidative stress response, and excitotoxicity during neurodevelopment. Invivo assessments further explored the neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory potential of the berberine-crocin combination in a rodent model of neuroinflammation.The findings highlight the therapeutic potential of the combination therapy (berberine and crocin) in treating neurodevelopmental conditions through multi-target modulation. Further clinical studies are warranted to explore their combination as a novel therapeutic approach.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Diffuse midline glioma (DMG) is a lethal pediatric brain tumor, driven by profound epigenetic dysregulation, raising the possibility that targeting epigenetic regulators such as histone deacetylases (HDACs) could provide a therapeutic benefit. However, despite preclinical activity, currently available HDAC inhibitors have shown limited clinical translation due to poor central nervous system (CNS) penetration and a lack of HDAC isoform selectivity.We combined CRISPR/Cas9 screening and pharmacologic HDAC inhibition to identify isoform-specific dependencies in DMG cell lines. Mechanistic studies were performed using bulk RNA-seq and HiChIP, and therapeutic efficacy was evaluated in orthotopic patient-derived xenograft mouse models.We identify that the nuclear-localized Class I HDAC isoforms are dependencies in DMG and demonstrate that HDAC2 represents a selective dependency that is highly expressed in patient tumors. We further identify a CNS-penetrant HDAC inhibitor, Compound 26, with preferential HDAC1/2 isoform selectivity. Transcriptomic and chromatin conformation analyses reveal that Compound 26 induces rapid transcriptional reprogramming, restores physiologic pontine histone patterns, and induces cell cycle arrest through chromatin reorganization. Consistent with these effects, Compound 26 slows DMG growth in vitro and in orthotopic in vivo models.Our findings establish HDAC2 as a critical and therapeutically actionable dependency in DMG. Genetic or pharmacological targeting of HDAC2 disrupts DMG chromatin architecture and induces cell cycle arrest. The HDAC1/2-selective inhibitor Compound 26 exhibits favorable CNS-penetration, tolerability, and antitumor activity in disease-relevant patient-derived xenograft models. Collectively, these data support isoform-selective HDAC inhibition as a rational strategy to overcome the translational limitations of pan-HDAC inhibitors in DMG.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Neuro-Oncology.
We investigated the therapeutic effects of combined erythromycin and budesonide treatment on tracheal stenosis (TS) and the associated changes in macrophage-related markers and HDAC2 expression.A rabbit model of TS was established by mechanical scraping of the tracheal inner wall, and the animals were then treated with erythromycin, budesonide, or their combination. Treatment effects were evaluated through histological analysis. We quantified the mRNA expression of M1 and M2 macrophage markers using quantitative PCR and assessed the protein expression of histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2) by western blotting. RAW264.7 cells were stimulated with lipopolysaccharide or interleukin-4, and macrophage phenotypic changes after erythromycin and budesonide treatment were assessed by flow cytometry. M1/M2 macrophages were co-cultured with fibroblasts, and alpha smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) expression was detected by immunofluorescence.The rabbit TS model exhibited TS characterized by significant thickening of the tracheal mucosa and submucosa. These histological changes were ameliorated in the treatment groups, with the greatest improvement observed in the combination therapy group. The mRNA expression levels of iNOS, CD206, CD163, and Arg1, as well as the protein expression of HDAC2, were elevated in treated groups. In vitro, erythromycin combined with budesonide altered macrophage phenotypic distribution, with the M2/M1 ratio shifting toward 1.0. Additionally, fibroblast α-SMA expression varied according to macrophage phenotype in the co-culture system.Erythromycin combined with budesonide effectively ameliorated injury-induced TS and was associated with changes in macrophage-related markers and increased HDAC2 expression.Copyright © 2026 Jinghua Gan and Guangnan Liu. Canadian Respiratory Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The adaptation of lipid metabolism in cancer cells, driven by changes in the tumor microenvironment, presents major challenges for cancer therapy. Here, we addressed the problem of altered lipid metabolism and its role in cancer progression and therapeutic resistance. We demonstrate that hypoxia upregulates the key desaturase, stearoyl-CoA desaturase-1 (SCD1), and the lipid droplet (LD) protein PLIN2, thus promoting lipid metabolic adaptation, cell proliferation, migration, and tumor growth. We found that SCD1 and PLIN2 are essential and interdependent for LD formation. PLIN2 supports cell survival under hypoxic and metabolic stress, whereas SCD1 sustains cancer cell proliferation upon reoxygenation. In addition, we found that SCD1 expression in cancer cells affects nonhistone protein deacetylation, whereas PLIN2 expression enhances protein acetylation. Among these proteins, nucleophosmin(NPM1), a tumor suppressor and regulator of p53, was destabilized through SCD1-dependent deacetylation. In addition, SCD1 interacts with NPM1, influences its cellular localization, and recruits histone deacetylase-2 (HDAC2) to the complex. Notably, we observed that knockdown of SCD1 in vitro or its pharmacological inhibition in vivo enhances cancer cell sensitivity to HDAC inhibitors. Our findings underscore the role of SCD1 in reshaping the cellular acetylome and suggest that targeting SCD1 could sensitize cancer cells to HDAC inhibitors, highlighting a promising therapeutic strategy.© 2026 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Chemoresistance in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is associated with a poor prognosis in patients. Ferroptosis is one of the mechanisms by which anthracycline exerts anti-leukemic effects, with drug-resistant AML cells exhibiting increased resistance to ferroptosis. Elevated expression of aldehyde dehydrogenase 3 family member A2 (ALDH3A2) is correlated with poor prognosis in patients with AML. Patients with chemo-resistant AML exhibit higher levels of ALDH3A2, particularly the V subtype. ALDH3A2 degraded 4-hydroxynonenal and regulated the fatty acid proportion and content of AML cells, protecting AML cells against doxorubicin-induced ferroptosis. Moreover, overexpression of ALDH3A2 changes cell membrane fluidity and reduces drug uptake. Histone deacetylase 2 binds to the ALDH3A2 promoter and regulates its expression. The inhibition of ALDH3A2 or HDAC enhances chemotherapeutic efficacy in AML.© 2026 The Author(s).
Developing anticancer strategies that simultaneously target both tumor proliferation and the immunosuppressive microenvironment remains a major challenge. However, the role of chemical modifications in circular RNAs (circRNAs) in this process remains poorly understood. In this study, we identified circANKRD12 as a key substrate for N4-acetylcytidine (ac4C) modification, catalyzed by N-acetyltransferase 10 (NAT10) in multiple myeloma (MM). This ac4C modification promotes the translation of circANKRD12 into a novel 354-amino acid protein (circANKRD12_354aa). Functionally, circANKRD12_354aa interacts with histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2) to stabilize the oncoprotein c-Myc, thereby driving MM cell proliferation. Moreover, circANKRD12 could be transferred from MM cells to natural killer (NK) cells, where it similarly suppressed NK cell cytotoxicity via the HDAC2/c-Myc axis, facilitating immune evasion. Clinically, circANKRD12 was upregulated in MM patients and correlated with poorer prognosis. Through high-throughput screening, we further identified the clinical antihistamine desloratadine as a direct binder of circANKRD12_354aa. Targeting the circANKRD12/HDAC2/c-Myc axis with desloratadine effectively suppresses MM growth and restores NK cell-mediated antitumor immunity in vivo. Our study reveals that NAT10-mediated ac4C modification of circANKRD12 plays a central role in coordinating tumor proliferation and immune dysfunction, establishing circANKRD12_354aa as a promising therapeutic target for restoring antitumor immunity in MM.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Prominin-1 (CD133) and sortilin are two clinically important biomarkers that have been associated with multiple types of cancer. Designing molecules targeting these biomarkers is highly useful for both detection and targeted treatment of cancer. Current detection strategies for these biomarkers primarily rely on receptor-specific antibodies. However, antibodies have several limitations, including high sensitivity to glycosylation in prominin-1, poor tumor penetration, and limited suitability for a broad range of biomolecular assays. These limitations highlight the need for alternative targeting molecules, such as peptides. This study employs a peptide design approach based on residue-level binding for the rational design of peptides targeting prominin-1 and sortilin. This approach is based on identifying the amino acids with the highest predicted affinities toward the receptor and combining the strongest binding amino acids to create peptide sequences. Initially, candidate peptides with docking scores less than -8 kcal/mol were screened using molecular docking, and the binding stability of these peptides was verified by using molecular dynamics simulations. Preliminary experimental validation via biolayer interferometry indicated that these peptides bind to prominin-1 and sortilin with micromolar-level affinities. While the binding behavior of sortilin-targeting peptides suggested some heterogeneous binding, the overall binding behavior was consistent with micromolar-level affinities. This approach provides a promising method for developing peptide binders targeting critical biomarkers, such as prominin-1 and sortilin.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Inherited retinal diseases (IRDs) are major causes of vision loss and often associated with the degeneration of retinal neurons, such as photoreceptors. Adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors hold therapeutic potential for IRDs; however, their off-target expression has prompted the development of refined engineering strategies to enhance cell-type preference without compromising transgene expression. Here, we present G5mP, a streamlined 315-bp synthetic promoter-enhancer construct designed for robust retinal gene expression. G5mP integrates three components: G5, a G protein-coupled receptor kinase 1-derived enhancer; mP, a minimal promoter from phosphodiesterase 6B; and a 5'-untranslated region (UTR) derived from retinoschisin 1 (RS1). Compared with the clinically used 742-bp RIR cassette-comprising the RS1 promoter, interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein enhancer, and RS1-derived 5'-UTR-G5mP drove stronger overall retinal expression and showed enhanced activity within photoreceptor cells in retinal cell lines, human retinal organoids, and mouse retina without inducing detectable cytotoxicity in vivo. Notably, across retinal cell lines, human retinal organoids, and mouse retina, G5mP induced more robust and distinct photoreceptor-preferential transgene expression than the ubiquitous CAG promoter did. These results highlight its potential as a compact and efficient regulatory element suitable for AAV-mediated gene delivery across retinal cell types, including the effective targeting of photoreceptors.© 2026 The Author(s).
This study aims to explore the clinical features and genetic findings associated with X-linked juvenile retinoschisis (XLRS) in affected patients.This study included 16 patients with XLRS from 13 unrelated families between 2016 and 2024. Genomic DNA from peripheral blood leukocytes of the probands were subjected to whole-exome sequencing or direct sequence. Comprehensive analyses of molecular genetic profiles and detailed ophthalmic evaluations were performed.We identified 12 retinoschisin 1 (RS1) variants, and five of them were novel. Missense variants (7/9, 75%) in the discoidin domain were the most common mutations. All 16 patients aged 4-45 years old were males, and the mean visual acuity was 0.58 ± 0.49 (Log MAR). The funduscopic observations were consistent with typical XLRS presentations. Notably, distinctive clustered pigmentation exhibited 75% penetrance (3/4 cases) in individuals harboring the novel Q43* mutation. Optical coherence tomography revealed macular schisis in 27 eyes (87.1%), peripheral schisis in six eyes (19.35%), and retinal atrophic changes in five eyes (16.13%). Schisis predominantly affected the inner nuclear layer (27/31, 87.10%). Additionally, other less common abnormalities included asymmetric schisis in patients with the R182C variant, presenting with schisis in one eye and a relatively normal fellow eye. Furthermore, two individuals with the Q43* nonsense mutation exhibited mild electroretinogram abnormalities with a preserved b-to-a amplitude ratio. Given these findings, larger multicenter studies are warranted to validate the observed associations.This study comprehensively analyzed the genetic and clinical features of XLRS in a northern Chinese cohort. Five novel variants were identified, expanding the known mutational spectrum and enriching the clinical manifestation. Distinct pigment clusters (Q43*) and asymmetric schisis (R182C) appeared consistently within our limited cohort carrying specific mutations, which may potentially facilitate the diagnosis of XLRS.Copyright © 2026 Sun, Shi, Wang, Yang, Liu, Jin and Zheng.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are central mediators of tumour-stroma communication, yet the mechanisms governing their biogenesis and functional cargo remain poorly understood. Here, we identify CD133 (Prominin-1), selectively expressed in basal-like triple-negative breast cancer (BL-TNBC) cells, acts as a key organizer of EV production and cargo composition. CD133 localizes to plasma membrane protrusions and lipid rafts, where it maintains membrane architecture, promotes EV release and directs selective cargo loading, including the pro-angiogenic factor CD105. Functionally, CD133+ EVs potently induce endothelial tubulogenesis in a CD105-dependent manner, independently of differences in EV association or endothelial proliferation. In vivo, these EVs preferentially accumulate in the lung and liver, highlighting organ-specific communication. Mechanistically, CD133 maintains lipid raft integrity, facilitating selective CD105 incorporation into vesicles and establishing a spatially coordinated CD133-CD105 axis. Together, our findings define a subtype-specific EV population whose identity and angiogenic activity are dictated by membrane organization. By linking protrusion architecture to vesicle-mediated signalling, this study highlights CD133-enriched EVs as potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets in aggressive BL-TNBC.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Extracellular Vesicles published by Wiley Periodicals, LLC on behalf of the International Society for Extracellular Vesicles.
Excessive autophagy of interstitial cells of Cajal (ICCs) in the esophagus and altered expression of circadian clock genes in the upper gastrointestinal tract are key pathological mechanisms in reflux esophagitis, a common form of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). The circadian rhythm core regulators circadian locomotor output cycles kaput (CLOCK) and aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator-like protein 1 (BMAL1) participate in multiple diseases through autophagy modulation, but their roles in GERD remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the roles of CLOCK and BMAL1 in ICCs autophagy within a GERD model.Primary esophageal ICCs were isolated and cultured. An in vitro GERD autophagy model was established by inducing ICCs autophagy with 25 μM deoxycholic acid. The cells were subsequently treated with CLOCK siRNA, BMAL1 siRNA, or combined CLOCK + BMAL1 siRNA. Cellular samples were collected, and ultrastructure and autophagy of ICCs were examined using transmission electron microscopy. The expression levels of autophagy-related proteins (LC3-II/I, Beclin-1) and CLOCK, BMAL1, Period Circadian Regulator 2 (PER2), Cryptochrome 2 (CRY2) were analyzed by Western blot and immunofluorescence assays. The corresponding mRNA levels were measured by Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR).Treatment with 25 μM deoxycholic acid significantly induced autophagy in ICCs and increased the expression levels of CLOCK, BMAL1, PER2, and CRY2. Silencing CLOCK or BMAL1 reduced the expression levels of PER2 and CRY2, decreased ICCs autophagy, and restored ICCs ultrastructure, with combined silencing producing a more pronounced effect.CLOCK and BMAL1 regulate excessive autophagy of ICCs in GERD by mediating the circadian-autophagy axis. Targeted silencing of both molecules effectively improves the function of ICCs, providing a potential therapeutic strategy for GERD.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
The pathological mechanism underlying retinal apoptosis in X-linked retinoschisis (XLRS), a disease caused by retinoschisin 1 (RS1) deficiency, remains incompletely understood. This study aimed to investigate the role of transient receptor potential melastatin 1 (TRPM1) in retinal tissues and cells. Retinal function and structure were assessed by electroretinography (ERG) and optical coherence tomography (OCT). Protein expression was evaluated by immunofluorescence staining and western blotting (WB). Retinal morphology was examined by hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining. Apoptotic retinal cells were detected by TUNEL staining. Key proteins were screened using proteomics data obtained by mass spectrometry. Intracellular calcium levels were measured using Rhod-2 AM. TRPM1 expression in Rs1-KO mice was 1.3-fold higher than that in wild-type mice (p < 0.05), whereas TRPM1-overexpressing ARPE19 cells exhibited approximately twofold higher expression than the empty vector control group. Mechanistically, TRPM1-mediated calcium influx promoted calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CAMKII) phosphorylation. Concomitantly, the accumulation of the autophagy-related proteins P62 and LC3B, increased BAX expression, and decreased BCL2 expression were observed in both Rs1-KO retinal tissues and TRPM1-overexpressing ARPE19 cells. These findings collectively suggest that TRPM1 may contribute to cell's apoptosis. Our study provides new insight into the mechanism of retinal apoptosis in XLRS.© 2026. The Author(s).
Immune system is regulated by circadian rhythms, which promote inflammation and facilitate pathogen elimination. Antimicrobial peptides secreted by milk somatic cells and mammary gland epithelial cells play a crucial role in protecting the mammary gland from pathogenic invasion and mastitis. In this study, we aimed to investigate the circadian rhythms of clock gene and antimicrobial peptide gene expression in goat milk somatic cells, as well as the circadian variation in antimicrobial peptide concentrations in milk.Milk and blood samples were collected from eight goats every 4 h for three days, with light exposure from 6:30 to 19:00. Notably, plasma prolactin level, milk Na+ concentration, and somatic cell count exhibited circadian rhythms (cosinor: P < 0.05; time: P < 0.01). Expression levels of some clock genes (Clock, cryptochrome circadian regulator 2, period circadian regulator 2, and nuclear receptor subfamily 1 group D member 1) exhibited circadian rhythms (cosinor: P < 0.05), whereas those of other clock genes, such as basic helix-loop-helix ARNT-like 1, period circadian regulator 1, cryptochrome circadian regulator 1, and retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor-α, did not exhibit circadian rhythms. Among the milk antimicrobial peptides, gene expression level of cathelicidin-7 (cosinor and time: P < 0.05), but not that of lactoferrin (cosinor: P = 0.079), exhibited a circadian rhythm in somatic cells. Additionally, goat β-defensin-1, cathelicidin-7, and lactoferrin levels exhibited circadian rhythms in milk (cosinor and time: P < 0.01).Overall, our results suggest that leukocyte migration and antimicrobial peptide production exhibit circadian rhythms in the mammary glands. These findings provide valuable insights to ensure safe milking conditions by milking during periods of high immune activity in the mammary glands.© 2026. The Author(s).
PURPOSE: X-linked retinoschisis (XLRS) is an X-linked recessive (XLR) inherited retinal disease. Accurate diagnosis of XLRS is difficult because of its diverse clinical presentations and genetic heterogeneity. However, targeted exome sequencing (TES) can aid in making an accurate diagnosis, especially for patients with no typical pathologic symptoms. The aim of this study was to identify pathogenic mutations in patients from nine nonconsanguineous XLRS families via genetic screening and investigate the associations between gene mutations and clinical manifestations. METHODS: Nine unrelated Chinese XLRS patients and their family members were recruited for genetic screening. Demographic characteristics and ocular data, including visual acuity, intraocular pressure, and ocular manifestations, were collected from all patients. Gene mutations were identified using TES and genetic analysis. The results were validated in available family members by Sanger sequencing and co-segregation analysis. RESULTS: We successfully identified seven RS1 gene mutations in nine nonconsanguineous Chinese patients with binocular retinoschisis. Of these, one mutation (c.420_423delinsA) was a novel mutation, and the patient presented with binocular macular and peripheral retinoschisis. All patients were male, and female carriers had no clinical symptoms, which is consistent with an XLR inheritance pattern. RS1 mutations were concentrated in exons 4, 5 and 6, most mutations were missense mutations, all of which caused changes in the discoidin domains of retinoschisin 1 (RS1). CONCLUSION: This study reveals the importance of genetic screening in the clinical diagnosis of XLRS patients with different phenotypes and reports a novel RS1 gene mutation. Comprehensive analysis of the correlations between RS1 genotypes and clinical phenotypes can improve the accurate diagnosis of XLRS.
The numerous studies of the effects of intravenous anesthetics on cancer have suggested potential effects on cell migration and postoperative outcomes. This study compared the direct effects of midazolam and dexmedetomidine on A549 human lung adenocarcinoma cells.A549 cells were exposed for 2 hr to midazolam (5, 10, 15, 20 μM), dexmedetomidine (1, 10, 100 nM), or medium alone as a naïve control. Cell viability changes were assessed with a wound healing assay, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) analysis, and cell counting kit-8 (CCK) assay. Tumor metastasis-related gene expression was assessed by a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) array and qRT-PCR. Hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF-1α), angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), matrix metalloproteinase (MMP9), and β-catenin expressions were assessed by immunofluorescence staining.Midazolam treatments promoted cell migration and metabolism but suppressed cell proliferation, whereas D treatments promoted cell migration only and had no effect on metabolism or cell proliferation. The PCR array of cancer-related genes revealed that five genes were upregulated by midazolam treatment relative to naïve controls: Frizzled-1 (FZD1), AKT serine/threonine kinase 2 (AKT2), E2F transcription factor 1 (E2F1), Fos proto-oncogene, AP-1 transcription factor subunit (FOS), and tumor protein p53 (TP53). Two genes were upregulated in the dexmedetomidine group: the CRK proto-oncogene, adaptor protein (CRK) and FZD1.These findings clarify how dexmedetomidine and midazolam treatments affect lung cancer prognoses. Our data suggest that midazolam rather than dexmedetomidine should be recommended for lung cancer surgery.
The contribution of activated hepatic stellate cells (aHSCs) to cholestatic fibrosis and cancer is well-documented, but the role of portal fibroblasts (PFs), and especially mesothelin (Msln)-mucin 16 (Muc16)- Thy-1 cell surface antigen (Thy-1) signaling in activated portal fibroblasts (aPFs), is unknown.The role of aPFs/mesenchymal cells in the pathogenesis of cholestatic fibrosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) was studied in aged (16 months old) multidrug resistance protein 2 knockout (Mdr2-/-) mice, which mimic primary biliary cholangitis with biliary fibrosis.Aged female Mdr2-/- mice were more susceptible to cholestatic fibrosis and inflammation and developed 4-fold more adenomas and GPC3+SOX9+AFP+ HCC than age-matched male littermates. Deletion of Msln or Muc16 ameliorated cholestatic fibrosis, inflammation and HCC in Mdr2-/-Msln-/- and Mdr2-/-Muc16-/- mice, whereas Mdr2-/- and Mdr2-/-Thy-1-/- mice exhibited similar phenotypes and developed severe fibrosis and HCC. Aged Mdr2-/-Msln-/- and Mdr2-/-Muc16-/- mice developed fewer HCCs and of smaller sizes. Ductular proliferation and hepatocyte and cholangiocyte senescence were suppressed in Mdr2-/-Msln-/- and Mdr2-/-Muc16-/- mice, whereas hepatocyte regeneration was markedly improved. Msln- and Muc16-deficient aPFs exhibited a less fibrogenic and inflammatory phenotype, and downregulated expression of Col1a2, Col3a1, Tgfβ1, MMP3, Cxcl9, Clcl7, Lgals1, and MMP2/3. The lack of MMP3 in Msln-/- aPFs was linked to increased hepatocyte proliferation. Based on in vitro studies, MMP3-mediated shedding of hepatic HGFR (c-Met) was identified as one of the mechanisms by which aPFs suppress HGF-c-Met-induced phosphorylation of AKT, ERK, p38, resulting in proliferation of primary human hepatocytes. In turn, proliferation of MMP3-stimulated human hepatocytes was restored in the presence of MMP3 inhibitor.These findings demonstrate that aPFs mediate the crosstalk between cholangiocytes and hepatocytes, regulate hepatocyte functions, and that Msln-Muc16 signaling in aPFs is pathogenic for cholestatic fibrosis and HCC. Msln and Muc16 may become novel targets for anti-fibrotic therapy and patients with HCC and sclerosis cholangitis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41520088
The cellular mechanisms underlying tolerance development to psychostimulant-induced neurotoxicity remain poorly understood. This study investigated these mechanisms using pyrrolidinophenone derivatives (PPs), potent amphetamine-type stimulants with strong dopaminergic activity and high cytotoxicity, aiming to establish a neuronal tolerance model and to explore adaptive processes relevant to substance use disorder.Human SK-N-SH neuronal cells were chronically exposed to α-pyrrolidinooctanophenone (α-POP) to prepare the drug-resistant cell line, SH/POP. Transcriptomic profiling was performed to identify gene expression alterations associated with tolerance development.Cell sensitivity assay showed that SH/POP cells can survive at lethal concentrations (> 40 μM) of α-POP. RNA sequence analysis of the resistant cells identified alterations in 1,298 differentially expressed genes and the gene ontology analysis surmised an upregulation of calcium-binding-related genes. The development of α-POP resistance reduced the basal Ca2+ concentration and suppressed the caspase-3 activation elicited by the drug. Additionally, the development down-regulated the phosphorylation of a transcription factor cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) and expressions of CREB-target genes, Fos proto-oncogene AP-1 transcription factor subunit and neurotensin. Furthermore, constitutive activation of endoplasmic reticulum stress responses and selective enhancement of trypsin-like proteasome activity in SH/POP cells were detected.Resistance development of neuronal cells to PPs is ascribable to suppression of calcium-dependent apoptosis and CREB signaling, and constitutive activation of endoplasmic reticulum stress responses. The SH/POP cell line represents a novel in vitro model to study molecular adaptations to psychostimulant toxicity and provides insights into neuroadaptive mechanisms underlying substance use disorder.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Japanese Association of Forensic Toxicology.
Aberrant alternative splicing plays a crucial role in tumorigenesis. Here, splicing factor 3A subunit 3 (SF3A3) is   significantly upregulated in endometrial cancer (EC) tissues and associated with poor prognosis. Functionally, SF3A3 drives tumor progression by promoting cell proliferation, suppressing apoptosis, and enhancing cisplatin resistance in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, SF3A3 regulates alternative splicing of fos proto-oncogene, AP-1 transcription factor subunit (c-FOS), an oncogene linked to chemoresistance, resulting in a ≈2-fold increase in full-length c-FOS expression and activation of downstream anti-apoptotic pathways. Notably, phenylethyl isothiocyanate (PEITC) as a direct inhibitor of SF3A3 through database screening and biophysical validation via surface plasmon resonance and mass spectrometry is identified. PEITC reduces c-FOS expression and induces apoptosis in EC cells. Moreover, encapsulating PEITC in a hydrogel delivery system significantly enhances its therapeutic efficacy by enabling controlled release, reducing dosing frequency, and improving clinical applicability. The therapeutic potential of SF3A3 inhibition is further validated using patient-derived tumor-like cell clusters (PTCs), where PEITC and the c-FOS inhibitor T-5224 exhibit synergistic effects in suppressing EC. Collectively, our findings establish SF3A3 as a novel oncogenic regulator in EC and highlight PEITC, particularly in its hydrogel formulation, as a promising therapeutic strategy for improving clinical outcomes in EC patients.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40192597 is a review article
Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) contribute to host defense by trapping pathogens. However, excessive or dysregulated NET formation is implicated in the pathogenesis of various conditions, including thrombosis, autoimmune diseases, and cancer. Despite their clinical significance, the specific intracellular signaling pathways underlying NET formation in response to proinflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), remain incompletely defined. Thus, in the present study, we aimed to elucidate the mechanisms underlying TNF-α-induced NET formation in human neutrophil-like differentiated HL-60 (dHL-60) cells. TNF-α induced rapid, non-lytic NET formation in dHL-60 cells without compromising cell viability. Mechanistically, TNF-α activated a signaling cascade involving c-Raf, MEK1/2, and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). This signaling cascade regulated the sequential caspase activation, with caspase-2 acting upstream of caspase-1 cleavage to promote NET formation. Collectively, these findings suggest that TNF-α induces non-lytic NET formation via a defined c-Raf-MEK1/2-p38 MAPK-caspase pathway and a distinct caspase hierarchy. This mechanism offers a valuable experimental model for studying NET-mediated pathologies in proinflammatory environments.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and major depressive disorder (MDD) are reciprocal risk factors, and both elevate dementia risk. Dysregulation of programmed cell death is implicated in T2DM, MDD, and neurodegeneration, but proteomic markers of apoptosis have yet to be studied as dementia predictors in people with T2DM and/or MDD. This study examines apoptosis markers in comorbid T2DM and MDD, and their associations with cognitive, dementia, and neuroimaging outcomes. The retrospective sample (n = 15,765) consisted of UK Biobank participants (MDD only n = 1230; T2DM only n = 3644; comorbid T2DM + MDD n = 721). Individuals with T2DM + MDD comorbidity had poorer cognitive performance, and a higher 15-year dementia incidence (HR = 4.44, 95% CI = [3.23,6.11]). Among 60 apoptosis-related proteins identified by Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment, 41 were significantly up-regulated in comorbid T2DM + MDD relative to controls, and 4 were higher in the comorbid group than both T2DM alone and MDD alone. Tumor necrosis factor ligand superfamily member 10 (TNFSF10), growth arrest and DNA damage-inducible protein GADD45 beta, tumor necrosis factor ligand superfamily member 6, and RAC-gamma serine/threonine-protein kinase were associated with dementia risk. Nine proteins (e.g. apoptosis-inducing factor 1, mitochondrial, caspase-2, mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 5, TNFSF10), were associated with white matter hyperintensity volumes in comorbid T2DM + MDD after FDR correction, but none were associated with cognitive performance, atrophy, or white matter microstructural changes. These findings identify peripheral apoptosis markers that were further elevated in comorbid T2DM + MDD compared to either alone, pointing to an important pathophysiological element underlying adverse outcomes in the context of mood and metabolic comorbidity.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42414256
Oxytocin (OXT)- and arginine vasopressin (AVP)-synthesizing neurons are traditionally classified into magnocellular and parvocellular types based on their projection targets. However, molecular markers that reliably distinguish these neuronal subtypes across hypothalamic regions remain undefined. Recent single-cell transcriptomic studies suggest that Calb1 and Reln are differentially expressed in magnocellular and parvocellular OXT-synthesizing neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN). Whether this molecular distinction extends to OXT neurons beyond the PVN or to AVP neurons has remained unclear. Fluorogold (FG) was administered to adult male C57BL/6J mice via tail vein injection. Calbindin 1 and reelin expression in OXT- and AVP-synthesizing neurons in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), PVN, supraoptic nucleus (SON), and retrochiasmatic supraoptic nucleus (SOR) was examined by immunocytochemistry. FG-labeled neurons were distributed in the PVN, SON, and SOR. Most OXT-immunoreactive (ir) neurons in the anterior PVN, SON, and SOR were FG-positive, whereas many OXT-ir neurons in the posterior PVN were FG-negative. Most FG-positive OXT-ir neurons showed calbindin 1 immunoreactivity. Two-thirds of FG-negative OXT-ir neurons in the posterior PVN expressed reelin. Almost all Reln-positive OXT-ir neurons were FG-negative. Nearly all AVP-ir neurons were FG-positive, and more than half expressed calbindin 1, whereas reelin expression was not detected. In corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH)-Venus knock-in mice, AVP-ir neurons and CRH-positive neurons were not colocalized within the PVN, and AVP-ir and CRH-positive fibers were localized to distinct layers of the median eminence. These findings indicate that AVP expression in parvocellular CRH neurons was below the detection threshold of the methods used in this study. Calbindin 1 serves as a marker for magnocellular OXT neurons, whereas reelin identifies a subset of parvocellular OXT neurons. Given that the detected AVP-ir neurons were predominantly magnocellular, calbindin 1 labels a subset of this magnocellular AVP population. This molecular distinction provides a framework for distinguishing OXT- and AVP-expressing neuronal populations and for examining their respective roles in endocrine and behavioral regulation.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Neuroendocrinology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Society for Neuroendocrinology.
The efficacy of radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is constrained by incomplete tumor ablation, particularly in cases of excessive tumor volume, leading to elevated recurrence rates. Elucidating the genetic and microenvironmental alterations following incomplete ablation is essential for improving therapeutic outcomes. We aimed to identify the tumor-intrinsic molecular link between residual tumor cells and the immunosuppressive microenvironment that drives recurrence after RFA.We retrospectively compared recurrence in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients treated with RFA or liver resection and established complete and incomplete RFA mouse models. Transcriptomic dataset analysis (differentially expressed genes and weighted gene co-expression network analysis) combined with single-cell RNA sequencing was used to identify candidate genes linking incomplete ablation to regulatory T cell (Treg) recruitment. Mechanistic roles were validated by Western blotting, RT-qPCR, flow cytometry, ELISA, immunohistochemistry/immunofluorescence, and T-cell co-culture assays, and the effect of PIDD1 knockdown combined with anti-PD-1 therapy was assessed in vivo.Analysis of tumor recurrence post-RFA revealed a significantly higher local recurrence rate in primary tumors exceeding 2 cm in size, indicating that incomplete ablation is a critical driver of local tumor regrowth. In preclinical animal models, incomplete RFA was associated with increased infiltration of Tregs. Gene expression profiling identified marked upregulation of PIDD1, which strongly correlated with Treg infiltration and unfavorable prognosis. Mechanistic studies demonstrated that PIDD1 enhanced p53 expression via the caspase-2/MDM2 axis, promoted TGF-β1 secretion, and drove T-cell differentiation into Tregs. Silencing PIDD1 in hepatocellular carcinoma cells reduced Treg infiltration and heightened sensitivity to immunotherapy. Strikingly, combining RFA with immunotherapy following PIDD1 knockdown significantly enhanced treatment efficacy.These findings provide a robust theoretical and practical basis for integrating RFA with anti-PD-1-targeted therapy to mitigate recurrence and optimize clinical outcomes.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Pulsed electromagnetic fields (PEMF) can be used to improve the efficacy of chemotherapeutic agents, such as doxorubicin (DOX). DOX induces mitotic slippage, leading to cell death in various cancers including breast cancer. Herein, we investigated whether PEMF exposure enhances DOX-induced mitotic slippage and subsequent cell death in breast cancer cells.DOX-treated MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells were stimulated with a 60 min PEMF session three times daily. Cell viability was assessed using the trypan blue exclusion assay. Cell cycle distribution and polyploidy were assessed using flow cytometry, and the morphological features of mitotic slippage were observed microscopically. Western blotting and confocal microscopy were used to evaluate the key molecules involved in G2/M transition, mitotic transition, and caspase-mediated cell death.DOX treatment for three days induced mitotic slippage including cell enlargement, polyploidy, and multinucleation, which was further enhanced by PEMF exposure. DOX treatment also induced CDK1 activation, histone H3 dephosphorylation, and survivin and PLK1 downregulation, which were further increased by PEMF exposure. In addition, CDK1 inhibition reduced mitotic slippage phenotypes and suppressed caspase-2-dependent cell death, resulting in partial restoration of cell viability in the DOX+PEMF group.PEMF promotes DOX-induced mitotic slippage and subsequent caspase-2-dependent cell death in MDA-MB-231 cells by modulating cell cycle checkpoint regulators such as CDK1, survivin, and PLK1. These findings suggest that PEMF may serve as a novel adjuvant to potentiate the anticancer efficacy of DOX by increasing DOX-induced mitotic slippage.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Adding boron to curcumin analogs enhances their ability to inhibit cell growth and facilitates their detection within cells. Derivatives of diboronocurcumin are, therefore, promising options for cancer treatment. Our previous in silico analysis revealed that CCB-4 binds more tightly to proteins associated with breast cancer than Pentagamaboronon-0. We created sugar complexes of CCB-4 using fructose (CCB-4 Fr) and sorbitol (CCB-4 So) to enhance solubility and cellular uptake. This research aimed to assess the cytotoxic activity and anticancer potential of CCB-4, CCB-4 So, and CCB-4 Fr against T47D breast cancer cells (ER+, PR+, p53 mutant). We investigated the expression of phosphorylated epidermal growth factor receptor (p-EGFR), c-Myc, HDAC1, and caspase-2 by capillary Western blot analysis, including cytotoxicity using MTT assay, clonogenic survival, cell cycle progression, and apoptosis. CCB-4, CCB-4 So, and CCB-4 Fr demonstrated strong cytotoxic effects and had IC50 values of 8, 6, and 5 μM, respectively. All the substances caused G2/M phase arrest and significantly reduced colony formation, leading to mitotic catastrophe. Mechanistically, treatment reduced p-EGFR, c-Myc, and HDAC1 expressions and activated apoptosis through caspase-2 independently of p53. These findings suggest that CCB-4 and its sugar complexes have promising anticancer effects against luminal A breast cancer cells by triggering caspase-2-mediated apoptosis and mitotic catastrophe.Copyright: © 2026 Journal of Advanced Pharmaceutical Technology & Research.
Autosomal Recessive Spastic Ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay (ARSACS) is a neurodegenerative disease caused by pathogenic variants in SACS. ARSACS is characterized by mitochondrial abnormalities and disruptions of the neurofilament cytoskeleton. In other conditions, these features have been linked to activation of Sterile Alpha and TIR Motif Containing 1 (SARM1), an enzyme that can trigger axon degeneration and neuronal death. Inhibition of SARM1 is an attractive therapeutic strategy because SARM1 is inactive in healthy cells and knockout of SARM1 has little or no deleterious effects. We therefore asked whether SARM1 activity contributed to Purkinje cell degeneration and motor defects present in a Sacs -/- mouse model of ARSACS.We studied 4 cohorts of mice: (1) Sacs -/-; Sarm1 +/+ ; (2) Sacs +/+; Sarm1 +/- ; (3) Sacs -/-; Sarm1 +/- ; and (4) Sacs -/-; Sarm1 -/- . In 9-month-old mice, we analyzed protein markers of Purkinje cells (n = 3-4 mice per genotype) and counted surviving Purkinje cells in folia III, IV, and VIII of cerebellar sections (n = 3 mice per genotype, 6 sections per mouse), and tested motor function at 3, 6, and 9 months by quantifying parameters of gait (Digigait) and coordination and balance (Rotarod) (8 male, 8 female mice of each genotype).Probing of cerebellar extracts showed that the Purkinje cell protein markers Calbindin-1, RGS8, and PCP2 were decreased in Sacs -/- mice but restored to normal levels in Sacs -/-; Sarm1 -/- mice. Purkinje cell loss in Sacs -/- mice was most prominent in anterior folia, as previously noted. Sarm1 loss partially mitigated the Purkinje cell death in folium III of 9-month-old Sacs -/- mice. Similarly, longitudinal behavioral assessment of motor functions showed that disturbances in gait pattern (slower cadence, prolonged swing, and stance phases) were partially alleviated. Rotarod tests gave more ambivalent results, as the homozygous loss of Sarm1 was less effective than heterozygous loss in ameliorating the Sacs -/- phenotype.We conclude that SARM1 contributes to neurodegeneration in ARSACS, and its downregulation or inhibition could constitute a significant therapeutical strategy in the treatment of the disease.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.
Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is driven by the BCR-ABL1 fusion oncoprotein and is managed with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). However, resistance and persistence of leukemic stem/progenitor cells remain major clinical challenges. Autophagy-mediated survival signaling contributes to therapeutic resistance in CML. We hypothesized that histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6), a key regulator of protein homeostasis and autophagic flux, is a therapeutic target in this context. Transcriptomic analysis of CML bone marrow datasets revealed enrichment of HDAC6-associated autophagy and stress-response gene programs. The selective HDAC6 inhibitor 7b induced sustained α-tubulin acetylation at lower concentrations than ricolinostat or nexturastat A. 7b reduced primary CML PBMC viability while sparing healthy PBMCs and was active in vivo. Combining 7b with the allosteric BCR-ABL1 inhibitor asciminib synergistically suppressed cell viability and clonogenic growth. A tandem mCherry-GFP-LC3 reporter showed that 7b blocks autophagosome maturation, thereby decreasing autophagic degradation. Cotreatment engaged a maladaptive integrated stress response (ISR), characterized by eIF2α phosphorylation, ATF4 and CHOP induction, MCL-1 suppression, PUMA and NOXA upregulation, and BCL-xL-dependent mitochondrial apoptosis, accompanied by caspase-2 activation. ISR activation occurred downstream of the autophagy disruption: rapamycin attenuated ISR activation, whereas ATG7 silencing intensified ISR signaling and apoptosis. CHOP knockdown blunted the BCL-xL/PUMA/NOXA shift and caspase-3 cleavage, establishing CHOP as required. Caspase-10 acted upstream of caspases-9, -7, and -3. The combination elicited immunogenic cell death markers: calreticulin exposure, ATP and HMGB1 release, elevated TNF-α, and reduced IL-8. These findings identify HDAC6-driven autophagy as a therapeutically exploitable vulnerability in CML that, when combined with asciminib, triggers ISR-dependent immunogenic apoptosis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42541427 is a review article
Clinically relevant NOTCH1 activation is frequently observed in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), even in the absence of gene mutations, raising questions about the underlying mechanisms. In CLL cells, NOTCH1 activation may occur through mutation-independent mechanisms involving ligand interaction or cell-intrinsic, ligand-independent pathways that are not yet fully elucidated. To explore ligand-independent activation, we examined the involvement of NOTCH1 endocytic trafficking in generating the active intracellular domain (N1-ICD) in CLL cells. Using proximity ligation assay, we demonstrated that the NOTCH1 extracellular domain (N1-ECD), transmembrane subunit (N1-TM), and N1-ICD colocalize with Rab5 and Rab7, indicating NOTCH1 internalization and cleavage within endosomal compartments. Experiments with the endocytosis inhibitor Pitstop-2 demonstrated that NOTCH1 internalization is essential for N1-ICD generation. We provided evidence that N1-ICD generation occurs in Rab5 and Rab7 endosomal membranes. Treatment with chloroquine reduced N1-ICD, due to impaired endosomal acidification affecting enzymatic activity. Presenilin-1, the catalytic subunit of the γ-secretase complex responsible for N1-ICD generation, was found in early endosome compartments and colocalized with Rab5, Rab7, N1-TM, and N1-ICD. CLL cells expressing N1-ICD showed higher Rab5, Rab7, and presenilin-1 levels, increased Rab5 membrane association, and presenilin-1 activity versus N1-ICD-negative cells which showed increased lysosomal targeting. Silencing Rab5 or Rab7 by siRNA, or inhibiting Rab prenylation with psoromic acid, led to reduced N1-ICD levels and increased apoptosis in CLL cells. Interestingly, NOTCH1-mutated cases showed similar NOTCH1 trafficking. These findings identify for the first time a Rab-dependent endocytic trafficking as a key regulator of NOTCH1 activation and a potential therapeutic target in CLL.© 2026 The Author(s). HemaSphere published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Hematology Association.
Neuroinflammation assumes a pivotal role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) regulate neuroinflammation through a competitive endogenous RNA (ceRNA) mechanism. This study aimed to explore the mechanism of SNHG3/miR-128-3p/UBR5 axis in AD associated neuroinflammation. SNHG3, miR-128-3p, and UBR5 levels were recognized by reverse transcription - quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). In vitro AD model was established by Aβ1-42 stimulation in human microglial cells HMC3 and neuronal cells SK‑N‑SH. Cell apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry. Enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and oxidative stress indicators were used to evaluate the neuroinflammatory phenotype. Morris water maze (MWM) test assesses the spatial learning and memory abilities of amyloid precursor protein/presenilin 1 (APP/PS1) mice with AAV-si-SNHG3. Serum SNHG3 was clearly upregulated in AD patients, and negatively related to MMSE score (r = -0.691, P<0.001). SNHG3 had diagnostic potential for AD (AUC=0.847, 95% CI = 0.806-0.888, sensitivity=75.63%, specificity=76.88%). SNHG3 regulates UBR5 expression by sponges miR-128-3p. Silence of SNHG3 inhibited M1 polarization (reducing TNF-α, IL-6, and iNOS), promotes M2 polarization (increasing Arg1, IL-10, and TGF-β), inhibits IL-1β release, suppresses neuronal apoptosis, and mitigates oxidative stress damage (reducing MDA and increasing SOD) via miR-128-3p/UBR5 axis in Aβ-stimulated HMC3 cells. SNHG3 also contributes to Aβ‑induced neuronal apoptosis, inflammation, and oxidative stress in SK‑N‑SH cells. AAV-si-SNHG3 significantly enhances spatial learning and memory abilities of APP/PS1 mice, and inhibits neuroinflammation and oxidative stress in the hippocampus. This study is the first to elucidate that SNHG3 could regulate microglial polarization and neuroinflammation through the SNHG3/miR-128-3p/UBR5 axis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42501808 is a review article
We report two sisters with dominantly inherited Alzheimer's disease carrying a novel presenilin 1 (PSEN1) mutation. Case 1 presented with depression at 39 years of age, gradually developed dementia and involuntary movements, and died at 51 years of age. Case 2 presented with dementia at 46 years of age, which progressed gradually, with no other neurological symptoms. The mother also had early onset dementia. A novel c.517_519del, p. (Leu173del) mutation in exon 6 of PSEN1 (NM_000021.3), confirmed by Sanger sequencing, was identified in both cases. Patients with PSEN1 mutations present with diverse neurological symptoms. Therefore, a careful follow-up is recommended.
Ginkgo biloba L. has been widely utilized in traditional Chinese medicine for its potential to enhance memory-related functions. In traditional medical practices, it is also commonly prescribed for conditions associated with cognitive decline and age-related disorders. These ethnopharmacological uses are closely linked to neurodegenerative disorders, in which neuroinflammation plays a central role. Ginkgo biloba has shown anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective properties, yet its underlying mechanisms in modulating neuroinflammation are still not fully understood.Neuroinflammation is critically involved in cognitive impairment and neurodegenerative diseases, while therapeutic options remain limited. Ginkgo biloba extract 50 (GBE50) is a standardized formulation with potential neuroprotective properties. This study aimed to assess its effects on neuroinflammation-associated cognitive dysfunction and to clarify the mechanisms involved.Presenilin 1/2 conditional double knockout mice served as a cognitive impairment model, with behavioral tests used to evaluate cognitive function. The constituents of GBE50 were identified by UPLC-Q-TOF-MS, and ATP content was quantified using biochemical assays. The expression of P2X7 receptor, NLRP3 inflammasome-related proteins, inflammatory cytokines, and synaptic markers was determined at both mRNA and protein levels using qRT-PCR and Western blotting. Microglial activation and P2X7R distribution were assessed via immunofluorescence, and hippocampal synaptic plasticity was examined using electrophysiological recordings.Using UPLC-Q-TOF-MS, 51 compounds were characterized in GBE50, mainly flavonoids and terpene lactones, which are likely responsible for its biological activities. Treatment with GBE50 markedly alleviated cognitive impairment in PS cDKO mice. It downregulated P2X7R and key components of the NLRP3 inflammasome (NLRP3, NEK7, Caspase-1, and ASC), while also reducing the transcription of pro-inflammatory cytokines including Il-1β, Il-18, and Tnf-α. In parallel, GBE50 restored synaptic protein levels and improved long-term potentiation deficits.Collectively, our findings suggest that modulation of the ATP-P2X7R-NLRP3 axis contributes to the neuroprotective effects of GBE50 in AD, highlighting this pathway as a promising therapeutic target for preventing AD-related neurodegeneration.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
This study investigated the clinicopathological characteristics and molecular spectrum of amyloid-beta (Aβ) in unnatural deaths among relatively young individuals with moderate-to-severe Aβ deposition, including cases of early-onset Alzheimer's disease. A total of 856 forensic autopsy cases aged 40-69 years were analyzed. Detailed semiquantitative and quantitative immunohistochemical analyses were performed in the neocortex, striatum (caudate nucleus, putamen, and nucleus accumbens [NAc]), and amygdala using antibodies targeting multiple Aβ species (Aβ38, Aβ39, Aβ40, Aβ42, Aβ43, pyroglutamate-modified Aβ at the third glutamate residue [AβNp3E], and serine 8-phosphorylated Aβ), as well as phosphorylated tau. Ward's hierarchical cluster analysis was also performed. Thirty-three cases (eight females; 3.9%), including six early-onset Alzheimer's disease cases, were identified. Three cases exhibited genetic abnormalities (one with Down syndrome and two with presenilin 1 [PSEN1] mutations). Marked regional heterogeneity in Aβ molecular profiles was observed, particularly within the striatum. Notably, the NAc displayed a distinct pattern of Aβ deposition and occasional NAc-predominant cerebral amyloid angiopathy. Cases with cognitive impairment (CI) demonstrated more advanced Aβ and tau pathology than CI-negative cases; notably, interstitial Aβ42 and Aβ43 burdens were significantly elevated across all regions. Strikingly, siblings carrying the same PSEN1 mutation-one with CI and the other without-exhibited divergent pathological patterns. Although suicide accounted for approximately one-third of cases, a higher neocortical Aβ burden was associated with a lower frequency of suicide, and no significant difference in suicide rates was observed compared with cases lacking substantial Aβ deposition. Cluster analysis identified a subgroup characterized by relatively elevated striatal Aβ deposition, particularly AβNp3E. Collectively, these findings indicate that the severity of Aβ deposition is not directly associated with suicide. However, early involvement of the NAc may contribute to depressive states, and region-specific Aβ species-particularly Aβ42, Aβ43, and AβNp3E-may be associated with increased cognitive vulnerability in this age group.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of International Society of Neuropathology.
Mutations in the breast cancer susceptibility gene 2 (BRCA2) are well known to increase the risk of breast and ovarian cancers. Emerging evidence indicates that BRCA2 mutation carriers exhibit increased vascular disorder and may develop endothelial dysfunction, a key mechanism underlying hypertension. Angiotensin II (Ang II)﻿, a central effector of the renin-angiotensin system, is a key regulator of blood pressure and a major driver of hypertension, promoting endothelial injury through oxidative stress, inflammation, and impaired nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability. However, the role of endothelial BRCA2 in Ang II-induced endothelial dysfunction remains unknown.BRCA2 was silenced in cultured endothelial cells and following Ang II treatment, ROS generation, DNA damage, apoptosis, inflammation, NO production, migration, angiogenic capacity, Ang II receptors and related signaling pathways were assessed.BRCA2 deficiency exacerbated Ang II-induced increases in ROS, DNA damage, and apoptosis, along with impaired functional capacity, including reduced migration and angiogenesis. NO production was suppressed, accompanied by increased micronuclei formation and enhanced c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation. In addition, both BRCA2 loss and Ang II treatment upregulated the Ang II receptor AT1R. Pharmacological inhibition of AT1R attenuated Ang II-induced increases in DNA damage and apoptosis in BRCA2-deficient endothelial cells.These findings provide the first pharmacogenomic evidence that BRCA2 deficiency sensitizes endothelial cells to Ang II-induced dysfunction, suggesting that BRCA2 mutation carriers may be at increased risk for hypertension-associated cardiovascular complications.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Recent advances in genetic analysis have led to further subtyping of small-cell lung carcinoma (SCLC). The major subtypes of SCLC are the achaete-scute family bHLH transcription factor 1 (ASCL1)-predominant (SCLC-A), neuronal differentiation 1 (NEUROD1)-predominant (SCLC-N), and POU class 2 homeobox 3 (POU2F3) (SCLC-P) subtypes. SCLC-A and SCLC-N tumors express chromogranin A (CHGA) and synaptophysin (SYP), but SCLC-P tumors do not. Large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma, another type of neuroendocrine carcinoma (NEC), also frequently expresses CHGA and SYP. Because CHGA and SYP expression is controlled by a transrepressor, repressor element 1-silencing transcription factor (REST), the mechanisms underlying REST suppression in NEC were investigated, with a focus on miRNAs and epigenetics, to determine the causes of the differences in the expression of CHGA and SYP between SCLC-A/N and SCLC-P cells. The results showed that miR-375-3p, which was induced by ASCL1 and NEUROD1, repressed REST expression by binding to the 3'-untranslated region of REST mRNA. Bisulfite sequencing and experiments using a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor, a histone deacetylase inhibitor, and chromatin immunoprecipitation-based quantitative PCR revealed that promoter/enhancer hypermethylation and histone deacetylation causes REST gene inactivation in SCLC-A/N. These phenomena were also observed in a large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma cell line that expressed high levels of ASCL1 and NEUROD1. Taken together, these findings suggest that NEC has dual repressive effects on REST expression, resulting in strict regulation of the expression of CHGA, SYP, and other REST-controlled neuronal/neuroendocrine-specific genes.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Monosialotetrahexosylganglioside (GM1), a major ganglioside component, is expressed in the spinal cords of mammals. Gangliosides have been shown to play important roles in various physiological processes, including neuronal protection, neurorepair, and stem cell differentiation. Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (bMSCs) were expected to be a good source of cells for clinical transplantation and repair due to their abundance, easy accessibility and lack of ethical restrictions. They can also be induced to differentiate into neurons. However, there is still no ideal delivery material or method that allows the sustained and controlled release of GM1 and bMSCs for clinical use in spinal cord injury (SCI). Silk fibroin (SF)-based hydrogels have emerged as a promising strategy for local, controlled, and sustained drug release in the treatment of various diseases.In this study, we developed a SF-based hydrogel for the sustained delivery of GM1 and bMSCs (GM1 + bMSCs@SF hydrogel) and evaluated its therapeutic effect in a rat model of SCI.The GM1 + bMSCs@SF hydrogel showed sustained GM1 release in vitro. Treatment with the GM1 + bMSCs@SF hydrogel increased cell cycle exit and neuronal differentiation 1 (Cend1) expression, reduced neuronal pyroptosis and apoptosis, and promoted the differentiation of bMSCs into neurons. Double immunofluorescence staining confirmed a decrease in cell pyroptosis. Moreover, rats treated with the GM1 + bMSCs@SF hydrogel showed significant improvement in motor function recovery, with the Basso, Beattie and Bresnahan (BBB) score at 8 weeks reaching about 71.4% of the normal level, compared with about 30% in the SCI group.This study will minimize neuronal damage by innovatively using SF hydrogel loaded with GM1 and bMSCs for spinal cord injury repair. It will also explore the molecular mechanisms underlying post-traumatic spinal cord injury repair, opening new therapeutic avenues for spinal cord injury treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
The development of resistance to anticancer therapies in cancer cell is a major challenge in the treatment of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), a common malignant tumor. Erythropoietin-producing hepatocellular A2 (EphA2) affects several cancers, and this study examined its role in enhancing OSCC. Following screening, EphA2 and SRY-Box transcription factor 8 (SOX8) knocked down and overexpression cell lines were constructed, followed by treatment with Cetuximab. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, western blot, cell counting kit-8, wound healing, and transwell assay were used to detect the relevant indicators. Co-immunoprecipitation was used to detect the interaction between EphA2 and SH2 domain-containing protein-tyrosine phosphatase-2 (SHP2). Double luciferase reporter gene experiment and chromatin immunoprecipitation experiment were performed to verify the regulatory mechanism of EphA2 and SOX8. The mouse tumor model was established, and the tumor development was observed after plasmid transfection and Cetuximab treatment. EphA2 was highly expressed in OSCC cells, and overexpression of EphA2 up-regulated SOX8. EphA2 regulated SOX8 and associated protein expression to increase OSCC cell migration and invasion. EphA2 knockdown made OSCC cells more sensitive to Cetuximab, whereas SOX8 overexpression reduced this sensitivity. We found SHP2 bound to SOX8. Down-regulation of EphA2 decreased tumor growth in mice, increased Cetuximab sensitivity, and overexpression of SOX8/SHP2 decreased Cetuximab sensitivity. OSCC had elevated EphA2 levels, which enhanced cell migration and invasion via SHP2/SOX8 and impaired Cetuximab sensitivity. Down-regulation of EphA2 decreased tumor growth and enhanced Cetuximab sensitivity, suggesting new OSCC targets and potential treatments.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Carcinogenesis published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
MYC is amplified on extrachromosomal DNA (ecDNA) or homogeneously staining regions (HSR) in group 3 medulloblastoma (G3-MB), conferring a poor prognosis. A better understanding of the mechanisms underlying MYC expression in ecDNA and HSRs could be leveraged to develop improved treatments for G3-MB. Using a structure-function approach, we identified and characterized an enhancer (ecMYC E1) that drives MYC activation specifically in G3-MB with MYC-amplified ecDNA or HSRs. The ecMYC E1 locus exhibited enhancer hallmarks exclusively in MYC-amplified G3-MB but not in other MYC-dependent cancer cell lines, including those with MYC amplification. Silencing of the ecMYC E1 enhancer significantly reduced MYC transcription, which was compensated for by increases in ecDNA copy number. Neuronal differentiation 1 and bromodomain-containing protein 4 interacted with each other and bound to ecMYC E1, looping the enhancer to the MYC promoter. Together, these findings define a mechanism that regulates amplified MYC gene expression within ecDNA or HSRs specifically in G3-MB.Combined structural and functional approaches identified a conserved enhancer activating MYC transcription exclusively in MYC-amplified ecDNA- and HSR-positive group 3 medulloblastoma, providing a potential therapeutic target for suppressing MYC.©2026 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.
Alzheimer's disease is characterized by the presence of amyloid-beta plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and chronic neuroinflammation. Effective therapies capable of restoring neuronal loss, a key pathological feature of Alzheimer's disease are lacking. Our previous studies have demonstrated that overexpression of neuronal differentiation 1 (NeuroD1) in astrocytes can convert astrocytes into neurons in Alzheimer's disease models and this astrocyte-to-neuron conversion technology can rescue pathological features in models of stroke and epilepsy. This study investigated whether NeuroD1-mediated in vivo reprogramming of reactive astrocytes into functional neurons could rescue neurodegeneration and cognitive decline in amyloid precursor protein/presenilin 1 transgenic Alzheimer's disease model mice. Using retro-orbital delivery of AAV-PHP.eB-GFAP-NeuroD1-GFP, we achieved broad astrocyte-to-neuron conversion throughout the brain of 7-month-old Alzheimer's disease mice. Three months post-treatment, immunostaining revealed significant neuronal regeneration in the cortex and hippocampus, accompanied by a marked reduction in neuroinflammatory markers. The converted neurons exhibited mature electrophysiological properties, including action potentials and synaptic activity, which correlated with increased neuronal density in the hippocampus. Morris water maze test demonstrated that NeuroD1-treated mice exhibited restored spatial learning and memory compared with control animals. These findings demonstrate that NeuroD1-driven neuroregeneration via gene therapy not only replenishes neuronal populations but also reduces key pathological features related to Alzheimer's disease, including neuroinflammation and amyloid plaque burden, ultimately reducing cognitive impairment. Our findings highlight in vivo astrocyte-to-neuron reprogramming through systemic astrocyte-to-neuron delivery as a promising and transformative strategy for treating Alzheimer's disease and related neurodegenerative disorders.Copyright © 2026 Neural Regeneration Research.
An increasing number of studies have shown that ferroptosis is related to the initiation and development of small cell lung cancer (SCLC). The systematic review aimed to summarize the characteristics of ferroptosis from its pathogenetic role to translational therapeutic implications in SCLC.This systematic review, registered in PROSPERO (CRD420251090058), followed PRISMA 2020 guidelines. Comprehensive research of PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science was performed for studies published between January 2010 and July 2025 investigating ferroptosis mechanisms, genetic or pharmacological modulation, or molecular profiling in SCLC. Two reviewers independently performed data extraction and quality assessment.Nineteen preclinical studies met the inclusion criteria. Key regulators included solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11), glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), ferroptosis suppressor protein 1 (FSP1), and acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 4 (ACSL4). The molecular subtypes of SCLC, achaete-scute homolog 1 (ASCL1), neuronal differentiation 1 (NEUROD1), POU class 2 homeobox 3 (POU2F3), and Yes1 associated transcriptional regulator (YAP1) exhibit differential ferroptosis gene expressions, influencing therapeutic responsiveness. Non-neuroendocrine subtypes are more ferroptosis-prone, whereas neuroendocrine variants display enhanced antioxidant defenses. Ferroptosis induction also promotes immune activation through stimulator of interferon genes (STING)-mediated CD8+ T-cell recruitment.Ferroptosis constitutes a promising therapeutic axis in SCLC. Integrating ferroptosis biomarkers into molecular stratification frameworks could refine patient selection and support precision oncology strategies, warranting further translational and clinical validation.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Ovarian cancer exhibits high molecular heterogeneity and metastatic potential, contributing to its status as a leading cause of gynecologic cancer mortality. Cell polarity is essential in tumorigenesis, yet the role of Crumbs family proteins (CRBs), key regulators of apical-basal polarity, in epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) remains unclear. In this study, we analysed CRB expression profiles using TCGA and GEO datasets, and validated our findings through immunohistochemical staining of ovarian tumour tissue microarrays. Among CRBs, CRB2 was significantly overexpressed in EOC tissues and correlated with poor patient prognosis. Functional assays revealed that CRB2 enhances ovarian cancer cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, while suppressing apoptosis. Immunofluorescence staining of planar cell polarity markers demonstrated that CRB2 induces polarity alterations in EOC cells. Furthermore, Western blot analysis suggested that CRB2 may activate the Wnt/planar cell polarity (PCP) signalling pathway, contributing to tumour progression. These findings identify CRB2 as a key modulator of cell polarity and a potential driver of EOC aggressiveness. CRB2 may serve as a novel prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for epithelial ovarian cancer.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Fucoidans are natural compounds that exhibit bioactivity against age-related macular degeneration (AMD), the leading cause of central vision loss in industrialized nations. Pathological factors like oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation play vital roles in AMD pathogenesis. Lipid-induced alterations in the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) contribute to AMD development. In this study, a commercial fucoidan from Fucus vesiculosus (FVs) was tested for its activity regarding lipid-peroxidation-related effects. The human RPE cell line ARPE-19, primary porcine RPE, and RPE/choroid explants were stimulated with erastin, acting as an inducer of lipid peroxidation, and treated with fucoidan. Effects on cell viability (tetrazolium bromide (MTT) or calcein staining), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and interleukin 8 (IL8) secretion (ELISA), reactive oxygen species (ROS), protein expression (glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), CD59, and retinoid isomerohydrolase (RPE65), analyzed via Western blot), and gene expression (RT-qPCR) were investigated. FVs showed protective effects against erastin-induced reduction in viability (with a 12.7% increase in viability compared to erastin), RPE65 expression (with a 4.2-fold increase compared to erastin), and GPX4 expression (with a 2.3-fold increase compared to erastin) in primary RPE. Erastin-induced VEGF secretion was attenuated by FVs in ARPE-19 and primary RPE (with an up to 1.7-fold reduction compared to erastin). Elevated IL8 levels were reduced by FV treatment in primary RPE (with a 9.1-fold reduction compared to erastin). Induced VEGF in RPE/choroid explants was reduced by FVs (with an up to 2.9-fold reduction compared to erastin), and this reduction was correlated with slight improvements in viability. In conclusion, FVs exerted protective effects against lipid-induced stress. This study reveals further effects of fucoidans against AMD-related pathologies.
Purpose The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether bone marrow stem cells (BMSCs), vinpocetine, or their combination can attenuate amyloid-β (Aβ)-induced alterations in angiogenesis and visual cycle gene expression in a cellular model of age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Methods Human retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cells (ARPE-19) were exposed to Aβ 1-42 for 24h and divided into four groups: (i) co-culture with BMSCs, (ii) treated with vinpocetine, (iii) treated with BMSCs and vinpocetine, and (iv) untreated control. Cell viability was assessed using the Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was employed to evaluate the mRNA expression levels of angiogenesis-related genes, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF-A) and pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF), and RPE-associated visual cycle genes: lecithin retinol acyltransferase (LRAT), retinoid isomerohydrolase (RPE65), retinol dehydrogenase 5 (RDH5), retinol dehydrogenase 10 (RDH10), and retinaldehyde-binding protein 1 (RLPB1).  Results Aβ1-42 significantly reduced ARPE-19 cell viability (p=0.002); all treatments significantly restored viability. Aβ1-42 upregulated VEGF-A expression, which was significantly downregulated by all treatments. Although Aβ1-42 slightly increased PEDF expression, all treatments significantly enhanced its upregulation, with the combination therapy showing the greatest effect (p=0.006, 0.010, and 0.002, respectively). Furthermore, Aβ 1-42 induced upregulation of most visual cycle genes was reversed by all treatments. Conclusion Aβ1-42 induces cytotoxicity, angiogenesis, and dysregulation of visual cycle genes in RPE cells in vitro. BMSCs, vinpocetine, and their combination attenuate these effects, supporting a potential role in AMD therapy pending further investigation.Copyright © 2025, Almpanidou et al.
Despite advances in therapeutic regimens for managing cancer progression, ovarian cancer (OVC) still depends on platinum-based chemotherapy as its first-line treatment. Acquired resistance is accompanied by abnormal alterations in epigenetic regulation; however, in-depth mechanistic studies on cisplatin-resistant OVC are lacking. Herein, we show that abnormal overexpression of histone lysine demethylase 5B (KDM5B), but not KDM5A, strongly correlates with cisplatin resistance and OVC tumor progression. Genome-wide sequencing data revealed that KDM5B removes H3K4me3 from the promoter of dual-specificity phosphatase 4 (DUSP4), activating the MAPK pathway to increase cisplatin resistance. We also found that KDM5B protein stability is dynamically controlled via the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS), which is mediated by ubiquitin-specific protease 7 (USP7), F-box and WD repeat domain-containing 7 (FBXW7), and homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 1 (HIPK1). KDM5B and USP7 depletion effectively resensitizes OVC to cisplatin resistance, whereas DUSP4 silencing results in resistance in vitro and in vivo. Targeting KDM5B and USP7 synergistically represses tumor progression and increases sensitivity to cisplatin. Overall, we propose two new UPS-associated proteins, USP7 and FBXW7, which are responsible for abnormal KDM5B protein regulation, and suggest a novel mechanism to overcome cisplatin resistance in OVC by targeting the KDM5B-DUSP4 axis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Exploring targeted therapies for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) remains challenging. Although investigating the roles and therapeutic applications of liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) is increasingly of interest, its relationship with ESCC remains unclear. After improving the assay for transposase-accessible chromatin using sequencing (ATAC-seq) protocol for limited-amount clinical samples, we unravel transcription factor AP-2 beta (TFAP2β) as a key downregulated transcription factor (TF) through combined chromatin accessibility and gene expression analyses with cancerous and paracancerous tissues from early-stage ESCC patients. TFAP2β undergoes condensation in the nucleus to bind the zinc finger protein 131 (ZNF131) promoter, thereby inhibiting ZNF131 expression and ESCC progression. The other two crucial downregulated TFs uncovered are incorporated into TFAP2β condensates to bind their corresponding target, suggesting that LLPS may be a hallmark of ESCC transcription. In addition, we obtained compound A6 that mediates intrinsically disordered region conformational changes to enhance TFAP2β condensation and specific ESCC suppression in cells, mice, and patient-derived organoids. Thus, we indicate an LLPS-mediated transcriptional mechanism and a potential therapeutic approach for ESCC.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The peritoneum is the most common site of metastasis in advanced gastric cancer (GC), and the mechanisms underlying this process of gastric cancer peritoneal metastasis (GCPM) remain largely elusive. Mesothelial-mesenchymal transition (MMT) plays a crucial role in the progression of GCPM. In our current study, the data confirmed that GC-derived exosomes could significantly promote peritoneal metastasis through an MMT-dependent manner in vivo and in vitro. Using RNA-seq, we successfully identified a key circular RNA (circPTBP3). The expression of exosomal circPTBP3 in the plasma of GCPM patients was significantly upregulated and closely correlated with tumor differentiation, depth of invasion, lymphatic invasion, peritoneal metastasis, and TNM stage. Exosomal circPTBP3 thus serves as a reliable diagnostic and prognostic indicator in GCPM patients. Mechanistically, exosomal circPTBP3 could effectively promote the MMT phenotype of mesothelial cells in vitro. Located in the nucleus, circPTPB3 was found to recruit transcription factor AP-2-beta (TFAP2B) to the serum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase 1 (SGK1) promoter sites, thereby initiating its transcription in mesothelial cells. These findings suggest that exosomal circPTPB3 functions as a pivotal mediator in facilitating the interplay between GC cells and mesothelial cells, and it provides a promising diagnostic indicator and therapeutic target for GCPM patients.© 2025. The Author(s).
Despite progress in improving outcomes for oligoarticular and polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), the field still faces considerable challenges. More than half of adults who have had JIA continue to have active disease and have developed functional limitations. Medication side effects are common and intrusive. Thus, the field continues to search for therapeutic agents that target specific aspects of disease pathobiology and will be accompanied by fewer and less intrusive side effects. We identified 28 candidate target genes that were associated with JIA according to Open Targets Genetics and were also differentially expressed in the CD4+ T cells of children with active JIA (when compared to healthy control subjects). Of the 28 candidates, the strongest new target to emerge was homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 1 (HIPK1), which suppresses T cell activation and is within the PTPN22 locus tagged by rs6679677. This locus includes an enhancer element that contacts the HIPK1 promoter, and HIPK1 shows decreased expression in JIA CD4+ T cells when compared to controls. Gene Ontology terms associated with HIPK1 were overrepresented among the differentially expressed genes between JIA and controls, and PML, a known coregulator of HIPK1, showed a similar suppressed gene expression profile. Two downstream transcription factors of HIPK1, TP53 and GATA4, showed enriched binding patterns near the promoters of JIA up-regulated genes. Taken together, these data suggest a pathogenic role for HIPK1 in JIA and make it a prime candidate for therapeutic modulation.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cholesteatoma is a benign epithelial lesion that affects the middle ear or mastoid process, causing otorrhea and hearing impairment. Currently, the pathogenesis of temporal bone injury in middle ear cholesteatoma remains elusive, hindering the development of effective treatment strategies.We examined the expression of transcription factor AP-2-beta (TFAP2B) and its downstream factor silent mating type information regulation 2 homolog 1 (SIRT1) in clinical samples from patients with middle ear cholesteatoma and analyzed the potential correlation between TFAP2B expression and clinical conditions. The findings revealed a significant down-regulation of TFAP2B and SIRT1 in patients diagnosed with middle ear cholesteatoma (p < 0.01), and TFAP2B expression was negatively correlated with the clinical manifestations of hearing impairment and bone destruction. We further explored the role of TFAP2B in the differentiation of RAW 264.7 cells into osteoclasts induced by receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa B ligand (RANKL) in vitro. TFAP2B overexpression significantly inhibited, while TFAP2B knockdown promoted osteoclast differentiation of RAW264.7 cells. Further investigation suggested that TFAP2B positively regulated SIRT1 (p < 0.01) and negatively regulated NF-κB activation. Finally, we demonstrated that TFAP2B transcriptionally regulated SIRT, which inhibited the activation of the NF-κB signaling pathway by reducing the acetylation level of the p65 subunit, thereby suppressing osteoclast differentiation.TFAP2B/SIRT1 plays a crucial role in regulating osteoclast differentiation in middle ear cholesteatoma. The downregulation of TFAP2B/SIRT1 triggers enhanced osteoclast differentiation, which may contribute to one of the mechanisms underlying bone destruction in middle ear cholesteatoma.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a neurodegenerative disease, with a high disability rate. According to the results of mRNA-seq, transcription factor AP-2 Beta (TFAP2B) is a potential target of repetitive Transspinal Magnetic Stimulation (rTSMS) in SCI treatment. Our results demonstrated that rTSMS significantly improved motor function and promoted neuronal survival post-SCI. The result showed that TFAP2B was downregulated following SCI, while significant upregulation after rTSMS treatment, suggesting its pivotal role in neuronal repair. Overexpression of TFAP2B improved Basso Beattie and Bresnahan (BBB) score and athletic ability, and decreased cell apoptosis in SCI rats. Additionally, overexpression of TFAP2B reduced the expression of Iba1 and GFAP in spinal cord, and the expression of PDGFrβ was also reduced in SCI rats after TFAP2B overexpression. Knockdown of TFAP2B reverses the effect of rTSMS treatment in SCI. We found that rTSMS alleviate osteoporosis caused by SCI, resulting in increased BMD, BV/TV, and Tb.Th. rTSMS treatment lowered the RANKL/OPG ratio. In all, our study illustrated TFAP2B is a downstream target of rTSMS for the treatment of SCI, and overexpression of TFAP2B enhanced the therapeutic effect of rTSMS.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Adeno-associated virus (AAV) demonstrates promise in delivering therapeutic genes to retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). Delivery of neuroprotective genes is constrained by packaging size and/or cell selectivity. This study compares the ability of the RGC-selective gamma-synuclein (SNCG) promoter and the smaller RGC-selective neurofilament heavy chain (NEFH) promoter, as well as portions of the RGC-selective atonal bHLH transcription factor 7 (ATOH7) enhancer, to drive gene expression in RGCs.AAV2 constructs with green fluorescent protein (GFP) or human sirtuin 1 (hSIRT1) driven by cytomegalovirus (CMV) enhancer and NEFH promoter (AAV2-eCMV-NEFH) or distal active sequences of the ATOH7 enhancer (DiATOH7) with the SNCG promoter (AAV2-DiATOH7-SNCG) were intravitreally injected into C57BL/6J mice. RGCs were immunolabeled with Brn3a antibodies and counted. AAV constructs with the utmost transduction efficiency were used to test the therapeutic efficacy of the hSIRT1 gene in 12-week-old C57BL/6J mice subjected to microbead (MB)-induced intraocular pressure (IOP) elevation. Visual function was measured using optokinetic responses (OKRs).The eGFP transduction efficiency of AAV2-eCMV-NEFH was similar to that of AAV2-eCMV-SNCG and AAV2-DiATOH7-SNCG. When combined with the SNCG promoter, a larger ATOH7 enhancer was less efficient than the shorter DiATOH7 enhancer. Similarly, the hSIRT1 efficiency of AAV2-eCMV-NEFH was similar to that of AAV2-eCMV-SNCG. The latter two vectors were equally efficient in increasing RGC survival and improving visual function in the mouse model of MB-induced IOP elevation.SNCG and NEFH promoters represent two equally efficient and comparable RGC selective promoter sequences; however, the NEFH promoter offers a smaller packaging size.Smaller enhancer-promoter combinations can be used to deliver larger genes in human cells and for treatment in optic neuropathies including glaucoma.
S100 calcium-binding protein 16 (S100A16) is implicated in both chronic kidney disease (CKD) and acute kidney injury (AKI). Previous research has shown that S100A16 contributes to AKI by facilitating the ubiquitylation and degradation of glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK3β) and casein kinase 1α (CK1α) through the activation of HMG-CoA reductase degradation protein 1 (HRD1). However, the mechanisms governing S100A16-induced HRD1 activation and the upregulation of S100A16 expression in renal injury are not fully understood. In this study, we observed elevated expression of Hypoxia-inducible Factor 1-alpha (HIF-1α) in the kidneys of mice subjected to ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI). S100A16 deletion attenuated the increased HIF-1α expression induced by IRI. Using a S100A16 knockout rat renal tubular epithelial cell line (NRK-52E cells), we found that S100A16 knockout effectively mitigated apoptosis during hypoxic reoxygenation (H/R) and cell injury induced by TGF-β1. Our results revealed that H/R injuries increased both protein and mRNA levels of HIF-1α and HRD1 in renal tubular cells. S100A16 knockout reversed the expressions of HIF-1α and HRD1 under H/R conditions. Conversely, S100A16 overexpression in NRK-52E cells elevated HIF-1α and HRD1 levels. HIF-1α overexpression increased HRD1 and β-catenin while decreasing GSK-3β. HIF-1α inhibition restored HRD1 and β-catenin upregulation and GSK-3β downregulation by cellular H/R injury. Notably, Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and luciferase reporter assays demonstrated HIF-1α binding signals on the HRD1 promoter, and luciferase reporter gene assays confirmed HIF-1α's transcriptional regulation of HRD1. Additionally, we identified Transcription Factor AP-2 Beta (TFAP2B) as the upregulator of S100A16. ChIP and luciferase reporter assays confirmed TFAP2B as a transcription factor for S100A16. In summary, this study identifies TFAP2B as the transcription factor for S100A16 and demonstrates HIF-1α regulation of HRD1 transcription within the S100A16-HRD1-GSK3β/CK1α pathway during renal hypoxia injury. These findings provide crucial insights into the molecular mechanisms of kidney injury, offering potential avenues for therapeutic intervention.© 2024. The Author(s).
Homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 1 (HIPK1) is majorly found in the nucleoplasm. HIPK1 is associated with cell proliferation, tumor necrosis factor-mediated cellular apoptosis, transcription regulation, and DNA damage response, and thought to play significant roles in health and common diseases such as cancer. Despite this, HIPK1 remains an understudied molecular target. In the present study, based on a systematic screening and mapping approach, we assembled 424 qualitative and 44 quantitative phosphoproteome datasets with 15 phosphosites in HIPK1 reported across multiple studies. These HIPK1 phosphosites were not currently attributed to any functions. Among them, Tyr352 within the kinase domain was identified as the predominant phosphosite modulated in 22 differential datasets. To analyze the functional association of HIPK1 Tyr352, we first employed a stringent criterion to derive its positively and negatively correlated protein phosphosites. Subsequently, we categorized the correlated phosphosites in known interactors, known/predicted kinases, and substrates of HIPK1, for their prioritized validation. Bioinformatics analysis identified their significant association with biological processes such as the regulation of RNA splicing, DNA-templated transcription, and cellular metabolic processes. HIPK1 Tyr352 was also identified to be upregulated in Her2+ cell lines and a subset of pancreatic and cholangiocarcinoma tissues. These data and the systems biology approach undertaken in the present study serve as a platform to explore the functional role of other phosphosites in HIPK1, and by extension, inform cancer drug discovery and oncotherapy innovation. In all, this study highlights the comprehensive phosphosite map of HIPK1 kinase and the first of its kind phosphosite-centric analysis of HIPK1 kinase based on global-level phosphoproteomics datasets derived from human cellular differential experiments across distinct experimental conditions.
Inhibition of pathological cardiac hypertrophy is recognized as an important therapeutic strategy for heart failure, although effective targets are still lacking in clinical practice. Homeodomain interacting protein kinase 1 (HIPK1) is a conserved serine/threonine kinase that can respond to different stress signals, however, whether and how HIPK1 regulates myocardial function is not reported. Here, it is observed that HIPK1 is increased during pathological cardiac hypertrophy. Both genetic ablation and gene therapy targeting HIPK1 are protective against pathological hypertrophy and heart failure in vivo. Hypertrophic stress-induced HIPK1 is present in the nucleus of cardiomyocytes, while HIPK1 inhibition prevents phenylephrine-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy through inhibiting cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation at Ser271 and inactivating CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein β (C/EBPβ)-mediated transcription of pathological response genes. Inhibition of HIPK1 and CREB forms a synergistic pathway in preventing pathological cardiac hypertrophy. In conclusion, HIPK1 inhibition may serve as a promising novel therapeutic strategy to attenuate pathological cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure.© 2023 The Authors. Advanced Science published by Wiley-VCH GmbH.
Aerobic glycolysis is increasingly recognized as a pathogenic driver in diabetic kidney disease (DKD). However, the epigenetic role of its end product, lactate, remains largely undefined. Spatial transcriptomics analysis revealed active glycolysis in tubular epithelial cells. The participation of histone lactylation in DKD was confirmed through inhibition of histone lactylation by glycolysis inhibitors or lactate in vivo. The potential target genes of H4K12 lactylation (H4K12la) were screened by CUT&Tag analyses. The candidate target genes were validated through ChIP‑qPCR, RT‑qPCR and western blot analyses. The present study found that the expression of 6‑phosphofructo‑2‑kinase/fructose‑2,6‑biphosphatase 3 (PFKFB3), a pivotal glycolytic regulator, was markedly upregulated in tubular epithelial cells derived from patients with DKD and from the corresponding mouse models. Inhibition of the expression of PFKFB3 mitigated the kidney fibrotic process and alleviated renal function in a DKD mouse model. Conversely, upregulation of PFKFB3 expression aggravated renal fibrogenesis and promoted the deterioration of renal pathology. Moreover, it was demonstrated that the reduction in the levels of lactate levels markedly alleviated renal fibrosis in DKD. With regard to its mechanism of action, lactate was generated via PFKFB3‑driven glycolytic reprogramming and selectively enhanced H4K12 lactylation at the homeodomain‑interacting protein kinase 2 (HIPK2) promoter, thereby activating its transcription and driving renal fibrotic progression. These findings indicated that PFKFB3 in renal tubules upregulates HIPK2 expression via facilitating H4K12la‑dependent gene transcription. Therefore, intervention approaches targeting PFKFB3‑triggered HIPK2 activation in tubular cells may offer a novel therapeutic strategy for DKD.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is caused by mutations in the Survival Motor Neuron 1 (SMN1) gene, leading to reduced SMN protein levels and widespread disruption in RNA metabolism. Despite of disease-modifying therapies, which remarkably improve patient outcomes, the long-term effects remain unknown. Dysregulated small non-coding RNAs, including microRNAs, have been reported in SMA, but their contribution to the disease remains unclear. We previously showed that flunarizine could improve the phenotype of an SMA mouse model; however its mode of action is incomplete. Here, we showed that flunarizine modulates the expression of numerous microRNAs. Using small-RNA sequencing of a flunarizine-treated SMA patient fibroblast cell line, we identified several microRNAs, which are also dysregulated in the brains and/or spinal cords of SMA mouse models at early disease stages and corrected with flunarizine. Transfection of the miR-128-3p inhibitor interferes with the flunarizine-induced neurite outgrowth in the murine neuronal NSC34 cells. Among the mRNAs modulated by flunarizine, homeodomain interacting protein kinase 2 (Hipk2) transcripts were revealed as novel miR-128-3p targets using either the mimic or its inhibitor. Our findings suggest that an early microRNA accumulation in spinal cords of SMA models can contribute to molecular dysfunctions and may represent an initiating event in pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Purinergic signaling is critical to myocardial inflammation and function. However, the underlying mechanisms are not well defined. Herein, we identified a protein kinase, homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 2 (HIPK2), as a novel regulator of purinergic signaling. Cardiomyocyte-specific HIPK2 knockout (CM-HIPK2-KO) hearts exhibited reduced expression of multiple key players of canonical purinergic signaling, including ectonucleases CD39 and CD73, and led to excessive inflammation and cardiac dysfunction. Multiple in vitro experiments with gain-of-function (adenovirus expressing HIPK2, Ad-HIPK2), and loss-of-function (Ad-sh-RNA-HIPK2) approaches were performed to establish that HIPK2-mediated regulation of purinergic signaling is a conserved mechanism in many cell types of diverse backgrounds. Mechanistically, we identified that the signaling circuit of HIPK2-ERK-CREB exerts its effects on purinergic signaling through transcriptional control on CD39 and CD73. Aberrant activation of purinergic signaling and inflammation was critical to cardiac pathologies because interventions with purinergic signaling inhibitor apyrase or NLRP3 inflammasome inhibitor CY09 largely rescued the detrimental cardiac phenotype of CM-HIPK2 KOs. Thus, herein, we identified HIPK2 as a novel regulator of purinergic signaling. Its deletion leads to excessive inflammation and cardiac dysfunction. Therefore, strategies to maintain HIPK2 are critical to sustaining cardiac health.© 2026. The Author(s).
Fusion genes have emerged as pivotal oncogenic drivers across diverse cancer types. The predominant mechanisms underlying fusion gene formation include chromosomal aberrations and intergenic mRNA trans-splicing. With advances in cancer genomics and transcriptomics, the identification, prevalence, and functional characterization of fusion genes have become major areas of investigation. In this study, we performed a comprehensive analysis of fusion events involving the family with sequence similarity 168B (FAM168B) and pleckstrin homology domain-containing B2 (PLEKHB2) in breast invasive carcinoma (BRCA). Integrated DNA and RNA sequencing analyses revealed that the chimeric PLEKHB2::FAM168B mRNA transcript is generated through an intergenic mRNA trans-splicing mechanism. This chimeric transcript leads to elevated FAM168B protein expression via long intergenic non-coding RNA 02228 (LINC02228)-mediated activation of DEAD-box helicase 3 X-linked (DDX3X). This, in turn, activates the DAZ-associated protein 2 (DAZAP2)/homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 2 (HIPK2)/tumor protein 53 (TP53) signaling cascade, resulting in enhanced cell cycle progression and increased BRCA cell proliferation. In summary, our findings suggest that chimeric PLEKHB2::FAM168B mRNA may serve as a potential biomarker in BRCA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ovarian follicular development determines the egg-laying performance in chickens. Besides hormonal signaling, epigenetic and post-transcriptional regulators, long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) also play a vital role in follicular development. We previously identified that RAR-related orphan receptor B-intronic transcript 1 (RORB-IT1), a novel lncRNA located in the intron of RORB, was differentially expressed in chicken pre-hierarchical and hierarchical follicular granulosa cells (Post-GCs). However, it remains unknown whether RORB-IT1 participates in regulating the development of chicken ovarian follicles. In this study, we further characterized the expression pattern of RORB-IT1 and explored its role in regulating the progesterone synthesis, proliferation and apoptosis of chicken Post-GCs. The results showed that RORB-IT1, with a full length of 383 bp, exhibits a uniform distribution in both the cytoplasm and nucleus of chicken Post-GCs. RORB-IT1 was specifically expressed in Post-GCs and upregulated by follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), progesterone (P4) and estradiol (E2) in a dose-dependent manner. Functionally, RORB-IT1 promoted P4 synthesis and proliferation, while inhibiting the apoptosis of Post-GCs. Furthermore, we demonstrated that RORB-IT1 encoded a functional micropeptide exhibiting dual localization in both cytoplasmic and nuclear compartments. This micropeptide enhanced progesterone synthesis and proliferation, but paradoxically induced the apoptosis of Post-GCs when overexpressed independently. Collectively, this study uncovered the expression pattern and function of RORB-IT1 in chicken Post-GCs and provided a theoretical basis for improving the egg-laying performance in chickens.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is considered the master pacemaker of the circadian clock in mammals, but our current knowledge of the SCN is mostly based on rodent studies. Here, we report a comprehensive molecular and cellular atlas for the adult human SCN by spatial transcriptomics, single-nucleus RNA sequencing, and deep-learning-based histological analysis. We identified seven human SCN neuron subtypes with specific transcriptomes and spatial distributions. Comparison of humans, mice, and non-human primates revealed the conserved functional segregation within the SCN regulated by LIM homeobox 1 (LHX1) and RAR-related orphan receptor B (RORB). Furthermore, our results suggested that the human SCN has undergone marked reorganization of its neuropeptide signaling network. Finally, integrative analysis of human SCN transcriptomes and genome-wide association studies (GWASs) identified arginine vasopressin (AVP)/neuromedin S (NMS) subtype as the potential neuronal correlate for morningness chronotype. Thus, our spatial and single-cell transcriptomic atlas of the human SCN provided a basis for the understanding of neural and molecular mechanisms of the human circadian clock.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To address the unmet need for targeted therapeutic strategies for neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE), we developed a brain-targeting lipid nanoparticle delivery system capable of silencing circular RNA homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 2 (circHIPK2) in astrocytes and investigated its ability to mediate neuroinflammation and improve neurological outcomes.Dual-modified 1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine-poly (ethylene glycol)-neurotropic virus-derived peptide (DSPE-PEG2000-RVG29) peptide/mannose-functionalized lipid nanoparticles loaded with circHIPK2 small interfering RNA (M-R@siC-NPs) were constructed, and their physicochemical properties, stability, and biocompatibility were characterized. Using an in vitro oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) model and a neonatal murine hypoxic-ischemic brain damage (HIBD) model, we evaluated the effects of circHIPK2 silencing by the M-R@siC-NPs on the expression of two astrocyte activation markers, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and interleukin-1β (IL-1β), via western blotting, quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), and immunofluorescence staining. Neurobehavioral recovery was assessed through righting reflex, negative geotaxis, and Morris water maze tests.M-R@siC-NPs exhibited a uniform size distribution (134 nm), good blood-brain barrier penetrability, and astrocyte-targeting specificity. The nanoparticles effectively silenced circHIPK2 while demonstrating excellent colloidal stability and biosafety. In vitro, circHIPK2 knockdown by M-R@siC-NPs markedly suppressed OGD-induced astrocyte activation, reducing GFAP and IL-1β expression (p < 0.01). In HIBD mice, M-R@siC-NPs attenuated hippocampal astrocyte activation and improved motor coordination (shortened righting reflex latency, p < 0.0001) and spatial memory (increased platform crossings in Morris water maze, p < 0.0001).The RVG29/mannose dual-modified M-R@siC-NPs precisely regulated astrocyte activation and attenuated neuroinflammation, effectively ameliorating brain injury in HIBD mice. This study establishes a novel RNA interference-based therapeutic strategy for targeted neuroinflammatory modulation, providing a promising translational platform for HIE treatment.© Copyright: © 2025 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 2 (HIPK2) has been identified as a promising therapeutic target for chronic kidney disease. In this study, a series of 2,4-disubstituted-5-fluoropyrimidine derivatives were designed and synthesized. Kinase assay and cell proliferation screening results showed that compound 7a (XRF-1021) demonstrated potent HIPK2 inhibitory activity (IC50 = 0.18 μM). 7a reduced the expression of fibrotic markers in TGF-β1 stimulated NRK-49F and HK-2 cells, including Fibronectin, Collagen I and α-SMA. In vivo, 7a significantly improved renal function in models with 0.2 % adenine diet and unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO), reducing tubular injury and collagen deposition. These results suggest that 7a is a promising candidate for the development of targeted anti-fibrotic therapies, offering a novel approach to treating chronic kidney disease.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
Renal fibrosis, a progressive pathology in chronic kidney disease (CKD), is primarily driven by HIPK2 (homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 2)-mediated activation of the TGF-β/Smad3 and NF-κB signaling pathways, leading to excessive extracellular matrix deposition and inflammation. Current therapeutic strategies targeting HIPK2 show limited efficacy, highlighting the need for more effective inhibitors. We developed compound c4 through rational optimization of the lead compound CHR-6494. This derivative exhibits potent dual activities, with IC50 values of 0.68 ± 0.18 μM for HIPK2 inhibition and 0.15 ± 0.02 μM for anti-proliferative effects in NRK-49F cells. Molecular dynamics simulations confirmed the stable binding of the c4-HIPK2 complex. Functional assays in TGF-β-stimulated NRK-49F cells and TNF-α-stimulated HK-2 cells demonstrated that c4, even at low concentrations, significantly downregulated fibrosis markers (Collagen I, Fibronectin, α-SMA) and inflammatory mediators (p-P65, IL-6), while suppressing fibrotic responses (cell proliferation, migration). These findings establish c4 as a promising HIPK2 kinase inhibitor for developing effective anti-fibrotic therapies targeting HIPK2 in CKD.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Neuroblastoma (NB) is the most common malignant extracranial solid tumor in children, with poor prognosis, inadequate therapeutic responses, and high recurrence rates. Zinc fingers and homeoboxes protein 2 (ZHX2) functions in various cancers, but its role in NB remains unclear. Retinoic acid (RA) has been used as a pro-differentiation agent in NB, but its limited response rate necessitates novel combinations. This study aims to explore key transcription factors (TFs) in improving RA efficacy and NB prognosis.ZHX2 was identified as the key TF related to RA efficacy via RNA-seq analysis of RA-treated NB cell lines. Based on TARGET and GEO databases, we analyzed the correlation of ZHX2 with NB prognosis, survival, and clinical characteristics. Effects of ZHX2 knockdown/overexpression on NB cell proliferation, migration, colony formation, and apoptosis were assessed, with confirmation in subcutaneous xenografts. Bioinformatic analysis identified ZHX2's downstream targets, verified by PCR, WB, CHIP-qPCR, and histopathology. ZHX2's impact on RA efficacy was evaluated via cell proliferation, apoptosis, cell cycle, differentiation markers, spheroid formation, and in vivo tumor growth.ZHX2 presented as the key TF that potentially influences the sensitivity of NB to RA. Its expression was lower in NB patients with poor prognostic factors. ZHX2 overexpression inhibited NB malignancy (reduced proliferation, migration, tumor growth; increased apoptosis). Notably, ZHX2 enhanced RA efficacy by transcriptionally repressing CRABP1 to modulate retinoid metabolism, augmenting RA-induced neuronal differentiation and reducing tumor growth in mice.Transcription factor ZHX2 acts as a tumor suppressor in NB, which enhances RA's therapeutic effects via CRABP1-mediated retinoid metabolism regulation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
The extremely complex, multivariate, and systemic pathophysiology of diabetic nephropathy is brought on by prolonged exposure to hyperglycemia, making the quest for the best therapeutic approach crucial and urgent. Accumulating evidence suggests that pyroptosis and inflammation contribute to the development of diabetic nephropathy. Zinc fingers and homeoboxes 2 (ZHX2) were recently discovered to be a new regulator of inflammatory response. However, the role and potential molecular mechanisms of ZHX2 in diabetic nephropathy remain unclear. Exosomes derived from gingival mesenchymal stem cells (GMSCs-Exo) were successfully isolated and characterized. GMSCs-Exo reversed high glucose-induced podocyte pyroptosis and inflammation. ZHX2 was highly expressed in GMSCs-Exo. Furthermore, ZHX2 derived from GMSCs-Exo reversed podocyte pyroptosis and inflammation induced by HG. Additionally, ZHX2 was enriched in the FABP4 promoter region and transcriptionally inhibited the mRNA and protein levels of FABP4. GMSCs-Exo-derived ZHX2 abolished HG-induced podocyte pyroptosis and inflammation by inhibiting FABP4 and blocking the advanced glycation endproducts/the receptor of advanced glycation endproducts/NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3 (AGEs/RAGE/NLRP3) pathway. Similarly, GMSCs-Exo-derived ZHX2 alleviated renal injury, pyroptosis, and inflammation in diabetic nephropathy mice. In conclusion, our findings demonstrated that ZHX2 protects against diabetic nephropathy by binding to the FABP4 promoter and reducing the expression of FABP4. We also showed that GMSCs-Exo-derived ZHX2 reversed HG-induced podocyte pyroptosis and inflammation by inhibiting the AGEs/RAGE/NLRP3 pathway. ZHX2 derived from GMSCs-Exo also alleviated tubular injury, pyroptosis, and inflammation in diabetic nephropathy mice. The therapeutic potential of targeting ZHX2 to treat diabetic nephropathy is clarified by these findings.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Given the high mortality associated with Cirrhotic Portal Hypertension (CPH) worldwide, this study investigates the mechanism by which baicalin (BA), known for its beneficial effects on cirrhosis, alleviates CPH.The CPH model was established in Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats, followed by 4-week oral administration of 30 and 60 mg/kg/day BA. SD rats were randomly assigned to four groups (n=6/group): Con, Model, BA-30, and BA-60. Portal vein smooth muscle cells (PVSMCs, extracted from SD rats, n=6) were incubated with 5, 10 and 20 μmol/L BA. The levels of liver function indicators and von Willebrand factor (vWF) were determined by biochemical and immunohistochemical analyses, respectively. The portal pressure (PP) was examined. The liver fibrosis was detected by Sirius red staining. The levels of fibrosis-, angiogenesis- and proliferation- related indicators, zinc fingers and homeoboxes 2 (ZHX2), and matrix metallopeptidase 14 (MMP14) were quantified by Western blot. The levels of and interaction between ZHX2 and MMP14 were separately measured by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRTPCR) and luciferase reporter assay. The proliferation and migration of PVSMCs were assessed by EdU staining and scratch test, respectively.BA up-regulated ZHX2 and down-regulated MMP14 (P<0.001). BA concentrationdependently suppressed liver fibrosis, PP, and angiogenesis in the liver tissue, as well as PVSMC proliferation and migration, while enhancing liver function (P<0.05). Further, according to the GRNdb database and luciferase reporter assay, ZHX2 is bound with the promoter of MMP14. ZHX2 could suppress the MMP14 level (P<0.001). ZHX2 silencing reversed the effects of BA treatment on the proliferation and migration of PVSMCs, whereas MMP14 silencing could further offset the role of ZHX2 silencing in the BA-treated PVSMCs (P<0.05).BA up-regulates ZHX2 to reduce the level of MMP14 and alleviate CPH. Understanding the mechanisms of BA in CPH may provide a foundation for novel interventions to attenuate CPH.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Hypoxia and dysregulated phase separation can both activate oncogenic transcriptomic profiles. However, whether hypoxia regulates transcription-associated phase separation remains unknown. Here, we find that zinc fingers and homeoboxes 2 (ZHX2) undergoes phase separation in response to hypoxia, promoting their occupancy on chromatin and activating a cluster of oncogene transcription that is enriched by metastatic genes distinct from the targets of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) and pathologically relevant to breast cancer. Hypoxia induces ZHX2 phase separation via a proline-rich intrinsically disordered region (IDR), enhancing phosphorylation of ZHX2 at S625 and S628 that incorporates CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) in condensates to alter chromatin looping, consequently driving metastatic gene transcription and cancer metastasis. Our findings provide significant insight into oncogene activation and suggest a phase-separation-based therapeutic strategy for cancer.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The prevailing view in the cancer field is that Hippo (Hpo) signaling pathway functions as a tumor suppressor pathway by blocking the oncogenic potential of the pathway effectors Yes1-associated transcriptional regulator (YAP)/transcriptional coactivator with PDZ-binding motif. However, YAP can also function as a context-dependent tumor suppressor in several types of cancer including clear cell renal cell carcinomas (ccRCCs). We find that, in addition to inhibiting hypoxia-inducible factor 2α, a major oncogenic driver in Von Hippel-Lindau-/- ccRCC, YAP also blocks nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) signaling in ccRCC to inhibit cancer cell growth under conditions where hypoxia-inducible factor 2α is dispensable. Mechanistically, YAP inhibits the expression of Zinc fingers and homeoboxes 2 (ZHX2), a Von Hippel-Lindau substrate and critical cofactor of NF-κB in ccRCC. Furthermore, YAP competes with ZHX2 for binding to the NF-κB subunit p65. Consequently, elevated nuclear YAP blocks the cooperativity between ZHX2 and the NF-κB subunit p65, leading to diminished NF-κB target gene expression. Pharmacological inhibition of Hpo kinase blocked NF-κB transcriptional program and suppressed ccRCC cell growth, which can be rescued by overexpression of ZHX2 or p65. Our study uncovers a crosstalk between the Hpo and NF-κB/ZHX2 pathways and its involvement in ccRCC growth inhibition, suggesting that targeting the Hpo pathway may provide a therapeutical opportunity for ccRCC treatment.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is a common complication of type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM). The transcription factor zinc fingers and homeoboxes 2 (ZHX2) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of chronic liver diseases, yet its precise role and underlying mechanism in DM-induced hepatic injury remain poorly elucidated.To investigate this, we used a high-fat diet (HFD) and streptozotocin (STZ) administration to create a DM model in mice, while high glucose (HG) exposure was used to simulate DM in vitro. Through various experiments such as luciferase reporter assay, chromatin immunoprecipitation, RNA immunoprecipitation, and rescue experiments, we aimed to uncover the mechanisms involving ZHX2.Our findings revealed that ZHX2 was lower and YTHDF2 was higher in the livers of DM mice and HG-induced Huh7 cells. ZHX2 overexpression rescued DM-induced liver injury. ZHX2 overexpression also reversed DM-induced hepatic ferroptosis in vivo and in vitro. Mechanistically, YTHDF2 recognized m6A-modified ZHX2 mRNA and promoted its degradation. In turn, ZHX2 inhibited the transcription of YTHDF2 by binding to its promoter region. Knockdown of ZHX2 led to increased ferroptosis in Huh7 cells through activating YTHDF2-induced GPX4 and SLC7A11 degradation.These findings highlight the involvement of the ZHX2-YTHDF2-ferroptosis pathway in DM-induced liver injury and suggest that targeting this pathway may hold therapeutic potential for improving such injuries.© 2025. The Author(s).
Central nervous system hemangioblastoma (CNS-HB) is the most common manifestation of von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL). The main axis of the CNS-HB pathway is the VHL-HIF signaling pathway. Recently, we proposed an alternative VHL-JAK-STAT pathway in CNS-HB. In contrast, the VHL substrate transcription factor zinc fingers and homeoboxes 2 (ZHX2) have been identified as the oncogenic drivers in VHL-deficient clear cell renal cell carcinoma (RCC). However, ZHX2 expression in CNS-HB has not been previously reported. Furthermore, the VHL-ZXH2-NF-κB signaling pathway in CNS-HB remains unresolved. In this study, we aimed to investigate ZHX2 expression and VHL gene alteration in CNS-HB and propose the role of ZHX2 in CNS-HB. Using the MACS method, Scl+ hemangioblastoma-like cells were isolated from multipotent nestin-expressing stem cells. The ubiquitination of ZHX2 in these cells and the immunoprecipitation between ZHX2 and VHL were investigated. In addition, the VHL genes of patients with hemangioblastoma were analyzed. ZHX2 expression in CNS-HB tissues was examined by immunohistochemistry and western blotting. In addition, VHL gene mutations in CNS-HB were analyzed by sequencing. The association between ZHX2 expression and VHL gene mutation was analyzed. ZHX2 was ubiquitinated in Scl+hemangioblastoma-like cells after the transfer of the VHL expression vector into these cells. ZHX2 expression in these cells was well detected before transfer but disappeared after the transfer. ZHX2 expression was detected in 18 of the 21 CNS-HB tissues by immunoblotting and/or immunohistochemistry. Sporadic CNS-HB showed weak expression, whereas VHL-related CNS-HB showed moderate or strong expression. In particular, CNS-HB with severe VHL gene mutations, including large deletions, showed strong or moderate ZHX2 expression. The association between VHL gene mutation and ZHX2 expression revealed a significant correlation between VHL gene alteration severity and the level of immunoblotting (P < 0.05). In conclusion, the severity of VHL gene alteration correlates with the level of ZHX2 expression. ZHX2 is predominantly expressed in CNS-HB, especially in VHL-related cases with severe VHL gene alterations, suggesting a potential role in tumorigenesis and proliferation of CNS-HB.Copyright: Kanno H., et al.
Hematoma clearance is crucial for treating intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Currently, there is a lack of pharmacological therapy aimed at promoting hematoma absorption. Meningeal lymphatic system, as a drain of brain, is a potential therapeutic approach in ICH. Panax Notoginseng Saponins (PNS), proven to promote lymphangiogenesis in periphery, effectively reduces hematoma in ICH patients. However, the potential pharmacological effect of PNS on meningeal lymphatic vessels (MLVs) remains unknown.In this study, we aimed to investigate the impact of PNS on the meningeal lymphatic system and ICH.The collagenase-ICH model was conducted to investigate the effect of PNS. Behavioral tests, including modified neurological severity score (mNSS) and foot-fault test, and hematoma volume were used to estimate the neurological function and curative effect. The structure and drainage function of MLVs was detected by immunohistochemical staining. Visudyne intracisternal magna injection combined with red laser photoconversion was performed to ablate MLVs. RNA-sequencing was used to obtain mRNA profiles for mechanistic investigation.The meningeal lymphatic drainage function was enhanced after ICH on day 14 without obvious lymphangiogenesis. Additionally, PNS further facilitated the process of drain with simultaneously inducing lymphangiogenesis. Moreover, ablation of MLVs by photoconverting of visudyne significantly blocked the benefits of neurological deficits improvement and hematoma absorption conducted by PNS. Furthermore, RNA-sequencing revealed that PNS regulated axonogenesis and inflammation, relying on the intact MLVs. In which, solute carrier family 17 member 7 (Slc17a7) and tumor necrosis factor (Tnf) were identified as bottleneck and hub nodes of the protein-protein interaction network of target genes, respectively.PNS might be effective for ICH treatment by enhancing lymphangiogenesis and the meningeal lymphatic drainage function, thereby attenuating inflammation and promoting neurological recovery. The role of PNS in regulation of MLVs was investigated for the first time. This study provides a novel insight for PNS in the medical therapy of ICH.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is a common type of kidney cancer with limited treatment options and a high mortality rate. Therefore, it is essential to understand the role and mechanism of key genes in RCC development and progression. This study aimed to analyze the role of zinc fingers and homeoboxes 2 (ZHX2) in RCC and the underlying mechanism.RNA expression was analyzed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, while protein expression was analyzed by Western blotting assay and immunohistochemistry assay. Cell viability was evaluated using CCK-8 assay, and cell proliferation was assessed by EdU assay. The rate of cell apoptosis was quantified by flow cytometry. Transwell assays were conducted to analyze cell migration and invasion. The sphere formation assay was performed to assess the formation of microspheres. Additionally, m6A RNA immunoprecipitation assay and RNA immunoprecipitation assay were utilized to investigate the relationship between ZHX2 and two proteins, methyltransferase like 3 (METTL3) and insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 1 (IGF2BP1). The stability of ZHX2 mRNA was analyzed through the Actinomycin D assay. Furthermore, a xenograft mouse model assay was conducted to analyze the effect of ZHX2 overexpression and METTL3 silencing on RCC cell tumor properties in vivo.ZHX2 expression was upregulated in both RCC tissues and cells when compared with healthy renal tissues and human renal cortex proximal convoluted tubule epithelial cells. Depletion of ZHX2 inhibited RCC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and spheroid-forming capacity but promoted cell apoptosis. Moreover, it was found that METTL3-mediated m6A methylation of ZHX2 and IGF2BP1 also stabilized ZHX2 through m6A methylation modification. Furthermore, ZHX2 overexpression showed a potential for attenuating the effects induced by METTL3 silencing and counteracted the inhibitory effect of METTL3 depletion on tumor formation in vivo.METTL3 and IGF2BP1-mediated m6A modification of ZHX2 promoted RCC progression. The finding suggests that ZHX2 may serve as a potential therapeutic target in RCC, providing valuable insights for future clinical interventions.© 2024 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
The prevailing view in the cancer field is that Hippo signaling pathway functions as a tumor suppressor pathway by blocking the oncogenic potential of the pathway effectors Yes1 associated transcriptional regulator (YAP)/transcriptional coactivator with PDZ-binding motif (TAZ). However, YAP can also function as a context-dependent tumor suppressor in several types of cancer including clear cell renal cell carcinomas (ccRCC). We find that, in additional to inhibiting hypoxia-inducible factor 2α (HIF2α), a major oncogenic driver in Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL)-/- ccRCC, YAP also blocks nuclear factor κB (NF-κB ) signaling in ccRCC to inhibit cancer cell growth under conditions where HIF2α is dispensable. Mechanistically, YAP inhibits the expression of Zinc fingers and homeoboxes 2 (ZHX2), a VHL substrate and critical co-factor of NF-κB in ccRCC. Furthermore, YAP competes with ZHX2 for binding to the NF-κB subunit p65. Consequently, elevated nuclear YAP blocks the cooperativity between ZHX2 and the NF-κB subunit p65, leading to diminished NF-κB target gene expression. Pharmacological inhibition of Hippo kinase blocked NF-κB transcriptional program and suppressed ccRCC cancer cell growth, which can be rescued by overexpression of ZHX2 or p65. Our study uncovers a crosstalk between the Hippo and NF-κB/ZHX2 pathways and its involvement in ccRCC growth inhibition, suggesting that targeting the Hippo pathway may provide a therapeutical opportunity for ccRCC treatment.
The early identification of patients with sepsis among those presenting with suspected infection in the emergency department (ED) remains challenging. Delta-like canonical Notch ligand-1 (DLL-1), a Notch pathway ligand involved in immune and endothelial signaling, has been shown to reflect disease severity and outcomes in ICU-based sepsis cohorts. Its value for early risk stratification at ED presentation is less well defined.We analyzed DLL-1 concentrations in serum samples from a prospectively enrolled ED cohort of adults presenting with clinically suspected acute infection. Blood samples were obtained during the initial clinical assessment. Sepsis was defined according to Sepsis-3 criteria and adjudicated by an expert panel, including evaluation of organ dysfunction within 72 h after presentation. DLL-1 concentrations were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and diagnostic performance was assessed using AUROC analysis.Among 300 enrolled patients, 74 (24.7%) were classified as having sepsis. DLL-1 concentrations were significantly higher in patients with sepsis than in those without sepsis (median 11,454 vs. 8,085 pg/mL; p < 0.001). DLL-1 demonstrated moderate discriminatory performance for sepsis at ED presentation (AUROC 0.69, 95% CI 0.62-0.76). Performance was lower than that of procalcitonin and NEWS2 but comparable to C-reactive protein and lactate. DLL-1 showed a moderate correlation with SOFA score. Importantly, correlations with CRP and white blood cell count were nonsignificant.When measured at ED presentation, DLL-1 concentrations are elevated in patients with sepsis but showed only moderate diagnostic performance. These findings are consistent with earlier disease stages and lower degrees of organ dysfunction compared with ICU populations. DLL-1 may offer complementary host-response information beyond established biomarkers, but does not support stand-alone use for early sepsis diagnosis and warrants further evaluation within multimodal risk stratification strategies.DRKS00017395.© 2026. The Author(s).
Congenital central hypoventilation syndrome (CCHS) is a rare breathing disorder, predominantly caused by deleterious alterations in the PHOX2B gene. This report describes a rare case with PHOX2B-negative CCHS.We conducted a 10-year follow-up, including a clinical evaluation, polysomnography, brain MRI, analyses of blood and CSF, electrodiagnostic testing, and comprehensive genetic analyses including trio-whole exome sequencing (trio-WES).In a female patient necessitating artificial ventilation immediately postnatally, trio-WES revealed a homozygous deleterious variant in the candidate gene DBX1 (p.Ala114HisfsTer133), likely resulting in a complete loss of DBX1. Additional symptoms included central hypotonia, global developmental delay, seizures, and marked autoaggressive behavior.Dbx1 (developing brain homeobox 1) has an established critical role for mammalian inspiration, dramatically illustrated by the rapid postnatal demise of Dbx1 null mice because of asphyxia. Here, we describe the first human patient with atypical CCHS harboring a deleterious variant in the DBX1 gene. Surprisingly, over time, our patient gradually achieved the capability of ventilator-independent respiration, although with an irregular rhythm and only during the wake state. These findings suggest that DBX1-deficient individuals are able to install alternative neuronal circuits that maintain inspiratory drive during the wake state.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.
Astrocytes are the most abundant glial cells supporting neuronal function. The subtypes and spatial distribution of astrocytes in the spinal cord are determined by their progenitor domains, and they are not replenished beyond their original distribution. However, under pathological conditions with a severe loss of astrocytes such as neuromyelitis optica (NMO), the underlying mechanism of astrocyte regeneration and how they regenerate over the original domain remains unknown. In the present study, we developed an acute severe NMO rat model that showed extensive loss of astrocytes in the spinal cord, and observed marked astrocyte regeneration from cells around the central canal. Using an in vitro screening system and subsequent in vivo analysis, we identified fibroblast growth factor 8 (FGF8) as a strong activator of astrocyte regeneration. Notably, FGF8 stimulates astrocyte regeneration via developing brain homeobox 1 (Dbx1), which is one of the determinants of astrocyte distribution during development. Interestingly, regenerating astrocytes positive for Dbx1 spread beyond the original domain, suggesting that the intrinsic limitation of regional specificity of astrocytes disappears under pathological conditions in adults. We further revealed that the FGF8-induced enhancement of astrocyte regeneration promoted neuronal circuit reorganization and functional recovery. Our findings provide a fundamental understanding of astrocyte regeneration after central nervous system damage and suggest the FGF8-Dbx1 axis as a novel therapeutic target.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Soluble Delta-like ligand 1 (sDLL1) has demonstrated promising results as an early biomarker of bacterial sepsis, but its role in viral infections remains unclear. This study investigated the association between sDLL1 levels and clinical outcomes in patients hospitalized for COVID-19. In this secondary analysis of a single-center prospective observational trial, we measured plasma sDLL1 levels in 46 patients admitted with PCR-confirmed SARS-CoV2 infection between December 2020 and April 2021. Patients were divided into a high-sDLL1 group, upper quartile of patients with the highest measured sDLL1 levels, and low-sDLL1 group, lower three quartiles of patients. Clinical outcomes, including secondary infections, organ dysfunction, and mortality, were compared between groups. Patients in the high-sDLL1 group (n = 11, 24%) showed higher rates of secondary infections (63% vs. 20%, OR 7, CI 1.6 to 31, p = 0.01) with higher odds of pulmonary secondary infections (46% vs. 11%, OR 6.5, CI 1.3 to 31, p = 0.03). Organ dysfunction was more prevalent in the high-sDLL1-group, indicated by a higher maximal Sequential Organ-Failure Assessment (SOFA) score (median (IQR) 11 (8.5-14) vs. 3 (0.5-8), p < 0.01) as well as higher rates of vasopressor support (64% vs. 26%, OR 5.1, CI 1.2 to 21, p = 0.03) and renal replacement therapy (36% vs. 9%, OR 6.1, CI 1.1 to 3.6, p < 0.05). The high-sDLL1 group also showed increased 90-day mortality (45% vs. 11%, OR 6.5, CI 1.3 to 31, p = 0.03). These findings suggest that high levels of sDLL1 are associated with adverse outcomes in viral sepsis, warranting further investigation in larger, prospective studies.© 2025. The Author(s).
Sepsis is a life-threatening condition and many biomarkers for diagnosing and treatment guidance have been investigated in recent years. However, new ones are emerging almost daily, only few markers with diagnostic value have passed to entered clinical routine application. Delta-like canonical Notch ligand-1 (DLL-1) seems to be a potential contributor in the differentiation between sepsis and non-septic infection. Its role for clinical application and potential septic outcome prediction is yet unclear.This study is a secondary analysis of data and DLL-1 measurements from plasma samples obtained in the SISPCT trial. Primary objective of this explorative study was to investigate the difference of DLL-1 values between patients with sepsis and septic shock. Secondary objectives were the differences in DLL-1 levels in patients with different blood culture results, with infections caused by different pathogens, by origin of infection and disease severity. Furthermore, the study investigated the use of DLL-1 for in-hospital and intensive care unit (ICU) mortality prediction. Therefore, data from 1.027 patients were analyzed.DLL-1 values were significantly higher in patients with septic shock than in septic patients (13,003 ± 7695 pg/mL and 9257 ± 4188 pg/mL, p<0.001). Patients with abdominal infections, primary bacteremia or surgical wound infections exhibited the highest DLL-1 values. In addition, patients with gram-negative pathogens had significantly higher DLL-1 levels than those with specific gram-positive pathogens or negative blood cultures (p<0.001). Infections caused by Escherichia coli, Enterobacterales, and Staphylococcus aureus were associated with the highest DLL-1 levels (18,341 pg/mL, (12,968; 23,250), 21,556 pg/mL (14,386; 30,939) and 16,352 pg/mL (11,905; 25,853), respectively). DLL-1 levels correlated with increasing SOFA scores and demonstrated predictive value for in-hospital and ICU mortality, with an AUC of 0.7, outperforming lactate and procalcitonin.Delta-like canonical Notch ligand-1 (DLL-1) is increased in septic shock compared to sepsis. Its elevation appears to be dependent on the infection focus, the triggering pathogen and the disease severity. Furthermore, it has a predictive value for mortality.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Cancer immunotherapies produce remarkable results in B cell malignancies; however, optimal cell surface targets for many solid cancers remain elusive. Here, we present an integrative proteomic, transcriptomic, and epigenomic analysis of tumor and normal tissues to identify biologically relevant cell surface immunotherapeutic targets for neuroblastoma, an often-fatal childhood cancer. Proteogenomic analyses reveal sixty high-confidence candidate immunotherapeutic targets, and we prioritize delta-like canonical notch ligand 1 (DLK1) for further study. High expression of DLK1 directly correlates with a super-enhancer. Immunofluorescence, flow cytometry, and immunohistochemistry show robust cell surface expression of DLK1. Short hairpin RNA mediated silencing of DLK1 in neuroblastoma cells results in increased cellular differentiation. ADCT-701, a DLK1-targeting antibody-drug conjugate (ADC), shows potent and specific cytotoxicity in DLK1-expressing neuroblastoma xenograft models. Since high DLK1 expression is found in several adult and pediatric cancers, our study demonstrates the utility of a proteogenomic approach and credentials DLK1 as an immunotherapeutic target.Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Habitat transitions have considerable consequences in organism homeostasis, as they require the adjustment of several concurrent physiological compartments to maintain stability and adapt to a changing environment. Within the range of molecules with a crucial role in the regulation of different physiological processes, neuropeptides are key agents. Here, we examined the coding status of several neuropeptides and their receptors with pleiotropic activity in Cetacea.Analysis of 202 mammalian genomes, including 41 species of Cetacea, exposed an intricate mutational landscape compatible with gene sequence modification and loss. Specifically for Cetacea, in the 12 genes analysed we have determined patterns of loss ranging from species-specific disruptive mutations (e.g. neuropeptide FF-amide peptide precursor; NPFF) to complete erosion of the gene across the cetacean stem lineage (e.g. somatostatin receptor 4; SSTR4).Impairment of some of these neuromodulators may have contributed to the unique energetic metabolism, circadian rhythmicity and diving response displayed by this group of iconic mammals.© 2024. The Author(s).
To explore the mechanism of Xianglian Huazhuo formula (, XLHZ) blocking the development of chronic atrophic gastritis (CAG) to gastric cancer (GC) through bioinformatics analysis and in vitro.Pathological morphology of gastric mucosa of rats were observed. High-throughput sequencing was used to analyze the miRNA expression profile of gastric mucosa. The miRanda, miRDB and miRWalk databases were used to predict the differential target genes. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis were performed for differential target genes. Real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was used to verify the differentially expressed miRNAs and target genes. Western blot, EdU, wound healing and flow cytometry were used to observe the effect of XLHZ on epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers, proliferation, migration, apoptosis and cell cycle of CAG cells in vitro.A total of five differentially expressed miRNAs and four differential target genes were screened in this study. GO analysis showed that the target genes were enriched in regulation of neuron development, regulation of transcription factor activity and regulation of RNA polymerase. KEGG pathways database differences in gene enrichment of target genes in the Wnt signaling pathway, Phospholipase D signaling pathway and mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathway. qRT-PCR confirmed that miRNAs and its target genes were consistent with the screening results. In vitro, our study revealed that XLHZ could increase the expression of E-cadherin, decrease the expression of transforming growth factor β1, vimentin and β-catenin, inhibite the proliferation and migration of CAG cells, cause cell cycle arrest at G0/G1 and G2/M phase, induce the apoptosis of CAG cells, and prevent the progression of CAG to GC.This study provided a new idea for the mechanism of blocking the progression of CAG to GC by XLHZ, which may be related to the expression of miR-20a-3p, miR-320-3p, miR-34b-5p, miR-483-3p and miR-883-3p and their target genes transferrin receptor, nuclear receptor subfamily 4 member 2, delta like canonical Notch ligand 1 and a kinase anchor protein 12 in CAG. In the future, we will continue to investigate the linkage between the active ingredients of XLHZ and the relevant miRNAs and their target genes, so as to provide more sufficient experimental basis for clinically effective prevention of CAG to GC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 38704108 is a review article
Cancer immunotherapies have produced remarkable results in B-cell malignancies; however, optimal cell surface targets for many solid cancers remain elusive. Here, we present an integrative proteomic, transcriptomic, and epigenomic analysis of tumor specimens along with normal tissues to identify biologically relevant cell surface proteins that can serve as immunotherapeutic targets for neuroblastoma, an often-fatal childhood cancer of the developing nervous system. We apply this approach to human-derived cell lines (N=9) and cell/patient-derived xenograft (N=12) models of neuroblastoma. Plasma membrane-enriched mass spectrometry identified 1,461 cell surface proteins in cell lines and 1,401 in xenograft models, respectively. Additional proteogenomic analyses revealed 60 high-confidence candidate immunotherapeutic targets and we prioritized Delta-like canonical notch ligand 1 (DLK1) for further study. High expression of DLK1 directly correlated with the presence of a super-enhancer spanning the DLK1 locus. Robust cell surface expression of DLK1 was validated by immunofluorescence, flow cytometry, and immunohistochemistry. Short hairpin RNA mediated silencing of DLK1 in neuroblastoma cells resulted in increased cellular differentiation. ADCT-701, a DLK1-targeting antibody-drug conjugate (ADC), showed potent and specific cytotoxicity in DLK1-expressing neuroblastoma xenograft models. Moreover, DLK1 is highly expressed in several adult cancer types, including adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC), pheochromocytoma/paraganglioma (PCPG), hepatoblastoma, and small cell lung cancer (SCLC), suggesting potential clinical benefit beyond neuroblastoma. Taken together, our study demonstrates the utility of comprehensive cancer surfaceome characterization and credentials DLK1 as an immunotherapeutic target.Plasma membrane enriched proteomics defines surfaceome of neuroblastomaMulti-omic data integration prioritizes DLK1 as a candidate immunotherapeutic target in neuroblastoma and other cancersDLK1 expression is driven by a super-enhancer DLK1 silencing in neuroblastoma cells results in cellular differentiation ADCT-701, a DLK1-targeting antibody-drug conjugate, shows potent and specific cytotoxicity in DLK1-expressing neuroblastoma preclinical models.
Several studies have found mild elevations of serum neurofilament light chain (sNfL) - a marker of neuroaxonal injury - in various psychiatric disorders (PD) compared to controls. Given the documented role of neuroinflammation in PD, this study investigated the relationship between inflammatory markers and sNfL in a transdiagnostic cohort of PD.PD data was obtained from Signature Biobank (BbS) participants aged 40-81 that presented to a psychiatric emergency department with various PDs (n = 291, M = 181, F = 110), and a control group (n = 69, M = 36, F = 33). Serum NfL was measured using SIMOA technology, inflammatory markers interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) were measured using ELISA, and C-reactive protein (CRP) was measured using Atellica CH Wide range method. Linear regression models were used to test associations between sNfL and inflammatory markers while controlling for age, sex, BMI, in addition to identified statistically significant medical/lifestyle covariates of sNfL and the inflammatory markers.In the PD transdiagnostic group, sNfL was positively associated with IL-6 (np2 = .065, p < .001) with a medium effect size and positively associated with TNF-α (np2 = .075, p = .002) with a medium effect size; no associations between CRP and sNfL were detected. At the subgroup levels, the associations remained statistically significant in the mood and psychotic disorders groups, and only for IL-6 in anxiety disorders group.This study provides evidence of an association between levels of inflammation (IL-6 and TNF-α) and neuroaxonal injury (sNfL) in PD.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
TDP-43 pathology is a hallmark of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), yet no therapeutic strategy effectively targets its upstream molecular consequences. Here, we investigated whether the anti-TDP-43 intrabody scFv B1 modulates neuroinflammatory and metabolic pathways in a preclinical ALS model, and whether these effects translate into functional benefit after symptom onset. Using phage display, we previously identified single-chain variable fragments (scFvs) binding TDP-43, including the candidate therapeutic scFv B1. In NSC-34 motor neuron-like cells overexpressing human wildtype TDP-43, B1 reduced NF-κB activation, consistent with disruption of TDP-43-driven inflammatory signaling. For in vivo assessment, B1 was delivered via AAV-CAP.B10 after symptom onset in the hTDP-43(WTxA315T) transgenic mouse model, enabling neuro-specific expression. Two cohorts were analyzed - longitudinal (nine months) and terminal (six months post-treatment) - through behavioral testing, PET imaging, metabolomics, transcriptomics, and plasma biomarker analyses. B1 achieved robust CNS expression and modulated several disease-relevant molecular pathways. RNA-sequencing revealed attenuation of NF-κB-related inflammatory signatures and partial normalization of metabolic and trophic gene expression. Metabolomic profiling identified shifts toward wild-type-like levels in oxidative stress, mitochondrial, and membrane phospholipid metabolites. Despite these molecular effects, symptomatic B1 administration did not improve motor behavior or reduce plasma neurofilament light chain (NfL) concentrations. Notably, plasma TDP-43 levels were stabilized, indicating systemic target engagement. Collectively, scFv B1 modulates upstream pathogenic processes associated with TDP-43 proteinopathy but is insufficient to reverse established neurodegeneration after symptom onset, underscoring the need for earlier and likely combinatorial intervention strategies in ALS.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Late-onset unexplained epilepsy (LOUE) represents a substantial proportion of epilepsies with onset after 50 years and often manifests as temporal lobe epilepsy (LO-TLE). Although a link with Alzheimer disease (AD) has been suggested, only a subset of LO-TLE shows AD-related biomarkers, indicating biological heterogeneity. This study aims to characterize the cognitive and CSF phenotype of LO-TLE and compare it with healthy controls (HCs) and patients with mild cognitive impairment due to AD (MCI-AD).This Italian cross-sectional cohort study included LO-TLE patients with normal CSF β-amyloid (Aβ) biomarkers, MCI-AD, and age-matched and sex-matched HC. Participants underwent structural MRI, neuropsychological assessment, and CSF biomarkers assay, including neurofilament light chain (NfL) and the phosphorylated-to-total tau ratio (p/t-tau). Cortical thickness and subcortical volumes were quantified from structural MRI. Cognitive performance was summarized using principal component analyses. Group differences in imaging, cognition, and CSF biomarkers were assessed, and associations between CSF markers and cognition were examined within groups.The study included 18 LO-TLE, 24 MCI-AD, and 17 HC. LO-TLE showed preserved cortical thickness and subcortical volumes comparable with HC, whereas MCI-AD exhibited widespread cortical thinning and medial temporal atrophy. Despite normal imaging, LO-TLE showed lower performance compared with HC in episodic memory (t(53) = -7.79, pFDR < 0.001), short-term memory (t(53) = -2.94, pFDR = 0.007), language (t(53) = 4.12, pFDR < 0.001), and executive functions (t(53) = -3.76, pFDR < 0.001), while attention was preserved. Global cognitive performance further distinguished LO-TLE from MCI-AD, with the former group performing better (t(53) = 4.21, pFDR < 0.001). LO-TLE CSF profiles were characterized by low NfL levels and a p/t-tau ratio below the proposed cutoff of 0.17, whereas MCI-AD showed pathologic Aβ and tau alterations, elevated NfL, and p/t-tau ratio above 0.17. In LO-TLE, a higher p/t-tau ratio was associated with better performance on global cognition (rs = 0.585, pFDR = 0.032) and short-term memory (rs = 0.588, pFDR = 0.032), whereas no associations emerged in MCI-AD.LO-TLE with normal CSF AD biomarkers is characterized by distinct cognitive and biological features compared with MCI-AD, suggesting a disease process independent of AD. The low p/t-tau ratio may reflect alternative pathophysiologic mechanisms and warrants further investigation in larger longitudinal studies to clarify the underlying pathology and clinical trajectories.
Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is associated with increased risk of dementias and other neurodegenerative diseases. Plasma biomarkers of neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation hold utility in risk prediction and diagnosis of neurodegenerative disease and other neuropathology, but there remains a paucity of data in the T1D population. This study quantified plasma levels of biomarkers of neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation [phosphorylated tau-181 (pTau-181), total tau (Tau), amyloid beta 42/amyloid beta 40 (Aβ42/40), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and neurofilament light chain (NfL)], and tested associations with T1D and related characteristics.This cross-sectional analysis of a subset of participants from the Coronary Artery Calcification in Type 1 Diabetes study included adults with and without T1D. Biomarker levels were quantified using Quanterix Simoa, then log-transformed and analyzed using linear regression models adjusted for age, body mass index (BMI), race and ethnicity, smoking status, and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). A subsequent sensitivity analysis included diabetic retinopathy (DR).136 adults with T1D (n=90, age 52 years, 58% female, average HbA1c 7.7%) and without T1D (n=46, age 53 years, 57% female, average HbA1c 5.4%) were included. In fully adjusted models, T1D was associated with higher pTau-181 [estimate (pg/mL) 1.221, (95% confidence interval 1.003, 1.486) p=0.046], GFAP [1.296 (1.129, 1.489), p<0.001], and NfL [1.355 (1.162, 1.579), p<0.001], relative to adults without T1D. In the sensitivity analysis, relative to adults without T1D, T1D with moderate/severe DR was associated with higher pTau-181 [1.330 (1.063, 1.663), p=0.013], GFAP [1.369 (1.653, 1.608), p<0.001], and NfL [1.495 (1.252, 1.786), p<0.001], and T1D with none/mild DR was associated with higher GFAP [1.228 (1.046, 1.442), p=0.013] and NfL [1.235 (1.037, 1.470), p=0.018]. As compared to T1D with none/mild DR, T1D with moderate/severe DR was associated with higher NfL [1.211 (1.011, 1.451), p=0.038]. Across both models, eGFR was inversely associated with pTau-181, NfL, and Tau (p<0.05 for all).T1D is associated with a greater burden of plasma biomarkers of neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation, and microvascular complications such as DR and impaired kidney function may contribute to this burden. Further study is needed to fully characterize the interplay between these biomarkers and neuropathology in T1D.Copyright © 2026 Pauley, Coughlan, Dong, Bucca, Tanner, Chartier-Logan, Shapiro and Snell-Bergeon.
Natalizumab (NTZ) is a high-efficacy therapy for relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) that can be administered intravenously (IV) or subcutaneously (SC). While switching from IV to SC NTZ is increasingly common in clinical practice, evidence on pharmacodynamic stability, particularly under extended interval dosing (6 weeks), remains limited. This study aimed to evaluate CD49d receptor occupancy (RO), serum neurofilament light chain (sNfL) levels, and clinical outcomes in RRMS patients switching from IV to SC NTZ while maintaining either 4- or 6-week dosing intervals.We conducted a multicenter, ambispective, observational study including RRMS patients who had received IV NTZ for at least 6 months on a 4w or 6w schedule and subsequently switched to SC NTZ while maintaining the same dosing interval. CD49d RO was assessed in CD4+, CD8+, and CD19+ lymphocyte subsets before the first, third, and seventh SC administrations. sNfL levels and clinical outcomes (relapses, MRI activity, EDSS score) were also evaluated. Mixed models for repeated measures were applied.A total of 48 patients were included (4w: n=20; 6w: n=28). CD49d RO remained stable over time within both dosing schedules across all lymphocyte subsets. A significant difference between groups was observed only in CD19+ cells at the third administration (LS mean difference 13.08, SE = 4.10; p=0.028; 95% CI: 4.90-21.26) without clinical correlation. sNfL levels showed no significant differences at any timepoint within or between groups. Clinically, patients remained stable, with no new MRI activity or disability progression during the follow-up.Switching from IV to SC NTZ while maintaining either standard (4w) or extended (6w) dosing intervals preserves pharmacodynamic stability, as reflected by sustained CD49d RO, stable sNfL levels, and consistent clinical outcomes. These findings support SC administration as a reliable alternative to IV NTZ, including in extended interval dosing strategies.Copyright © 2026 Agundez-Moreno, Presas-Rodríguez, González-García, Teniente-Serra, Arcos-Ribas, Martínez-Caceres, Querol, Martín-Aguilar, Vidal-Jordana, Meca Lallana, Dos-Santos, Millan, Valero, Cano, Casado, Boltes-Alandi, Hervas-Garcia, Brieva, Alvarez and Ramo-Tello.
Neurofilament light chain (NfL) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), established biomarkers of neuroaxonal injury and astroglial pathology, are frequently only assessed in blood, which limits conclusions regarding their origin. Bi-compartmental analyses of CSF and serum may help differentiate central or peripheral origin of biomarker elevation. Moreover, studies on NfL and GFAP in distinct neuroinfectious disease (NID) phenotypes, particularly those based on real-world cohorts, are limited. This retrospective monocentric study analyzed CSF and serum from patients with (meningo-)encephalitis/myelitis (TI+; n = 48), meningitis (TI-; n = 80), (cranial) nerve palsies/polyradiculitis (PND; n = 61), and 113 non-neuroinflammatory/non-neurodegenerative controls. A bi-compartmental model using scatter plots and simple linear regression was applied to assess the origin of blood biomarker levels and discriminate between central and peripheral pathology. CSF and serum NfL and GFAP z-scores were significantly higher in TI+ compared with TI- (CSF-GFAP p < 0.001/sGFAP p = 0.0083; CSF-NfL p = 0.003/sNfL p = 0.0004). TI+ and PND differed only in GFAP levels, which were higher in TI+ (CSF-GFAP p = 0.0049/sGFAP p = 0.003). The overall group effect (p ≤ 0.003) and principal findings remained significant after adjustment for age, sex, QAlb, and time since (symptom) onset to LP. Bi-compartmental analysis revealed simultaneous elevation of CSF and serum NfL in TI+, indicating predominantly central origin, whereas PND demonstrated a shift toward higher sNfL levels suggesting peripheral origin. Higher clinical severity (modified Rankin Scale 3-5) was associated with elevated serum and CSF GFAP and NfL (sGFAP p = 0.012/sNfL p = 0.002; CSF-GFAP p < 0.0001/CSF-NfL p = 0.0001), which also predicted unfavorable outcome at discharge (sGFAP p = 0.006/sNfL p = 0.004; CSF-GFAP p = 0.003/CSF-NfL p = 0.012). NfL and GFAP were associated with brain/myelon involvement in NID, predominantly reflecting central pathology. Despite strong CSF-serum correlations, bi-compartmental approaches provide additional insight into biomarker origin and disease compartment.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Unlike younger populations, older individuals often live with multiple systemic conditions that may influence neurofilament light chain (NfL) levels beyond true neuroaxonal injury, complicating its interpretation as a pure marker of neuronal damage. While prior work has examined determinants of blood NfL, none has specifically addressed its contextualization in the geriatric multimorbid setting. This narrative review critically examines the main non-neurological determinants of circulating NfL in older adults focusing on age, renal function, BMI, glycemic dysregulation, cardiovascular disease, and chronic hypoxia and discussing their clinical implications. Renal dysfunction and BMI appear to act as pharmacokinetic modifiers, altering NfL concentrations through reduced clearance and plasma volume dilution, respectively, without necessarily reflecting increased neuronal injury. In contrast, aging, dysglycemia, cardiovascular disease, and hypoxia may function as biologically active confounders, potentially contributing to neuroaxonal damage through neuronal attrition, microvascular injury, cerebral hypoperfusion, and oxidative stress. This distinction carries clinical implications: pharmacokinetic confounders call for adjusted reference ranges, while biologically active confounders represent true sources of neurological vulnerability warranting independent attention. Blood NfL levels in the geriatric population mirror complex neuro-systemic interactions requiring an integrated interpretive approach. Longitudinal monitoring and elderly-specific multivariate models could improve NfL's reliability as a tool in geriatric neurology.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Tooth loss is associated with dementia risk, but mechanisms remain unclear. We examined whether blood-based neurodegenerative biomarkers mediate the edentulism-cognition association.Among 4238 Health and Retirement Study participants aged 50+, we linked edentulism (2012), biomarkers (neurofilament light chain [NfL], glial fibrillary acidic protein [GFAP], phosphorylated tau-181, and amyloid-β [Aβ] 42/40; 2016), and 10-year cognitive outcomes (2012-2022).Edentulism was associated with higher NfL (β = 4.21) and GFAP (β = 8.06), but not pTau-181 or Aβ42/40, and predicted cognitive impairment (hazard ratio [HR] 1.49) and dementia (HR 1.28). GFAP mediated 9.8% and 12.0% of the cognitive impairment and dementia associations, respectively; NfL mediated 9.8% of the dementia association but not cognitive impairment.In this observational cohort, elevated NfL and GFAP were associated with, and accounted for a small proportion of, the edentulism-cognition association. These associative findings support further study of oral health in dementia prevention but do not establish a causal effect.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Gastric cancer (GC) is one of the leading causes of cancer-related deaths, particularly in early-stage GC, which is frequently asymptomatic, and there are no reliable molecular markers available for diagnosis.To identify potential candidate genomic biomarkers for GC with respect to genetic variations and expression changes in genes related to hydrogen sulfide (H2S) metabolism and antioxidant defence.We included 15 patients with newly diagnosed gastric adenocarcinoma in a paired case-control molecular design based on tumour tissue and adjacent histologically normal gastric mucosa. Biopsy tissues were used to extract genomic DNA and total RNA. Complementary DNA (cDNA) was synthesised, followed by standard polymerase chain reaction, Sanger sequencing, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis. The selected target genes were cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS), cystathionine gamma-lyase (CTH), 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase (MPST), catalase (CAT), and glutathione peroxidase 1 (GPX1).A total of 53 insertion/deletion/duplication variants without amino acid change and 11 predicted amino acid-changing sites plus multiple homozygous substitution variants were identified through sequence variants screening. Most variants were heterozygous and not present in external databases. Common high-frequency variants included CBS 19,430 C > CG, CTH 28400G > GT, CAT 33470G > GA, and changes associated with GPX1613_618delGGCGGC. Expression analysis indicated upregulation of CBS, CAT, and GPX1 (by approximately 1.40-, 1.73-, and 1.93-fold, respectively), downregulation of MPST (3.11-fold), and slight downregulation of CTH.Somatic mutations and altered expression of CBS, CTH, MPST, CAT, and GPX1 in GC tissues indicate coordinated remodeling of sulfur metabolism and redox-defence pathways. Nevertheless, the low ROC performance suggests that these genes should not yet be viewed as viable solo diagnostic biomarkers. Instead, they are exploratory molecular signatures and candidate markers that must be validated on larger series of independent patients, matched tumour-normal sequencing, protein/enzyme lateral re-confirmation and functional studies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Cellular hydropersulfides (RS-SH) derived from hydrogen sulfide (H2S) such as glutathione hydropersulfide (GS-SH) are excellent hydrogen atom transfer agents, and quench radicals to protect cells from ferroptosis, a form of iron-mediated cell death associated with an unchecked build-up of lipid radicals. Here, using principles of enzyme-inhibitor design, a series of new artificial substrates for the endogenous hydropersulfide-generating enzyme, 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase (3-MST) was developed. We find that the lead molecules generated GS-SH, catalyzed by 3-MST, permeated cells to enhance endogenous hydropersulfides, protected cells from ferroptosis, and reduced systemic inflammation in an animal model. Together, this calibrated approach to promote cell's own radical trapping antioxidants using its biosynthetic machinery to prevent ferroptosis has tremendous implications in redox biology and therapeutics.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Aniridia is a rare congenital vision-loss disorder caused primarily by loss-of-function variants of the paired box 6 (PAX6) gene. There is currently no cure. Augmentation gene therapy has emerged as a successful treatment for inherited ocular diseases. Here, we conducted the first pilot preclinical intrastromal augmentation gene therapy for aniridic cornea. It was undertaken in an aniridia mouse model, using adeno-associated virus 9 (AAV9), with a ubiquitous promoter driving PAX6, delivered by injection at 3 months, and harvest at 5 months post-injection (PI). The primary endpoint was histologically quantified epithelial thickness. The secondary endpoints were the slit lamp assessment of keratopathy and the RT-ddPCR measurement of four key signaling genes in the cornea. At 5 months PI, we demonstrated virally delivered PAX6 protein in the aniridic mouse corneal stroma. Critically, we found a statistically significant, albeit suggestive due to low n values, structural improvement in the corneal epithelial thickness. When the data were pooled, we also demonstrated a significant and complete transcription correction of four key genes-Notch1, Hes1, Wnt5a, and Mtor. We explore a variety of hypothesizes to explain these initial results, including that the virally delivered PAX6 is acting non-cell autonomously, moving from the non-dividing stroma into the epithelium, causing structural and molecular improvement.© 2026 The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42416402 is a review article
Antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) are essential components of the innate immune system in animals, playing crucial roles in defending against microbial infections. Hydrogen sulfide (H2S), a vital gasotransmitter, is involved in regulating a wide array of physiological functions. However, the role of H₂S in the anti-infective actions of AMPs remains poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate the crucial role of H2S in mediating the anti-infective functions of AMPs across diverse animal species. LL-37/CRAMP, the human cathelicidin family AMP and its mouse homolog, induce H2S production predominantly through 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase (3MST) in Escherichia coli and Clostridium perfringens. The generated H₂S further participates in reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, leading to bacterial death by oxidative damage. Additionally, LL-37 activates the Akt signaling pathway, upregulating cystathionine γ-lyase (CSE) expression to generate H2S in macrophages. This process plays a potential role in facilitating the immunomodulatory activity of LL-37/CRAMP and we confirmed that H2S is involved in their in vivo anti-infective activity of LL-37. Moreover, besides LL-37/CRAMP, we reveal that AMPs from various animal species also induce H2S production in bacteria and macrophages. Overall, our findings highlight a previously unrecognized role of H2S in AMP anti-infective function, which is ubiquitous across AMPs from different animals.© 2026. The Author(s).
Intermittent hypoxia, which is a characteristic of obstructive sleep apnea can impair mandibular growth during early development, particularly in infants. This study aimed to investigate gene expression profiles associated with mandibular cartilage growth in infant male rats exposed to IH modeling pediatric OSA.Eight-day-old male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to either normoxic air or IH and sacrificed after 1 week. Mandibular growth was evaluated using micro-computed tomography and histomorphometry. RNA sequencing examined differential gene expression in bone and cartilage.IH caused mandibular growth deficits, including reduced total cartilage thickness in the mid- and posterior mandibular condylar regions. Comparative measurements between IH and normoxia showed thinning of all cartilage layers in these regions under IH. In contrast, the anterior region exhibited thicker proliferative and maturative layers but a thinner hypertrophic layer under IH. RNA sequencing identified 342 upregulated and 45 downregulated genes in the IH group, including key regulators of bone and cartilage metabolism, such as gremlin-2, fibroblast growth factor 2, insulin-like growth factor binding protein 2, interleukin-1B, bone gamma-carboxyglutamate protein, wingless-related integration site 2, and SRY-box transcription factor 11.These findings suggest that IH alters expression of critical genes in mandibular cartilage development, potentially contributing to growth deficits.Copyright © 2026 Jariyatheerawong, Hosomichi, Changsiripun, Maeda, Huang and Ono.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42352052 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42350293 is a review article
Obesity is a chronic disease with complex etiology, characterized by excessive accumulation of fat tissue, which poses a health hazard and increases, among others, risk of cardiovascular diseases. Hydrogen sulfide (H2S), an endogenous gaseous transmitter, plays an important role in the cardio- vascular system, affecting blood pressure and heart function.The aim of this study was to determine the effect of high-fat diet-induced (HFD-induced) obesity to hydrogen sulfide metabolism in mice hearts.The research material consisted of hearts collected from male wild-type C57BL/6 mice fed for 8 weeks with a normal diet (ND) or high-fat diet. Ex vivo analyses included testing the activity of selected sulfur enzymes (cystathionine gamma-lyase - CGL, 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase - MPST, and thiosulfate sulfurtransferase - TST), determining the sulfane sulfur level, and examining the ability of tissues to produce hydrogen sulfide.Tissues collected from HFD-fed mice were characterized by a lack of CGL activity, increased TST activity, and higher levels of sulfane sulfur compared to group of ND mice. Additionally, the capacity to produce H2S was higher in the hearts of HFD mice.Our study shows that HFD-induced obesity affects hydrogen sulfide levels and sulfur enzyme activity in mice hearts. It can be speculated that the increased ability of HFD mice tissues to produce H2S is a compensatory mechanism for obesity-induced changes. The conducted research indicates the key importance of sulfurtransferases, MPST and TST, in sulfur metabolism in the heart and indicates a new area for further analysis.
Endometrial cancer is among the most commonly diagnosed malignant neoplasms of the female reproductive system, with peak incidence occurring in the perimenopausal and postmenopausal periods. The pathogenesis of this disease is multifactorial and associated with several well-established risk factors, including hormonal imbalance, obesity, and late onset of menopause. We report the case of a 64-year-old woman diagnosed with grade I endometrioid adenocarcinoma, stage IA according to the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) 2009 classification. The patient initially underwent total laparoscopic hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. More than three years after surgery, disease recurrence was detected during routine follow-up. Subsequent molecular analysis revealed a loss-of-function mutation in the NF1 (neurofibromin 1) gene. Based on the molecular profile of the tumor, the patient was qualified for off-label targeted therapy with everolimus, an inhibitor of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway. Treatment with everolimus resulted in complete remission, which has been sustained to date. However, therapy was associated with significant metabolic toxicity, including severe dyslipidemia requiring pharmacological management, ultimately leading to treatment discontinuation. To our knowledge, this is the first case report to demonstrate a successful mutation-driven therapeutic decision in this specific clinical setting of endometrioid adenocarcinoma, where the identification of a pathogenic NF1 loss-of-function mutation provided the only viable targeted pathway in a tumor lacking standard biomarkers such as estrogen or progesterone receptor expression or microsatellite instability. This case serves as a paradigm for mechanism-driven precision oncology, illustrating that everolimus monotherapy can achieve durable clinical benefit in NF1-deficient recurrent endometrial cancer, with remission persisting even after treatment discontinuation. These findings highlight the clinical relevance of comprehensive molecular diagnostics and support the integration of personalized treatment strategies into modern gynecologic oncology.Copyright © 2026 Machulak, Zwierzchowska, Łysak, Kośmider, Szklener and Skórzewska.
CD30 positivity serves as a critical diagnostic hallmark for anaplastic lymphoma kinase positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALK+ ALCL); however, rare cases with partial or complete loss of CD30 expression present diagnostic challenges. We report a unique case with two morphologically and immunophenotypically distinct subpopulations within the same tumor: A typical CD30-positive component and a CD30-negative counterpart. Comparative genetic analysis revealed overlapping but divergent molecular features, including nucleophosmin 1-ALK (NPM1-ALK) fusion, notch receptor 1 mutations, and differential gene amplifications involving MYC proto-oncogene and BCL2-like 1. These findings offer insights into the regulatory mechanisms of CD30 and highlight that loss of CD30 expression alone should not preclude the diagnosis of ALK-positive ALCL, underscoring the importance of integrated histopathological and molecular evaluation in diagnostically challenging cases. Meanwhile, it provides a basis for optimizing the diagnostic process of clinically suspected cases.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558428 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552253 is a review article
Preterm brain injury (PBI) can lead to severe neurodevelopmental impairment. F-box and WD repeat domain-containing 7 (FBXW7) is a key regulator of neural development. This study evaluated the effect of FBXW7 on nerve regeneration after PBI.A mouse model of PBI and an in vitro model of oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R) in neural stem cells (NSCs) were established. Cognitive and motor functions were assessed using Morris water maze, wire hanging, and cylinder tests. Histopathological changes and apoptosis were evaluated by hematoxylin and eosin and TdT-mediated dUTP Nick-End Labeling, and immunohistochemical staining for myelin basic protein and microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2). Neuroregeneration was analyzed via immunofluorescence (IF) staining for bromodeoxyuridine, doublecortin, and MAP2. FBXW7 and Notch receptor 1 (Notch1) expressions were detected by real-time quantitative PCR and Western blot. The viability, apoptosis and differentiation of NSCs were measured by cell counting kit-8, flow cytometry, and IF/Western blot. Protein interaction, stability, and ubiquitination were examined by co-immunoprecipitation and cycloheximide chase assays.FBXW7 expression was decreased in PBI mice and OGD/R-treated NSCs. Overexpression of FBXW7 significantly alleviated the pathological damage and behavioral impairments after PBI, and also enhanced the nerve regeneration process. Moreover, FBXW7 not only enhanced NSCs survival and suppressed apoptosis following OGD/R, but also actively drove their differentiation toward a neuronal lineage. Mechanistically, FBXW7 promoted the ubiquitination and degradation of Notch1. FBXW7 induced NSCs differentiation following OGD/R and mediated neuroprotection to protect PBI by inhibiting Notch1 signaling.By enhancing neuroregeneration via degradation of Notch1, FBXW7 appears to play a protective role in PBI, which suggests therapeutic targets for PBI treatment that merit further exploration.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Ventral midbrain dopaminergic (vmDA) neurons derived from human pluripotent stem cells provide a powerful platform for modeling Parkinson's disease (PD) and developing therapeutic strategies. Although robust protocols exist for generating vmDA progenitors, maturation into functionally competent neurons typically requires prolonged culture periods and occurs with substantial heterogeneity in maturity, representing major bottlenecks.Building on established protocols for vmDA progenitor differentiation, we introduce a sequential strategy that specifically targets the subsequent phases of neuronal conversion and postmitotic maturation. Transient overexpression of the proneural transcription factor achaete-scute family bHLH transcription factor 1 (ASCL1) was applied to human embryonic stem cell-derived vmDA progenitors to induce neuronal commitment, followed by accelerated postmitotic maturation using the small-molecule cocktail GENtoniK. This approach was evaluated in CRISPR/Cas9-engineered human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC) lines lacking either PINK1 or PRKN and their isogenic control hiPSCs.Transient ASCL1 overexpression promoted rapid cell cycle exit and neuronal conversion of vmDA progenitors while preserving ventral midbrain identity and dopaminergic fate. Subsequent GENtoniK treatment enhanced postmitotic dopaminergic maturation and increased neurite complexity, synaptic organization, and dopaminergic neurotransmission without altering lineage specification. Consequently, within two weeks, our protocol yielded high-purity vmDA neurons with enhanced functional maturation from vmDA progenitors. Importantly, PINK1- and PRKN-deficient neurons generated from CRISPR/Cas9-engineered hiPSC lines using this strategy recapitulated key PD-associated mitochondrial phenotypes, including impaired mitophagy, mitochondrial dysfunction, and elevated oxidative stress.Taken together, these findings address the central limitations of current dopaminergic differentiation paradigms by enabling the rapid and uniform acquisition of advanced functional maturity, thereby providing a robust platform for disease modeling and translational research in PD.© 2026. Korean Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine Society.
Methylmalonic acidemia is an inherited neurometabolic disorder characterized by accumulation of methylmalonic acid (MMA) in different tissues, particularly in the brain. As a result, patients frequently exhibit progressive neurological deterioration, accompanied by episodes of acute encephalopathy following metabolic decompensation. Astrocytes are glial cells that maintain the central nervous system homeostasis and may be important cellular targets of MMA-induced dysfunction. However, most in vitro experimental models for the study of methylmalonic acidemia are based on short-term exposure to the toxic metabolites that accumulate in patients. In this study, we used a prolonged experimental model, which has not been yet explored in the context of glial cells, focusing on the inflammatory response, glutamate metabolism, and putative signaling pathways that can contribute to understanding cellular damage observed in methylmalonic acidemia. It is emphasized that MMA is persistently elevated in the brain of the affected patients. Prolonged MMA exposure induced inflammation with significant increase in gene expression of cyclooxygenase 2, interleukin (IL)-1β and its receptor (IL1R1), and IL-6, accompanied by a decrease in IL-10 expression. MMA also increased glutamate uptake and the activity and gene expression of the enzyme glutamine synthetase, while it downregulated glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). The expression of NFκB, p38 MAPK, Nrf2, heme oxygenase 1, PGC-1α, and sirtuin 1 were also modulated by MMA treatment, indicating the critical role of these signaling pathways in the MMA-induced persistent gliotoxicity. Finally, it is conceivable that these changes may significantly contribute to clarify the pathogenesis of methylmalonic acidemia.© 2026. The Author(s).
The purpose of this article is to investigate the expression of neuropeptide family members and their correlation with inflammatory indicators in the peripheral blood of children infected with COVID-19.Blood samples were collected from 40 hospitalized newly diagnosed children with confirmed COVID-19 infection and 17 hospitalized children with non-COVID-19 bronchial pneumonia during the same period. Baseline clinical data were collected and analyzed. Expression and correlation analysis of neuropeptide-related molecules [ACE (Angiotensin Converting Enzyme), ACE2 (Angiotensin Converting Enzyme 2), ASCL1 (achaete-scute family bHLH transcription factor 1)] in peripheral blood were detected and analyzed by ELISA. Complete blood counts with differentials, C-Reactive Protein (CRP), liver enzymes, Substance P (SP), Vasoactive Intestinal Polypeptide (VIP), and Gastrin-Releasing Peptide (GRP) were also measured.The results of 40 COVID-19 patients (43% males) and 17 non-COVID-19 patients (71% males) were compared. ACE2 in non-COVID-19 and moderate COVID-19 groups was higher than that in severe groups (p=0.04; p=0.03, respectively). ASCL1 in the non-COVID-19 group was higher than that in the COVID-19 group (p=0.04). ASCL1 in the non-COVID group was higher than that in the severe COVID group (p=0.02). There were no significant differences in SP, VIP, and GRP between COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 groups. ASCL1 correlated negatively with blood neutrophils (%) (r = -0.534, p<0.001), CRP (r = -0.522, p<0.001), but positively with lymphocytes (%) (r = 0.572, p<0.001), and aspartate aminotransferase (r = 0.496, p=0.001). There was no significant correlation between SCL1 and white blood cell count, platelet count, alanine transaminase, or Lactate dehydrogenase.The negative correlation between ASCL1 and neutrophil percentage (N%) and CRP suggests that ASCL1 may modulate the inflammation associated with pediatric COVID-19, positioning it as a potential biomarker and therapeutic target. The study's findings suggest that ASCL1 is downregulated in pediatric COVID-19 and correlates negatively with neutrophil percentage and CRP, indicating a potential regulatory role in COVID-19-related inflammation. Unlike adults, ACE/ACE2 are not highly expressed in children, which may partly explain the milder disease course. ASCL1 may represent a novel biomarker and therapeutic target worthy of further investigation in larger pediatric cohorts.Unlike adults, ACE and ACE2 are not highly expressed in children with COVID-19. ASCL1 in children with COVID-19 is lower than that in non-COVID-19 children. ASCL1 is negatively correlated with N% and CRP, suggesting that ASCL1 may have a role in COVID-19 inflammation.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
The hippocampus participates in crucial functions such as memory consolidation, spatial processing and emotional regulation that require diverse input from multiple cortical areas that is funneled through the upper layers of the entorhinal cortex (EC), mostly from layer II to the dentate gyrus (DG). Traditional models of the hippocampal formation described 200,000 EC layer II neurons projecting to 1 million granule cells (GCs) in the rat, rendering low divergence (1:5), with each EC neuron establishing about 18,000 synapses with GCs and each GC receiving about 4000 synapses from EC neurons. In this manuscript, we update this model of connectivity incorporating new features described in the last three decades that include updated populations of EC layer II neurons obtained with design-based stereology, a revised definition of EC layer II based on molecular criteria and selecting reelin expressing neurons as the only layer II neurons projecting to the hippocampus. The updated model shows ~80,000 neurons from EC layer II projecting to the DG, ~45,000 from the medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) and ~35,000 from the lateral entorhinal cortex (LEC) with high divergence of 1:20 and 1:30. We also show that EC layer II neurons may establish ~90,000-115,000 synapses on GCs, while GCs receive about 8000 synapses from EC layer II neurons. We estimate a ~25% redundancy in the connectivity, so each EC neuron may contact ~68,000-86,000 GCs and each GC would be contacted by ~3000 neurons from MEC and 3000 from LEC. In addition, we quantitatively assess a potential projection of mossy cells to the middle molecular layer described in mice, which could have an impact on GC inhibition. Overall, we produced a detailed, complete, and updated quantitative model of EC projections to the DG that reveals a much more divergent and richer projection than previously described, with implications for functional models (e.g., pattern separation) and more widely for building realistic hippocampal models or establishing comparisons across species.© 2026 The Author(s). Hippocampus published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Since the discovery of the first antipsychotic, pharmacological treatment of schizophrenia (SCZ) has primarily relied on dopamine D2 receptor antagonist. However, variability in treatment responses highlights the need for novel biomarkers and therapeutics targets. Here, we developed a dual-hit mouse model combining maternal immune activation (MIA) induced by polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (Poly(I:C)) with adolescent exposure to Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the main psychoactive component of cannabis. We evaluated the face validity of this model and investigated potential alterations in the Reelin signaling pathway. Behaviorally, the dual-hit condition induced alterations across multiple domains, including social deficits and increased repetitive behavior, consistent with schizophrenia-relevant phenotypes. These effects were particularly evident in males, supporting a domain-specific interaction between prenatal immune activation and adolescent THC exposure rather than a uniform synergistic effect. Structurally, THC exposure was associated with reduced cortical thickness, while dual-hit mice showed decreased dendritic spine density in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. At the molecular level, Reelin pathway alterations were observed in a sex-dependent manner. In males, reduced Reelin levels were most prominent following THC exposure alone, whereas in females, a general reduction was observed across treatment groups. Additionally, a decrease in the number of Reelin-positive cells was detected. These findings indicate that adolescent THC exposure is a major driver of Reelin alterations, with prenatal immune activation potentially modulating this effect. Overall, this model recapitulates selective SCZ-relevant phenotypes and highlights the complex, domain-specific interaction between environmental risk factors. Our results support a role for Reelin signaling alterations in SCZ-related processes, while emphasizing that their contribution depends on the nature and timing of environmental insults.Abbreviations: Poly(I:C): polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid; THC: Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol; GD: gestational day; PD: postnatal day; PFC: prefrontal cortex; HP: hippocampus. Created with Biorender.com.© 2026. The Author(s).
Reelin signaling regulates multiple pathways in neurodegenerative conditions, including neuronal migration, synaptic plasticity, tau phosphorylation, and amyloidogenic processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP). This study aimed to investigate the impact of reelin downregulation on the expression of topoisomerase IIβ (topo IIβ), given its crucial role in neuronal differentiation and its established association with neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Furthermore, we sought to elucidate the potential relationship between reelin downregulation and proteins implicated in the pathophysiology of AD. Firstly, the optimum concentration of small interfering RNAs (siRNA) targeting reelin was transfected into SH-SY5Y cells using Lipofectamine RNAiMAX reagent. The downregulation of reelin was confirmed at the mRNA level by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Reelin-mediated molecular alterations at both the mRNA and protein levels were analyzed by qRT-PCR and Western blotting. Reelin downregulation led to a decrease in the number of viable cells as determined by the MTT assay. Consistent with the downregulation of reelin gene expression, topo IIβ, Psen1, and BACE1 expressions were also reduced, whereas tau and APP expressions were upregulated. Although siRNA treatment effectively decreased reelin mRNA levels and the proteolytic fragment of reelin protein, no significant change was observed in total full-length reelin protein levels, suggesting the involvement of post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms. Moreover, pTAU and APP protein expressions were increased, while Nurr1 protein was decreased in reelin-silenced cells. These findings suggest that downregulation of reelin gene expression may contribute to neurodegeneration through alterations in topo IIβ and nurr1 expression, in addition to changes in proteins associated with AD pathology.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Cerebral angiogenesis is essential for brain development and the maintenance of homeostasis. The secreted glycoprotein Reelin has been implicated in this process; however, the underlying mechanisms, particularly its functional relationship with the axon guidance molecule Netrin-4, remain incompletely understood. In this study, we used Reln⁻/⁻ mouse models and bEnd.3 brain microvascular endothelial cells. Experimental approaches included western blotting, immunofluorescence, quantitative PCR (qPCR), in vitro tube formation assays, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), and dual-luciferase reporter assays. Functional validation was performed by intracerebroventricular injection of recombinant Reelin protein, the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin, and recombinant Netrin-4. Compared with wild-type mice, Reln⁻/⁻ mice exhibited significantly reduced Netrin-4 expression and markedly impaired angiogenic capacity. These defects were rescued by exogenous Reelin through the Dab1/mTOR/HIF-1α pathway. Direct supplementation with Netrin-4 similarly restored angiogenesis. In vitro experiments confirmed the conservation of this pathway, and ChIP analysis together with luciferase reporter assays demonstrated direct binding of HIF-1α to the Netrin-4 promoter. In summary, this study identifies the Reelin-Dab1-mTOR-HIF-1α-Netrin-4 axis as a signaling pathway that is associated with cerebral angiogenesis during development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Gene-environment interactions are thought to contribute to neurodevelopmental psychiatric disorders, yet their behavioral and molecular consequences remain incompletely understood. Here, we examined whether partial deficiency of reelin (Reln) increases susceptibility to a mild prenatal immune challenge in mice. Heterozygous Reln mice and wild-type littermates were exposed to low-dose polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (Poly(I:C); 2 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) at embryonic day 12.5. Adult male offspring were assessed in the open-field, three-chamber social interaction, and marble-burying tests, followed by gene expression analysis in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). In the open-field test, prenatal Poly(I:C) exposure was associated with increased locomotor activity during the late habituation phase, with the clearest increase in the combined-risk group. In the social interaction test, significant social novelty preference was not detected in the combined-risk group, whereas sociability toward an unfamiliar conspecific was preserved across groups. Marble-burying behavior was reduced in heterozygous Reln mice irrespective of immune challenge, suggesting a genotype-related behavioral alteration that was partly distinct from the combined-risk phenotype observed in the other tests. In the mPFC, several γ-aminobutyric acid A (GABAA) receptor subunit transcripts were altered in a gene- and exposure-specific manner. Gabra2 expression was reduced in the combined-risk group, whereas Reln expression was decreased in heterozygous mice independent of immune challenge. These findings indicate that partial Reln deficiency provides a permissive genetic background in which mild prenatal immune activation subtly alters higher-order behavioral adaptation and prefrontal GABAA-related gene expression.
To report foveal hypoplasia and high myopia in siblings who harbored biallelic pathogenic variants in the gene LOXL3 (lysyl oxidase-like 3; biallelic) and highlight LOXL3 as a candidate gene for this phenotype.Retrospective case series.Two siblings, a 12-year-old boy and his 2-year-old sister, had foveal hypoplasia in the setting of high myopia. Whole exome sequencing revealed both to be homozygous for NM_032603.5: LOXL3 (lysyl oxidase-like 3) c.1036C>T; p.Arg346Trp and NM_000315.4: PTH (parathyroid hormone) c.128 G>A; p.Gly43Glu. The LOXL3 variant has previously been associated with Stickler syndrome; however, phenotypic reassessment did not reveal hearing loss, flat facies, palatal or skeletal abnormalities, or the vitreous phenotype of classic Stickler syndrome. The PTH variant was consistent with pseudohypoparathyroidism. The boy had been previously diagnosed with this by an endocrinologist, and phenotypic reassessment confirmed the same diagnosis in his sister.Biallelic LOXL3 pathogenic variants should be considered in the differential diagnosis of foveal hypoplasia with high myopia.
Alzheimer's disease (AD), a major neurodegenerative disorder, is characterized by progressive cognitive decline and the accumulation of amyloid-beta and tau proteins in the brain. Intermittent fasting (IF) is being explored as a dietary intervention to mitigate AD-related effects, possibly by modulating factors such as reelin and α-synuclein, which are involved in synaptic function and AD pathology.The study included six groups of rats: Ctrl, Ctrl.ADF, Ctrl.TRF, AD, AD.TRF, and AD.ADF. AD was induced by bilateral ICV injections of 5 μL Aβ. To prove fasting, blood glucose levels were assessed with a glucometer. Memory and learning were assessed using the Morris Water Maze (MWM) test, and hippocampal reelin and α-synuclein concentrations were quantified via ELISA. Electrophysiological recordings were analyzed using eProbe software.TRF was more effective than ADF in improving cognitive function in AD rats, as indicated by a significant increase in TSGQ [F (5,40) = 5.590, p < 0.01] and swimming speed [F (3,21) = 114.3, p < 0.01], along with a significant reduction in latency time and path length (p < 0.001). Both TRF and ADF significantly increased reelin concentration and neuronal firing rate (p < 0.01), whereas only TRF led to a significant decrease in α-synuclein levels.These findings suggest that TRF may enhance spatial memory and reduce α-synuclein accumulation in AD rats, possibly through mechanisms associated with synaptic plasticity and neuroprotection.Copyright © 2026 Zeynab Maleki et al. Journal of Nutrition and Metabolism published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is frequently complicated by hypertension, with approximately 60% of patients exhibiting both conditions. However, the epigenetic mechanisms underlying this comorbidity remain largely unexplored. N6-methyladenosine (m6A), the most abundant internal RNA modification, has emerged as a critical regulator of cardiovascular pathology, yet its role in OSA-associated hypertension (OSA-HTN) is unknown. Here, we investigated the contribution of m6A RNA methylation to OSA-HTN pathogenesis. In a chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH) mouse model and hypoxia-stimulated aortic vascular smooth muscle cells (AVSMCs), we observed marked inflammatory injury, pyroptosis, and decreased expression of methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) along with global m6A levels. Overexpression of METTL3 significantly attenuated hypoxia-induced pyroptosis and inflammation by downregulating SRY-box transcription factor 4 (SOX4), a pro-inflammatory transcription factor. Mechanistically, CIH suppressed YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA-binding protein 2 (YTHDF2), an m6A reader that directly binds SOX4 mRNA, while METTL3-mediated m6A modification enhanced YTHDF2-dependent SOX4 mRNA degradation. Knockdown of YTHDF2 abolished the suppressive effect of METTL3 on SOX4 stability, confirming a METTL3-m6A-YTHDF2 regulatory axis. This METTL3-dependent regulation of YTHDF2-SOX4 interaction and SOX4 mRNA decay was also validated in mouse aortic endothelial cells. Furthermore, in vivo silencing of SOX4 alleviated CIH-induced pyroptosis and inflammation in cardiac and aortic tissues. Notably, pharmacological activation of METTL3 or METTL3 overexpression similarly attenuated CIH-induced cardiac and aortic tissue injury in OSA-HTN mice. In conclusion, our findings identify a novel METTL3-YTHDF2-SOX4 axis that governs hypoxia-induced pyroptosis and inflammation, providing new mechanistic insights into the epigenetic regulation of OSA-HTN and highlighting potential therapeutic targets.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to University of Navarra.
Retroperitoneal sarcoma (RPS) is a type of malignant tumour arising from mesenchymal tissues within the retroperitoneal space. RPSs tend to develop covertly and are often undiscovered when they have already grown significantly and invaded surrounding tissues and organs. These malignancies demonstrate high recurrence rates, present surgical challenges and exhibit limited responsiveness to radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Serum-derived molecules are known to play critical roles in tumourigenesis and tumour progression. However, the serum molecular profile of RPS patients remains unclear.We performed multi-omics analysis of serum samples from patients with retroperitoneal dedifferentiated liposarcoma. Prolactin concentrations were quantified using Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA). RNA-seq facilitated the identification of candidate signalling pathways, while gene expression was validated through quantitative polymerase chain reaction, immunohistochemistry and western blot analyses. Molecular mechanisms underlying transcriptional regulation were investigated through Chromatin Immunoprecipitation-qPCR (ChIP-qPCR) and dual-luciferase reporter gene assays.Integrative multi-omics profiling identified significant perturbations in galactose metabolism coupled with marked elevation of prolactin (PRL) levels in Retroperitoneal Liposarcoma (RLPS) patients. Further screening of serum prolactin levels in 100 patients with retroperitoneal tumours revealed that 90% of the cases exhibited hyperprolactinaemia in our research cohort, encompassing both malignant sarcomas and benign tumours. Studies at the clinical sample, cellular and animal levels have found that abnormally elevated prolactin in the serum can originate from sarcoma tissues. Mechanistic investigations identified SRY-box transcription factor 4 (SOX4) as a previously unrecognised transcriptional regulator of PRL. Functionally, PRL not only enhanced liposarcoma cell and fibrosarcoma cell proliferation but also conferred resistance to MDM2 inhibitors. Signalling pathway analysis revealed that PRL activates the Janus Kinase-Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription Pathway (JAK-STAT) signalling pathway and up-regulates c-MYC expression.This study indicates that PRL can serve as an oncogenic driver and therapeutic target. The identification of SOX4-PRL-c-MYC signalling axis provides actionable insights for developing novel therapeutic strategies against this malignancy.Retroperitoneal sarcoma cells can secrete prolactin into the bloodstream, inducing hyperprolactinaemia, which subsequently triggers metabolic reprogramming, such as glucose metabolism. SOX4 can function as a transcription factor that facilitates PRL transcription. PRL can activate the JAK-STAT signalling pathway by binding to PRLR on sarcoma cells, leading to the up-regulation of c-MYC.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Institute of Clinical Bioinformatics.
The dysregulation of growth factors is associated with defective trophoblast invasion, which leads to uteroplacental malperfusion due to the inadequate remodeling of spiral arteries. Pregnancy disorders, including preeclampsia, particularly early-onset preeclampsia, are closely related to compromised placental function caused by aberrant trophoblast invasion. Activin A, a growth factor detectable in serum that belongs to the transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) superfamily, has been implicated in the development of preeclampsia, as evidenced by its elevated serum levels and its role in regulating trophoblast invasion. However, the existing research on its regulatory mechanisms in trophoblast invasion has focused mainly on intracellular, nonsecretory epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers in conventional trophoblast cell lines, which limits its translational relevance to clinical applications. In this study, we performed small RNA sequencing combined with cell biology studies in primary human trophoblast and 2D human trophoblast stem cell models and revealed that the upregulation of the SOX4 (SRY-box transcription factor 4) and miR-103a-3p induced by activin A contributes to trophoblast invasion and potential extravillous differentiation. The bioinformatic analysis of proteomic and microRNA profiles from public databases revealed increased expression of the activin A protein and exosomal miR-103a-3p in maternal blood during the second trimester of pregnancy complicated by preeclampsia. Overall, our integrated approach reveals the regulatory mechanism by which activin A, SOX4, and miR-103a-3p regulate human trophoblast invasion and EVT differentiation, highlighting their potential as early diagnostic biomarkers for preeclampsia.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41921430
Objective To investigate the regulatory effects of the SRY-box transcription factor 4 (SOX4) on differentiation and oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) metabolism of CD4+T cells. Methods CD4+T cells were isolated from healthy human peripheral blood using magnetic bead sorting. After stimulation with CD3 and CD28 antibodies for two days, CD4+T cells were infected with lentivirus to establish the SOX4-overexpression (SOX4-OE) group and the empty vector (Vector) group, respectively. Flow cytometry was used to analyze the expression of phenotypic markers [CD25, programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1), cytotoxic lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4), glucocorticoid-induced tumor necrosis factor receptor (GITR), tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 4 (OX-40)], the transcription factor forkhead box P3 (FOXP3), intracellular cytokines [transforming growth factor β1(TGF-β1), interleukin 10(IL-10), interferon γ(IFN-γ), IL-4, IL-17A ], and OXPHOS-related indicators [adenosine triphosphate (ATP), reactive oxygen species (ROS), mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mtROS), mitochondrial mass, mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes] in CD4+T cells from the SOX4-OE group and the Vector group. RNA sequencing was conducted to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the SOX4-OE and Vector groups, followed by enrichment analyses on the identified DEGs including Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), Gene Ontology (GO), and GeneSet Enrichment Analysis (GSEA). Results Compared to the Vector group, the SOX4-OE group exhibited significantly increased proportions of CD4+T cells expressing the activation markers CD25 and GITR, as well as the inhibitory molecules CTLA-4 and PD-1, while the proportion of cells expressing OX-40 remained unchanged between the two groups. The transcription factor FOXP3 was significantly upregulated in SOX4-OE CD4+T cells compared to the Vector group. Regarding intracellular cytokines, the proportions of CD4+T cells producing TGF-β1, IFN-γ, and IL-17A were significantly higher in the SOX4-OE group than in the Vector group. Conversely, the proportion of IL-10-producing cells was significantly lower, while no significant difference was observed for IL-4. RNA sequencing analysis of DEGs in CD4+T cells from the SOX4-OE and Vector groups revealed significant enrichment of the OXPHOS pathway via KEGG pathway analysis. GO enrichment analysis indicated that DEGs were significantly enriched in terms of immune response regulation, aerobic electron transport chain, and positive regulation of TGF-β production. GSEA showed that, compared with the Vector group, SOX4-OE CD4+T cells exhibited upregulation in the TGF-β receptor complex-mediated signaling pathway and in the transcriptional activity of Sma and Mad homolog 2 (SMAD2)/SMAD3: SMAD4 heterotrimer complex. Moreover, SOX4 overexpression enhanced ATP production and the levels of mitochondrial respiratory chain complexs while reducing ROS and mtROS levels in CD4+T cells, with no significant change in mitochondrial mass. Conclusion We demonstrate that SOX4 induces a plastic Treg-like state in CD4+T cells, modulates the expression of key molecules associated with Treg suppressive function, and enhances their oxidative phosphorylation.
Mutations in the gene encoding the p150 subunit of the dynactin complex (DCTN1) are linked to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy, and Perry syndrome. These neurodegenerative diseases can cause muscle weakness and atrophy, parkinsonian-like symptoms, and paralysis. To examine the evolution of neuropathology caused by a mutation in DCTN1 and cellular mechanisms of disease for therapeutic discovery, we characterized mice expressing either human wildtype or mutant (G59S) DCTN1. Neuron-specific expression of mutant, but not wildtype, DCTN1 caused fatal age-related paralytic disease and motor neuron (MN) degeneration in the spinal cord with axonopathy and chromatolysis without apoptotic morphology. MNs became positive for cleaved caspase-3, cleaved caspase-8, and nitrated Hsp90. Mitochondria accumulated and appeared fragmented and dysmorphic and then were lost. This pathology was accompanied by invasion of CD95- and CD8-positive mononuclear T cells into the ventral horn and accumulation of TNFα and IL9. Administration of the mitochondrial division inhibitor-1 (Mdivi-1) protected MNs and extended the lifespan of G59S-DCTN1 mice. A mitochondrial permeability transition pore inhibitor also extended lifespan. Thus, mutant DCTN1 causes degeneration of MNs associated with axonopathy, mitochondriopathy, nitrative stress, and caspase activation. It appears as retrograde neurodegeneration and inflammatory T-cell-like cytolysis. Mitochondria are possible therapeutic targets in DCTN1-linked neurodegenerative disorders.
Ferroptosis is considered to be a pathological mechanism of myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury (MI/RI). Previous studies have shown that death-associated protein kinase 1 (DAPK1) was involved in MI/RI development, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. Mice with ligation of the left anterior descending artery followed by reperfusion, and HL-1 cells subjected to hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) induction were used as MI/RI animal and cell models, respectively. The pathological status of the mouse heart was evaluated by TTC staining, HE staining and echocardiography. Cell viability was examined using CCK-8. DAPK1, SRY-box transcription factor 4 (SOX4) and ferroptosis-related indicators were determined using RT-qPCR, western blot, commercial kits and DCFH-DA method. The interaction between SOX4 and DAPK1 promoter was validated using dual luciferase assay and ChIP assay. In MI/RI mice and H/R-induced cardiomyocytes, DAPK1 and SOX4 expression was abnormally elevated compared with that in control groups. In addition, silencing of DAPK1 or SOX4 improved cardiomyocyte injury and attenuated ferroptosis in H/R-induced cardiomyocytes. At the molecular levels, SOX4 could promote DAPK1 transcription and elevate DAPK1 expression via interacting with the DAPK1 promoter. Furthermore, SOX4 knockdown alleviated cardiomyocyte injury and mitigated ferroptosis through inhibiting DAPK1 expression, thereby relieving MI/RI in mice. Our results reveled that SOX4 promoted cardiomyocyte injury and exacerbated ferroptosis, thereby intensifying MI/RI through increasing DAPK1 expression.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC), the most common thyroid malignancy, presents with multiple variants. This study aimed to identify potential biomarkers and therapeutic candidates for PTC through computational analyses and molecular docking.Gene expression data related to PTC were obtained from the TCGA-THCA and GEO datasets (GSE35570 and GSE33630) to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Functional enrichment analysis was performed on the DEGs, followed by construction of a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network. Hub genes were identified using recursive feature elimination (RFE) and LASSO regression analyses. A nomogram incorporating these hub genes was developed, and its diagnostic performance was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. Furthermore, the relationship between hub genes and immune cell infiltration was investigated. Potential drug candidates targeting the hub genes were predicted and validated through molecular docking.Common DEGs across the three datasets were enriched in pathways such as ECM-receptor interaction, proteoglycans in cancer, and cell adhesion molecules. Significantly enriched GO terms included 'binding,' 'receptor activity,' 'integral component of membrane,' 'cytoplasm,' 'cell adhesion,' and 'immune response.' A PPI network was constructed by intersecting the common DEGs with PTC-related targets. Machine learning algorithms identified three hub genes: SRY-box transcription factor 4 (SOX4), cyclin D1 (CCND1), and lymphatic vessel endothelial hyaluronan receptor 1 (LYVE1). These hub genes exhibited differential expression in PTC and were used to construct a reliable diagnostic model. Furthermore, molecular docking revealed stable binding between CCND1 and Tipifarnib, suggesting potential therapeutic relevance.While previous studies have applied bioinformatics and molecular docking in PTC research, this study uniquely integrates both approaches to identify the hub gene CCND1 and its potential targeting drug, Tipifarnib, as promising molecular markers and therapeutic candidates for PTC.The hub gene CCND1 and its targeting drug candidate Tipifarnib may contribute to PTC treatment.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a malignant tumor characterized by high global incidence and mortality rates. Contemporary therapeutic modalities remain limited by suboptimal efficacy and adverse effects, thereby necessitating the pursuit of more efficacious treatment strategies. Within traditional Chinese medicine, spleen deficiency is regarded as a central pathogenic mechanism in CRC, persisting throughout the entire disease course.To elucidate the mechanism by which modified Yigong San confers therapeutic efficacy against CRC, potentially exerting its effects through apoptosis regulation mediated by the enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2)/methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3)/SRY-box transcription factor 4 (SOX4) axis.In the clinical study, CRC tissues and corresponding adjacent normal samples that fulfilled inclusion criteria were procured. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction was employed to determine the transcriptional expression of EZH2 and METTL3 mRNA. For in vitro experimentation, SW-480 cells were allocated into five experimental conditions: Control, control + serum, control + negative control, control + overexpressing-EZH2, and control + overexpressing-EZH2 + serum. The mRNA expression levels of EZH2, METTL3, SOX4, B-cell lymphoma 2, and Bax across groups were quantified via quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, while protein levels were assessed using western blot analysis. The presence of EZH2 binding sites within the METTL3 promoter region was verified through chromatin immunoprecipitation polymerase chain reaction. The optimal concentration of drug-containing serum (5%, 10%, 15%) was determined using the Cell Counting Kit-8 assay. Cell migratory ability was evaluated via scratch assays, and apoptotic activity was quantified by flow cytometry.The clinical findings demonstrated significantly elevated transcriptional levels of METTL3 and EZH2 mRNA in tumor tissues compared to their adjacent normal counterparts (P < 0.05). In vitro, cells treated with modified Yigong San exhibited a substantial downregulation of EZH2, METTL3, SOX4, B-cell lymphoma 2, and Bax mRNA and protein levels (P < 0.05), relative to the control group. Apoptotic rates were markedly increased, while migratory capacity was significantly attenuated. Furthermore, in EZH2-overexpressing cells treated with modified Yigong San, similar reductions in both mRNA and protein levels of the aforementioned targets were observed (P < 0.05), concomitant with enhanced apoptosis and reduced migration. Chromatin immunoprecipitation polymerase chain reaction analysis confirmed EZH2 occupancy at specific loci within the METTL3 promoter.Modified Yigong San exhibits both preventive and therapeutic potential against CRC, likely mediated through the regulation of apoptosis via the EZH2/METTL3/SOX4 signaling pathway.©The Author(s) 2025. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved.
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), the most common form of PKD, is a prevalent monogenic multi-system disorder, characterised by progressive enlargement of fluid-filled cysts. This study was designed to identify the underlying genetic causes in two ADPKD-afflicted Han-Chinese families.A total of 10 individuals from two ADPKD-afflicted Han-Chinese families were recruited. Whole exome sequencing and Sanger sequencing were performed to identify possible causal variants. In silico analysis for variants' pathogenicity was performed, and an in vitro minigene splicing system was further utilised to assess the effect of the splice variant on pre-mRNA splicing.A heterozygous splice variant, c.11538-2A>G, in the polycystin 1, transient receptor potential channel interacting gene (PKD1), and a novel heterozygous nonsense variant, c.2387T>G [p.(Leu796*)], in the polycystin 2, transient receptor potential cation channel gene (PKD2), were identified in probands of the two ADPKD families, respectively, as well as the affected individuals, confirmed by Sanger sequencing. In silico analysis predicted these variants to be deleterious. In vitro minigene splicing assay established that the c.11538-2A>G variant could cause complete exon 42 skipping, which was predicted to lead to a truncated protein.A splice variant, c.11538-2A>G, in the PKD1 gene and a novel nonsense variant, c.2387T>G [p.(Leu796*)], in the PKD2 gene were identified as the genetic drivers of ADPKD in two Han-Chinese families, respectively. This study may help pave the way to illustrate the underlying mechanism of ADPKD and possibly provide some new clues for specific management and therapeutics.© 2025 Asian Pacific Society of Nephrology.
DAAM2 is an important formin, which plays an important role in the polymerization of monomeric actin into linear filaments. Previous studies have suggested that the DAAM2 variant mainly causes congenital Nephrotic Syndrome Type 24 (NPHS24), which is characterized by focal segmental glomerulosclerosis and steroid resistant nephrotic syndrome.We report a case of a young man diagnosed with IgA nephropathy by renal biopsy.Specifically, in addition to IgA nephropathy, this patient also had diffuse thinning of GBM, reduced segmental expression of type IV collagen α3 in the glomerulus, and binocular keratoconus which is consistent with features of Alport syndrome. However, whole exon sequencing eliminated the common variation in the type IV collagen-encoding gene and revealed a homozygous mutation in the formin homology 2 (FH2) domain of DAAM2, the core domain responsible for actin polymerization.In conclusion, our case suggests that the spectrum of DAAM2-associated nephropathies might be broader than previously recognized. We propose the novel hypothesis that mutations in the FH2 domain of DAAM2 could predispose to an Alport-like phenotype, potentially through cytoskeletal dysregulation affecting glomerular basement membrane (GBM) integrity. This expands the potential clinical heterogeneity linked to DAAM2 and warrants further investigation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for ~90% of primary liver cancer, which ranks as the third-leading cause of global cancer mortality. Emerging evidence establishes cancer stem cells (CSCs) as central regulators of HCC progression, metastasis, and therapeutic resistance, with stemness-related pathways like Wnt/β-catenin signaling critically maintaining CSC self-renewal. In this study, we aimed to investigate the role of Peptidyl-prolyl isomerase-like 1 (PPIL1) in HCC progression and CSC self-renewal.PPIL1 expression patterns were systematically analyzed using The Cancer Genome Atlas Liver Hepatocellular Carcinoma (TCGA-LIHC) data and validated in primary HCC specimens via qRT-PCR and western blot. PPIL1 was knocked down in HCC cell lines using shRNAs, and cell viability, migration, and sphere formation were assessed in vitro. Xenograft mouse models were established to evaluate the effects of PPIL1 on tumor growth kinetics and liver CSC-related properties. Transcriptome analysis was performed to identify downstream targets and signaling pathways affected by PPIL1 knockdown.Our analysis revealed significantly elevated PPIL1 expression in HCC tumors and liver CSCs, with its expression level positively correlating with tumor stage and histological grade. PPIL1 knockdown effectively suppressed HCC cell proliferation, migration, and in vivo tumor growth. The essential role of PPIL1 in liver CSC maintenance was demonstrated by impaired sphere-forming capacity and diminished tumor initiation potential. Mechanistic studies identified PPIL1 as a regulator of Wnt/β-catenin signaling through transcriptional up-regulation of dishevelled associated activator of morphogenesis 2 (DAAM2).Our findings suggest PPIL1 to be a crucial regulator of HCC progression and liver CSC maintenance via DAAM2-mediated Wnt/β-catenin activation. This positions PPIL1 as a promising molecular target for HCC therapy, with particular relevance for addressing CSC-driven therapeutic resistance.Copyright © 2025, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
The dynamic production and clearance of senescent osteoblasts affects bone homeostasis and health. However, the relationship between senescent osteoblasts and the immune system remains unclear. Here, a landscape of the interaction between immune cells and osteoblasts through spatial analysis of the bone microenvironment is presented. Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1), a longevity gene, regulates bone mass maintenance through a mechanism involving osteoblast-CD4+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) crosstalk. In the osteoblastic niche, SIRT1 promotes the secretion of crucial chemokines, such as C-C motif chemokine ligand 3 (CCL3), C-C motif chemokine ligand 5 (CCL5), and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10), by upregulating dishevelled-associated activator of morphogenesis 2 (DAAM2) through the acetylation of enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2), activating and recruiting CD4+ CTLs that eliminate senescent osteoblasts in a major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II)-dependent manner, slowing the bone ageing process and ameliorating osteoporosis. DAAM2 serves as a pivotal downstream effector for SIRT1 to exert immune-regulatory effects in the bone microenvironment; thus, targeting DAAM2 can treat osteoporosis by increasing CD4+ CTL responses. These results will facilitate the development of customised therapies targeting senescent osteoblasts to maintain bone health.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Memprin/A5/mu (MAM) domain containing glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor 2 (MDGA2) is an excitatory synaptic suppressor and its mutations have been associated with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). However, the detailed physiological function of MDGA2 and the mechanism underlying MDGA2 deficiency-caused ASD has yet to be elucidated. Herein, we not only confirm that Mdga2 +/- mice exhibit increased excitatory synapse transmission and ASD-like behaviors, but also identify aberrant brain-derived neurotrophic factor/tyrosine kinase B (BDNF/TrkB) signaling activation in these mice. We demonstrate that MDGA2 interacts with TrkB through its memprin/A5/mu domain, thereby competing the binding of BDNF to TrkB. Both loss of MDGA2 and the ASD-associated MDGA2 V930I mutation promote the BDNF/TrkB signaling activity. Importantly, we demonstrate that inhibiting the BDNF/TrkB signaling by both small molecular compound and MDGA2-derived peptide can attenuate the increase of α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptor-mediated excitatory synaptic activity and social deficits in MDGA2-deficient mice. These results highlight a novel MDGA2-BDNF/TrkB-dependent mechanism underlying the synaptic function regulation, which may become a therapeutic target for ASD.Copyright: © 2025 Zhao et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Rationale: Mutations in the synaptic protein MAM domain containing glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor 2 (MDGA2) have been associated with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Therefore, elucidating the regulatory mechanisms of MDGA2 can help develop effective treatments for ASD. Methods: Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry was carried out to identify proteins interacting with the extracellular domain of RPS23RG1 and with MDGA2, followed by co-immunoprecipitation assays to confirm protein-protein interactions. RPS23RG1 and SORT1 levels were downregulated by siRNAs to study their effects on MDGA2 degradation, with additional applications of immunoblotting and immunostaining assays. Lysosome isolation was performed to determine the lysosomal degradation of MDGA2 further. Rps23rg1 knockout mice and Mdga2 +/- mice were subjected to various behavioral tests to study their ASD-like phenotypes. AAVs expressing MDGA2 were delivered in Rps23rg1 knockout mice, and RPS23RG1-derived peptide was delivered in Mdga2 +/- mice to study their rescuing effects. Results: We found that both RPS23RG1 and SORT1 interacted with MDGA2. MDGA2 was primarily degraded through the SORT1-mediated lysosomal degradation pathway. RPS23RG1 competed with SORT1 for MDGA2 binding to inhibit MDGA2 degradation. Furthermore, we showed that Rps23rg1 knockout mice exhibited decreased MDGA2 levels and ASD-like behaviors, whereas restoration of MDGA2 levels attenuated social defects in Rps23rg1 KO mice. Moreover, we identified a crucial region of RPS23RG1 for MDGA2 interaction and found that a peptide derived from this region not only bound MDGA2 and promoted MDGA2 levels, but also rescued social defects in Mdga2 +/- mice. Conclusion: Our findings highlight a crucial role of RPS23RG1 in antagonizing SORT1-mediated lysosomal degradation of MDGA2 and suggest a potential for targeting the RPS23RG1-MDGA2 axis to treat ASD with MDGA2 deficiency.© The author(s).
The malignant behavior and immune escape ability of cancer cells lead to therapeutic failure and poor prognosis for patients with various cancers, including colon cancer. Plexin domain containing 1 (PLXDC1) was initially identified to exert key roles in tumor by regulating angiogenesis and has recently proved to be involved in cell proliferation and migration of glioblastoma and gastric cancer cells. However, its roles in colon cancer remain unclear. In this study, the online bioinformatics databases confirmed high expression of PLXDC1 in colon cancer specimens, which was associated with cancer stages and nodal metastasis. Similarly, the increased expression of PLXDC1 was also validated in our collected samples and colon cancer cells. Moreover, patients with high expression of PLXDC1 had shorter survival, indicating that PLXDC1 might be a potential prognostic predictor for colon cancer patients. Notably, targeting PLXDC1 inhibited cancer cell viability and invasion, and enhanced cell apoptosis. Intriguingly, Tumor Immune Estimation Resource database confirmed that PLXDC1 expression was related to various tumor-infiltrating immune cells in colon adenocarcinoma including macrophages, and its expression was also correlated with M2-like macrophage markers. In vitro, colon cancer cells with PLXDC1 downregulation had a reduced ability to recruit and polarize macrophage towards M2 phenotype by decreasing the percentage of CD206+ cells and M2-like markers (CD206, CD163, arginase1, and interleukin 10 [IL-10]). Moreover, PLXDC1 knockdown attenuated M2 macrophage-mediated promotion in cancer cell viability and invasion. Mechanically, inhibition of PLXDC1 suppressed activation of the IL-6/Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling. Reactivating the above pathway by transfection with IL-6 plasmids reversed the suppressive effects of PLXDC1 knockdown on cancer cell malignant behaviors, macrophage recruitment and M2-like polarization. Thus, PLXDC1 downregulation may inhibit the malignancy of colon cancer cells and their ability to recruit and polarize macrophages towards M2 phenotype by blocking the IL-6/STAT3 pathway. Together, targeting PLXDC1 may attenuate the progression of colon cancer by direct roles in cancer cells and indirect roles in macrophage polarization, representing a promising therapeutic target for colon cancer patients.© 2024 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is a disease in which pelvic floor support structures are dysfunctional due to disruption of the extracellular matrix (ECM). The vascular system is essential for maintaining ECM homeostasis. Therefore, this study explored the potential mechanism of blood vessel development-related genes (BVDRGs) in POP.POP-related datasets and BVDRGs were included in this study. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the POP and control groups were first identified in the GSE12852 and GSE208271 datasets, and DE-BVDRGs were identified by determining the intersection of these DEGs and BVDRGs. Subsequently, the feature genes were evaluated by machine learning. Feature genes with consistent expression trends in the GSE12852 and GSE208271 datasets were considered key genes. Afterward, the overall diagnostic efficacy of key genes in POP was evaluated through receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. Based on the key genes, enrichment analysis, immune infiltration analysis and regulatory network construction were performed to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying the functions of the key genes in POP.A total of 888 DEGs1 and 643 DEGs2 were identified in the GSE12852 and GSE208271 datasets, and 26 candidate genes and 4 DE-BVDRGs were identified. Furthermore, Hyaluronan synthase 2 (HAS2), Matrix metalloproteinase 19 (MMP19) and Plexin Domain Containing 1 (PLXDC1) were identified as key genes in POP and had promising value for diagnosing POP (AUC > 0.8). Additional research revealed that the key genes were predominantly implicated in immune cell activation, chemotaxis, and cytokine release via the chemokine signaling pathway, the Nod-like receptor signaling pathway, and the Toll-like receptor signaling pathway. Analysis of immune cell infiltration confirmed a decrease in the proportion of plasma cells in POP, and MMP19 expression showed a significant negative correlation with plasma cell numbers. In addition, regulatory network analysis revealed that MALAT1 (a lncRNA) targeted hsa-miR-503-5p, hsa-miR-23a-3p and hsa-miR-129-5p to simultaneously regulate three key genes.We identified three key BVDRGs (HAS2, MMP19 and PLXDC1) related to the ECM in POP, providing markers for diagnostic studies and investigations of the molecular mechanism of POP.Copyright © 2024 Wu, Yang, Yuan, Zhang, Tao, Yin, Yu and Lin.
The Wnt signaling pathway is highly conserved in metazoans and regulates a large array of cellular processes including motility, polarity and fate determination, and stem cell homeostasis. Modulation of the actin cytoskeleton via the non-canonical Wnt pathway regulate cell polarity and cell migration that are required for proper vertebrate gastrulation and subsequent neurulation. However, the mechanism(s) of how the non-canonical pathway mediates actin cytoskeleton modulation is not fully understood.Herein, we characterize the role of the Formin-homology protein; dishevelled associated activator of morphogenesis 2 (Daam2) protein in the Wnt signaling pathway. Co-immunoprecipitation assays confirm the binding of Daam2 to dishevelled2 (Dvl2) as well as the domains within these proteins required for interaction; additionally, the interaction between Daam2 and Dvl2 was Wnt-regulated. Sub-cellular localization studies reveal Daam2 is cytoplasmic and regulates the cellular actin cytoskeleton by modulating actin filament formation. During Xenopus development, a knockdown or loss of Daam2 specifically produces neural tube closure defects indicative of a role in non-canonical signaling. Additionally, our studies did not identify any role for Daam2 in canonical Wnt signaling in mammalian culture cells or the Xenopus embryo.Our studies together identify Daam2 as a component of the non-canonical Wnt pathway and Daam2 is a regulator of neural tube morphogenesis during vertebrate development.© 2024 American Association for Anatomy.
For the first time, we investigated the oncological role of plexin domain-containing 1 (PLXDC1), also known as tumor endothelial marker 7 (TEM7), in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).To investigate the oncological profile of PLXDC1 in HCC.Based on The Cancer Genome Atlas database, we analyzed the expression of PLXDC1 in HCC. Using immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), and Western blotting, we validated our results. The prognostic value of PLXDC1 in HCC was analyzed by assessing its correlation with clinicopathological features, such as patient survival, methylation level, tumor immune microenvironment features, and immune cell surface checkpoint expression. Finally, to assess the immune evasion potential of PLXDC1 in HCC, we used the tumor immune dysfunction and exclusion (TIDE) website and immunohistochemical staining assays.Based on immunohistochemistry, qRT-PCR, and Western blot assays, overexpression of PLXDC1 in HCC was associated with poor prognosis. Univariate and multivariate Cox analyses indicated that PLXDC1 might be an independent prognostic factor. In HCC patients with high methylation levels, the prognosis was worse than in patients with low methylation levels. Pathway enrichment analysis of HCC tissues indicated that genes upregulated in the high-PLXDC1 subgroup were enriched in mesenchymal and immune activation signaling, and TIDE assessment showed that the risk of immune evasion was significantly higher in the high-PLXDC1 subgroup compared to the low-PLXDC1 subgroup. The high-risk group had a significantly lower immune evasion rate as well as a poor prognosis, and PLXDC1-related risk scores were also associated with a poor prognosis.As a result of this study analyzing PLXDC1 from multiple biological perspectives, it was revealed that it is a biomarker of poor prognosis for HCC patients, and that it plays a role in determining immune evasion status.©The Author(s) 2024. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved.
Epidemiological studies regarding the relationship between per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) and DNA methylation were limited. We investigated the associations of maternal PFAS concentrations with placental DNA methylation and examined the mediating role of methylation changes between PFAS and infant development. We measured the concentrations of 11 PFAS in maternal plasma during early pregnancy and infant development at six months of age. We analyzed genome-wide DNA methylation in 16 placental samples using reduced representation bisulfite sequencing. Additionally, we measured DNA methylation levels using bisulfite amplicon sequencing in 345 mother-infant pairs for five candidate genes, including carbohydrate sulfotransferase 7 (CHST7), fibroblast growth factor 13 (FGF13), insulin receptor substrate 4 (IRS4), paired like homeobox 2Ap (PHOX2A), and plexin domain containing 1 (PLXDC1). We found that placental DNA methylation profiles related to PFOA mainly enriched in angiogenesis and neuronal signaling pathways. PFOA was associated with hypomethylation of IRS4 and PLXDC1, and PFNA was associated with PLXDC1 hypomethylation. There were positive associations of CHST7 methylation with PFTrDA and IRS4 methylation with PFDoA and PFTrDA. PLXDC1 hypomethylation mediated the association between PFOA and suspected developmental delay in infants. Future studies with larger sample sizes are warranted to confirm these findings.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42388976 is a review article
To investigate the association between mid-pregnancy serum levels of insulin-like growth factor binding protein-1 (IGFBP-1) and chordin-like 1 (CHRDL1) and the occurrence of fetal growth restriction (FGR) in late pregnancy among women with gestational hypertension (GH).This prospective nested case-control study was conducted within an established cohort of pregnant women with GH from January 2021 to January 2025. A total of 731 singleton pregnant women with GH at 20-24 gestational weeks were enrolled and followed up by dedicated nurses (those lost to follow-up were contacted at least three times) until late pregnancy (≥28 weeks), with 711 completing the entire follow-up. Based on prenatal ultrasound diagnosis, 106 cases of FGR were identified. These cases were individually matched in a 1:2 ratio (matching factors: maternal age, pre-pregnancy body mass index (BMI), and parity) with 212 controls selected from women without FGR, resulting in a final nested case-control sample of 318 participants. Fasting serum samples were collected at 20-24 weeks of gestation, and IGFBP-1 and CHRDL1 levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). FGR occurrence was assessed based on estimated fetal weight (EFW) monitored by B-ultrasound. Spearman's correlation analysis evaluated associations between mid-pregnancy serum concentrations of IGFBP-1 and CHRDL1 with EFW. Conditional logistic regression identified determinants of FGR development in late pregnancy within the GH cohort. The discriminative performance of mid-pregnancy serum IGFBP-1 and CHRDL1 for late-pregnancy FGR prediction was assessed using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis.Among 731 pregnant women with GH, 20 (2.74%) were lost to follow-up, and 711 completed the entire follow-up; of these, 106 (14.91%) developed FGR. Following 1:2 matching with 212 controls, 318 participants were included in the nested analysis. Serum levels of IGFBP-1 and CHRDL1 were significantly higher in the FGR group compared with the control group (both p < 0.001). The two biomarkers were positively correlated with each other (r = 0.455, p < 0.05) and negatively correlated with EFW (r = -0.335, -0.304, both p < 0.05). Conditional logistic regression analysis revealed that elevated systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), IGFBP-1, and CHRDL1 were independent risk factors for FGR, while elevated triglycerides (TG) were protective factors. ROC curve analysis demonstrated that the area under the curve (AUC) for IGFBP-1 and CHRDL1 alone in predicting FGR was 0.734 (95%CI: 0.677-0.791) and 0.704 (95%CI: 0.645-0.762), respectively; the combined AUC was 0.801 (95%CI: 0.750-0.852).Elevated serum IGFBP-1 and CHRDL1 levels in mid-pregnancy are independent risk factors for FGR in late pregnancy among women with GH. The combination of these two biomarkers demonstrates favorable predictive value, providing an actionable biomarker panel for early identification of high-risk populations in clinical practice, enabling intensified monitoring and intervention initiation at 20-24 weeks of gestation, and ultimately improving perinatal outcomes.
The omentum is a vascularized, immune-active tissue with regenerative potential, particularly when activated by intraperitoneal stimuli. Its secreted factors may promote lymphangiogenesis, offering a novel approach to lymphedema treatment.The omentum was activated in mice using an intraperitoneal polydextran slurry. Gene expression was evaluated over time to assess inflammatory and lymphatic markers. Culture supernatants from the activated omentum were collected, and vascular endothelial growth factor-C ( VEGF-C ) levels were measured. Therapeutic potential was tested in a mouse hindlimb lymphedema model through local application of the supernatant. Histological analysis assessed skin thickness, lymphatic vessel density, and macrophage infiltration.Activation of the omentum induced early upregulation of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 α ( HIF-1α ) and angiopoietin-2 ( Ang2 ), followed by increased expression of Forkhead Box C2 ( Foxc2 ) and Prospero homeobox-1 ( Prox1 ) by day 7, indicating lymphatic maturation. VEGF-C levels in the supernatant were significantly elevated. In the lymphedema model, treated mice exhibited reduced peak edema, faster resolution, and increased skin thickness and lymphatic vessel density compared with controls. Histological analysis revealed enhanced lymphangiogenesis and reduced macrophage infiltration. Downregulation of lymphatic vessel endothelial hyaluronan receptor 1 ( Lyve1 ) and Neuropilin-1 ( NRP1 ) suggested a predominance of tissue remodeling over structural maintenance.Activated omental tissue secretes potent bioactive factors that promote lymphangiogenesis and tissue regeneration. These findings indicate the potential of activated omentum for functional characterization and possible applications in regenerative medicine. Further investigation in chronic and clinical models is warranted to advance its translational potential.The Author(s). This is an open access article published by Thieme under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, permitting unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction so long as the original work is properly cited. ( https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ).
Ferroptosis has increasingly emerged as a novel target for cancer therapy because of intrinsic or acquired ferroptosis vulnerabilities in cancers. Small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA)-mediated mRNA modifications play a critical role in regulating ferroptosis and supporting tumor cell adaptation. However, the function and mechanism of the box C/D snoRNA SNORD60 in hepatoblastoma (HB) remain poorly understood. Here, we found that SNORD60 expression was markedly downregulated in HB tissues, and restoring its expression inhibited HB cell proliferation and induced ferroptosis both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, SNORD60 guided the 2'-O-methylation (Nm) of kielin/chordin-like protein (KCP) mRNA, and accelerated its degradation by resolving a G-quadruplex proximal to the Nm site. Furthermore, Silencing KCP induced lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis by suppressing ATF4-mediated transcription of SLC7A11. Moreover, plasma KCP protein levels were markedly higher in patients with HB than in healthy individuals, supporting KCP as a reliable non-invasive diagnostic biomarker for HB. High KCP expression correlates with poor patient prognosis. Overall, our findings reveal that SNORD60-mediated Nm modification of KCP prevents tumor cells from evading ferroptosis and inhibits tumor progression. This SNORD60/KCP axis represents a novel ferroptosis vulnerability and a promising therapeutic target in HB.© 2026. The Author(s).
Inherited diseases characterized by abnormal corneal morphology include cornea plana, megalocornea, keratoconus and brittle cornea syndrome. This study aims to investigate genes responsible for these diseases.Variants in genes responsible for cornea plana, megalocornea, keratoconus and brittle cornea syndrome were analyzed and characterized by multistep bioinformatics approach based on three large data sets, including our in-house exome sequencing database from patients with inherited eye diseases, literature review, and gnomAD database. Additionally, the phenotypes of patients carrying these variants were collected.125 variants in six genes, namely KERA (Keratocan; OMIM: 603288), CHRDL1 (Chordin-like 1; OMIM: 300350), VSX1 (Visual system homeobox 1; OMIM: 605020), TUBA3D (Tubulin, alpha-3d; OMIM: 617878), ZNF469 (Zinc finger protein 469; OMIM: 612078), and PRDM5 (PR domain-containing protein 5; OMIM: 614161), have been reported in 244 families by literature review, of which 78 with cornea plana, 38 with megalocornea, 67 with keratoconus, and 61 with brittle cornea syndrome. Three variants in KERA were identified in 2 families with cornea plana in our cohort. Moreover, all reported variants in VSX1 were reclassified as likely benign or benign based on several major evidence, including high allelic frequency in gnomAD, presence in unaffected individuals in in-house data set, and relatively tolerated by multiple computational prediction tools. Misinterpreted variants in VSX1 has been detected in up to 3.13% of the general population.This study delineates the genetic and clinical landscape of cornea plana, megalocornea, keratoconus and brittle cornea syndrome for the first time. The pathogenicity of VSX1 variants could not be confirmed, making VSX1 an unlikely candidate gene for keratoconus. Correct classification of genes like VSX1 is critical in the era of genomic medicine.Copyright © 2026 Molecular Vision.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41879524 is a review article
The molecular control and ancestral state of dorsal-ventral patterning within spiralians remain unclear due to the remarkable diversity across species. Here we present a chromosome-level genome for the brachiopod Lingula anatina and apply functional transcriptomics to study dorsal-ventral patterning under BMP signalling control. We uncover asymmetrical activation of BMP signalling at the dorsal side of the gastrula, governed by ventral chordin expression and a 'seesaw' of BMP ligands. Using small-molecule drugs and recombinant proteins, we show that high BMP activity inhibits genes typically associated with neural patterning during gastrula and larval stages, similar to deuterostomes and non-spiralian protostomes. Our findings suggest deep conservation of this mechanism across all three major bilaterian clades, supported by striking similarities in BMP-regulated gene sets between brachiopods and Xenopus. We argue that the spiralian ancestor retained the ancestral bilaterian mechanism, although downstream network components have undergone developmental system drift.© 2026. The Author(s).
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a leading cause of vision loss in working-age adults and often progresses to proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) with irreversible complications. Anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) therapy remains the first-line treatment; however, resistance poses a significant challenge, necessitating alternative therapeutic targets. This study explores the role of angiopoietin-like protein 4 (ANGPTL4) in PDR pathogenesis, emphasizing vascular-immune-lymphatic interactions. We found significantly elevated ANGPTL4 and VEGF-C levels in the vitreous humor of patients with PDR, which were not affected by anti-VEGF therapy. In vivo, full-length ANGPTL4 and its C-terminal fragment promoted pathological angiogenesis and lymphatic-like remodeling in diabetic murine retinas, characterized by increased lymphatic vessel endothelial hyaluronan receptor 1, prospero homeobox 1, and VEGF receptor 3 (VEGFR3) expression. Single-cell sequencing further revealed ANGPTL4-driven immune dysregulation, with abnormal infiltration of CD4+ T cells and dendritic cells. Knockdown of ANGPTL4 in mice with oxygen-induced retinopathy alleviated retinal hypoxia, neovascularization, and vascular leakage. Mechanistically, retinal hypoxia markedly increased ANGPTL4 expression levels in the retina, which activated the activator protein-1 (AP-1) transcription factor complex and promoted Cd83 transcription in mouse heart microvascular endothelial cells. Additionally, ANGPTL4 bound to neuropilin-1 (NRP1)/VEGFR3, driving human lymphatic endothelial cell proliferation and lymphatic vessel ingrowth from the optic nerve sheath into the retina, a finding that suggests a novel pathway independent of angiopoietin-Tie signaling. These findings establish ANGPTL4 as a key mediator of immune-vascular interactions in PDR and a potential therapeutic target to address both pathological angiogenesis and lymphatic dysfunction.Some patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) have poor responses to anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (anti-VEGF) therapy. This situation highlights the need for additional therapeutic approaches. In proliferative diabetic retinopathy, what is the role of ANGPTL4 that differs from VEGF? We found that ANGPTL4 is elevated in the vitreous humor of patients with PDR who are poorly responsive to anti-VEGF therapy. ANGPTL4, particularly its C-terminal fragment, causes retinal lymphatic-like remodeling in diabetic mice. This study provides novel insights into the complex interplay between immune activation, neovascularization, and lymphatic-like remodeling in PDR. Our findings deepen our understanding of PDR pathophysiology and propose a promising therapeutic target.© 2026 by the American Diabetes Association.
Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) in multi-condition experiments enables the systematic assessment of treatment effects. Analyzing scRNA-seq data relies on linear dimensionality reduction (DR) methods like principal component analysis (PCA). These methods decompose high-dimensional gene expression profiles into interpretable factor representations and prototypical expression patterns (components). However, integrating study covariates within linear DR frameworks remains a challenging task. We present scPCA, a flexible DR framework that jointly models cellular heterogeneity and conditioning variables, allowing it to recover an integrated factor representation and reveal transcriptional changes across conditions and components of the decomposition. We show that scPCA extracts an interpretable latent representation by analyzing unstimulated and IFNß-treated PBMCs and show its utility in mitigating batch effects. We examine age-related changes in rodent lung cell populations, uncovering a previously unreported surge in Ccl5 expression in T cells. We illustrate how scPCA may be employed to identify coordinated transcriptional changes across multiple time-points in depolarized visual cortex neurons. Finally, we show that scPCA elucidates transcriptional shifts in CRISPR-Cas9 chordin knockout zebrafish single-cell data despite large difference cell abundance across conditions. scPCA is a general method applicable beyond scRNA-seq to other high-dimensional datasets.© 2026. European Molecular Biology Laboratories.
Tissue-resident macrophages receive signals from their microenvironment that coordinate the activity of transcription factors (TFs) to establish distinct transcriptional profiles and identities. However, the molecular mechanisms whereby interactions with other cells of the niche imprint a distinct macrophage identity remain poorly understood. Here, we report that retinoid X receptors (RXRs) determine the differentiation and identity of alveolar macrophages (AM) by regulating chromatin accessibility and transcriptional activity of AM-core and function genes, enabling PPARγ-dependent programs. AM differentiation and maintenance in vivo require RXR upregulation in response to tissue-derived δ-like canonical Notch ligand 4 (DLL4), GM-CSF, and TGF β (TGFβ). Interplay among these signals leads to cooperation between RXRα, RBPJ, STAT5, and SMAD4 for the transcriptional and epigenetic regulation of key AM-core genes. These results underscore the role of RXRs as key TFs that cooperate with other regulatory elements to establish the AM population and determine AM identity.© 2026 Mínguez-Martínez et al.
The development of anti-fibrotic therapies for heart failure is hindered by the absence of phenotypically stable and scalable human cardiac fibroblast (CFB) models suitable for pre-clinical drug screening. This study aimed to establish and validate a conditionally immortalized CFB (iCFB) cell line for screening cardiac fibrosis drugs.An iCFB line was generated using a doxycycline (dox)-inducible system. The cellular characteristics were evaluated using molecular, protein, and functional analyses. The utility of the model was assessed by exposure to multiple pro-fibrotic stimuli (transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1), angiotensin II, and palmitic acid) and two anti-fibrotic compounds (N-[(1R)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-1-naphthalenyl]-1H-benzimidazol-2-amine [NS8593] and pirfenidone).iCFB proliferation was tightly regulated by dox. Upon dox withdrawal, the iCFBs reverted to a quiescent state and exhibited a molecular expression profile (collagen type I alpha 1 chain [COL1A1], periostin [POSTN], gap junction protein alpha 1 [GJA1], and T-box transcription factor 20 [TBX20]) comparable to that of primary CFBs. This phenotypic fidelity, along with a robust capacity for TGF-β1-induced myofibroblast differentiation, was maintained during long-term culture up to population doubling 60. The model responded consistently to diverse pro-fibrotic stimuli, confirming the anti-fibrotic efficacy of the transient receptor potential melastatin 7 (TRPM7) inhibitor, NS8593, and demonstrating the therapeutic potential of the repurposed drug pirfenidone.We developed a novel iCFB model that integrates long-term expandability, high biological fidelity, and broad responsiveness to fibrotic signaling. This robust platform is well-suited for mechanistic studies and drug screening, thereby facilitating and accelerating the discovery of anti-fibrotic therapeutics.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
T-box transcription factor 20 (TBX20) serves a crucial regulatory role in the process of tumor occurrence. In lung cancer, the upregulation of TBX20 expression is positively associated with a poor prognosis; however, the specific underlying mechanism remains unclear. Therefore, in the present study, the expression of TBX20 in normal lung epithelial BEAS-2B and cancer cells A549 was detected by quantitative PCR and western blot. Lung cancer cell lines with overexpression and interference of TBX20 were constructed. Cell proliferation was detected by Cell Counting Kit-8, cell migration and invasion were detected by Transwell, and cell spheroid formation was assessed. The expression of EMT markers (E-cadherin, N-cadherin, vimentin), stemness markers (CD44, Sox2, Nanog), and immune factors (PD-L1, IL-6, CCL2) was detected by qPCR and WB. A subcutaneous lung cancer model in nude mice was established. After 4 weeks, the tumor volume was observed. The expression of E-cadherin, N-cadherin, vimentin, CD44, and PD-L1 in tumor tissues was detected by IHC. The infiltration of immune cells (CD8+T, CD4+T, M1/M2 macrophages) was detected by flow cytometry. In vitro experiments revealed that the expression levels of TBX20 were increased in the A549 lung cancer cells compared with those in BEAS-2B normal lung epithelial cells. In addition, cell viability, migration, invasion and spheroid formation capacity were greater in the A549 group than in the BEAS-2B group. Compared with in the negative control (NC) group, the TBX20 overexpression plasmid (oe-TBX20) group exhibited enhanced cell viability, migration, invasion and spheroid formation capacity. Furthermore, E-cadherin expression was reduced, whereas N-cadherin, vimentin, Sox2, CD44, Nanog, PD-L1, IL-6 and CCL2 expression levels were elevated. Notably, these changes were reversed in the TBX20 knockdown group. In vivo experiments revealed that compared with in the NC group, the oe-TBX20 group had significantly increased tumor volume, decreased E-cadherin levels, and elevated expression levels of TBX20, N-cadherin, vimentin, CD44 and PD-L1. Compared with NC group, the oe-TBX20 group exhibited significantly lower infiltration of CD4+ T and CD8+ T cells and M1-type macrophage, whereas that of M2-type macrophages and regulatory T cells increased. Conversely, these indicators were reversed in the short hairpin RNA-TBX20 group. In conclusion, TBX20 may induce epithelial-mesenchymal transition and stem cell characteristics, enhance the malignant behavior of lung cancer cells, and upregulate PD-L1 expression to promote immune escape.Copyright: © 2026 Xu et al.
Translocation of Campylobacter concisus from the oral cavity to the intestinal tract is increasingly recognised as a contributor to inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The C. concisus secreted protein Csep1 has emerged as a molecular marker of C. concisus strains associated with Crohn's disease, a form of IBD. However, its structure and role in inflammation remain unknown. Here, we report the X-ray crystal structure of plasmid-encoded Csep1P that reveals a unique α-helical fold with structural similarity to Helicobacter pylori cysteine-rich proteins HcpB and HcpC. Because HcpA, another Hcp family member, is known to affect monocyte differentiation, this structural similarity led us to hypothesise that Csep1P may modulate monocyte differentiation and macrophage function. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that Csep1P induced a chemokine-dominant inflammatory state in macrophages, M1-chem. Protein-level validation in both THP-1-derived and primary human macrophages confirmed this selective chemokine response. While Csep1P alone did not upregulate proinflammatory cytokines, THP-1-derived macrophages pre-incubated with Csep1P produced a higher level of proinflammatory cytokines in response to commensal Escherichia coli, which was validated on primary human macrophages. Furthermore, silencing the delta like canonical notch ligand 4 (DLL4) gene decreased the proinflammatory response of Csep1P-mediated macrophages to E. coli. Collectively, our data demonstrate that the structurally unique Csep1P reprograms macrophage response, which provides a mechanistic link between C. concisus infection and Crohn's disease pathogenesis, and identifies Csep1P as a potential target for therapeutic intervention.Copyright: © 2026 Luk et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Circular RNAs (circRNAs) play important roles in the pathogenesis of coronary artery disease (CAD). Although Muskardia is used to treat CAD, its mechanisms in suppressing human coronary artery smooth muscle cell (HCASMC) proliferation and migration-particularly through circRNA-mediated pathways-remain unclear. Meanwhile, the quantitative flow ratio (QFR), an angiography-based functional assessment, provides a reliable measure of coronary stenosis severity.This study aimed to elucidate the pharmacological mechanisms of Muskardia in CAD, examine the relationship between hsa_circTEX10 expression and QFR, and evaluate hsa_circTEX10 as a potential biomarker for CAD.RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) were employed to validate differentially expressed circRNAs. Functional assays (CCK-8, EdU, Transwell, and wound-healing assays) and mechanistic experiments (RNA immunoprecipitation [RIP], RNA pull-down, and co-immunoprecipitation [Co-IP]) were conducted to assess HCASMC proliferation, migration, and molecular interactions. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were collected to identify potential circulating biomarkers for CAD.hsa_circTEX10 expression was upregulated in oxidised low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL)-induced HCASMC proliferation and migration, whereas Muskardia downregulated hsa_circTEX10 expression. Moreover, hsa_circTEX10 was significantly elevated in PBMCs of patients with CAD and negatively correlated with left circumflex artery (LCX) QFR (r = -0.171, p = 0.033). Functionally, Muskardia inhibited HCASMC proliferation and migration via hsa_circTEX10, which acts through solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11). Mechanistically, hsa_circTEX10 suppressed the ubiquitination of polypyrimidine tract-binding protein 2 (PCBP2); thus, Muskardia promoted PCBP2 ubiquitination by downregulating hsa_circTEX10, ultimately reducing SLC7A11 mRNA stability.Muskardia may alleviate CAD through the hsa_circTEX10/PCBP2/SLC7A11 axis, providing novel insights into CAD treatment and diagnosis.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the leading cause of death worldwide, with limited cardiac regeneration hindering recovery in damaged hearts. We previously demonstrated that T-box transcription factor 20 (Tbx20) and bone morphogenetic protein 2 (Bmp2) are crucial for cardiac homeostasis by promoting cardiomyocyte proliferation following endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Here we showed that various stressors (ER stress, diabetes, type2 myocardial infarction, high-fat diet) over shorter and longer durations in vivo lead to distinct expression patterns of Tbx20 and Bmp2 in cardiomyocytes and fibroblasts. In vitro, stress induction resulted in similar expression patterns of Tbx20 and Bmp2, initially increasing in H9c2 cardiomyocytes before showing a sharp decline. In contrast, Bmp2 significantly increased in primary rat adult cardiac fibroblasts during increasing stress. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are pleiotropic regulators of cardiac development and disease, and are promising therapeutic interventions for regulating cardiac regeneration. Upon delineating the cause of the differential regulation, in silico analysis revealed the presence of putative miR-101-3p binding site in the 3'UTR of tbx20 and Bmp2 inhibitor noggin (nog) gene, which was corroborated by dual-luciferase reporter assay. The expression of miR-101-3p was elevated upon prolonged stress across all the cardiac injury models. In vitro, increasing stress resulted in increased expression of miR-101-3p. MiR-101-3p agonist suppressed and antagonist elevated the expression of Tbx20 in H9c2 cardiomyocytes. Ectopic overexpression of miR-101-3p or siRNA-mediated knockdown of Tbx20 in H9c2 cardiomyocytes heightened the expression of senescence markers (p21, p16, γH2AX). Furthermore, miR-101-3p targeted Nog under stress, indirectly raising Bmp2 and inflammatory response (TNF-α and IL6) in primary cardiac fibroblasts, thereby exacerbating cardiomyopathy. Inhibition of miR-101-3p reversed its inhibitory effect on Tbx20 and Nog. This study uncovers a novel regulatory mechanism where miR-101-3p acts as a repressor of cardiac genes to induce cardiac senescence and inflammation, positioning miR-101-3p as a therapeutic target for cardiomyopathy.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
: This study aims to identify the mechanisms underlying the effects of fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT).: This study investigated 93 patients included in our previous clinical trial: 24 received 30 g of their own feces (placebo group), while 47 and 22 received 30 g and 60 g of donor feces, respectively. The patients underwent sigmoidoscopy with biopsies, provided fecal samples, and completed questionnaires to assess irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) symptoms, fatigue, and quality of life at the baseline and at 1 month following FMT. The biopsy samples were immunostained for Musashi-1, neurogenin-3, and enteroendocrine and immune cells. The cell densities were quantified by computerized image analysis. Fecal short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) were measured by gas chromatography, and fecal bacteria were measured by 16S ribosomal RNA polymerase chain reaction DNA amplification.: The densities of stem cells, enteroendocrine cell progenitors, serotonin, glucagon-like peptide 1, and peptide YY (PYY) cells increased following FMT in the 30-g and 60-g treated groups but not in the placebo group, and they were inversely correlated with both IBS symptoms and fatigue. The densities of submucosal immune cells and mast cells decreased following FMT in the 30-g and 60-g treated groups but not in the placebo group, and they were correlated with IBS symptoms and fatigue. The fecal level of butyric acid increased in patients treated with donor feces, and this was inversely correlated with IBS symptoms and fatigue.: Stem cells, enteroendocrine progenitors, serotonin, and glucagon-like peptide 1 as well as low-grade inflammation may play roles in IBS symptom manifestations. The effects of FMT are probably due to the amelioration of these abnormalities.
Calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD), the most common human valve disease on a global scale, ranks and persists as an unaddressed clinical challenge. This is primarily attributed to the absence of efficacious pharmacological approaches. The Nuclear Receptor Subfamily 4 Group A Member 1 (NR4A1), intricately associated with the pathogenesis of multiple cardiovascular diseases, has emerged as a pivotal target for the diagnosis and treatment of numerous ailments. However, the specific molecular mechanisms and the functional significance of NR4A1 in the pathogenesis of CAVD are yet to be comprehensively elucidated. By performing in-depth analyses on human aortic valve tissues and carrying out functional investigations using primary valvular interstitial cells (VICs), we were able to demonstrate that NR4A1 significantly facilitated cellular proliferation and intensifies the osteogenic differentiation process of VICs. Evidently, this is reflected in the elevated expression of key osteogenic markers, namely runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP). Mechanistically, the pro-calcific effects were achieved via NR4A1-dependent modulation of the cell cycle regulatory protein Cyclin D2 (CCND2). Significantly, in vivo investigations employing ApoE-/- mice maintained on a high-fat Western diet demonstrated that pharmacological suppression of NR4A1 efficiently mitigated the advancement of aortic valve calcification. These discoveries not merely determine NR4A1 to be a crucial modulator in cellular proliferation, thereby accelerating valvular calcification, but also present compelling evidence advocating for targeting NR4A1 may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for CAVD.© The author(s).
Knowledge of the molecular cues guiding pancreatic development is critical to developing beta cell replacement therapies for the treatment of diabetes. We compare different methods of pancreatic endocrine differentiation from human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) and establish sequences of patterning that can selectively increase the frequencies of islet-like or off-target enterochromaffin (EC)-like cells, thereby significantly increasing islet-like cellular yield and glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. Using a model of disrupted murine islet development that gives rise to pancreatic EC-like cells, we identify persistent Neurogenin 3 (NGN3) expression as a conserved feature associated with human and murine pancreatic EC-like cell differentiation. Finally, by comparing the phenotypes obtained through different patterning strategies, we observe that endocrine subtypes can vary significantly in their expression of canonical lineage markers. In addition to expanding our understanding of pancreatic endocrine lineage allocation and identity, these findings establish a logical differentiation framework to guide the generation of designer hPSC-islets for research and therapeutic applications.© 2026. The Author(s).
Periodontitis is a common chronic inflammatory disease that ultimately results in irreversible tooth loss. Cementum, a bone-like tissue surrounding tooth roots, deteriorates as periodontitis advances, ultimately causing tooth loss. Therefore, cementum regeneration is considered a key factor in periodontal regeneration. Given the shared gene expression patterns and characteristics between cementum and bone, strategies for cementum regeneration may inform approaches for bone regeneration. Cementoblasts are responsible for cementum formation. This study identified lysine demethylase 6B (KDM6B) as a positive regulatory molecule that promotes cementoblast mineralization and formation. The seahorse assay revealed that KDM6B regulates glycometabolic reprogramming during cementoblast mineralization. Chromatin Immunoprecipitation (ChIP) sequencing and bulk RNA sequencing revealed that pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 1 (PDK1), a crucial enzyme in glycolysis, is a direct target of KDM6B. Activation of the KDM6B-Pdk1 axis enhanced lactate production, driving lactylation of zinc finger E-box binding homeobox 2 (ZEB2). ZEB2 lactylation subsequently promotes cementoblast mineralization. Moreover, both in vitro and in vivo experiments showed that sodium lactate supplementation restores mineralization impaired by KDM6B suppression. In conclusion, our findings identify the KDM6B-Pdk1-ZEB2 lactylation axis as essential for cementogenesis, providing new insights for periodontal regeneration strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor (SGLT2i) improves beta-cell function in animals and humans with diabetes. Herein, we aimed to investigate the effects of SGLT2i on beta-cell regeneration, trace the origin of regenerated beta cells, and reveal the potential mechanism.Type 2 and type 1 diabetic mice were treated with canagliflozin (10 mg/kg), dapagliflozin (1 mg/kg), or vehicle. Islet morphology was evaluated to investigate beta-cell regeneration. Inducible pancreatic neurogenin 3 (Ngn3) + progenitor lineage-tracing mice and alpha-cell lineage-tracing mice were used to trace the origin of regenerated cells. Mouse and human islets, alpha cells, and beta cells were incubated with dapagliflozin (12.5 μmol/L) or vehicle. Insulin and glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) release, gene expression, and RNA sequencing analysis were performed to clarify the direct actions of SGLT2i and to screen potential targets. Alpha cells were transfected with peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ coactivator 1α ( Ppargc1α ) plasmid or with Ppargc1α siRNA, followed by incubation with or without dapagliflozin to confirm the effects of Ppargc1α in alpha-cell phenotype conversion.SGLT2i increased islet and beta-cell areas in type 2 diabetic mice and showed a similar trend in type 1 diabetic mice. SGLT2i induced alpha-cell dedifferentiation into Ngn3 + progenitors and promoted progenitor differentiation toward beta cells. In cultured diabetic mouse and human islets and in stressed alpha cells, SGLT2i increased supernatant insulin and active GLP-1 levels, downregulated alpha-cell-specific marker expression, and upregulated the expression of endocrine progenitor- and beta-cell-specific markers, including prohormone convertase 1/3. Although dapagliflozin did not affect beta cells directly, it affected alpha cells (457 upregulated and 235 downregulated genes). Ppargc1α, a coactivator participating in oxidative phosphorylation, was identified as a potential target. By using overexpression and knockdown, we confirmed that Ppargc1α participated in SGLT2i-induced regulation of alpha-cell phenotype conversion.Alpha-cell regression to progenitors and progenitor differentiation toward beta cells represent a novel pathway for beta-cell neogenesis induced by SGLT2i in diabetes, with Ppargc1α playing a role in this process.Copyright © 2026 The Chinese Medical Association, produced by Wolters Kluwer, Inc. under the CC-BY-NC-ND license.
This study aimed to identify key ferroptosis-related genes associated with intervertebral disc degeneration(IDD) through bioinformatics and machine learning algorithms, predict potential TCM, and conduct experimental validation. IDD datasets(GSE124272 and GSE150408) were obtained from the GEO database, while ferroptosis-related genes were retrieved from the FerrDb and GeneCards databases. Data preprocessing was performed using R. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis(WGCNA) was employed to identify differentially expressed genes(DEGs), which were intersected with ferroptosis-related genes to construct a protein-protein interaction(PPI) network. Gene Ontology(GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) enrichment analyses were subsequently conducted. Three machine learning algorithms, i.e., LASSO regression, support vector machine-recursive feature elimination(SVM-RFE), and random forest, were applied to screen feature genes and construct prediction models. Potential TCM was predicted through the Coremine Medical database and validated through molecular docking. For experimental validation, mouse nucleus pulposus cells were divided into a normal control group, an erastin(1 μmol·L~(-1))-induced model group, and an icariin(10 μmol·L~(-1)) intervention group. Cell viability, oxidative stress indicators [reactive oxygen species(ROS), lipid peroxides(LPO), reduced glutathione(GSH), oxidized glutathione(GSSG), and malondialdehyde(MDA)], and mitochondrial function were assessed. Immunofluorescence staining was used to detect the levels of aggrecan and type Ⅱ collagen(collagen Ⅱ), and Western blot was performed to evaluate the expression of key proteins, including glutathione peroxidase 4(GPX4), signal transducer and activator of transcription 3(STAT3), and acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 1(ACSL1). The results identified 14 ferroptosis-related DEGs associated with IDD. GO analysis revealed enrichment in biological processes such as interleukin(IL)-8 and IL-17 regulation, radial glial cell differentiation, vascular endothelial growth factor regulation, and inflammatory responses; cellular components related to lysosomes; and molecular functions involving protein kinase binding. KEGG pathway analysis showed significant enrichment in the human cytomegalovirus infection pathway. Machine learning algorithms identified four key genes, including perilipin 4(PLIN4), STAT3, lysine demethylase 6B(KDM6B), and ACSL1, with the constructed diagnostic model achieving an area under the curve(AUC) of 0.890. Potential TCM, including Epimedii Folium, Tripterygii Radix, and Cuscutae Semen, were predicted, among which icariin showed high binding affinity to ACSL1 and STAT3. Experimental validation demonstrated that compared with the normal control group, the model group showed significantly decreased cell viability, elevated levels of ROS, LPO, GSSG, and MDA, and increased expression of STAT3 and ACSL1 proteins, along with impaired mitochondrial membrane potential and activity. In contrast, levels of GSH, aggrecan, collagen Ⅱ, and GPX4 protein expression were markedly reduced. Compared with the model group, icariin intervention significantly improved the oxidative stress status of the cells, reduced levels of ROS, LPO, GSSG, MDA, and expression of STAT3 and ACSL1 proteins, improved mitochondrial membrane potential and activity, and increased levels of GSH, aggrecan, collagen Ⅱ, and GPX4 protein expression. In conclusion, the diagnostic model based on PLIN4, STAT3, KDM6B, and ACSL1 provides a new strategy for the early diagnosis and treatment of IDD. Icariin may influence IDD progression by modulating ferroptosis-related genes and holds potential therapeutic value.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41429360 is a review article
The abnormal function of histone lysine demethylase 6B (KDM6B) is closely associated with the development and progression of various human diseases, including cancer, inflammatory disorders, and psychiatric conditions, supporting KDM6B as a significant therapeutic target. However, the development of potent and selective KDM6B inhibitors remains a critical unmet need. Based on the hit compound (A01) discovered by enzyme-level screening, a series of derivatives with quinazoline scaffold were designed, synthesized and identified as KDM6B inhibitors. Among these, compound 13k exhibited optimal potency (IC50 = 1.8 μM) with superior selectivity over other JMJD subfamily members. Furthermore, 13k upregulates histone methylation levels in THP-1 cells, highlighting its functional effect in a cellular context. This study provides a promising scaffold for developing selective KDM6B inhibitors, as well as delivers a tool compound for probing the biological functions of KDM6B. These findings offer a potential lead for future KDM6B-targeted drug discovery.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Enteroendocrine cells (EECs) are rare sensory cells in the intestinal epithelium that coordinate digestive physiology by secreting a diverse repertoire of peptide hormones. These hormones are the main effectors of EEC function, and their characterization requires direct observation by mass spectrometry due to the specialized protein cleavage and posttranslational modifications that yield their mature forms. Based on the distinct subset of hormones they predominantly secrete, EECs can be categorized into subtypes. How each EEC subtype is specified, however, remains poorly understood. Here, we describe EEC subtype differentiation and hormone production in the zebrafish. Using single-cell RNA sequencing data, we identified EEC progenitors and six EEC subtypes in zebrafish and revealed that their expression profiles are consistent across larval and adult stages. Mass spectrometry analysis of isolated zebrafish EECs identified highly processed peptides derived from 19 of 23 hormone-coding genes expressed by EECs, including a previously undescribed zebrafish secretin ortholog. We assembled reporters for zebrafish EEC subtypes to test the lineage relationships between EEC subtypes and the EEC progenitor population, which expresses neurogenin 3 (neurog3). Despite its essential role in mammalian EEC differentiation, we found that selective cytotoxic ablation of neurog3+ cells in zebrafish only reduced a subset of EEC subtypes and loss of the neurog3 gene had no impact on EEC numbers. Finally, we discovered that selective ablation of ghrelin+ EECs reduced a different subset of EEC subtypes, together suggesting that neurog3+ and ghrelin+ cells serve as distinct precursors for separate EEC subtypes. We anticipate these observations and resources will facilitate future studies in the zebrafish to discern the developmental biology, physiology, and endocrinology of EEC subtypes.Copyright: © 2025 Morash et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Treatment-emergent neuroendocrine prostate cancer (t-NEPC) arises following androgen deprivation therapy, leading to androgen-independent growth. Although multiple factors have been shown to be necessary for neuroendocrine differentiation (NED), their sufficiency has not been demonstrated. The prostate and colorectum share a common hindgut origin, and prostate neuroendocrine cell markers overlap with colorectal enteroendocrine cell (EEC) markers. Analysis of patient datasets revealed NEUROG3 amplification in both castration-resistant and neuroendocrine prostate cancers, correlating with poor survival. Because Neurogenin-3 (NEUROG3) is necessary and sufficient for EEC differentiation in the colorectum, we hypothesized that it could similarly drive NED in prostate cancer cells. A transient pulse of NEUROG3 repressed luminal identity and activated neuroendocrine programs, producing neuroendocrine cells within seven days. In summary, our findings identify NEUROG3 as a potential mediator of prostate cancer progression and establish a rapid in vitro model in which its transient activation is sufficient to initiate neuroendocrine differentiation.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42567942
To evaluate and compare the effects of topical Maresin-1 (MaR1) and cyclosporine A (CsA) in a capsaicin-induced rat model of neurotrophic keratopathy (NK).A total of 40 Sprague-Dawley rats were allocated to five groups (n = 8 per group): Control, NK, NK+Vehicle, NK+CsA (0.05%), and NK+MaR1. Except for the Control group, all animals received a single subcutaneous injection of capsaicin (50 mg/kg) on postnatal day 2. Topical treatments were applied twice daily for 14 days. Corneal TrkA, TNF-α, and Caspase-3 expression were assessed by immunohistochemistry and Western blot.Both treatment groups significantly restored TrkA expression and reduced TNF-α and Caspase-3 relative to NK+Vehicle (p < 0.05 for all). CsA produced greater suppression of TNF-α than MaR1 (p < 0.001), whereas MaR1 demonstrated greater reduction in Caspase-3 than CsA (p = 0.013), with no significant difference between groups for TrkA (p = 0.054).Both MaR1 and CsA significantly attenuated the neurotrophic, inflammatory, and apoptotic changes associated with experimental NK. The distinct efficacy profiles of the two agents suggest complementary mechanisms of action and warrant further investigation of MaR1 in neurotrophic keratopathy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Ischemic stroke (IS) reperfusion induces neuronal damage through excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS) and neuroinflammation. Baicalin (Bai) shows antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects but suffers from poor solubility and bioavailability. MOF-818, a zirconium-based framework with superoxide dismutase-and catalase-mimicking activity, efficiently scavenges ROS but lacks pharmacological versatility. Combining Bai with MOF-818 may offer multitarget neuroprotection in IS. To investigate the therapeutic efficacy and mechanisms of Bai-loaded MOF-818 (Bai@MOF-818) in IS. In vitro oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R) models using PC-12 cells and BV-2 microglia were employed to assess ROS scavenging, mitochondrial protection, apoptosis, and microglial polarization.In vivo, Bai@MOF-818 was stereotactically delivered into the ischemic core of rats subjected to transient middle cerebral artery occlusion. Neurological function, infarct volume, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and microglial polarization were evaluated. Bai@MOF-818 markedly scavenged ROS, restored mitochondrial membrane potential, and promoted M1-to-M2 microglial polarization via NF-κB inhibition and PPARγ activation. This led to reduced TNF-α/IL-6 and increased IL-10/Arg-1, alleviating neuroinflammation. Furthermore, Bai@MOF-818 inhibited neuronal apoptosis by suppressing Bax and cleaved caspase-3 while elevating the Bcl-2/Bax ratio. Histological analyses revealed preserved tissue integrity, 5 enhanced neuronal survival, reduced infarct size and edema, and improved motor and sensory recovery. Bai@MOF-818 exerts synergistic antioxidant and anti-inflammatory actions, attenuates neuronal apoptosis, and enhances neurological recovery, representing a promising multitarget therapeutic for cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury.NA.
This study investigates the potential mechanisms through which the Rhubarb-Peach Kernel herb pair may exert effects in gastric cancer (GC) using network pharmacology and molecular docking approaches. Active compounds and their corresponding targets were retrieved from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology Database and Analysis Platform (TCMSP), with additional compound-target information obtained from DrugBank. Gastric cancer-related targets were collected from GeneCards, Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM), the Therapeutic Target Database, and DrugBank. The overlapping targets were used to construct a compound-target-disease network and a protein-protein interaction network. Gene ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analyses were subsequently performed. Nine candidate compounds were docked against 8 core targets to assess their predicted structural interactions. A total of 27 active compounds were identified, among which β-sitosterol, aloe-emodin, and hederagenin were identified as major candidate compounds. Tumor protein p53, caspase 3, and JUN were among the principal network targets. Enrichment analysis indicated that the overlapping targets were mainly associated with the p53 signaling pathway and other pathways involved in cancer-related processes, including apoptosis, cell survival, and inflammatory regulation. Molecular docking revealed differences in predicted binding scores among the 9 candidate compounds and 8 core targets, with several compound-target pairs showing comparatively lower docking energies. This in silico study suggests that the Rhubarb-Peach Kernel herb pair may act through multiple compounds, targets, and biological pathways relevant to GC. However, the identified targets are not necessarily specific to GC, and the molecular docking findings represent computational predictions rather than evidence of actual biological binding. These results should therefore be considered preliminary and hypothesis-generating, and further in vitro and in vivo studies are required to evaluate their biological and therapeutic relevance.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Maternal obesity and viral infection induce placental inflammation, but how their co-exposure influence fetoplacental development remains unclear. We hypothesised that maternal high fat (HF) diet and viral infection would independently induce placental inflammation and lipid peroxidation, reduce antioxidant defence, and cellular turnover. Further, HF diet would compromise placental capacity to adapt to infection.Female C57BL/6J mice were fed a control (CON) or 62% HF diet six weeks before and throughout pregnancy and injected with poly(I:C) (viral mimic) or vehicle (VEH) 24 h before sacrifice at gestational days (GD) 12.5, 15.5, and 18.5 (n = 5-8/group/GD). Placental inflammasome (NLRP3), oxidative stress (4-HNE), antioxidant defence (GPx-4), and cellular proliferation-to-death ratio (Ki-67, Caspase-3) were assessed by immunohistochemistry, and mRNA expression of Tlr3, Irf3, Tlr4, Tirap, and Il-1β were measured by qPCR. Data were analysed by linear mixed models (p ≤ 0.05).At GD12.5, infection was associated with increased Tlr3 mRNA and immunoreactive (ir)-4-HNE, and reduced ir-GPx-4 expression in the placental labyrinth zone (LZ). By GD15.5, HF diet was associated with increased ir-NLRP3 in both LZ and junctional zones (JZ). Exposure to infection alone and co-exposure to HF diet and infection further increased LZ ir-NLRP3. At GD18.5, HF diet was associated with increased Tirap and Il-1β mRNA expression, ir-4-HNE in the JZ and ir-Caspase-3 in the LZ.Maternal HF diet and infection exert distinct effects on the placenta across gestation, suggesting that maternal overnutrition might reduce the placenta's capacity to handle adverse exposures, which may increase susceptibility to poor fetal outcomes.© 2026 The Author(s). American Journal of Reproductive Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Black goji berry (Lycium ruthenicum Murr.) has been recognized for its immune-regulating and anti-cancer potentials, but its key active components and underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we applied LC-MS/MS to characterize the metabolite profile of L. ruthenicum and performed in vitro assays to evaluate its anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer activities. A total of 149 metabolites were identified, with organic acids, carbohydrates, and amino acid derivatives as the dominant components. Isorhamnetin was identified as a representative flavonoid. In LPS-stimulated Calu3 cells, isorhamnetin reduced the secretion and mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, TNF-alpha, IL-1beta). In cancer cells, isorhamnetin induces ROS accumulation, DNA damage, mitochondrial dysfunction, and caspase-3-dependent apoptosis, with modulation of the AKT signaling pathway. These findings suggest that isorhamnetin may contribute to the anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer effects of L. ruthenicum observed in vitro, providing preliminary experimental evidence for its potential as a functional food ingredient. However, this study is limited by the use of a single cell line (Calu3) and the absence of in vivo validation and pharmacokinetic evaluation; further studies are needed to confirm these observations.Copyright © 2026 Jiang, Ma, Li, Li, Zhang and Li.
This experimental rat study aims to investigate the preventive role of melatonin in potential neurodegenerative changes associated with periodontitis in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex.Twenty-four Sprague Dawley rats were divided into three groups: Control (n = 8), Ep (n = 8), Ep + Mel (n = 8). Systemic melatonin (10 mg/kg/day) was administered to the Ep + Mel group for 35 days of periodontitis induction, starting from the application of bilateral lower first molar ligation. Following sacrification of all groups, periodontal bone loss was analyzed in Micro-CT sections (sagittal and coronal). Cerebral cortex and hippocampus tissues and serum samples were analyzed histopathologically, immunohistochemically, and biochemically.Micro-CT results showed that the experimental periodontitis model was successful. When Ep + Mel and Ep were compared, a significant difference was observed in terms of histopathological damage, Caspase-3, GFAP, and Iba-1 immunopositivity (p < 0.05). Systemic melatonin administration was found to significantly reduce tissue and serum levels of IL-1β, IL-1β/IL-10, and Aβ1-42 (p < 0.05). Additionally, serum TNF-α and tissue TOS and OSI levels were significantly reduced in the melatonin group (p < 0.05). Tissue TAS and serum IL-10 showed no significant change (p > 0.05).This study demonstrated that systemic melatonin may limit periodontal tissue destruction and periodontitis-associated neuroinflammatory, neurooxidative, and neuroapoptotic changes in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Sertoli cells contribute to the formation of the blood-testis barrier (BTB), which is necessary for normal spermatogenesis. Recently, microRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as posttranscriptional regulatory elements in BTB function during spermatogenesis. Our previous study has shown that miR-181c or miR-181d (miR-181c/d) is highly expressed in testes from boars at 60 days old compared with at 180 days old. Herein, we found that overexpression of miR-181c/d via miR-181c/d mimics in murine Sertoli cells (SCs) or through injecting miR-181c/d-overexpressing lentivirus in murine testes perturbs BTB function by altering BTB-associated protein distribution at the Sertoli cell-cell interface and F-actin organization, but this in vivo perturbation disappears approximately 6 weeks after the final treatment. We also found that miR-181c/d represses Sertoli cell proliferation and promotes its apoptosis. Moreover, miR-181c/d regulates Sertoli cell survival and barrier function by targeting platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase 1b regulatory subunit 1 (Pafah1b1) gene. Furthermore, miR-181c/d suppresses PAFAH1B1 expression, reduces the complex of PAFAH1B1 with IQ motif-containing GTPase activating protein 1, and inhibits CDC42/PAK1/LIMK1/Cofilin pathway which is required for F-actin stabilization. In total, our results reveal the regulatory axis of miR-181c/d-Pafah1b1 in cell survival and barrier function of Sertoli cells and provide additional insights into miRNA functions in mammalian spermatogenesis.© 2022. The Author(s).
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), the biggest family of signaling receptors, account for 34 % of all the drug targets approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). It has been gradually recognized that GPCRs are of significance for tumorigenesis, but in-depth studies are still required to explore specific mechanisms. In this study, the role of GPCRs in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) was elucidated, and GPCR-related genes were employed for building a risk-score model for the prognosis and treatment efficacy prediction of HCC patients.Patients' data on HCC were sourced from the Liver Hepatocellular Carcinoma-Japan (LIRI-JP) and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) databases, while GPCR-related genes were obtained from the Molecular Signatures Database (MSigDB). Univariant and multivariant Cox regression analyses, as well as least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) were performed with the aim of identifying differentially expressed GPCR-related genes and grouping patients. Differential expression and functional enrichment analyses were performed; protein-protein interaction (PPI) mechanisms were explored; hub genes and micro ribonucleic acid (miRNA)-target gene regulatory networks were constructed. The tumor immune dysfunction and exclusion (TIDE) algorithm was utilized to evaluate immune infiltration levels and genetic variations. Sensitivity to immunotherapy and common antitumor drugs was predicted via the database Genomics of Drug Sensitivity in Cancer (GDSC).A GPCR-related risk score containing eight GPCR-related genes (atypical chemokine receptor 3 (ACKR3), C-C chemokine receptor type 3 (CCR3), CCR7, frizzled homolog 5 (FZD5), metabotropic glutamate receptor 8 (GRM8), hydroxycarboxylic acid receptor 1 (HCAR1), 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 5A (HTR5A) and nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptor family pyrin domain containing 6 (NLRP6)) was set up. In addition, patients were classified into groups with high and low risks. Patients in the high-risk group exhibited a worse prognosis but demonstrated a more favorable immunotherapy response rate compared with those in the low-risk group. Distinct sensitivity to chemotherapeutic drugs was observed. A clinical prediction model on the basis of GPCR-related risk scores was constructed. Areas under the curves (AUC) corresponding to one-, three- and five-year survival were 0.731, 0.765 and 0.731, respectively.In this study, an efficient HCC prognostic prediction model was constructed by only GPCR-related genes, which are all potential targets for HCC treatment.© 2024 The Authors.
5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 5A (5-HT5A) belongs to the 5-HT receptor family and signals through the Gi/o protein. It is involved in nervous system regulation and an attractive target for the treatment of psychosis, depression, schizophrenia, and neuropathic pain. 5-HT5A is the only Gi/o-coupled 5-HT receptor subtype lacking a high-resolution structure, which hampers the mechanistic understanding of ligand binding and Gi/o coupling for 5-HT5A. Here we report a cryo-electron microscopy structure of the 5-HT5A-Gi complex bound to 5-Carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT). Combined with functional analysis, this structure reveals the 5-CT recognition mechanism and identifies the receptor residue at 6.55 as a determinant of the 5-CT selectivity for Gi/o-coupled 5-HT receptors. In addition, 5-HT5A shows an overall conserved Gi protein coupling mode compared with other Gi/o-coupled 5-HT receptors. These findings provide comprehensive insights into the ligand binding and G protein coupling of Gi/o-coupled 5-HT receptors and offer a template for the design of 5-HT5A-selective drugs.© 2022. The Author(s).
Lowland-type Racka is an indigenous sheep breed that beside Hungarian Grey cattle and Mangalitza pig is one of the national symbols of Hungary. However, the genetic description of Racka sheep has not yet been conducted based on whole-genome screening. By using the Geneseek Ovine SNP50 BeadChip, we have sampled the genome of 126 Black and 128 White Racka sheep. For comparative purposes, we used 134 Hungarian Merinos and further 3345 animals from 81 different breeds have been included from an available database. Performance of a multidimensional scaling plot showed that White and Black Rackas represent well-separated groups among other sheep breeds and clustered separately from each other. However, the number and total length of Runs of Homozygosity was similar to other sheep breeds, except Soay. The inbreeding coefficients (method-of-moments relatedness F coefficient) of Black and White Racka were 0.147 and 0.133, respectively. Based on multidimensional scaling and admixture analyses and on comparisons of genetic distances of the investigated 84 populations, we suggest considering the colour variants of Racka as genetically differentiated breeds. The most differentiated markers between Black and White Racka highlight several candidate genes including 5-Hydroxytryptamine Receptor 5A, Insulin Induced Gene 1, Cyclin Dependent Kinase 5 and Melanocortin 1 Receptor. The results of this study help the recognition of Racka as a unique genetic resource among sheep and pave the way of application of genome screens to guide the resolution of questions arising among breeders.Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Evidence has shown that constant light or constant darkness significantly impairs cognitive functions and affects the mood state. The present study investigated the effect of circadian rhythm disturbances (circadian rhythm disruptions, CRDs) on locomotor activity, rearing behavior, pain threshold, novel object recognition memory, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3β) expression levels in the hippocampus of both sexes of rats. CRD was done using a combination of constant light (48 h) and constant darkness (48 h) periods for 8 (short-term), 16 (midterm), or 24 (long-term) days. The results showed CRD in all protocols increased locomotor activity in males, whereas in females, only long-term CRD increased it. Long-term CRD increased rearing only in females, whereas in males, only midterm CRD decreased rearing. Short- and midterm CRD in males decreased pain threshold, whereas in females, only midterm CRD decreased pain threshold. Novel object recognition memory was impaired in both sexes following all protocols of CRD. All protocols of CRD in females downregulated BDNF, whereas in males, short-term CRD had no effect. GSK-3β was increased following long-term CRD in both sexes. Spearman correlation test showed that BDNF function may be associated with changes in some behavioral functions in both sexes; however, GSK-3β function may be associated with some behavioral changes only in females. In conclusion, we showed sex differences in the effect of CRD on locomotor activity, rearing behavior, and pain threshold. Also, GSK-3β may show a sex-dependent role in the modulation of behavioral changes induced by CRD.Copyright © 2026 Zeinab Dalil-Housh et al. Behavioural Neurology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Background/Objectives: Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains one of the leading causes of cancer-related morbidity and mortality worldwide. Despite advances in treatment, outcomes for advanced CRC remain unsatisfactory due to uncontrolled proliferation, metastasis, and recurrence. This study investigated the anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342, an indolin-2-one-based multi-protein kinase inhibitor with previously reported anti-inflammatory properties, in human colorectal cancer models. Methods: The anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342 were evaluated in colorectal cancer cells and further investigated in three-dimensional (3D) spheroid and patient-derived organoid models. Cell proliferation, migration, apoptosis, and cell cycle progression were assessed. Kinase activity profiling and molecular docking analyses were performed to identify potential targets and characterize the underlying signaling pathways. Results: KMU-11342 significantly inhibited the proliferation and migration of CRC cells. It reduced CRC cell density by 58.9% and 83.3% at 0.5 and 1 μM, respectively. These effects were accompanied by G2/M cell cycle arrest and apoptotic cell death. In 3D models, spheroid formation was markedly reduced and stemness-related characteristics were diminished. Patient-derived CRC organoids also showed decreased viability, exhibiting 38.6% and 77.4% reductions at 1 and 2 μM, respectively. These effects were observed in a dose-dependent manner in both two-dimensional (2D) and 3D colorectal cancer models. Kinase activity profiling and molecular docking analyses identified glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) and cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1) as potential mediators of the anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342 through the p53/nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) and FoxO1 signaling axes, respectively. Conclusions: KMU-11342 exhibits potent anti-tumor activity against CRC through suppressing proliferation, migration, and stemness in both 2D and 3D models, including patient-derived organoids. Its effects may be mediated, at least in part, through modulation of GSK3β and CDK1 via the p53/NF-κB and FoxO1 signaling pathways.
Granulosa cells (GCs) are integral to the process of follicular development in poultry, with their differentiation and hormone synthesis being critical for follicle selection. While glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) is recognized as a significant regulator of energy metabolism, differentiation, and autophagy, its specific function within GCs remains unclear. Elucidating the role of GSK3β in GCs is essential for deciphering the mechanisms governing follicle selection. Our in vitro studies in GCs from prehierarchical follicles demonstrated that overexpression of GSK3β inhibited both differentiation and proliferation, while simultaneously promoting steroid hormone synthesis. Conversely, GSK3β knockdown yielded the opposite effects. Transcriptomic analyses, supplemented by further validation, revealed that overexpression of GSK3β initiated autophagy and lipid metabolism but impeded autophagic flux, as evidenced by increased LC3-II levels and elevated p62 accumulation. Furthermore, GSK3β overexpression resulted in enhanced intracellular lipid droplet accumulation. These effects, along with the observed rise in progesterone levels and reduction in FSHR levels, were attenuated by co-treatment with rapamycin (Rapa). Mechanistically, our findings suggest that the impairment of autophagic flux induced by GSK3β triggers lipid accumulation, leading to elevated mitochondrial damage and lipid peroxidation, which in turn negatively affects GC differentiation. In conclusion, GSK3β disrupts follicular GC function by initiating autophagy while blocking its flux. This disruption induces excessive lipid accumulation, ultimately inhibiting GC differentiation. This study provides novel insights into the role of GSK3β in poultry follicular development and offers a new theoretical framework for understanding the mechanisms of follicle selection.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Preventing or reversing Tau hyperphosphorylation and aggregation represent critical objectives in the development of effective therapies for Alzheimer's disease. The present study investigated the potential of a novel Aronia bioactive fraction-alginic acid nanocomplex (AANCP)-to simultaneously inhibit pathological features of Alzheimer's disease. Evaluations of Aronia bioactive fraction (ABF) and low-molecular-weight alginic acid (LAA), utilized both individually and as AANCP, were conducted in HEK293-TauP301L and SH-SY5Y-TauP301L cell models of Alzheimer's disease. Both ABF and LAA reduced the expression of total Tau and Tau phosphorylated at Ser396 in a concentration-dependent manner, with AANCP demonstrating significant synergistic activity of its components. Notably, the optimal AANCP ratio was 1:1 and 1:8 for inhibiting Tau phosphorylation and Tau aggregation, respectively. Mechanistically, AANCP inhibited Tau phosphorylation by upregulating p-Akt (phosphorylated protein kinase B) and p-GSK-3β (phosphorylated glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta), while also enhancing the activity of methylated PP2A, a key Tau phosphatase. Furthermore, AANCP exhibited superior efficacy in inhibiting heparin-induced Tau aggregation compared to the individual components. Analysis of autophagy markers indicated that the nanocomplex enhanced Tau clearance, as shown by increased LC3-II and Beclin-1 levels and reduced p62 levels. These results suggest AANCP as a promising therapeutic candidate that simultaneously reduces Tau phosphorylation and aggregation and facilitates autophagic Tau clearance, offering a potent, synergistic strategy for treating Alzheimer's disease.
Age-related neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), are characterized by the accumulation of pathological Tau protein (tauopathy), which drives neurotoxicity and cognitive decline. Although SUMOylation significantly influences tauopathy, the underlying mechanisms remain largely elusive. Here, utilizing a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay to monitor Tau-Tau aggregation and screen for SUMO E3 ligases, we identified PIAS1 as a critical driver of Tau pathology. Genetic analysis of the UK Biobank cohort revealed that single nucleotide polymorphisms in the PIAS1 gene (rs8036154 and rs112677781) are significantly associated with a reduced risk of AD. Consistent with this clinical relevance, PIAS1 expression is upregulated in postmortem AD brains, aging PS19 tauopathy mice, aged wild-type mice, aged lemurs, and neurons stimulated with amyloid-beta or lipopolysaccharide. Viral-mediated modulation of PIAS1 in vivo demonstrated that PIAS1 promotes Tau hyperphosphorylation and aggregation, thereby exacerbating synaptic dysfunction and cognitive deficits. Mechanistically, we found that PIAS1 directly interacts with and mediates the SUMOylation of glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) at lysine residues 183 and 271. This specific SUMOylation reduces inhibitory phosphorylation at Ser9, consequently enhancing GSK3β-mediated Tau kinase activity. Importantly, we engineered a cell-permeable blocking peptide designed to disrupt the PIAS1-GSK3β interaction. Administration of this peptide effectively suppressed GSK3β activation and mitigated tauopathy and neurodegeneration in both in vitro and in vivo models. Together, our findings uncover a novel PIAS1-GSK3β signaling axis in tauopathy and provide a promising targeted therapeutic strategy for Alzheimer's disease.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Sepsis is frequently accompanied by central nervous system involvement, leading to sepsis-associated encephalopathy characterized by neuroinflammation, microvascular dysfunction, and neuronal injury. Despite increasing recognition of its clinical impact, effective neuroprotective strategies remain limited. Modafinil (MOD), a wakefulness-promoting agent, has recently attracted attention for its anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and neuroprotective properties in experimental models. Experimental sepsis was induced by intraperitoneal administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in adult female Wistar rats. Animals were randomly assigned to four groups: control, LPS, LPS plus MOD, and MOD alone. Cerebral tissue was harvested six hours after LPS administration. Caspase-3 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) expressions were assessed by immunohistochemistry. Oxidative stress was evaluated by measuring total oxidant status (TOS), total antioxidant status (TAS), and the oxidative stress index (OSI) in cerebral tissue homogenates. Gene expression levels of AKT1, glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3B), sirtuin 1 (SIRT1), and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) were analyzed by quantitative PCR. LPS administration produced significant increases in Caspase-3 and TNF-α immunoreactivity in both cerebral cortex and cerebellum. At the oxidative stress level, LPS significantly elevated TOS and OSI while reducing TAS, indicating a pronounced shift toward pro-oxidant conditions. At the molecular level, LPS significantly increased GSK3B expression while reducing HO-1 expression. MOD treatment significantly reduced Caspase-3 and TNF-α immunoreactivity in both regions, restored the oxidative balance as evidenced by significantly attenuated TOS and OSI levels, and significantly suppressed GSK3B upregulation, whereas its effect on HO-1, AKT1, and SIRT1 expression did not reach statistical significance. MOD mitigates sepsis-induced cerebral and cerebellar injury by attenuating neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis. The accompanying decrease in GSK3B expression suggests that GSK3β-related signaling may contribute to these effects, although this relationship is associative rather than causal. MOD may therefore warrant further evaluation as a neuroprotective agent in sepsis-related CNS injury.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42417900 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42386156 is a review article
To investigate the anti-fibrotic effects of Isofraxidin (IF) on liver fibrosis and its underlying mechanisms.C57BL/6J mice (bred by The Jackson Laboratory) were induced with liver fibrosis using CCl4 and treated with different doses of IF (20 mg/kg and 40 mg/kg) via gavage. Colchicine served as the positive control. Liver fibrosis markers (α-smooth muscle actin,α-SMA; Fibronectin, FN; Collagen type I, Col-I) were assessed by histological staining, immunohistochemistry, and western blotting. Network pharmacology and molecular docking were adopted to conjecture underlying targets and signaling pathways of IF, followed by experimental validation.IF at various doses improved liver function and exhibited dose-dependent anti-fibrotic effects. Network pharmacology identified Protein kinase Kinase B (PKB, Akt), Proto-oncogene tyrosine-protein kinase (Src), Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), Heat Shock Protein 90 Alpha Family Class A Member 1 (HSP90AA1), Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3 beta (GSK3β), and Monoamine Oxidase B (MAOB) as the core targets. Molecular docking showed good binding affinity between IF and these targets. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses indicated that the Nuclear Factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) signaling pathway is a major pathway involved in IF's anti-fibrotic effects. Experimental validation confirmed that IF inhibited the expression of inflammatory factors (Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha, TNF-α; Interleukin-1 beta, IL-1β; Interleukin-10, IL-10) and the phosphorylation of NF-κB and Inhibitor of Nuclear Factor Kappa B Alpha (IκBα).IF effectively alleviated CCl4-induced liver fibrosis in mice by modulating key targets (AkT, Src, EGFR, HSP90AA1, GSK3B, and MAOB) and the NF-κB signaling pathway.©The Author(s) 2026. Open Access. This article is licensed under a Creative Commons CC-BY International License.
Flavone derivatives of natural products are often synthesized to enhance their structural specificity, target selectivity, and bioavailability. The current study aimed to examine the neuroprotective efficacy of flavone derivative in diabetic associated neurodegenerations through systematic assessments of in-silico and in-vivo. The synthesized flavone (2-phenyl-4H-chromen-4-one) was characterized by NMR spectroscopy and FTIR. The in-vivo assessments were performed by following the serum biochemistry of homeostatic model assessment (HOMA), antioxidant and histopathology of cortex and hippocampus. The in-silico assessment of molecular docking showed -6.6 Kcal/mol with dipeptidyl peptidase-4 enzyme (DPP4), -7.8 with acetylcholinesterase (AChE), and -9.5 with butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE). The diabetic neurodegeneration model was induced by the chemical induction method and treated with the test compound at a dose of 40 mg/kg in comparison to sitagliptin. The treatment of the test compound showed significant alterations in the cortex and hippocampus region with mitigated neuronal injuries which endorsed by expressions targeted genes including glucose transporter 3 (GLUT-3), glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK-3β), microtubule associated protein (MAP)-Tau, and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ). Furthermore, the lipid profile and oxidative stress were ameliorated significantly by the course of treatment. In conclusion, the synthesized flavone has significant capability to promote neuroprotective effects in diabetes associated neurodegeneration through mitigating oxidative stress and modulating the expression of the targeted genes, thereby alleviating neuronal injuries.© 2026 The Author(s). Ibrain published by Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi Medical University (AHZMU) and Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Alternative splicing plays a crucial role in the development and progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), yet the underlying regulatory mechanisms and therapeutic potential remain largely unexplored. Here, we identified the RNA-binding protein FMR1 autosomal homolog 1 (FXR1) as a key driver of HCC pathogenesis through the regulation of alternative splicing. FXR1 was highly expressed in HCC tissues, and its elevated expression was associated with a poor prognosis. Mechanistically, high FXR1 induced the retention of exon 6 in mitogen-activated protein kinase-activated protein kinase 5 (MK5), generating a long, kinase-competent isoform (termed MK5-L). This isoform acted as an important oncogenic factor for HCC progression by phosphorylating GSK3β and subsequently activating the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. Functional studies showed that the FXR1/MK5-L axis is critical for HCC cell proliferation and metastasis, both in vivo and in vitro. Importantly, therapeutic intervention using an FXR1-targeting antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) effectively suppresses tumor progression and metastasis in preclinical models by shifting splicing toward the inactive MK5-S isoform. Overall, our study unveils a novel splicing-mediated oncogenic pathway and establishes FXR1 and its downstream target MK5-L as promising prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets for HCC.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Thalidomide (THA) is renowned for its potent anti-inflammatory properties. This study aimed to elucidate its underlying mechanisms in the context of Crohn's disease (CD) development. Mouse colitis models were established by dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) treatment. Fecal microbiota and metabolites were analyzed by metagenomic sequencing and mass spectrometry, respectively. Antibiotic-treated mice served as models for microbiota depletion and transplantation. The expression of forkhead box P3+ (FOXP3+) regulatory T cells (Tregs) was measured by flow cytometry and immunohistochemical assay in colitis model and patient cohort. THA inhibited colitis in DSS-treated mice by altering the gut microbiota profile, with an increased abundance of probiotics Bacteroides fragilis, while pathogenic bacteria were depleted. In addition, THA increased beneficial metabolites bile acids and significantly restored gut barrier function. Transcriptomic profiling revealed that THA inhibited interleukin-17 (IL-17), IL-1β and cell cycle signaling. Fecal microbiota transplantation from THA-treated mice to microbiota-depleted mice partly recapitulated the effects of THA. Specifically, increased level of gut commensal B. fragilis was observed, correlated with elevated levels of the microbial metabolite 3alpha-hydroxy-7-oxo-5beta-cholanic acid (7-ketolithocholic acid, 7-KA) following THA treatment. This microbial metabolite may stable FOXP3 expression by targeting the receptor FMR1 autosomal homolog 1 (FXR1) to inhibit autophagy. An interaction between FOXP3 and FXR1 was identified, with binding regions localized to the FOXP3 domain (aa238-335) and the FXR1 domain (aa82-222), respectively. Conclusively, THA modulates the gut microbiota and metabolite profiles towards a more beneficial composition, enhances gut barrier function, promotes the differentiation of FOXP3+ Tregs and curbs pro-inflammatory pathways.© 2024 The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 39155323 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 38238286 is a review article
Exploring the potential lead compounds for Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains one of the challenging tasks. Here, we report that the plant extract conophylline (CNP) impeded amyloidogenesis by preferentially inhibiting BACE1 translation via the 5' untranslated region (5'UTR) and rescued cognitive decline in an animal model of APP/PS1 mice. ADP-ribosylation factor-like protein 6-interacting protein 1 (ARL6IP1) was then found to mediate the effect of CNP on BACE1 translation, amyloidogenesis, glial activation, and cognitive function. Through analysis of the 5'UTR-targetd RNA-binding proteins by RNA pulldown combined with LC-MS/MS, we found that FMR1 autosomal homolog 1 (FXR1) interacted with ARL6IP1 and mediated CNP-induced reduction of BACE1 by regulating the 5'UTR activity. Without altering the protein levels of ARL6IP1 and FXR1, CNP treatment promoted ARL6IP1 interaction with FXR1 and inhibited FXR1 binding to the 5'UTR both in vitro and in vivo. Collectively, CNP exhibited a therapeutic potential for AD via ARL6IP1. Through pharmacological manipulation, we uncovered a dynamic interaction between FXR1 and the 5'UTR in translational control of BACE1, adding to the understanding of the pathophysiology of AD.
The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) is a proteolytic pathway that is essential for life maintenance and vital functions, and its disruption causes serious impairments, e.g., disease development. Thus, the UPS is properly regulated. Here we show novel UPS-related factors: the fragile X mental retardation 1 (FMR1) and Fmr1 autosomal homolog 1 (FXR1) proteins and discs large MAGUK scaffold protein 4 (Dlg4) mRNA, which are associated with Fragile X syndrome, are involved in UPS activity. Fmr1-, Fxr1- and Dlg4-knockdown and Fmr1- and Fxr1-knockdown resulted in increased ubiquitination and proteasome activity, respectively. FXR1 protein was further confirmed to be associated with proteasomes, and Dlg4 mRNA itself was found to be involved in the UPS. Knockdown of these genes also affected neurite outgrowth. These findings provide new insights into the regulatory mechanism of the UPS and into the interpretation of the pathogenesis of diseases in which these genes are involved as UPS-related factors.© 2023. The Author(s).
Triphenyl phosphate (TPhP) is a commonly used organophosphorus flame retardant, and its potential health risks to mothers and infants are considerable. Our previous research revealed that gestational TPhP exposure significantly reduces the depth of placental implantation and impairs uterine spiral arteries remodelling, leading to preeclampsia (PE)-like symptoms, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. In this study, we further demonstrate that TPhP activated the transcription of Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) by activating peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma (PPARγ). This activation subsequently inhibits the PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling pathway, modulates autophagy homeostasis, and inhibits the migration and invasion of extravillous trophoblast (EVT) cells. Notably, knockdown of PTEN or PPARγ with shRNA, or inhibition of autophagy with chloroquine (CQ) alleviates the TPhP-induced inhibition of EVT cells migration or invasion. Furthermore, using an established murine intrauterine exposure model, we confirmed that TPhP activates PPARγ, increases PTEN expression in placental trophoblast, inhibits the PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling pathway and disturbs autophagy homeostasis. Collectively, these findings elucidate that TPhP inhibits EVT cells migration and invasion via the PPARγ-PTEN-PI3K-AKT-mTOR mediated autophagy pathway, providing a new toxicity pathway in placental toxicology. Additionally, this study provides new insights into the etiological research of PE.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Synthetic oxytocin (Pitocin) is the most commonly used pharmacologic agent for induction and augmentation of labor. Beyond its uterotonic effects, oxytocin plays a critical role in neurodevelopment and social behavior. Dysregulated oxytocin signaling has been implicated in autism spectrum disorder (ASD), raising concern that perinatal exposure to exogenous oxytocin may have lasting neurodevelopmental consequences. This study aimed to determine whether offspring harboring a genetic predisposition for ASD are differentially impacted by perinatal oxytocin exposures, with a focus on long-term oxytocin signaling and autism-like behavior. Pregnant mice carrying offspring with heterozygous mutations in phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome ten (Pten), a well-established monogenic risk factor for ASD, received continuous oxytocin versus phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) control via micro-osmotic pumps during late gestation. Wild-type (WT) offspring exposed to each treatment served as a secondary control. Adult offspring were assessed for oxytocin receptor (Oxtr) methylation in the frontal cortex and hippocampus, oxytocin expression in the hypothalamus, serum oxytocin levels, and were subject to a battery of social and anxiety-related behavior tests. Perinatal oxytocin exposure produced genotype-dependent effects in offspring. Epigenetic analyses revealed bidirectional remodeling of Oxtr methylation in the frontal cortex and hippocampus, with increased exon 1 methylation in WT mice and decreased methylation in Pten-mutant mice, resulting in significant genotype-treatment interactions. Hypothalamic oxytocin expression increased following treatment regardless of genotype, though baseline levels were higher in Pten-mutant mice. Neither oxytocin treatment nor genotype impacted long-term serum oxytocin levels. Behavioral outcomes were modest but context-specific: repetitive behaviors and cognition performance were unchanged, but oxytocin-treated Pten-mutant mice exhibited increased anxiety-like behavior alongside improved social memory. In contrast, oxytocin-treated WT mice showed reduced social novelty preference. Exploratory analyses suggested potential sex-dependent trends. Our findings support a model in which genetic susceptibility shapes the epigenetic encoding of early-life hormonal signals, thereby recalibrating oxytocin system function and downstream behavioral outcomes. Together, these data highlight the context-dependent effects of perinatal oxytocin exposure and argue against uniformly beneficial or detrimental effects, emphasizing the importance of gene-environment interactions in neurodevelopmental trajectories.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) is a key tumor suppressor gene that negatively regulates the PI3K/AKT pathway. PTEN deficiency is the most frequent molecular alteration in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC); however, the relationship between PTEN protein loss and underlying genomic alterations remains incompletely understood.Fifty TNBC cases were evaluated for PTEN protein expression by immunohistochemistry on tissue microarrays. PTEN hotspot mutations (Exons 1, 5, 7, and 9) were analyzed using Sanger sequencing, whereas copy number alterations were assessed by multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) assay. PTEN alterations were correlated with clinicopathological characteristics. External validation of PTEN mRNA and protein expression and prognostic significance was performed using publicly available TCGA/CPTAC datasets and Kaplan-Meier plotter.PTEN protein loss was observed in 41/50 TNBC cases (82%), indicating that PTEN deficiency is a frequent event in this subtype. PTEN mutations were detected in six cases (12%) and were confined exclusively to Exon 5, comprising one missense mutation (c.277C>A) and two truncating mutations (c.430del and c.433del). MLPA identified PTEN copy number alterations in four cases (8%), including heterozygous deletions and duplications. No significant association was observed between PTEN protein expression and genomic alterations, highlighting a substantial genotype-phenotype discordance. Analysis of independent public datasets confirmed significantly reduced PTEN mRNA and protein expression in TNBC compared with luminal and HER2-positive breast cancers. Patients with low PTEN expression showed a trend toward shorter overall survival (23.5 vs. 38.9 months), though the difference did not reach statistical significance.PTEN protein loss is highly prevalent in TNBC but is only partially explained by mutations and copy number alterations, suggesting that additional regulatory mechanisms, such as epigenetic or posttranscriptional events, contribute to PTEN inactivation. These findings underscore the biological importance of PTEN deficiency in TNBC and support further investigation of PTEN as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Sandeep Kumar et al. International Journal of Breast Cancer published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury induces cardiomyocyte apoptosis, oxidative stress and elevated myocardial injury markers. This study aimed to investigate whether the microRNA-548a-5p (miR-548a-5p)/phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN) axis mediates the cardioprotection conferred by isoflurane (ISO). An in vitro hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) injury model was established using H9c2 cardiomyocytes, including control, H/R and ISO pretreatment groups. We detected miR-548a-5p and PTEN expression by RT-qPCR, and evaluated cell viability, apoptosis, myocardial injury markers including creatine kinase-MB (CK-MB), cardiac troponin I (cTnI), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and reactive oxygen species (ROS) using CCK-8, flow cytometry, ELISA and DCFH-DA staining. Dual-luciferase reporter assay validated the direct binding between miR-548a-5p and PTEN. H/R downregulated miR-548a-5p and upregulated PTEN, accompanied by decreased cell viability, increased apoptosis, myocardial injury and oxidative stress. 1.0% ISO pretreatment reversed these adverse alterations, restored miR-548a-5p and suppressed PTEN expression. miR-548a-5p inhibition attenuated ISO-elicited cardioprotection, whereas PTEN silencing restored the cardioprotective capacity compromised by miR-548a-5p inhibition. In conclusion, ISO exerts cardioprotective effects via the miR-548a-5p/PTEN signaling axis, offering a potential therapeutic target for I/R injury.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Biochemical and Molecular Toxicology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Elevated phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) expression is observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain, yet the precise mechanism through which PTEN contributes to AD progression remains undefined. This study provides the direct evidence that PTEN promotes neurodegeneration by driving neuronal ferroptosis. Using APP/PS1 transgenic mice with hippocampal-specific PTEN knockdown mediated by adeno-associated virus (AAV), we demonstrated that downregulation of PTEN substantially ameliorates cognitive dysfunction and neuronal loss. Mechanistically, PTEN silencing upregulated glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), inhibiting lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis. We identified a dual-signaling framework through which PTEN regulates GPX4 expression. PTEN reduction activates the PI3K/AKT axis, which drives GSK3β phosphorylation and facilitates nuclear translocation of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2). Concurrently, PTEN knockdown induces phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3). Both Nrf2 and STAT3 act as transcriptional activators of GPX4, establishing two convergent axes: PTEN/AKT/GSK3β/Nrf2/GPX4 and PTEN/AKT/STAT3/GPX4. These pathways cooperatively upregulate GPX4 expression, thereby attenuating lipid peroxidation and inhibiting ferroptosis. Importantly, PTEN knockdown restored redox homeostasis by bolstering cellular antioxidant defenses. Our findings reveal a novel PTEN-regulated ferroptotic pathway in AD pathogenesis and highlight PTEN as a promising therapeutic target for AD.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
This study aimed to develop a three-dimensional (3D) collagen type I hydrogel scaffold for modeling spinal neuron culture under high-glucose conditions, thereby simulating environments such as diabetic neuropathy and maternal diabetes. Hydrogels were fabricated using rat tail collagen type I. Porosity was assessed via scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and viscoelastic properties were evaluated using amplitude sweep testing with a rheometer. Rat embryonic spinal neurons were cultured in 2D and 3D hydrogel models. Neuronal morphology was assessed using Sholl analysis. Cell viability and cytotoxicity under glucose stress were evaluated using the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay and live/dead imaging. Curcumin was delivered via β-cyclodextrin metal-organic frameworks (β-CD-MOFs). Phosphatase and Tensin Homolog (PTEN) gene expression was analyzed by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) analysis revealed an average pore size of 57.96 μm. The hydrogel's elastic modulus ranged from 138.56 to 178.25 Pa, with tan δ values between 0.124 and 0.180, indicating a predominantly elastic nature. Viability assays confirmed hydrogel biocompatibility. Neurons cultured in 3D exhibited significantly greater neurite outgrowth and branching complexity. High-glucose exposure caused dose-dependent reductions in cell viability. Treatment with 6.8 μM curcumin via β-CD-MOFs improved viability in both 2D and 3D models. Glucose exposure significantly upregulated PTEN expression, which was attenuated by curcumin treatment. The developed collagen type I hydrogel scaffold provides suitable porosity, mechanical compliance, and biocompatibility for 3D spinal neuron culture. It serves as a robust platform for investigating neuronal responses to hyperglycemia and potential therapeutic agents such as curcumin.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Lipoic acid is an essential cofactor for mitochondrial multienzyme complexes involved in central metabolism. In humans, mutations in the lipoyl transferase LIPT2 impair mitochondrial protein lipoylation and cause severe metabolic disease. Here, we investigated the Drosophila homolog, lipT2, in vivo. lipT2 mutants exhibited locomotor defects and shortened lifespan, accompanied by markedly reduced lipoylation of pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) and 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase (OGDH). Loss of lipT2 impaired glucose oxidation and disrupted tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle activity, leading to reduced mitochondrial energy production. Metabolomic analysis revealed altered amino acid homeostasis, including a marked reduction in aspartate, a key TCA cycle-derived metabolite. These findings demonstrate that defective lipoylation disrupts central metabolic processes and energy homeostasis.© 2026 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Colonic ganglioneuromas in children are rare, particularly without associated hereditary syndromes like multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN2B), neurofibromatosis type 1(NF1), or Phosphatase and tensin homolog hamartoma tumor syndrome (PHTS). We report a 12-year-old male with a history of juvenile polyposis syndrome (JPS) and segmental colonic resection for high distal disease burden. During surveillance colonoscopy, a solitary ascending colon polyp was retrieved and found to be a ganglioneuroma. Genetic testing showed gl-9 family hypoxia inducible factor 1 and succinate dehydrogenase complex flavoprotein subunit A variants in the patient and MutL homolog 3 and MutS homolog 3 variants in both the patient and his mother. All genes discovered were classified as variants of uncertain significance. There was no genetic or clinical evidence of MEN2B, NF1, or PHTS. This case highlights that JPS is a heterogenous disorder and may involve increased risk of developing unique polyp subtypes which are not typically associated with that condition. Current JPS recommendations suggest that surveillance colonoscopy may be performed every 3 years which may be insufficient in situations involving novel mutations or unknown JPS genetics.© 2026 The Author(s). JPGN Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The European Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition and the North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition.
Phosphatase and tensin homolog-induced kinase 1 (PINK1) is a serine/threonine kinase that plays a key role in mitophagy initiation. Loss-of-function autosomal recessive mutations in PINK1 cause early onset Parkinson's disease (EOPD). Current approaches for studying PINK1 function depend on bulk techniques that can only provide snapshots of activity and could miss the dynamics and cell-to-cell heterogeneity of PINK1 activity or provide an indirect readout of PINK1 activity. Here, we present a protocol using our newly developed phase separation-based PINK1 biosensor (PINK1-SPARK) to observe real-time activity of endogenous PINK1 in single cells. Following transfection of live cells with PINK1-SPARK, cells are treated with mitochondrial depolarizing agents and visualized using widefield or confocal fluorescence microscopy, either following the same cells over time for time-lapse imaging of PINK1 activity or end-point measurements. Thus, PINK1-SPARK is a new tool that enables the measurement of PINK1 activity in single live cells, allowing for further elucidation of the role of PINK1 in mitophagy and cell function. Key features • Detailed protocol for use of PINK1-SPARK, a new PINK1 biosensor introduced in Vineall et al. [1]. • PINK1-SPARK, based on phase separation, has a high signal-to-noise, enabling robust detection of PINK1 activity in multiple cell types under multiple activating conditions. • Enables measurement of real-time endogenous PINK1 activation at the single-cell level.©Copyright : © 2026 The Authors; This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC license.
Medulloblastoma (MB) is the most common malignant pediatric brain tumor. The non-WNT/non-SHH subtypes (Groups 3 and 4) exhibit high genetic heterogeneity and limited therapeutic options. Kinesin family member 14 (KIF14) is selectively expressed during nervous system development. However, its role in non-WNT/non-SHH MB remains poorly understood. In this study, analysis of the GEO database revealed that high KIF14 expression correlates with poor prognosis in patients with non-WNT/non-SHH MB. Silencing KIF14 in MB cells impaired cytokinesis, leading to p53-mediated cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Mechanistically, KIF14 knockdown disrupted the nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of the p53-binding protein 53BP1, resulting in its nuclear accumulation. This shift inhibited homologous recombination (HR)-mediated repair of DNA double-stranded breaks (DSBs), thereby enhancing cisplatin-induced DNA damage. In vitro experiments and intracranial orthotopic xenograft models confirmed that KIF14 silencing potentiates the antitumor efficacy of cisplatin treatment. Overall, these findings highlight the critical role of KIF14 in promoting cell proliferation and DNA repair in non-WNT/non-SHH MB and suggest that targeting KIF14 may represent a novel therapeutic strategy to enhance the efficacy of DNA-damaging agents in this challenging MB subtype.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lymphoma is one of the most common neoplastic diseases in dogs, and T-cell lymphoma in particular has frequently been reported to show limited sensitivity to conventional chemotherapy from the onset of treatment when compared with B-cell lymphoma. Owing to its high-grade and aggressive clinical behavior, there is a strong need to explore novel therapeutic approaches for canine T-cell lymphoma, including strategies targeting aberrant gene regulation. In this study, we focused on the epigenetic enzyme enhancer of zeste 2 polycomb repressive complex 2 subunit (EZH2) and investigated its functional role in canine T-cell lymphoma. The EZH2 gene was ectopically introduced into canine T-cell lymphoma cell lines using a lentiviral vector system, and colony-forming ability, and apoptosis rate were evaluated. EZH2 overexpression significantly enhanced colony-forming capacity, suppressed apoptosis, and increased the number of viable cells compared with control cells. These findings indicate that elevated EZH2 expression confers a survival advantage to canine T-cell lymphoma cells. The present study provides novel evidence that overexpression of EZH2 itself promotes tumor cell survival and aggressiveness. Our results suggest that EZH2 may play a functional role in the maintenance and progression of at least a subset of canine T-cell lymphoma and may represent a potential driver of tumor malignancy. These findings contribute to a deeper understanding of lymphomagenesis and support the potential of EZH2 as a therapeutic target in canine T-cell lymphoma.Copyright © 2026 Kawamura, Ishikawa-Shinohara, Okamura, Kohno, Gonzalez-Astudillo, Wakabayashi, Aikawa, Kitabayashi, Mizuno, Gotoh, Michishita and Machida.
The pregnane X receptor (PXR) is a nuclear receptor that regulates the expression of drug-metabolizing enzymes in response to various chemicals. Ligand binding to PXR induces a conformational alteration of the C-terminal coactivator-binding motif activation function 2 (AF2), leading to the recruitment of coactivators. The contribution of each coactivator to PXR-mediated transcription may vary depending on the ligand. Therefore, identifying ligand-dependent differences in coactivator recruitment is important for understanding the biological functions of PXR. In this study, we investigated the ligand-dependent recruitment of coactivators using a PXR mutant containing a three-alanine insertion immediately upstream of AF2 (PXR-3A). Mammalian two-hybrid assays showed that PXR-3A recruited coactivators in a ligand-dependent manner. Treatment with the PXR ligand SR12813 induced the interaction of PXR-3A with coactivator peptides. Using reporter assays with the PXR-binding motifs from CYP3A4, CYP2C19, and CYP2C9 promoters, we evaluated the influences of coactivator overexpression on ligand-dependent reporter activity. In assays with the CYP3A4 promoter, rifampicin, rifaximin, or SR12813 induced reporter activity, and overexpression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ coactivator-1α (PGC1α) or nuclear receptor coactivator 1 (NCoA1) enhanced rifaximin- and SR12813-dependent transactivation. In assays using the CYP2C19 promoter, rifampicin and rifaximin induced reporter activity, whereas SR12813 did not. PGC1α enhanced rifaximin- or SR12813-induced transcription, whereas NCoA1, NCoA2, and activating signal cointegrator-2 (ASC2) did not exhibit clear ligand-dependent effects. NCoA3 knockdown in HepaRG cells attenuated SR12813-dependent induction of CYP2C19. Taken together, using the PXR-3A mutant, we demonstrated ligand-dependent recruitment of coactivators by PXR.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42200036 is a review article
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive breast cancer subtype with limited targeted treatment options. Ferroptosis has emerged as a potential therapeutic vulnerability in TNBC, but its upstream regulation remains incompletely defined. Here, we combined bioinformatics analysis with cell-based experiments to investigate the role of kinesin family member 14 (KIF14) in ferroptosis sensitivity. KIF14 was upregulated in TNBC datasets and associated with poor prognosis. In MDA-MB-468 cells, KIF14 knockdown reduced cell viability, increased malondialdehyde and intracellular Fe2+ levels, and induced mitochondrial changes consistent with ferroptosis. These effects were partially reversed by ferrostatin-1. Comparison with inhibitors of apoptosis, necroptosis, and pyroptosis showed that only ferrostatin-1 produced a clear rescue effect, supporting a predominantly ferroptosis-associated phenotype. Mechanistically, KIF14 depletion reduced phosphorylation of AKT serine/threonine kinase (AKT) and altered ferroptosis-related proteins, including decreased glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) and increased acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4 (ACSL4). The AKT activator SC79 partially reversed these biochemical and phenotypic changes. Reciprocal co-immunoprecipitation further supported an association between endogenous KIF14 and AKT. In addition, KIF14 knockdown had minimal effects on the viability of normal MCF-10A cells. Together, these findings support a functional link between KIF14, AKT signaling, and ferroptosis sensitivity in TNBC.© 2026 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.
Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma (OSCC) is one of the most occurred cancer types with yearly 377,713 cases and 177,000 deaths. Traditional risk factors of OSCC include smoking, alcohol consumption, excessive sun exposure, family history of cancer, and human papillomavirus (HPV). Last few years, the prevalence of OSCC is growing big in numbers particularly among younger people for their lifestyle. From the Gene Expression Omnibus, 2 gene-expression profiles (GSE23558 and GSE146483) were identified based on some conditions. The GEO2R tool was used to analyze those datasets to extract all the genes. Statistical cut-off criteria were applied to find out DEGs from both datasets, and after that common DEGs were identified by comparing both datasets. Common DEGs were used to perform bioinformatics analysis such as gene ontology and pathway analysis, protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction, and generating Transcription factor - miRNA network. 265 common DEGs were identified from the datasets including 69 up-regulated and 196 down-regulated DEGs. Using the STRING database and a strong combine score > 0.70, a PPI network is generated including 92 nodes and 226 interactions. Using 3 different hub DEGs seeking algorithm, we identified 9 top hub DEGs. The hub genes are Kinesin Family Member 23 (KIF23), Aurora Kinase A (AURKA), Centromere Protein F (CENPF), Cell Division Cycle 20 (CDC20), Discs Large Associated Protein 5 (DLGAP5), Centrosomal Protein 55 (CEP55), Anillin Actin Binding Protein (ANLN), Non-SMC Condensin I Complex Subunit G (NCAPG), and Kinesin Family Member 14 (KIF14). 3 significant clusters also identified from the PPI network. Previous study shows KIF23 takes part in raising Cell Proliferation in Hepatocellular carcinoma cells and AURKA shows notable overexpression in cancer tissues, which indicates that KIF23 and AURKA showed promising character to become possible biomarkers for OSCC. Further analysis needed to justify the statement.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Vascular restenosis is a common complication following vascular interventions, driven by abnormal proliferation and phenotypic switching of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). Ferroptosis, an iron-dependent regulated cell death, has been implicated in VSMC dysfunction and vascular remodeling. However, the epitranscriptomic regulation of ferroptosis in VSMCs remains unclear.This study investigates the role of Wilms tumor suppressor gene WT1-associated protein (WTAP), a key N6-methyladenosine (m6A) RNA methylation regulator, in controlling ferroptosis of VSMCs during vascular restenosis.A balloon injury rat model and platelet-derived growth factor-BB-stimulated VSMCs were used to mimic vascular restenosis. WTAP expression and global m6A levels were assessed. Functional assays evaluated the effects of WTAP overexpression on ferroptosis markers, reactive oxygen species (ROS), lipid peroxidation, and VSMC proliferation. Mechanistic studies explored WTAP-mediated m6A modification of the long non-coding RNA growth arrest specific 5 (GAS5), its interaction with enhancer of zeste 2 polycomb repressive complex 2 subunit (EZH2), and downstream regulation of interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) and ferritin heavy chain 1 (FTH1).WTAP expression and global m6A levels were significantly reduced in restenotic tissues and cells. WTAP overexpression restored m6A modification on GAS5, enhancing its stability via YTH domain family member 1. GAS5 inhibited EZH2-mediated H3K27me3 repression of IRF4, which transcriptionally activated FTH1, suppressing ferroptosis. WTAP overexpression decreased ROS, lipid peroxidation, and VSMC proliferation, while knockdown of GAS5 or IRF4 partially reversed these effects.Our study is the first to identify that the WTAP/GAS5/IRF4 axis suppresses PDGF-BB-induced cell proliferation by inhibiting ferroptosis in VSMCs, and alleviates vascular restenosis caused by balloon injury.WTAP epitranscriptomically regulates VSMC ferroptosis via the GAS5/EZH2/IRF4/FTH1 axis, revealing a novel mechanism in vascular restenosis pathogenesis and a potential therapeutic target. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 44, 726-747.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41680284 is a review article
Maternal thyroid hormones (triiodothyronine T3 and thyroxine T4) are important regulators of embryonic development and gene expression. In chickens, prenatal thyroid hormone treatment has been shown to influence embryonic gene expression and postnatal treatment to influence imprinting and learning. However, the potential long-term effects of maternal thyroid hormones on physiology and behaviour are unclear. This study aims to investigate the long-term effects of maternal thyroid hormones on behaviour, plasma thyroid hormone levels and brain gene expression using the Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica) as a model. Egg hormone levels were elevated by injecting unincubated eggs with either saline (control), T3, T4 or a mixture of T3 and T4. Social motivation, boldness and fearfulness to predators were tested shortly after hatching and as adults. Plasma thyroid hormone levels and pallial expression of thyroid hormone receptor A, type 2 deiodinase, and nuclear receptor coactivator 1 were measured in adulthood. We found no evidence that elevated thyroid hormone levels in eggs affected behaviour, plasma hormone levels, or gene expression in Japanese quails. This is the first study examining the potential long-term effects of elevated maternal thyroid hormones within the natural range. Although we found no evidence of long-term effects, other traits may still be affected and remain to be studied.©2026 Aho et al.
Neuroblastoma (NB) with metastasis to bone marrow (BM) usually results in dismal survival. The mechanisms underlying BM metastasis remain largely unclear. In this study, single-cell transcriptome of NB with and without BM metastasis were analyzed, and 146 marker genes of NB cells were identified. Using two-sample Mendelian randomization, N-cadherin (CDH2) and tubulin α 1A (TUBA1A) were identified as key genes possibly affecting BM metastasis. Functional investigations suggest that CDH2 regulates cell cycle and DNA replication, whereas TUBA1A impacts cell adhesion molecules and the cAMP signaling pathway. Dysregulated expression of CDH2 or TUBA1A also alters the immune microenvironment by immune cells and chemokines. Subsequent experiments validated that both CDH2 and TUBA1A were up-regulated in NB cell lines and high-risk patient samples, compared with low-risk cases. Knockdown of CDH2 or TUBA1A led to cell cycle arrest and significantly inhibited NB cell proliferation and migration. Moreover, an oxidation-reduction cycling agent, 2,3-dimethoxy-1,4-naphthoquinone, was identified as a candidate compound with inhibitory activity on NB cells by diminishing CDH2 or TUBA1A expression levels. Together, these results highlight CDH2 and TUBA1A as novel therapeutic targets for NB with BM metastases. The efficacy of 2,3-dimethoxy-1,4-naphthoquinone in suppressing NB cell growth and CDH2/TUBA1A expression suggests its potential for clinical application.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
With the completion of genome sequencing of the black soldier fly (BSF), an increasing number of researchers are focusing on elucidating its robust digestive and absorptive capabilities through genetic and molecular biology methods to enhance its growth performance. However, most genetic and molecular biology studies require gene expression analysis, and the stability of reference genes may change under different experimental conditions. To identify optimal reference genes, we evaluated 11 candidate reference genes (GAPDH, β-actin, GST, Tubulin α-1A, Tubulin α-4A, Tubulin β, RP49, RPL13, EF1-α, 18S RNA, and 28S RNA) across various developmental stages, tissues, sexes, and 3 distinct genotypes of Hermetia illucens using RefFinder software, which integrates the statistical algorithms geNorm, NormFinder, BestKeeper, and ΔCt. The results recommend that β-Actin, 18S RNA, and RPL13 are suitable for analyzing different developmental stages; RPL13, GST, and RP49 are optimal for different tissues; EF1, RPL13, and GST work best for different sexes; and RPL13, GAPDH, and 18S RNA are ideal for different genotypes. Notably, this study is the first to evaluate the stability of reference genes across 3 BSF genotypes originating from different regions. The findings offer valuable references and fresh insights for molecular biology research on H. illucens.© 2025 Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Breast cancer is a major global health concern as it is the primary cause of cancer death for women. Environmental radiation exposure and endogenous factors such as hormones increase breast cancer risk, and its development and spread depend on cell motility and migration. The expression of genes associated with cell motility, such as ADAM12, CYR61, FLRT2, SLIT2, VNN1, MYLK, MAP1B, and TUBA1A, was analyzed in an experimental breast cancer model induced by radiation and estrogen. The results showed that TUBA1A, SLIT2, MAP1B, MYLK, and ADAM12 gene expression increased in the irradiated Alpha3 cell line but not in the control or the malignant Tumor2 cell line. Bioinformatic analysis indicated that FLERT2, SLIT2, VNN1, MAP1B, MYLK, and TUBA1A gene expressions were found to be higher in normal tissue than in tumor tissue of breast cancer patients. However, ADAM12 and CYR61 expressions were found to be higher in tumors than in normal tissues, and they had a negative correlation with ESR1 gene expression. Concerning ESR2 gene expression, there was a negative correlation with CYR61, but there was a positive correlation with FLRT2, MYLK, MAP1B, and VNN1. Finally, a decreased survival rate was observed in patients exhibiting high expression levels of TUBA1A and MAP1B. These genes also showed a negative ER status, an important parameter for endocrine therapy. The genes related to motility were affected by ionizing radiation, confirming its role in the initiation process of breast carcinogenesis. In conclusion, the relationship between the patient's expression of hormone receptors and genes associated with cell motility presents a novel prospect for exploring therapeutic strategies.
This study aimed to identify the differentially expressed proteins in the vitreous humor (VH) of eyes with and without pathologic myopia (PM), providing insights into the molecular pathogenesis.A cross-sectional, observational study was conducted. VH samples were collected from patients undergoing vitrectomy for idiopathic epiretinal membrane (ERM), macular hole (MH), or myopic retinoschisis (MRS). Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis identified differential protein expression, with validation using ELISA.The proteomic profiling revealed significantly higher expressions of tubulin alpha 1a (TUBA1A) and eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1 alpha 1 (EEF1A1) in PM groups (MH-PM, MRS-PM) compared to controls (MH, ERM). Conversely, xylosyltransferase 1 (XYLT1), versican core protein (VCAN), and testican-2 (SPOCK2) expressions were lower in PM. ELISA validation confirmed these findings.Our study provides novel insights into the molecular mechanisms of PM. The differentially expressed proteins EEF1A1, TUBA1A, XYLT1, VCAN, and SPOCK2 may play crucial roles in chorioretinal cell apoptosis, scleral extracellular matrix (ECM) synthesis, and scleral remodeling in PM. These proteins represent potential new targets for therapeutic intervention in PM, highlighting the importance of further investigations to elucidate their functions and underlying mechanisms in disease pathogenesis.© 2024. The Author(s).
Endothelial dysfunction has been associated with both cerebrovascular pathology and Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the connection between circulating endothelial cells and the risk of AD remains uncertain. The objective was to leverage data from the Framingham Heart Study to investigate various circulating endothelial subtypes and their potential correlations with the risk of AD.The study conducted data analyses using Cox proportional hazard regression and linear regression methods. Additionally, genome-wide association study (GWAS) was carried out to further explore the data.Among the eleven distinct circulating endothelial subtypes, only circulating endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) expressing CD34+CD133+ were found to be negatively and dose-dependently associated with reduced AD risk. This association persisted even after adjusting for age, sex, years of education, apolipoprotein E (APOE) ε4 status, and various vascular diseases. Particularly noteworthy was the significant association observed in individuals with hypertension and cerebral microbleeds. Consistently, positive associations were identified between CD34+CD133+ EPCs and specific brain regions, such as higher proportions of circulating CD34+CD133+ cells correlating with increased volumes of white matter and the hippocampus. Additionally, a GWAS study unveiled that CD34+CD133+ cells influenced AD risk specifically in individuals with homozygous genotypes for variants in two stem cell-related genes: kirre like nephrin family adhesion molecule 3 (KIRREL3, rs580382 CC and rs4144611 TT) and exocyst complex component 6B (EXOC6B, rs61619102 CC).The findings suggest that circulating CD34+CD133+ EPCs possess a protective effect and may offer a new therapeutic avenue for AD, especially in individuals with vascular pathology and those carrying specific genotypes of KIRREL3 and EXOC6B genes.
Cystinosis is an autosomal recessive disease caused by mutations in the CTNS gene encoding a protein called cystinosine, which is a lysosomal cystine transporter. Disease-causing mutations lead to accumulation of cystine crystals in the lysosomes, thereby causing dysfunction of vital organs. Determination of the increased leukocyte cystine level is one of the most used methods for diagnosis. However, this method is expensive, difficult to perform, and may yield different results in different laboratories. In this study, a disease model was created with CTNS gene-silenced HK2 cells, which can mimic cystinosis in cell culture, and multiomics methods (ie, proteomics, metabolomics, and fluxomics) were implemented at this cell culture to investigate new biomarkers for the diagnosis. CTNS-silenced cell line exhibited distinct metabolic profiles compared with the control cell line. Pathway analysis highlighted significant alterations in various metabolic pathways, including alanine, aspartate, and glutamate metabolism; glutathione metabolism; aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis; arginine and proline metabolism; beta-alanine metabolism; ascorbate and aldarate metabolism; and histidine metabolism upon CTNS silencing. Fluxomics analysis revealed increased cycle rates of Krebs cycle intermediates such as fumarate, malate, and citrate, accompanied by enhanced activation of inorganic phosphate and ATP production. Furthermore, proteomic analysis unveiled differential expression levels of key proteins involved in crucial cellular processes. Notably, peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase A, translation elongation factor 1-beta (EF-1beta), and 60S acidic ribosomal protein decreased in CTNS-silenced cells. Additionally, levels of P0 and tubulin α-1A chain were reduced, whereas levels of 40S ribosomal protein S8 and Midasin increased. Overall, our study, through the utilization of an in vitro cystinosis model and comprehensive multiomics approach, led to the way toward the identification of potential new biomarkers while offering valuable insights into the pathogenesis of cystinosis.Copyright © 2023 United States & Canadian Academy of Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common, aggressive, and chemorefractory primary brain tumor in adults. Identifying novel drug targets is crucial for GBM treatment. Here, we demonstrate that tubulin alpha 1a (TUBA1A) is significantly upregulated in GBM compared to low-grade gliomas (LGG) and normal tissues. High TUBA1A expression is associated with poor survival in GBM patients. TUBA1A knockdown results in mitotic arrest and reduces tumor growth in mice. TUBA1A interacts with the polo-like kinase 3 (PLK3) in the cytoplasm to inhibit its activation. This interaction licenses activation of the anaphase-promoting complex or cyclosome (APC/C) to ensure proper Foxm1-mediated metaphase-to-anaphase transition and mitotic exit. Overall, our findings demonstrate that targeting TUBA1A attenuates GBM cell growth by suppressing mitotic progression in a PLK3-dependent manner.© 2023 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Chemo-resistance has been identified as a crucial factor contributing to tumor recurrence and a leading cause of worse prognosis in patients with ESCC. Therefore, unravel the critical regulators and effective strategies to overcome drug resistance will have a significant clinical impact on the disease. In our study we found that RNF149 was upregulated in ESCC and high RNF149 expression was associated with poor prognosis with ESCC patients. Functionally, we have demonstrated that overexpression of RNF149 confers CDDP resistance to ESCC; however, inhibition of RNF149 reversed this phenomenon both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, we demonstrated that RNF149 interacts with PH domain and leucine rich repeat protein phosphatase 2 (PHLPP2) and induces E3 ligase-dependent protein degradation of PHLPP2, substantially activating the PI3K/AKT signalling pathway in ESCC. Additionally, we found that inhibition of PI3K/AKT signalling pathway by AKT siRNA or small molecule inhibitor significantly suppressed RNF149-induced CDDP resistance. Importantly, RNF149 locus was also found to be amplified not only in ESCC but also in various human cancer types. Our data suggest that RNF149 might function as an oncogenic gene. Targeting the RNF149/PHLPP2/PI3K/Akt axis may be a promising prognostic factor and valuable therapeutic target for malignant tumours.© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Non-alcoholic liver disease (NAFLD) is a condition caused by excessive fat accumulation in the liver and developed via multiple pathways. miR-27b has been suggested to play crucial roles in the development of NAFLD, assuming via targeting genes involved in lipid catabolism and anabolism. However, other pathways regulated by miR-27b are largely unknown. Here we show that lipid accumulation was induced in miR-27b-transfected human and mouse hepatic cells and that knockdowns of three miR-27b-target genes, β-1,4-galactosyltransferase 3 (B4GALT3), matrix AAA peptidase interacting protein 1 (MAIP1) and PH domain and leucine rich repeat protein phosphatase 2 (PHLPP2), induced lipid accumulation. We also show that B4GALT3 and MAIP1 were direct targets of miR-27b and overexpression of MAIP1 ameliorated miR-27b-induced lipid accumulation. In addition, we show that hepatic Maip1 expression declined in mice fed a high-fat diet, suggesting the involvement of decreased Maip1 expression in the condition of fatty liver. Overall, we identified MAIP1/miR-27b axis as a mediator of hepatic lipid accumulation, a potential therapeutic target for NAFLD.© 2023. The Author(s).
Although the benefits of the consumption of green tea and its components, including catechins and theanine, regarding aging, memory impairment and age-related cognitive decline have been investigated in senescence-accelerated prone mice (SAMP8), studies that simultaneously measured the kinds of proteins that vary in their expression due to the administration of green tea and its extracts were not found. In this study, the effect of dietary and decaffeinated matcha on protein expression in the hippocampus of SAMP 8 was examined comprehensively, mainly using proteomics. Although improvements in memory and the hair appearance of the back coat were limited upon administering the samples, the following regulations were observed in some of the proteins involved in neuron degeneration, Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s diseases, synapse transmission and nerve cell plasticity, antioxidation, glutamate transport and metabolism, GABA (γ-amino butyric acid) formation and transport and excitatory amino acid transporters: proteins downregulated upon sample intake (p < 0.05): brain acid-soluble protein 1, microtubule-associated protein tau, synapsin-2, sodium- and chloride-dependent GABA transporter; proteins that tended to decrease upon sample intake (0.05 < p < 0.10): Parkinson’s disease (autosomal recessive and early-onset) 7 and synapsin-1; proteins upregulated upon sample intake (p > 0.95): glutathione S-transferase Mu 1, tubulin alpha-1A chain, dynamin-2, calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase type II subunit gamma and tyrosine 3-monooxygenase/tyrosine 5-monooxygenase activation protein epsilon polypeptide; proteins that tended to increase upon sample intake (0.95 > p > 0.90): glutathione S-transferase Mu7 and soluble carrier family 1 (glial high-affinity glutamate transporter); proteins that tended to decrease: sodium- and chloride-dependent GABA transporter 3. These results indicate that matcha and decaffeinated matcha could reduce aging and cognitive impairment by regulating the expression of these proteins. Furthermore, these proteins could be used as markers for the evaluation of food and its available components for reducing aging and cognitive impairment.
Mitochondrial damage in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons contributes to the pathogenesis of paclitaxel (PTX)-induced peripheral neuropathic pain (PIPNP). Fibroblast growth factor 13 (FGF13), abundantly expressed in DRG neurons, is crucial for the regulation of somatosensation; however, its role in PIPNP remains unclear. Here, we demonstrated that FGF13 expression is upregulated in DRG neurons of PIPNP model mice. Conditional knockout of Fgf13 in DRG neurons effectively alleviates PTX-induced mitochondrial damage and neuropathic pain. RNA sequencing analysis revealed that mitophagy mediates the regulatory effects of FGF13 in PIPNP. Mechanistically, FGF13 physically interacts with vasohibin 1 (VASH1), regulating the binding of VASH1 to microtubules and promoting microtubule detyrosination. FGF13 ablation disrupts assembly of the FGF13-VASH1-α-tubulin ternary complex, impairing VASH1-mediated microtubule detyrosination and increasing microtubule tyrosination. The resulting accumulation of tyrosinated microtubules facilitates kinesin-3 (KIF1A)-driven lysosomal trafficking, which in turn promotes mitophagy activation and ultimately ameliorates PTX-induced mitochondrial damage and PIPNP. Furthermore, VASH1 overexpression in DRG neurons reversed the alleviating effects of FGF13 deficiency on PTX-induced mitochondrial damage and PIPNP. In summary, our findings demonstrate that FGF13 deficiency alleviates mitochondrial dysfunction and PIPNP by suppressing VASH1-dependent microtubule detyrosination and subsequently activating mitophagy. Targeting FGF13 may be a promising therapeutic strategy for PIPNP.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) induces severe neurological impairment, exacerbated by secondary inflammation and disrupted neural circuitry. Inspired by the spinal cord's electromechanical microenvironment, we developed a biomimetic conductive nerve scaffold via directional freeze-casting of gelatin methacryloyl (GelMA) hydrogel incorporated with N-acetylcysteine-modified silver nanowires (NAC-AgNWs). The scaffold exhibits axially aligned microchannels, tunable mechanical strength, and conductivity akin to native spinal tissue. In a rat model of complete spinal cord transection (2 mm), the scaffold exhibited dual therapeutic effects: (1) early-stage anti-inflammatory modulation (mediated by the synergistic interplay between AgNWs and NAC), and (2) sustained neural reconstruction, evidenced by robust axonal bridging across the lesion, synapse reformation, and significant functional recovery. Integrated transcriptomic analyses revealed the FGF13/Ca2+/CaMK2A/CREB axis as the activated pathway driving neurite outgrowth and neural circuit reconstruction. This biomaterial design establishes a novel therapeutic paradigm for SCI repair, integrating structural guidance, immunomodulation, and activation of pro-regenerative signaling.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41717499 is a review article
The clinical use of doxorubicin (DOX) as a chemotherapeutic agent is limited by its cardiotoxic effects. Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) isoform 13, a distinct type of FGF, has been increasingly recognized as an important regulator of cardiovascular disease. However, its role in doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity remains unknown. Therefore, the objective of this study is to investigate the role and mechanism of FGF13 in doxorubicin-induced cardiac injury. C57BL/6 mice are used to establish Dox-induced cardiotoxicity models. The results reveal that mouse weight, cardiomyocyte cross-sectional area, ejection fraction and fractional shortening are decreased in the DOX group. In contrast, Fgf13 deficiency mitigates doxorubicin-mediated cardiotoxicity, as indicated by increased mouse weight, cardiomyocyte cross-sectional area, ejection fraction and fractional shortening. Mechanistically, the protein expressions of bax and cleaved caspase 3 are elevated in the DOX-treated group, along with decreased JC-1 fluorescence intensity and bcl-2 expression, whereas Fgf13 knockout prevents these alterations. In addition, Parkin, but not p53, interacts with FGF13 and is upregulated in response to Fgf13 deficiency in a mouse model of doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. Overall, Fgf13 knockout attenuates doxorubicin-induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis and mitochondrial damage through the modulation of Parkin, indicating that FGF13 may serve as a promising therapeutic target for DOX-induced cardiotoxicity.
Fibroblast growth factor 13 (FGF13) belongs to the FGF homologous factor subfamily, members of which lack signal peptides. In this study, we demonstrate that FGF13 is significantly downregulated in endothelial cells and macrophages in the lungs of septic patients and septic mice. However, the role of FGF13 in sepsis and the underlying mechanism are largely unknown. By using mice with conditional Fgf13 knockout and FGF13 overexpression, we find that FGF13 accelerates septic lung injury by promoting inflammatory activation of endothelial cells and macrophages. Specifically, FGF13 functions as a scaffold protein in TAK1/MEK/ERK signaling to promote hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1α-regulated aerobic glycolysis in the inflammatory state. Meanwhile, the protective effect of conditional Fgf13 knockout is abolished in HIF-1α-overexpressing mice. In addition, SCH772984 (a selective antagonist of ERK signaling) abolishes the aggravation of inflammation in lungs induced by FGF13 overexpression. Our findings demonstrate that FGF13 promotes inflammatory activation upon septic lung injury through the ERK/aerobic glycolysis axis, thereby accelerating the progression of septic lung injury.© 2026. The Author(s).
Fibroblast growth factor homologous factors (FHFs) bind to the cytoplasmic C-terminus of voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs) and modulate channel function. Variants in FHFs or VGSCs perturbing that bimolecular interaction are associated with arrhythmias. Like some channel auxiliary subunits, FHFs exert additional cellular regulatory roles, but whether these alternative roles affect VGSC regulation is unknown. Using a separation-of-function strategy, we show that a structurally guided, binding-incompetent, mutant fibroblast growth factor 13 (FGF13; the major FHF in mouse heart), confers complete regulation of VGSC steady-state inactivation (SSI), the canonical effect of FHFs. In cardiomyocytes isolated from Fgf13-KO mice, expression of the mutant FGF13 completely restores WT regulation of SSI. FGF13 regulation of SSI derives from effects on local accessible membrane cholesterol, which is unexpectedly polarized and concentrated in cardiomyocytes at the intercalated disc (ID), where most VGSCs localize. Fgf13-KO eliminates the polarized cholesterol distribution and causes loss of VGSCs from the ID. Moreover, we show that the previously described FGF13-dependent stabilization of VGSC currents at elevated temperatures depends on the cholesterol mechanism. These results provide new insights into how FHFs affect VGSCs and alter the canonical model by which channel auxiliary subunits exert influence.
Pain is a serious medical condition with current treatments remaining limited by side effects. The Nav1.7 voltage-gated sodium channel is a crucial determinant of nociceptor excitability and a promising target for nonaddictive analgesics. However, development of blockers has been difficult. In this issue of the JCI, Singh, Bernabucci, and authors identify a strategy for reducing Nav1.7 currents. These findings identify fibroblast growth factor 13 (FGF13), a homologous factor distinct from typical growth factors (also known as FHF2B), which ramps up Nav1.7, nociceptor excitability, and pain. Compound PW164 was identified as a selective FGF13-Nav1.7 attenuator with analgesic activity. These findings highlight the power of targeting intrinsic modulators of Nav1.7 for pain management.
Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is an aggressive neuroendocrine malignancy. Overall survival in SCLC patients remains poor, and there is a lack of treatment options after the failure of first-line therapy. 5'-3' exoribonuclease 2 (XRN2) is associated with tumor progression. However, its mechanism in SCLC remains unclear. In this study, we collected and analyzed the expression data for XRN2 mRNA in SCLC and non-cancer lung tissues, as well as pan-cancer and non-cancer tissues from high-throughput datasets and identified XRN2 expression was significantly correlated with the prognosis of SCLC patients. Gene Ontology analysis indicated that XRN2 may promote tumor cell growth and development through biological processes. XRN2 performed better at distinguishing between the control group and samples of many tumors. Based on the TIMER and ESTIMATE algorithm analyses, this study revealed that XRN2 may act as a stimulator of immune responses in many tumors.Together,XRN2 overexpression may be associated with SCLC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. High XRN2 expression is related to poor prognosis in SCLC and several other cancer types. XRN2 may also stimulate immune responses in many tumors.© 2026 Published by Elsevier B.V.
BACKGROUND: Cervical cancer is one of the most common malignancies in women, and its progression is closely associated with hypoxia and tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) polarization in the tumor microenvironment (TME). The dynamic interaction between cancer cells and TAMs in the hypoxic tumor microenvironment is the key to promoting tumor progression. However, the mechanisms underlying this interaction remain unclear. METHODS: Macrophages were exposed to hypoxia, and next-generation sequencing was performed to analyze differentially expressed genes. TCGA data were used to identify the up-regulated genes that were independently associated with patient survival. Multiplex immunofluorescence was employed to identify semaphorin 6B (SEMA6B)-positive TAMs in human cervical cancers, and the correlation between their infiltration and clinicopathological characteristics were analyzed. TCGA, GEO, and TIMER databases were used to assess correlations between SEMA6B expression and patient survival and immune cell infiltration patterns. The SEMA6B expression in macrophages was knocked down by using siRNAs. Cell proliferation and mobility were evaluated in vitro, and flow cytometry, PCR and Western Blotting were conducted to determine the polarization of macrophages. RESULTS: After exposure to hypoxia, 236 genes were up-regulated in macrophages. Among them, SEMA6B exhibited a significant association with poor survival. In addition, abundant CD206 + SEMA6B + TAMs were associated with poor prognosis in cervical cancer patients. Database analysis revealed that SEMA6B expression was positively correlated with the infiltration of M2 macrophages and Tregs and negatively correlated with the infiltration of CD4 + and CD8 + T cells. In vitro, knocking down SEMA6B in macrophages inhibited macrophage M2 polarization and the migration ability of macrophages. Furthermore, after coculture of macrophages with SEMA6B knockdown and cervical cancer cells, the proliferation, migration and invasion of SiHa and HeLa cells was significantly reduced in vitro. CONCLUSIONS: Knocking down SEMA6B may attenuate the progression of cervical cancer through regulating macrophage M2 polarization. The mechanism of action of SEMA6B on the progression of cervical cancer in vivo still needs further research. Targeting SEMA6B may be a potential immunotherapy approach for treating cervical cancer.
Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and metastasis are the primary causes of mortality in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). 5'-3' exoribonuclease 2 (XRN2) plays an important role in the process of tumor EMT. Thus, this investigation mainly aimed to clarify the precise molecular pathways through which XRN2 contributes to EMT and metastasis in NSCLC.Western blot and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction were first used to assess XRN2 levels in NSCLC cells. Subsequently, short hairpin RNA-XRN2 (Sh-XRN2) and XRN2 overexpression (Ov-XRN2) plasmids were transfected to NSCLC cells. The effects of Sh-XRN2 and Ov-XRN2 on NSCLC cell migration and invasion were evaluated by Transwell assay. Western blot experiments were conducted to assess the effects of Sh-XRN2 and Ov-XRN2 on proteins related to EMT and the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling pathway in H460 cells. Then, Sh-XRN2 and EGFR overexpression (Ov-EGFR) plasmids were transfected to NSCLC cells. Changes in NSCLC cell migration and invasion were measured using a Transwell assay with Sh-XRN2 and Sh-XRN2+Ov-EGFR. Changes in the expression of proteins related to EMT in NSCLC cells were detected by Western blot assays with Sh-XRN2 and Sh-XRN2+Ov-EGFR. Furthermore, a subcutaneous tumor model for NSCLC was established. Immunohistochemical analysis was performed to assess the levels of Cluster of Differentiation 31 (CD31) in lung metastatic lesions. H460 cells transfected with Sh-XRN2, Ov-XRN2 or Sh-XRN2+Ov-EGFR were co-cultured with human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) to assess the tube formation ability of the cells.Compared with those observed in human bronchial epithelial cells (BEAS-2B cells), XRN2 expression levels were significantly upregulated in NSCLC cell lines (H460 cells) (P < 0.001). XRN2 overexpression considerably promoted the NSCLC cell migration and invasion, EMT process, and tube formation ability of HUVECs (P < 0.001). On the contrary, XRN2 knockdown led to a reduction in these processes. In addition, XRN2 overexpression increased the expression levels of CD31 in lung metastatic lesions and activated the phosphorylation of EGFR signaling pathway (P < 0.001). Furthermore, Sh-XRN2+Ov-EGFR significantly promoted migration, invasion, and EMT processes in H460 cells (P < 0.001). In the meantime, compared with the co-H460+Sh-XRN2+Ov-NC group, co-H460+Sh-XRN2+Ov-EGFR significantly enhanced the tube formation ability of HUVECs (P < 0.001).XRN2 promoted EMT and metastasis in NSCLC through improving the phosphorylation of the EGFR signaling pathway in NSCLC cells.© 2024 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
Progressive myoclonus epilepsy (PME) is a rare, clinically and genetically heterogeneous epilepsy syndrome, and pathogenic variants in the semaphorin 6B (SEMA6B) gene have recently been reported to be among the causes of PME. Cases with pathogenic variants in the SEMA6B gene are extremely rare, only a limited number of cases have been reported in the literature. In this systematic review, we aimed to present a summary of a PME case in which a heterozygous nonsense variant of c.2086C > T p.(Gln696*) in the SEMA6B gene was detected in the etiology and other cases with SEMA6B pathogenic variant in the literature. Except for our case, 35 cases from 12 studies were included. The main clinical findings in these patients were cognitive problems, seizures, gait and speech disturbances, and cognitive and/or motor regression, and they had a wide spectrum of severity. Response to antiseizure medications was also highly variable, almost half of the patients had pharmacoresistant seizures. Patients were divided into four different phenotypic groups according to their clinical presentations: PME (18/36), developmental and epileptic encephalopathy (13/36), neurodevelopmental disorder (4/36), and epilepsy (1/36), respectively. In conclusion, although SEMA6B has been associated with PME, it may actually cause a much broader phenotypic spectrum. Due to their extreme rarity, our knowledge of SEMA6B-related disorders is limited. As with all other rare diseases, each new SEMA6B-related disorder case could contribute to a better understanding of the disease. A better understanding of the disease may allow the development of specific treatment options in the future.Thieme. All rights reserved.
Rationale: Patients with hepatitis B virus-related acute-on-chronic liver failure (HBV-ACLF) have a high short-term mortality rate. Semaphorin-6B (SEMA6B) plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of HBV-ACLF, but its molecular basis remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the mechanisms of SEMA6B in HBV-ACLF progression. Methods: A total of 321 subjects with HBV-ACLF, liver cirrhosis (LC), chronic hepatitis B (CHB), and normal controls (NC) from a prospective multicenter cohort were studied. 84 subjects (HBV-ACLF, n = 50; LC, n = 10; CHB, n = 10; NC, n = 14) among them underwent mRNA sequencing using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) to clarify the mechanisms of SEMA6B in HBV-ACLF. These mechanisms were validated through in vitro studies with hepatocytes and macrophages, as well as in vivo using SEMA6B knockout mice and mice treated with synthetic SEMA6B siRNA. Results: Transcriptome analysis of PBMCs showed that SEMA6B was among the most differentially expressed genes when comparing patients with HBV-ACLF to those with LC, CHB, or NC. ROC analysis demonstrated the reliable diagnostic value of SEMA6B for HBV-ACLF in both the sequencing cohort and an external validation cohort (AUROC = 0.9788 and 0.9026, respectively). SEMA6B levels were significantly higher in the HBV-ACLF patients, especially in non-survivors, with high expression mainly observed in macrophages and hepatocytes in liver tissue. Genes significantly associated with highly expressed SEMA6B were enriched in inflammation and apoptosis pathways in HBV-ACLF non-survivors. Overexpression of SEMA6B in macrophages activated systemic inflammatory responses, while its overexpression in hepatocytes inhibited proliferation through G0/G1 cell cycle arrest and induced apoptosis. Knocking out SEMA6B rescued mice with liver failure by improving liver functions, reducing inflammatory responses, and decreasing hepatocyte apoptosis. Transcriptome analysis of liver tissue showed that SEMA6B knockout significantly ameliorated the liver failure signature, significantly downregulating inflammation-related pathways. Importantly, therapeutic delivery of synthetic SEMA6B siRNA also improved liver function, and reduced both inflammation and hepatocyte apoptosis in mice with liver failure. Conclusion: SEMA6B, a potential diagnostic biomarker for HBV-ACLF, exacerbates liver failure through macrophage-mediated systemic inflammation and hepatocyte apoptosis. These findings highlight SEMA6B as a promising early treatment target for HBV-ACLF patients.© The author(s).
A growing number of studies link dysfunction of macroautophagy/autophagy to the pathogenesis of diseases such as Alzheimer disease (AD). Given the global importance of autophagy for homeostasis, how its dysfunction can lead to specific neurological changes is puzzling. To examine this further, we compared the global deactivation of autophagy in the adult mouse using the atg7iKO with the impact of AD-associated pathogenic changes in autophagic processing of synaptic proteins. Isolated forebrain synaptosomes, rather than total homogenates, from atg7iKO mice demonstrated accumulation of synaptic proteins, suggesting that the synapse might be a vulnerable site for protein homeostasis disruption. Moreover, the deactivation of autophagy resulted in impaired cognitive performance over time, whereas gross locomotor skills remained intact. Despite deactivation of autophagy for 6.5 weeks, changes in cognition were in the absence of cell death or synapse loss. In the symptomatic APP PSEN1 double-transgenic mouse model of AD, we found that the impairment in autophagosome maturation coupled with diminished presence of discrete synaptic proteins in autophagosomes isolated from these mice, leading to the accumulation of one of these proteins in the detergent insoluble protein fraction. This protein, SLC17A7/Vglut, also accumulated in atg7iKO mouse synaptosomes. Taken together, we conclude that synaptic autophagy plays a role in maintaining protein homeostasis, and that while decreasing autophagy interrupts normal cognitive function, the preservation of locomotion suggests that not all circuits are affected similarly. Our data suggest that the disruption of autophagic activity in AD may have relevance for the cognitive impairment in this adult-onset neurodegenerative disease. Abbreviations: 2dRAWM: 2-day radial arm water maze; AD: Alzheimer disease; Aβ: amyloid-beta; AIF1/Iba1: allograft inflammatory factor 1; APP: amyloid beta precursor protein; ATG7: autophagy related 7; AV: autophagic vacuole; CCV: cargo capture value; Ctrl: control; DLG4/PSD-95: discs large MAGUK scaffold protein 4; GFAP: glial fibrillary acidic protein; GRIN2B/NMDAR2b: glutamate ionotropic receptor NMDA type subunit 2B; LTD: long-term depression; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; m/o: months-old; PNS: post-nuclear supernatant; PSEN1/PS1: presenilin 1; SHB: sucrose homogenization buffer; SLC32A1/Vgat: solute carrier family 32 member 1; SLC17A7/Vglut1: solute carrier family 17 member 7; SNAP25: synaptosome associated protein 25; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SYN1: synapsin I; SYP: synaptophysin ; SYT1: synaptotagmin 1; Tam: tamoxifen; VAMP2: vesicle associated membrane protein 2; VCL: vinculin; wks: weeks.
Oral squamous cell carcinoma is the most prevalent malignancy in the oral cavity, with a significant mortality rate. In oral squamous cell carcinoma patients, the survival rate could decrease because of delayed diagnosis. Thus, prevention, early diagnosis, and appropriate treatment can effectively increase the survival rate in patients. In this systematic review, we discussed the role of different genes in oral squamous cell carcinoma metastasis. Herein, we aimed to summarize clinical results, regarding the potential genes that promote oral squamous cell carcinoma metastasis.This systematic review was carried out under the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis guidelines. An electronic search for all relevant articles published in English between January 2018 and April 2022 was performed using Scopus, PubMed, and Google Scholar search engines. All original studies published in English were included, and we excluded studies that were in a non-English language.A total of 4682 articles were found, of which 14 were relevant and detected significant genes in oral squamous cell carcinoma progression. These findings investigated the overexpression of interferon-induced proteins with tetratricopeptide repeats 1 and 3 (IFIT1, IFT3), high-mobility group A2 (HMGA2), transformed growth factor-beta-induced, lectin galactoside-binding soluble 3 binding protein (LGALS3BP), bromodomain containing 4, COP9 signaling complex 6, heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins A2B1 (HNRNPA2B1), 5'-3' exoribonuclease 2 (XRN2), cystatin-A (CSTA), fibroblast growth factors 8 (FGF8), forkhead box P3, cadherin-3, also known as P-cadherin and Wnt family member 5A, ubiquitin-specific-processing protease 7, and retinoic acid receptor responder protein 2 genes lead to promote metastasis in oral squamous cell carcinoma. Overexpression of some genes (IFIT1, 3, LGALS3BP, HMGA2, HNRNPA2B1, XRN2, CSTA, and FGF8) was proven to be correlated with poor survival rates in oral squamous cell carcinoma patients.Studies suggest that metastatic genes indicate a poor prognosis for oral squamous cell carcinoma patients. Detecting these metastatic genes in oral squamous cell carcinoma patients may be of predictive value and can also facilitate assessing oral squamous cell carcinoma development and its response to treatment.© 2024 The Authors. Health Science Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
R-loops (RNA-DNA hybrids with displaced single-stranded DNA) have emerged as a potent source of DNA damage and genomic instability. The termination of defective RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) is one of the major sources of R-loop formation. 5'-3'-exoribonuclease 2 (XRN2) promotes genome-wide efficient RNAPII termination, and XRN2-deficient cells exhibit increased DNA damage emanating from elevated R-loops. Recently, we showed that DNA damage instigated by XRN2 depletion in human fibroblast cells resulted in enhanced poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) activity. Additionally, we established a synthetic lethal relationship between XRN2 and PARP1. However, the underlying cellular stress response promoting this synthetic lethality remains elusive. Here, we delineate the molecular consequences leading to the synthetic lethality of XRN2-deficient cancer cells induced by PARP inhibition. We found that XRN2-deficient lung and breast cancer cells display sensitivity to two clinically relevant PARP inhibitors, Rucaparib and Olaparib. At a mechanistic level, PARP inhibition combined with XRN2 deficiency exacerbates R-loop and DNA double-strand break formation in cancer cells. Consistent with our previous findings using several different siRNAs, we also show that XRN2 deficiency in cancer cells hyperactivates PARP1. Furthermore, we observed enhanced replication stress in XRN2-deficient cancer cells treated with PARP inhibitors. Finally, the enhanced stress response instigated by compromised PARP1 catalytic function in XRN2-deficient cells activates caspase-3 to initiate cell death. Collectively, these findings provide mechanistic insights into the sensitivity of XRN2-deficient cancer cells to PARP inhibition and strengthen the underlying translational implications for targeted therapy.
Targeting the colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R) to remove tumour-associated macrophages is being explored as cancer therapy. This strategy may be relevant for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), which strongly depends on support from myeloid cells. However, it is unclear how CSF1R expression affects the CLL microenvironment and leukaemic progression. To examine this question, we created Eμ-TCL1 transgenic mice for CLL with Csf1r haploinsufficiency to investigate changes in myeloid cells, Csf1r expression and leukaemia progression. Csf1r haploinsufficiency reduced Csf1r expression on circulating monocytes, but did not significantly impair its expression in tissue macrophages or change the overall numbers of monocytes or macrophages in blood and lymphoid tissues. Eμ-TCL1 transgenic mice with lower Csf1r levels had less leukaemia during early disease, but this effect faded with disease progression, and their overall survival was similar to controls. Furthermore, in vitro co-culture demonstrates that depletion of CSF1R expression on cell lines did not affect the survival or migration of patient-derived CLL cells. In summary, our results show that while the CSF1R pathway is important for maintaining the myeloid cells that support CLL, simply reducing CSF1R expression has only a limited effect on disease progression. Attempts to target the CSF1R for leukaemic therapy might benefit from a stronger depletion of macrophages or the combination with other agents.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Haematology published by British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42501956 is a review article
Colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor-related adult-onset leukoencephalopathy with axonal spheroids and pigmented glia (CSF1R-ALSP) is a rare, fatal, autosomal-dominant neurodegenerative disorder caused by pathogenic CSF1R variants and characterized by progressive cognitive, neuropsychiatric, and motor dysfunction, white matter lesions on brain imaging, and white matter demyelination, swollen axons, and pigmented glial cells on pathology. Limited data regarding clinical, biofluid or radiological biomarkers of disease severity are available, and no clinical trial endpoints have yet been validated. The objectives of this first-of-its-kind, prospective, observational natural history study were to characterize the clinical trajectory of CSF1R-ALSP and to identify and evaluate key biomarkers and clinical endpoints indicative of disease severity and progression. ILLUMINATE (NCT05020743) was a multicentre, noninterventional natural history study of adults with CSF1R-ALSP and prodromal carriers of CSF1R variants. Participants were followed for up to 36 months, with clinical assessments, fluid biomarkers and volumetric MRI assessments of brain atrophy collected at screening and every 6 months. This study was terminated early (4 June 2025). The analyses reported here include data collected through 19 February 2025. Of 53 participants, 19 were prodromal and 34 were symptomatic (11 of whom had a history of haematopoietic stem cell transplant and 23 who did not). Mean participant age was 47.8 (standard deviation, 4.5) years, and 36.4% were female. Prodromal participants remained relatively stable over 36 months, with little change in neurological function, neurodegeneration biomarkers or radiological disease burden. Impaired neurological function, MRI characteristics of CSF1R-ALSP, and elevated NfL (neurofilament light chain; neurodegeneration biomarker) and GFAP (glial fibrillary acidic protein; astrogliosis biomarker) levels were more pronounced at baseline and often showed progression over time among symptomatic participants who had not previously received haematopoietic stem cell transplant compared with participants who had previously received haematopoietic stem cell transplant. Significant correlations were observed at baseline and longitudinally between MRI measures of brain atrophy and clinical outcome measures. Based on the fluid biomarkers, MRI measures, and clinical outcome assessments evaluated here, active neurodegeneration, widespread changes visualized on brain MRI, and impaired cognitive and motor function were observed in symptomatic patients with CSF1R-ALSP. The neurological impairment can be assessed using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment and Cortical Basal ganglia Functional Scale. Our data suggest that quantification of brain atrophy using MRI volumetry is a potential biomarker of disease severity and progression in CSF1R-ALSP. It is hoped that this report will contribute to the understanding of disease progression in CSF1R-ALSP and inform future drug development.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain.
Colony-stimulating factor-1 receptor (CSF1R) provides essential signals for macrophage and osteoclast proliferation, differentiation, and survival, but the roles of CSF1R+ macrophages and osteoclasts during limb morphogenesis are understudied. Here, we utilized a pharmacological model by feeding the CSF1R inhibitor PLX5622 to pregnant mice across gestation to examine how CSF1R disruption impacts embryonic limb development. CSF1R-expressing cells were significantly depleted in response to PLX5622 exposure, including a complete loss of embryonic osteoclasts and osteoclastic activity in the developing limb bones. Although the gross morphology of limb nerves, muscles, cartilage, and bone appeared intact between embryonic day 11.5 (E11.5) and E15.5, prenatal PLX5622 exposure resulted in a completely penetrant truncated phenotype for all postnatal day 1 (P1) limb bones analyzed, suggesting that CSF1R+ cells play important roles in mediating limb bone formation during late embryogenesis. Interestingly, strain-specific defects were observed in the heel, where most of the CD1 mice presented with absent talus and underdeveloped calcaneus bones, while the C57BL/6 mice presented with milder developmental disruptions in both bones. Taken together, our data demonstrate that PLX5622 effectively depletes CSF1R-expressing macrophages and osteoclasts in embryonic limbs and suggest an essential role for embryonic CSF1R+ cells in driving limb bone morphogenesis.
Doxorubicin is a widely used chemotherapeutic agent, but its clinical application is hindered by severe cardiotoxicity. Among immune cells, Cx3cr1+ macrophages have emerged as key regulators of cardiovascular disease, with their development and maturation tightly controlled by CSF1R (colony stimulating factor 1 receptor). Using multi-omics sequencing, we observed a marked expansion of Cx3cr1+ macrophages in doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy, yet their precise functional role in this pathological process has remained elusive. This study employed various genetically modified mouse models, including cell depletion models, lineage tracing models, and conditional gene knockout models targeting Cx3cr1+ macrophages, alongside transcriptomic sequencing, proteomic profiling, and multi-level in vivo and in vitro experiments to elucidate the role and mechanisms of Cx3cr1+ macrophages and their receptor CSF1R in doxorubicin-induced cardiac injury. We found that Cx3cr1+ macrophages are significantly enriched in hearts affected by doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy, and their depletion notably improves cardiac function. Further investigation revealed that in these macrophages, CSF1R competitively binds to the E3 ubiquitin ligase NEDD4, thereby inhibiting the ubiquitination and degradation of PARP1. This process promotes inflammasome activation and pyroptosis, driving massive IL1B secretion. IL1B directly suppresses cardiomyocyte mitophagy, disrupts energy metabolic homeostasis, and ultimately leads to cardiac dysfunction. Notably, the use of the CSF1R inhibitor PLX3397 or an IL1B-neutralizing antibody effectively halted these pathological processes and significantly improved cardiac function. In summary, this study unveils a novel mechanism through which Cx3cr1+ macrophages regulate cardiomyocyte function via the CSF1R-PARP1-IL1B-mitophagy signaling axis, providing a new theoretical foundation and intervention strategy for doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy targeted therapy.Abbreviations: BMDM: bone marrow-derived macrophages; CKMB: creatine kinase MB isoenzyme; CSF1R: colony stimulating factor 1 receptor; csf1r-cKO: csf1r conditional knockout; DIC: doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy; DOX: doxorubicin; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; HW:TL: heart weight:tibial length; LDH: lactate dehydrogenase; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtuble-associated protein 1 light chain 3; NPPA: natriuretic peptide type A; PI: propidium iodide; PYCARD/ASC: PYD and CARD domain containing; TNNT2/cTnT: troponin T2, cardiac; WGA: wheat germ agglutinin.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42479455 is a review article
Tenosynovial giant cell tumors (TGCT) are rare, locally aggressive neoplasms causing pain, stiffness, swelling, limited range of motion, and joint degeneration, which can be debilitating. Therapeutic options include surgery or systemic therapy with colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF-1R) pathway inhibitors. However, many are not amenable to surgery or have high postsurgical recurrence rates. Available systemic therapies require long-term administration and can have burdensome side effects. Emactuzumab is a novel, potent, CSF-1R inhibiting monoclonal antibody with a unique mechanism of action targeting the receptor dimerization interface of the CSF-1R to reduce tumor-associated macrophages and inflammation within the TGCT microenvironment. It is the only short-course, intravenous therapy in development for TGCT. In a phase I study, emactuzumab resulted in robust and durable responses, and a manageable safety profile in patients with TGCT, supporting further research as a treatment option to address unmet need and improve quality of life in patients with TGCT. TANGENT is a randomized, double-blind, global, phase III study (NCT05417789) to investigate the safety and efficacy of intravenous emactuzumab versus placebo in patients with TGCT not amenable to surgery.Clinical trial registration: www.clinicaltrials.gov identifier is NCT05417789 initially registered on 1 June 2022.
To determine whether serum semaphorin 3 A (Sema3A) and interleukin 6 (IL-6) play a role in the common etiopathogenesis of nAMD and nAMD-associated systemic diseases by evaluating these mediators levels.This prospective case-control study included 74 patients divided into nAMD (n = 33) and a control group (n = 41). Serum Sema3A and IL-6 levels were analyzed using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.The nAMD group had a statistically higher IL-6 level [5,9 (1-16,9) pg/mL], compared to the control group [1,5 (0,38 - 2,96) pg/mL] (p < 0.001). On the other hand, the Sema3A level of the nAMD group was lower at [26,3 (11,5-100) ng/mL] compared to the control group at [44,7 (16,8-100) ng/mL] (p < 0.001). The IL-6 level in the hypertension (+) group [2,5 (0,5-16,9) pg/ml] was significantly higher than that in the hypertension (-) group [1,7 (0,4-15,3) pg/ml] (p < 0.001). No significant difference was found between the hypertension (+) and hypertension (-) groups in terms of SEMA3A level. There was a negative correlation between serum SEMA3A and serum IL-6 levels of the whole participants (p < 0.001, r=-0.471).Decreased levels of the anti-inflammatory and anti-angiogenic mediator Sema3A and increased levels of inflammatory mediator IL-6 detected in nAMD suggest that these molecules may play a role in systemic manifestations of this syndrome, such as inflammation, cardiovascular diseases, atrial fibrillation, and Alzheimer's disease.Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic sleep disruption and cognitive deficits are debilitating long-term consequences of traumatic brain injury (TBI), yet the endogenous mechanisms that drive network-level recovery remain poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that during the chronic phase post-injury, network oscillations critical for memory, including slow oscillations, delta waves, and sleep spindles, undergo precise adaptive tuning that sustains sleep-dependent memory consolidation. This functional circuit resilience requires Semaphorin-3A (Sema3a); loss of Sema3a function prevents the protective reorganization of non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep architecture, impairs sleep-dependent memory consolidation, and exacerbates cortical lesion size. Together, these findings identify Sema3a as an innate protective mechanism that preserves sleep architecture and cognitive function following TBI.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42396644 is a review article
This study aims to investigate the effect of modified Xiangsha Liujunzi Decoction on adipose tissue browning-neuregulin 4(Nrg4)-liver fatty acid synthesis pathway in the rat model of both spleen deficiency and hyperlipidemia. Seventy SPF-grade male SD rats were randomly assigned into blank control(CON), high-fat diet(HFD), spleen deficiency and high-fat diet(SD-HFD), rosuvastatin(RSF), low-, medium-, and high-dose modified Xiangsha Liujunzi Decoction(XS-L, XS-M, and XS-H, respectively) groups, with 10 rats in each group. The rats in the SD-HFD, RSF, XS-L, XS-M, and XS-H groups were modeled for spleen deficiency by an improper diet combined with swimming exhaustion for a total of 15 days. The CON group was fed with a normal diet while the other groups with a high-fat diet for 10 weeks after successful modeling of spleen deficiency. The RSF, XS-L, XS-M, and XS-H groups were administrated with corresponding drugs by gavage for 8 weeks and the other groups were administrated with an equal volume of distilled water. The feeding method of each group was kept unchanged during the period of gavage. Four items of serum lipids were measured by an automatic biochemical analyzer. The pathological changes in the interscapular brown adipose tissue(BAT), abdominal white adipose tissue(WAT), and liver were observed by hematoxylin-eosin(HE) staining. The liver lipid deposition was observed by oil red O staining and the serum Nrg4 level was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA). RT-qPCR was employed to determine the mRNA levels of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma(PPARγ), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma cofactor 1α(PGC1α), uncoupling protein 1(UCP1), and Nrg4 in the adipose tissue and liver X receptor alpha(LXRα), sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1c(SREBP-1c), acetyl-CoA carboxylase(ACC), and stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1(SCD1) in the liver tissue of rats in each group. Western blot was employed to quantify the protein levels of PPARγ, PGC1α, UCP1, and Nrg4 in the adipose tissue and Erb-B2 receptor tyrosine kinase 3(ErbB3), phosphorylated ErbB3(p-ErbB3), Erb-B2 receptor tyrosine kinase 4(ErbB4), phosphorylated ErbB4(p-ErbB4), signal transducer and activator of transcription 5(STAT5), phosphorylated STAT5(p-STAT5), LXRα, SREBP-1c, ACC, and SCD1 in the liver tissue. Compared with the CON group, the HFD and SD-HFD groups showed significantly elevated serum levels of triglycerides(TG), total cholesterol(TC), high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol(HDL-C), and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol(LDL-C) and a significantly declined level of Nrg4. HE staining revealed enlarged BAT and WAT cells and increased lipid vacuoles in hepatocytes in the HFD and SD-HFD groups. The oil red O staining showed that the HFD and SD-HFD groups had more orange lipid droplets in hepatocytes than the CON group. Compared with the CON group, the SD-HFD group showed significantly down-regulated mRNA and protein levels of PPARγ, PGC1α, and Nrg4, significantly down-regulated protein levels of UCP1 in both BAT and WAT cells, and a significantly down-regulated mRNA level of UCP1 in BAT cells. In addition, the SD-HFD group showed significantly decreased p-ErbB3/ErbB3, p-ErbB4/ErbB4, and p-STAT5/STAT5 ratios and significantly up-regulated mRNA and protein levels of LXRα, SREBP-1c, ACC, and SCD1 in the liver tissue. Compared with the SD-HFD group, the RSF, XS-M, and XS-H groups showed significantly declined serum TG, TC, and LDL-C levels, and the XS-M and XS-H groups presented significantly elevated serum Nrg4 levels. In addition, these groups showed reductions in volumes of BAT and WAT cells, alleviated hepatocyte swelling, and decreased lipid droplets in hepatocytes. The mRNA and protein levels of related factors were improved in XS-M and XS-H groups compared with those in the SD-HFD group. This study indicates that modified Xiangsha Liujunzi Decoction could promote the browning of adipose tissue, increase the expression of Nrg4 in the adipose tissue, raise the level of circulating Nrg4, and reduce liver fatty acid synthesis in the rat model of both spleen deficiency and hyperlipidemia.
What is this summary about? This paper describes the results of a clinical trial called HORNBILL that were published in a scientific journal called Ophthalmology Science. In HORNBILL, researchers looked at a new drug called BI 764524 in the treatment of diabetic macular ischemia (DMI). DMI is a condition that affects people living with diabetes. For people living with DMI, there is reduced blood flow in the center of the retina (an area at the back of the eye that changes light into signals to allow people to see). Reduced blood flow means that the retina does not function correctly and vision can get worse. There are no available treatments for people with DMI, so it is important that research is carried out to find possible new drugs. BI 764524 was injected into the eyes of 33 people with DMI. This paper describes whether there were any safety-related events that might stop BI 764524 being tested in more trials and if it helped people in the trial.© The Author(s) 2026.
Semaphorin 3A (Sema3A), a known axon chemorepulsive protein during development, is localised in perineuronal nets (PNNs) in the adult brain. PNNs are condensed aggregates of extracellular matrix molecules surrounding specific types of neurons, which regulate neuroplasticity and memory. However, the role of PNN-associated Sema3A in these processes remains unclear. To address this topic, we investigated the contribution of Sema3A to cerebellum-dependent learning and memory in adult mice using the eyeblink conditioning (EBC) paradigm. We interfered with Sema3A signalling by employing: (i) a molecular approach, in which secreted Sema3A receptors (neuropilin-1 bodies) were expressed in the anterior interposed nuclei (AIN) via viral vector injection; and (ii) a genetic approach, using mutant mice with impaired Sema3A signalling (K108N mice). Mice expressing neuropilin-1 bodies showed reduced EBC performance at the beginning of the memory retention phase. However, increased inflammation was found in the AIN of these mice, challenging the interpretation of these findings. K108N mice showed enhanced EBC performance at the beginning of the memory retention phase. No synaptic structural changes were detected in the AIN of K108N mice at the end of the EBC paradigm. Based on our findings in K108N mice, constitutively altered Sema3A signalling is associated with subtle improvement in cerebellar memory.
Dendritic cells (DCs) can activate T cells to trigger sustained antitumor immune responses, a process in which the continuous migration of antigen-loaded DCs from the tumor microenvironment to tumor-draining lymph nodes is critical. DCs have evolved a complex and dynamic regulatory network to mediate their migration to specific locations, with multiple transporters including amino acid transporters reported to participate in this process. Slc1a2 is highly expressed in the nervous system, where it mediates the clearance of extracellular glutamate, primarily in astrocytes; however, its role in the immune system remains unclear. In this study, we showed that activated DCs upregulated Slc1a2 to boost glutamate uptake, which in turn promoted DC functionality and antitumor vaccine potency. Furthermore, glutamate signaling induced Sema3A, which elevated small GTPase signaling pathways (e.g., RhoA/Rac1/Cdc42) and drove dynamic cytoskeletal remodeling, thereby providing the necessary molecular machinery for DC migration during antitumor immunity in vivo. We first demonstrated that Slc1a2-mediated glutamate metabolism functioned as a metabolic checkpoint for DC migration and antigen-specific immunity in vivo, with the Sema3A/small GTPase axis serving as the core mechanism linking glutamate signaling to cytoskeletal reorganization.© The author(s).
Sensory innervation has emerged as a crucial regulator of skeletal homeostasis and regeneration. Growing evidence indicates that disruption of sensory nerves is associated with excessive inflammation and impaired tissue healing. However, the underlying mechanisms by which neuronal signaling regulates the immune microenvironment to orchestrate bone repair remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the role of semaphorin 3A (Sema3A), secreted by sensory nerves, in macrophage immunomodulation during bone healing. Knockdown of Sema3A in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) aggravated local inflammation and impaired new bone formation in femoral defects in mice, whereas exogenous Sema3A supplementation attenuated the inflammatory milieu and restored regenerative capacity. In vitro, Sema3A deficiency in DRG neurons exacerbated M1 polarization and pro-inflammatory cytokine production, while exogenous Sema3A treatment facilitated macrophage polarization toward the M2 reparative phenotype. Mechanistically, macrophage phenotypic transition from M1 to M2 induced by Sema3A was associated with suppression of the NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome signaling pathway. Blocking NLRP3 inflammasome activation could further mitigate macrophage-mediated inflammatory response and subsequently potentiate osteogenic potential. Collectively, these findings identify sensory nerve-derived Sema3A as a key mediator of macrophage immunomodulation that shapes a pro-regenerative microenvironment, thereby promoting bone healing. Our work provides novel insights into the neuro-immune-bone regulatory axis and may lead to promising therapeutic strategies for enhancing bone regeneration.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Endometriosis progression is driven by oxidative stress and excessive angiogenesis within an inflammatory microenvironment. To overcome these challenges, we designed ROS/pH dual-responsive Alpelisib-loaded nanoparticles (Alp@TAT-AT7-NPs) functionalized with an anti-NRP1 peptide for targeted therapy. The nanoparticles exhibited superior stability, responsive drug release, and selective internalization by NRP1-overexpressing endothelial cells. In vitro results showed efficient inhibition of NRP1 and downstream PI3K/AKT signaling, along with decreased reactive oxygen species (ROS) and enhanced antioxidant enzyme activities. In an endometriosis rat model, treatment with Alp@TAT-AT7-NPs significantly reduced ectopic lesion burden and angiogenic markers (VEGF, CD34), while suppressing systemic inflammation and oxidative injury indicators such as IL-6, TNF-α, and MDA. Fluorescence imaging confirmed preferential accumulation of nanoparticles in CD31⁺ vascular regions. Mechanistic studies demonstrated that modulation of the Sema3A-NRP1-PI3K/AKT signaling axis restored redox homeostasis and inhibited pathological angiogenesis. These findings identify Alp@TAT-AT7-NPs as a synergistic nanoplatform that integrates microenvironment responsiveness with NRP1-targeted intervention, providing a promising therapeutic strategy for endometriosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are a leading contributor to developing familial and idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). Most PD-causing LRRK2 mutations increase the kinase activity, leading to increased phosphorylation of Rab GTPases, disrupting vesicular trafficking, cytoskeletal dynamics, and autophagy. Under homeostatic conditions, the bulk of WT and PD-mutant LRRK2 is found in the cellular cytosol. However, exogenously expressed LRRK2 can form microtubule-associated filaments that have been shown to affect molecular transport along microtubules in vitro. While the physiological relevance of microtubule binding has not been established yet, inhibitors being designed and tested as therapeutics have been shown to either promote or prevent filament formation of LRRK2. In this study, we examine the localization and resulting molecular organization of hyperactive LRRK2-I2020T, a common PD mutant, in HEK 293FT cells treated with type I (MLi-2) or type II (GZD-824) kinase inhibitors. Treatment with a type I kinase inhibitor results in extensive LRRK2-I2020T decoration around microtubules and microtubule bundling. Stabilization of LRRK2-I2020T filaments by type I inhibitor treatment allowed us to build a full-length closed-kinase model of LRRK2-I2020T in its cellular environment. Conversely, treatment with a type II inhibitor resulted in minimal microtubule decoration by LRRK2-I2020T compared to type I inhibitor-treated cells. This study provides a structural framework for understanding how type I and type II kinase inhibitors differentially modulate LRRK2 filament formation, demonstrating that type I inhibitor treatment promotes a distinct filament architecture, whereas such assemblies are not observed with type II inhibitors.© 2026, Basiashvili et al.
In contrast to neurons in the central nervous system, neurons in the peripheral nervous system can regenerate axons after injury via activation of a pro-regenerative transcriptional programme. Pathogenic mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are the most common genetic cause of Parkinson's disease, and several small-molecule LRRK2 kinase inhibitors have been developed, with some in clinical trials. However, the physiological role of endogenous, non-pathogenic LRRK2 remains largely unknown.LRRK2 expression was examined in murine dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) following sciatic nerve crush (SNC) injury. Regenerative axon growth was assessed using cultured adult DRG neurons after genetic or pharmacological inhibition of LRRK2. Axon regeneration after SNC injury was evaluated in vivo following oral administration of the LRRK2 inhibitors, MLi-2 or PF-06447475. Axonal trafficking experiments and phosphoproteomic analyses were performed to investigate mechanisms underlying axon growth promotion induced by LRRK2 inhibitors.SNC injury reduced LRRK2 expression in DRGs. Genetic and pharmacological inhibition of LRRK2 enhanced regenerative axon growth in culture. Oral administration of MLi-2 or PF-06447475 promoted axon regeneration in vivo after SNC injury. MLi-2 enhanced mitochondrial trafficking, and phosphoproteomic analyses identified cellular processes and kinase-substrate signalling networks associated with a pro-regenerative state triggered by LRRK2 inhibition.These findings identify endogenous, non-pathogenic LRRK2 as a suppressor of axon regeneration. They also support the potential repositioning of small-molecule LRRK2 inhibitors, including clinically advanced compounds and those in preclinical development, as therapeutic strategies to enhance peripheral nerve regeneration.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Pharmacology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Pharmacological Society.
Allelic variants in the leucine-rich repeat kinase-2 (LRRK2) gene are linked to Parkinson's disease, Crohn's disease and leprosy; however, a consensus role of LRRK2 in infection has not yet emerged. Parkinson's disease-linked p.G2019S mutation of LRRK2 results in increased kinase activity. We evaluated the impact of the p.G2019S mutation during the infection of mice with Salmonella typhimurium (ST) or Listeria monocytogenes. We demonstrate that the p.G2019S mutation promotes the phosphorylation of the p40phox and p47phox subunits of the NADPH oxidase-2 complex in the cytosol of neutrophils, leading to their relocation to lysosomes for enhanced bacterial control. Activation of Cathepsin B, Rab10 or PKC was not modulated by p.G2019S. Activation of the cytosolic subunits of NADPH oxidase-2 subunits was inhibited by the virulence factor SifA, which promotes the phagosomal localization of ST. Deletion of SifA resulted in an even greater effect of the p.G2019S mutation on the control of ST by neutrophils. These results suggest a mechanism by which the p.G2019S mutation promotes better control of infections at the cost of excessive tissue damage via NADPH oxidase-2 activity under chronic inflammatory conditions.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to CSI and USTC.
Micropropagation of Selenicereus hybrids is a key tool for breeding and conservation; however, further refining the balance between high multiplication rates and morphological quality remains a complex challenge within conventional protocols. This study explores targeted signaling modulation using nine bioactive small molecules-including three mammalian glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) inhibitors (TDZD-9, VP3.15 and VP0.7), three leucine rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) inhibitors (JZ1.24, JZ1.3 and IGS4.75), and three phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitors-to complement traditional micropropagation. Explants were evaluated in two distinct contexts: a hormone-free basal medium (BM) and a plant growth regulator-supplemented medium (PIT2) and the response rates, yield, and quality were measured and integrated using a Global Efficiency Index (GEI). Results demonstrate that inhibitor efficacy is strictly context-dependent; while most molecules repressed budding in BM, they acted as response modulators by determining the specific type of morphogenic pathway in PIT2. Notably, the GSK3 inhibitor TDZD-9 reached the highest GEI (0.85) by maximizing productivity, whereas LRRK2 inhibitors effectively preserved architectural integrity. Flow cytometry confirmed cytogenetic stability across all treatments, with a 98.5% plantlet survival rate during acclimatization. In conclusion, the strategic integration of targeted signaling modulators and multi-parametric indices offers a refined and objective framework to enhance the efficiency of mass propagation protocols in pitahaya and other recalcitrant species. Furthermore, our findings provide new evidence of the strong potential of these small molecules as novel tools to improve plant micropropagation beyond traditional plant growth regulators.
LRRK2 (leucine-rich repeat kinase 2) and Parkin (PRKN) act in shared pathways and are implicated in Parkinson's disease (PD), leprosy, and other diseases. While leprosy likely imposed strong evolutionary pressure, PD's relatively late onset renders it largely invisible to natural selection. We examined the evolutionary history of LRRK2 and PRKN in primates and human populations and found evidence of positive selection on both genes, alongside strong constraint at LRRK2 disease-associated sites. Gibbons were found to carry a pathogenic PRKN mutation (R33Q) causing protein instability. Using ancient DNA, we traced the dynamics of LRRK2 and PRKN variants in Europe and showed that the common PD risk allele LRRK2 G2019S-also protective against salmonellosis-was absent in Paleolithic populations but rose rapidly during the Early Neolithic, likely driven by selection from emerging human-adapted Salmonella. Four leprosy susceptibility variants in PRKN and other loci increased in frequency before the Middle Ages, with little evidence of strong selection during the medieval epidemic itself. Together, these results link a major PD mutation to ancient infectious pressures and suggest that pathogen-driven selection shaped leprosy susceptibility in Europe prior to its medieval peak.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are the most common genetic cause of Parkinson's disease (PD). Strategies that directly inhibit the LRRK2 kinase active site have not demonstrated disease-modifying efficacy in recent clinical testing. A naturally occurring protective variant, R1398H, provides an alternative route for understanding how reduced disease risk may be achieved by tuning the regulatory GTPase domain rather than the kinase domain itself. Here, we combine structural, computational, biochemical, and cell-based analyses to define how R1398H alters the Ras of complex proteins (ROC) G domain of LRRK2. Purified ROC carrying R1398H is folded but resolves as a stable homodimer corresponding to the GDP-bound off state previously defined for wild-type ROC. A 2.0 Å A crystal structure shows unambiguous density for H1398 and reveals close superposition with the GDP-bound wild-type ROC dimer. Molecular dynamics modeling predicts that R1398 engages the γ-phosphate of GTP to stabilize switch-region interactions required for activation, whereas histidine at this position weakens γ-phosphate sensing. Consistent with this model, R1398H reduces GTP hydrolysis, selectively weakens GTP-state stabilization while preserving GDP binding, and decreases Rab29-dependent trans-Golgi recruitment of full-length LRRK2. These findings identify R1398 as a γ-phosphate sensor that couples nucleotide chemistry to ROC conformational switching and suggest a genetics-anchored strategy for stabilizing a protective off-state conformation of LRRK2.
Sepsis is a life-threatening systemic inflammation marked by an initial hyperinflammatory phase. Tregs are pivotal in tempering this early immune response. Semaphorins, originally neuronal guidance cues, have emerged as immune modulators. Notably, Sema3E influences dendritic cell and T cell responses, but its role in Treg-mediated regulation during endotoxemia is unclear. WT and Sema3e-/- mice were subjected to LPS-induced endotoxemia. Treg frequencies, proliferation and migration were assessed by flow cytometry and Transwell assays, respectively. Serum cytokines (eg IL-10) were quantified using ELISA. A TNFRSF25 agonist was administered to expand Tregs in vivo, and adoptive transfers of WT or Sema3e-/- Tregs were performed. Clinical scores and survival were recorded. Sema3e-/- mice exhibited significantly impaired Treg expansion and proliferation, altered migratory patterns with reduced Treg accumulation in spleen and lymph nodes, and consequently lower serum cytokine levels (eg IFN-γ) compared to WT, correlating with exacerbated disease severity. DR3-mediated Treg expansion in Sema3e-/- mice did not improve their clinical outcomes. Furthermore, adoptively transferred Sema3e-/- Tregs failed to confer protection in endotoxemic recipients, unlike WT Tregs. Sema3E is essential for optimal Treg responses and immune regulation during severe LPS-induced inflammation. Its absence compromises Treg expansion, localization, and function, worsening sepsis outcomes. These findings highlight Sema3E as a critical component of Treg-mediated immunosuppression and a potential therapeutic target for improving immune homeostasis in sepsis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
Immune cells exert influence on skeletal homeostasis, and re-establishing metabolic equilibrium is central to the management of steroid-induced osteonecrosis of the femoral head (SIONFH). However, the osteoimmune mechanisms underpinning this pathology remain largely under-researched. This study aimed to delineate these mechanisms, thereby informing early therapeutic strategies to restore bone homeostasis.We identified the key immune cell subsets associated with SIONFH, and investigated their upstream regulatory factors and downstream effector molecules by integrating multiomics analyses (samples derived from human peripheral blood, femoral head tissues, and rat peripheral blood), mining of the GSE123568 dataset, and performing in vivo and in vitro experiments.Clinical transcriptomics revealed enrichment of immune-related pathways, with ssGSEA consistently highlighting activated CD8+ T cells and Th1 cells. Correlation analyses demonstrated a stronger association between T cells and osteoblasts than osteoclasts (r = 0.8728 vs r = -0.065). Staphylococcal enterotoxin C2 (sec2) activated T cells both in vitro and in vivo, thereby augmenting osteogenic markers, enhancing bone marrow stromal cell (BMSC) differentiation, and elevating T cell-derived interferon gamma (IFNγ). Mechanistically, IFNγ facilitated signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1)-runt-related transcription factor 2 (Runx2) dissociation and Runx2 nuclear translocation, thereby potentiating osteogenesis. Multiomics and functional studies identified neuropilin 1 (NRP1) as a critical IFNγ/T cell-associated protein, downregulated by staphylococcal enterotoxin C2 (sec2). Pharmacological activation of NRP1 with certepetide validated its role in modulating IFNγ secretion and downstream signalling. Glucocorticoids suppress IFNγ production in T cells and weaken NRP1/IFNγ-driven osteogenic differentiation. Ultimately, sec2 reshaped antigen-presenting cell-mediated regulation of the T cell-NRP1/IFNγ axis, promoting bone formation and mitigating SIONFH.Glucocorticoids suppress T cell-derived IFNγ via NRP1 upregulation, thereby impairing Runx2 nuclear translocation and BMSC osteogenesis. Sec2 counteracts this cascade through antigen-presenting cell modulation, restoring the NRP1/IFNγ axis to preserve femoral head integrity.© 2026 Lu et al.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42393289
Skipped: PubMed ID 42443498 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42353055 is a review article
Previous studies have suggested that tumorigenesis of adenomatoid odontogenic tumor (AOT) may involve the activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MAPK/ERK) pathway. However, research on other oncogenic signaling pathways in AOT remains limited.This study aimed to investigate gene mutations (Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (KRAS), catenin beta 1 (CTNNB1), and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit alpha (PIK3CA)) and their associated protein expressions (phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 and 2 (p-ERK1/2), β-catenin, and phosphorylated mechanistic target of rapamycin (p-mTOR)) in AOT cases. The association between gene mutations and protein expression was also examined.In total, eight formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded AOT tissue samples were manually micro-dissected for DNA extraction. Polymerase chain reaction was performed. Positive samples underwent DNA sequencing. Mutations were analyzed in KRAS exon 2 (codons 12 and 13), CTNNB1 exon 3 (codons 32-45), and PIK3CA exon 9 (codons 542-549). Protein expression was assessed using immunohistochemistry.KRAS mutations (specifically G12R and G12V) were detected in three of the eight cases (37.5%). CTNNB1 mutation (T42I) was identified in one of six cases (16.7%), whereas no PIK3CA mutation was observed. Moreover, moderate expression of p-ERK1/2 and p-mTOR were found in tumor cells of AOT. β-catenin accumulation was detected in seven cases (87.5%), predominantly showing membranous and cytoplasmic localization with no nuclear β-catenin expression. Statistical analysis indicated no association between gene mutations and protein expression.KRAS mutations and p-ERK1/2 expression support a potential role of MAPK/ERK signaling in AOT pathogenesis. The absence of PIK3CA mutations despite p-mTOR expression may in part suggest mutation-independent activation of the PI3K/mTOR pathway. The lack of nuclear β-catenin accumulation may suggest that canonical Wnt signaling is less likely to significantly contribute to AOT tumorigenesis. Further studies with larger cohorts and investigations of additional molecules related to these pathways are warranted.
WNT2B is canonically characterized as a secreted WNT-family ligand, which is transported to the extracellular space via the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi pathway and binds to cell surface FZDs (frizzled class receptors) to trigger downstream signaling cascades. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized non-secretory intracellular function of WNT2B in impairing endosomal trafficking to inhibit macroautophagy/autophagy, as well as a non-canonical LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion mechanism for WNT2B. Specifically, the non-secretory intracellular pool of WNT2B via its conserved middle domain (MD) binds to the spectrin repeat domain (SRD) of WASHC5, competitively displacing WASHC1 and thereby disrupting WASH complex assembly and inhibiting WASHC1-mediated actin polymerization on early endosomes. This disruption impairs endosomal cargo trafficking, including the core autophagy protein ATG9A, leading to defective autophagy initiation and subsequent accumulation of pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic factors in fibroblasts. We validated this mechanism in vivo using a TNBS-induced mouse model of chronic colitis. Fibroblast-specific wnt2b deletion restores autophagy, reduces pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion, and ameliorates intestinal fibrosis. Consistently, in Crohn disease (CD) patient tissues, elevated WNT2B in fibrotic regions negatively correlates with autophagy activity, and positively correlates with pro-fibrotic phenotypes, and clinical disease severity. Moreover, we identify a novel LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion pathway for WNT2B, which is distinct from the conventional ER-to-Golgi-dependent protein secretion. Collectively, our study delineates a novel non-canonical WNT2B-WASH complex-ATG9A regulatory axis through which WNT2B impairs endosomal trafficking and disrupts autophagy, ultimately amplifying inflammation and fibrosis. This study suggests that WNT2B may serve as a promising therapeutic target for CD and autophagy-associated fibrotic disorders.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACTA2: actin alpha 2, smooth muscle; ARPC2: actin related protein 2/3 complex subunit 2; ATG: autophagy related; CCN3: cellular communication network factor 3; CD: Crohn disease; CK666: 2-fluoro-N-[2-(2-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl)ethyl]benzamide; COL1A1: collagen type I alpha 1 chain; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CTNNB1: catenin beta 1; DBcAMP: dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate; DPT: dermatopontin; EEA1: early endosome antigen 1; EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; EV: extracellular vesicle; FRAP: fluorescence recovery after photobleaching; FL: full length; FZD: frizzled class receptor; GST: glutathione S-transferase; HIF: human intestinal fibroblast; HMGB1: high mobility group box 1; IKBKB: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta; IL6: interleukin 6; LDELS: LC3-dependent EV loading and secretion; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MD: middle domain; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MVB: multivesicular body; NFKB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA: NFKB inhibitor alpha; PDCD6IP: programmed cell death 6 interacting protein; PLA: proximity ligation assay; RELA/p65: RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; SAFB: scaffold attachment factor B; SES-CD: Simple Endoscopic Score for Crohn disease; SIM: super-resolution structured illumination microscopy; SMAD3: SMAD family member 3; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SRD: spectrin repeat domain; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFRC: transferrin receptor; TGFB1: transforming growth factor beta 1; TGOLN2: trans-golgi network protein 2; TNBS: 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; VCA: Verprolin homology, Central and Acidic; WASHC: WASH complex subunit; WLS: Wnt ligand secretion mediator; WCL: whole cell lysates; WNT: Wnt family member; WT, wild type.
In the published article [...].
Receptor antagonists represent a major class of targeted cancer therapeutics, yet SELEX-based aptamer discovery often yields high-affinity binders that display limited functional blockade because epitope positioning is not explicitly selected. Herein, we report a multistage discovery and optimization workflow that integrates cell-SELEX, cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM), and a structure-constrained follow-up SELEX to generate ligand-blocking antagonists of Neuropilin-2 (NRP2), a cancer-associated coreceptor for vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). We performed initial unbiased cell-SELEX against primary human urine-derived renal progenitor cells and identified an NRP2-binding DNA aptamer (NRP2Apt) with nanomolar affinity and high specificity. Using cryo-EM analysis of the NRP2Apt-NRP2 complex, we defined the spatial relationship between aptamer structural elements and the VEGF-binding pocket, providing direct epitope-level insight that is inaccessible from sequence information alone. Guided by these structural observations, we designed an NRP2Apt-scaffolded library in which a VEGF-proximal loop was extended and randomized, and subjected this library to NRP2 protein SELEX, yielding a lead antagonist with substantially enhanced inhibition of VEGF-NRP2 interactions while preserving strong NRP2 affinity. Finally, inspired by the homodimeric form of VEGF ligands, we engineered a bivalent aptamer that displayed enhanced antagonism and markedly increased serum stability. Collectively, we establish a cryo-EM-guided, iterative SELEX framework in which structural constraints are incorporated into library design to optimize the ligand-blocking activity of receptor-binding aptamers.
Post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 infection (PASC), particularly neurological manifestations, remain a significant therapeutic challenge, likely driven by persistent inflammation, immune dysregulation, and endothelial dysfunction. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover trial, 10 patients with post-COVID-19 neurological symptoms received C1-esterase inhibitor (C1-INH; RUCONEST®) or placebo over two eight-week phases. Longitudinal plasma proteomics (SomaScan®) profiled molecular dynamics during and after C1-INH treatment. C1-INH administration was associated with distinct, phase-specific proteomic signatures, including lower levels of inflammatory-associated proteins such as CRP and IL-6, increased levels of neuroimmune and endothelial repair proteins (Neuropilin-2, CD83, C1QTNF5), and modulation of bradykinin-kinin and extracellular matrix pathways. These molecular shifts were evaluated in relation to clinical change scores during the active treatment windows. Several proteomic changes were observed at timepoint 26 after treatment cessation, describing candidate post-treatment molecular trajectories. In conclusion, these results provide exploratory mechanistic insights and support the need for validation in larger, prospective cohorts. Together, these findings prioritize immune and vascular pathways for further investigation in PASC and may have relevance to other post-infectious neuroimmune conditions.© 2026. The Author(s).
CD3 ligand 1 (CD3L1, ITPRIPL1), an emerging immune checkpoint, sustains immune privilege in the testis and facilitates tumor immune evasion. Targeting CD3L1 with a monoclonal antibody demonstrates potent antitumor activity in preclinical models and spontaneous tumors in companion animals. In an ongoing clinical trial, anti-CD3L1 therapy unexpectedly activated tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) within the tumor microenvironment (TME), surpassing its anticipated role in T-cell reactivation. Mechanistic studies identified neuropilin-2 (NRP2) as the primary receptor on macrophages and uncovered the CD3L1-NRP2 axis as a critical driver of immunosuppressive M2 TAM polarization. Strikingly, in T-cell-deficient osteosarcoma models, anti-CD3L1 treatment reprogrammed TAMs toward an anti-tumor M1 phenotype, suppressing tumor progression. Clinical data corroborated these findings, revealing profound TME remodeling in advanced solid tumors. Our results elucidate a dual role for CD3L1 in immune evasion, mediated through both T-cell suppression and macrophage polarization, and highlight anti-CD3L1 as a multifaceted therapeutic strategy that enhances antigen presentation via TAM modulation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Osteosarcoma (OS) is a very aggressive malignant neoplasm characterized by significant metastases and a deficiency of treatment targets. Therefore, it is urgent to find new therapeutic mechanisms and targets for OS. We assessed the capability of chromobox homolog 4 (CBX4) to modulate OS growth using in vivo and in vitro dual tests utilizing short hairpin RNA technology, 3-dimensional tumor sphere building, immunofluorescence co-localization, and other biotechnological methods. Our findings indicated that CBX4 was overexpressed in OS tissues, and the silencing of CBX4 markedly reduced OS cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. CBX4 modulates vasculogenic mimicry through its influence on yes1 associated transcriptional regulator (YAP1) and neuropilin-2/vascular endothelial growth factor A (NRP2/VEGFA) pathway, hence promoting angiogenic activity, a mechanism perhaps linked to CBX4's role in regulating mitochondrial autophagy. CBX4 affects vasculogenic mimicry by regulating the YAP1 and NRP2/VEGFA pathways and promotes the OS process. CBX4 may serve as a novel biomarker for OS, potentially offering innovative approaches for early diagnosis and tailored therapy of OS. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Osteosarcoma (OS) is a very aggressive malignant neoplasm characterized by significant metastases and a deficiency of treatment targets. Therefore, it is urgent to find new therapeutic mechanisms and targets for OS. Chromobox homolog 4 may serve as a novel biomarker for OS, potentially offering innovative approaches for early diagnosis and tailored therapy of OS.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Impaired nuclear translocation of glucocorticoid receptor (GR) has been implicated in hippocampal vulnerability in Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet the molecular basis of this defect remains poorly understood. This study identified Huntingtin-associated protein 1 (Hap1) as a critical regulator of GR nuclear translocation in the hippocampus. Specifically, Hap1 expression progressively declined in the hippocampus of APP/PS1 mice with advancing age and pathological burden. Hippocampal Hap1 knockdown induced pronounced cognitive deficits and synaptic deterioration, as indicated by reduced dendritic arborization, decreased spine density, impaired long-term potentiation, and exacerbated amyloid-β deposition. Mechanistic analyses showed that Hap1 deficiency increased GR ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation and, more importantly, disrupted ligand-dependent GR translocation to the nucleus, thereby attenuating GR-dependent brain-derived neurotrophic factor transcription. In parallel, Hap1 knockdown elevated corticosterone concentration and induced depression-like behavior, consistent with hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis dysregulation. Collectively, these findings establish defective GR nuclear trafficking driven by loss of Hap1 function as a key pathomechanism linking intracellular transport failure to synaptic dysfunction in AD and highlight Hap1 as a potential therapeutic target.
Communication from secondary (M2, premotor) to primary (M1) motor cortex is implicated in forelimb motor control. We investigated the underlying synaptic circuits in this corticocortical pathway in male and female mice using cell-type-specific optogenetic-electrophysiology methods, focusing on identifying the cell-type-specific synaptic connections in the excitatory and feedforward inhibitory circuits impinging on cervically projecting M1 corticospinal neurons. In forelimb M1 brain slices, recordings from layer (L)5B corticospinal neurons during brief photostimulation of M2 axons showed strong monosynaptic excitatory currents that, although accompanied by potent feedforward inhibitory currents, were capable of evoking action potentials (APs) in most neurons. In contrast, responses in L2/3 pyramidal neurons were generally much weaker. Parvalbumin (PV)-expressing neurons, particularly in deeper layers, showed direct excitation from M2 axons without feedforward inhibition and could fire APs robustly. Somatostatin (SST) neurons received generally weak inputs, whereas vasoactive intestinal protein (VIP) and neuron-derived neurotrophic factor (Ndnf) neurons received stronger excitation and inhibition from M2 axons. Corticospinal neurons received little or no local inhibition from Ndnf and VIP interneurons but relatively strong soma-targeting PV and dendrite-targeting SST inhibitory inputs, as functionally imaged by laser-scanning synaptic input mapping ("sCRACM"). The domains of PV and SST inputs were partly overlapping around the corticospinal somata but broader for PV and more vertical for SST inputs. Collectively, the results provide a working model for the cell-type-specific synaptic circuits of this "top-down" corticocortical pathway, organized around direct M2 excitation and PV-mediated inhibition of M1 corticospinal neurons.Copyright © 2026 the authors.
One of the leading causes of death and disability globally, affecting people of all ages, is traumatic brain injury (TBI). Damage to neural tissues associated with TBI can be classified into two categories: primary damage caused by direct mechanical forces resulting from trauma and secondary damage characterized by long-term neuroinflammation resulting from the molecular response of tissues and cells following primary injury. Although the effects of semaphorin (Sema) molecules on neural repair and regeneration are known, their role in the secondary injury process after TBI remains unclear. Sema proteins bind to their receptors, members of the neuropilin and plexin protein families, to carry out their actions. In this study, after mild TBI (mTBI) was induced, an acute mTBI group (observed for 24 h), a short-term mTBI chronic group, a long-term mTBI chronic group, and a sham group were created. As a result, neuronal damage is increased in acute and chronic mTBI models. Males exhibit increased levels of Sem-3 F, Plexin-A1, Neuropilin-1, and TNF-α protein expression in the hippocampus, particularly following chronic short-term mTBI. In addition, the chronic long-term group presented greater neuropilin 1 gene expression in the hypothalamus, hippocampus, pituitary, and hypophysis. Our findings suggest that semaphorin, neuropilin, and plexin proteins may help create new treatment techniques on the basis of their potential involvement in establishing and recovering from primary and secondary damage following TBI.
The integration of bottom-up and top-down signals is crucial for perception and behavior. Neocortical layer 1 (L1) is a key target for top-down inputs and contains various GABAergic interneurons. Here, we investigated whether GABA can presynaptically regulate neurotransmitter release at top-down synapses targeting L1 of primary somatosensory cortex (S1). Our findings show that presynaptic GABAB receptor activation suppresses corticocortical inputs from primary motor (M1) and secondary somatosensory cortices (S2) more than those from the posterior medial nucleus of the thalamus (POm). This effect varied by target cell type, with GABAergic interneurons being less affected. Finally, we demonstrate that L1 neuron-derived neurotrophic factor (NDNF)-expressing interneurons inhibit top-down synapses more effectively than somatostatin-expressing interneurons, and that POm drives L1 neurogliaform cells, a subtype of NDNF interneuron that elicits unitary GABAB responses. These results reveal a novel circuit in which higher-order thalamus influences top-down corticocortical communication via L1 neurogliaform cells.
The voltage-gated channel subfamily Q member 4 (KCNQ4), a K+ channel, is one of the most frequently mutated genes in autosomal dominant nonsyndromic hearing loss. KCNQ4, which contains 6 transmembrane domains and a long cytoplasmic C-terminal tail, plays a crucial role in K+ recycling in the inner ear. Although KCNQ4 binds to various interactors, specific binding sites of the interactors remain elusive, and the biological significance of these interactions remains unknown. Therefore, this study aimed to discover a novel interactor of KCNQ4 and delineate its functional role in KCNQ4 regulation. We discovered a novel interactor of KCNQ4, huntingtin-associated protein 1 (HAP1), in addition to calmodulin, which interacts with the C-terminus of KCNQ4 using a yeast 2-hybrid assay. This interaction requires the B-segment of KCNQ4 as demonstrated by protein domain analysis. A thorough investigation of the biochemical and physiological consequences of this association revealed that HAP1 overexpression reduced surface expression and attenuated the potassium current mediated by KCNQ4. This suggests that HAP1 acts as a negative regulator of KCNQ4, potentially through the disruption of normal endocytic trafficking. These findings enhance the understanding of KCNQ4 regulation at the molecular level and highlight the potential of the HAP1-KCNQ4 axis as a target for interventions aimed at maintaining channel surface stability.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
BACKGROUND: The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of reciting the Quran (from Mushaf) on serotonin, dopamine, NDNF, and cortisol levels in relation to mental well-being. METHODS: This study was conducted on a sample of university students who know how to read the Quran in Türkiye, selected by a non-probability method, with a pre-test-post-test control group and a longitudinal design; the assignment to the groups was also done randomly. The research was carried out with 72 university students (36 female, 36 male), aged 19–30, who know how to read the Quran and do not have any health problems. Two groups were formed: a 36-person experimental group and a 36-person passive resting control group. The Mental Well-Being Scale and a personal information form were used to evaluate the participants’ well-being status. Salivary serotonin, dopamine, NDNF, and cortisol levels were examined using the ELISA technique in samples taken before and after the experimental group recited verses 195–200 of Surah Al-i Imran aloud. Number, percentage, mean, Pearson correlation, and ANOVA tests were used to evaluate the data. Statistical significance was accepted as p < .05 for all analyses. RESULTS: A significant group-time interaction was found (p < .05). Compared to the passive resting control group, the experimental group showed statistically significant increases in salivary serotonin, dopamine, and NDNF levels, and a significant decrease in cortisol levels. However, a critical dissociation was observed: despite this neuroprotective biomarker profile, the control group reported statistically significantly higher post-intervention mental well-being scores than the experimental group (p < .05). This suggests that the acute cognitive load and performance anxiety associated with the recitation task may temporarily mask physiological benefits in self-reports. CONCLUSIONS: A brief (5-minute) ‘Tartil’ recitation of the Quran demonstrates immediate, positive neurobiological effects by reducing stress hormones (cortisol) and increasing reward- and neuroplasticity-related biomarkers (dopamine, serotonin, NDNF). However, this did not immediately translate to higher self-reported well-being, suggesting the relationship between the neurobiology of recitation and its perceived psychological effects is complex and potentially confounded by factors such as performance anxiety or cognitive load in an experimental setting. CLINICAL TRIAL NUMBER: Not applicable.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41563688 is a review article
Plexin-A1 is involved in axonal guidance in the developing human brain. Variants in the PLXNA1 gene are associated with a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by early-onset epilepsy, intellectual disability, syndromic features, and brain and eye anomalies. We report a 19-month-old boy who presented with global developmental delay, right-sided ptosis, and a growth pattern above the expected range. Malformations of cortical development in the form of focal pachygyria and polymicrogyria were also observed. Cytogenetic microarray and trio whole-exome sequencing done in 2020 failed to detect any candidate variants. On re-analysis of the exome in 2025, we detected a novel homozygous splice site variant in PLXNA1:c.4870+1G>A. This variant is predicted to cause aberrant splicing and premature truncation of the protein. The clinical features of pachygyria with polymicrogyria and growth pattern above the expected range are novel and contribute to the growing phenotypic spectrum of PLXNA1-related neurodevelopmental disorders.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42568100 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate whether interleukin-6 (IL-6) receptor inhibitors affect cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) metabolites in type 2 diabetes (T2D) patients. The initial phase employed drug-targeted Mendelian randomization to investigate the association between IL-6 receptor inhibitors and T2D across diverse populations. Subsequently, variables related to T2D were utilized as mediators in the relationship between IL-6 receptor inhibitors and CSF metabolites. Finally, the mediating effect of T2D was evaluated using mediation analysis. In the European cohort, the use of IL-6 receptor inhibitors was associated with a 25.3% reduction in the risk of T2D, as indicated by an odds ratio of 0.747 with a 95% confidence interval ranging from 0.556 to 0.938 (P = .003). In the East Asian cohort, IL-6 receptor inhibitors were associated with a 1.188-fold increase in the risk of elevated fasting insulin levels, with an odds ratio of 1.188 and a 95% confidence interval of 1.034 to 1.343 (P = .029). Mediation analysis revealed that IL-6 receptor inhibitors significantly elevated the levels of galacto-glycero-lipid (GG) in CSF, with 3.06% of the effect attributable to the reduced risk of T2D, and 96.94% directly resulting from the action of the IL-6 receptor inhibitors. The findings preliminarily indicated that race constituted a variable potentially influencing the differential effects of IL-6 receptor inhibitors among patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D) across various regions. While the administration of IL-6 receptor inhibitors might impact glucose concentrations in CSF, the role of T2D as a mediator in CSF metabolites was weak. The predominant determinant appeared to be the administration of IL-6 receptor inhibitors.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Rheumatoid arthritis and its glucocorticoid-based treatment may adversely affect male reproductive function by disrupting spermatogenesis, steroidogenesis, and testicular homeostasis. Insulin-like peptide 3 (INSL3), a Leydig cell-derived peptide hormone and marker of Leydig cell functional capacity, may contribute to the maintenance of testicular function through its steroidogenic and anti-inflammatory effects. In the present study, we investigated the effects of prednisolone and INSL3, administered alone or in combination, on testicular structure and function in rats with adjuvant-induced arthritis. Adult male rats were allocated to seven groups: control, prednisolone, INSL3, arthritis, arthritis + prednisolone, arthritis + INSL3, and arthritis + prednisolone + INSL3. Testicular alterations were evaluated using histological, morphometric, immunohistochemical, ultrastructural, testosterone, and sperm analyses. Arthritis was associated with reduced testicular weight, decreased seminiferous tubule diameter and epithelial thickness, impaired sperm parameters, lower serum and intratesticular testosterone levels, increased testicular tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-6 immunoreactivity, and reduced 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase and proliferating cell nuclear antigen immunoreactivity. In arthritic rats, prednisolone or INSL3 alone was associated with partial improvement in selected testicular parameters, whereas combined treatment was associated with improvement across several inflammatory, morphometric, steroidogenic, and sperm-related parameters. These findings suggest that INSL3 treatment is associated with partial attenuation of inflammation-related testicular injury and improvement in selected reproductive parameters under inflammatory and glucocorticoid stress. Further studies are required to clarify whether these effects are mediated by direct intratesticular mechanisms or indirect systemic pathways.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Mechanical and/or microbial stimuli can prompt extracellular ATP release in many cell types, where it acts as an inflammatory mediator to amplify pain signals and inflammation. This study aimed to investigate the synergistic effects of microbial and/or mechanical stimulation on ATP and cytokine release from dental pulp cells (DPCs) and to determine if the inflammatory signalling identified was dependent on ATP acting via the purinergic receptor, P2X3.DPCs were prepared from sound third molars using explant culture method. P2X3 protein expression and functionality in DPCs were investigated by immunostaining and calcium mobilisation assays using the P2X3 agonist αβmeATP and antagonist AF-353. ATP or interleukin-6 (IL-6) release from DPCs treated with lipoteichoic acid (LTA) and fluid shear stress or stretch was measured using the ATPlite luciferase assay (PerkinElmer) or ELISA (R&D Systems), respectively. To assess the role of P2X3 activation in IL-6 release, the P2X3 antagonist AF-353 was included in ELISA experiments. Data were checked for normality and analysed by Mann-Whitney test for two-group comparisons and Kruskal-Wallis or ANOVA test with Dunn's or Dunnett's multiple comparisons test where appropriate for multiple-group comparisons.The DPCs expressed functional P2X3 receptors. The cells' response to αβmeATP was significantly inhibited by AF-353 (p < 0.0001). Increased ATP and IL-6 release were observed following co-stimulation with LTA and fluid shear stress (p < 0.01, p < 0.05) or LTA and stretch (p < 0.05). The addition of AF-353 reduced IL-6 release by 34% and 36% (p < 0.05) in DPCs co-stimulated with LTA and fluid shear stress or stretch, respectively.This study demonstrates that the combined bacterial mimetic and mechanical stimulation of DPCs significantly enhances ATP and IL-6 release. The inhibition of IL-6 release by the P2X3 antagonist AF-353 indicates the importance of P2X3 receptor activation in this process. These findings offer insights into the molecular mechanisms of dental pulp inflammation and potential therapeutic targets.© 2026 The Author(s). International Endodontic Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Endodontic Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565029 is a review article
Reversible splenial lesion syndrome (RESLES), mild encephalitis/encephalopathy with a reversible splenial lesion (MERS), and cytotoxic lesions of the corpus callosum (CLOCCs) are overlapping clinicoradiological constructs associated with infection, seizures, metabolic disturbance, and drug exposure. We report an 11-year-old right-handed boy with recurrent paroxysmal speech arrest over approximately 24 hours. During the episodes, consciousness and comprehension were preserved; he could vocalize and communicate by typing but could not produce meaningful speech. Transient left upper-limb or generalized weakness and upper respiratory symptoms accompanied the spells. Respiratory adenovirus testing was positive, and a Mycoplasma pneumoniae (M. pneumoniae) antibody titer was reported as 1:160, although respiratory and cerebrospinal fluid M. pneumoniae polymerase chain reaction testing was negative. Cerebrospinal fluid contained 1 white cell/microL, with normal protein, glucose, and chloride and mildly elevated interleukin-6 (IL-6). Baseline electroencephalography showed abundant right frontopolar, frontal, anterior temporal, and Fz interictal discharges without a captured electroclinical seizure. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated a splenial lesion with symmetric posterior periventricular and centrum semiovale abnormalities, compatible with a type II MERS/RESLES pattern or CLOCC-spectrum process. He received two 40 g doses of intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) and later intravenous methylprednisolone followed by oral prednisone, together with empirical acyclovir, azithromycin, mannitol, and supportive care. No further speech arrest or weakness was documented on or after illness day 5, and methylprednisolone was initiated on illness day 6. Follow-up electroencephalography on illness day 48 showed qualitatively fewer discharges confined to sleep, but no habitual event. Serial imaging showed lesion regression with residual fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) signal on illness day 74. At approximately 4.5 months, he remained asymptomatic during prednisone tapering. Because formal language and motor-speech testing was not performed during an episode, aphasia could not be definitively distinguished from anarthria, dysarthria, apraxia of speech, or focal speech arrest. This case highlights the diagnostic overlap among resolving callosal-white matter lesions, transient speech-output disturbance, and interictal epileptiform abnormalities, while cautioning against attributing recovery to a single treatment or equating residual magnetic resonance signal with active inflammation.Copyright © 2026, Yu et al.
Lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) represents a distinct subtype of lung cancer, diverging significantly from lung adenocarcinoma. It demonstrates the ability to evade the immune system before the tumor has even begun to infiltrate. However, our understanding of these immune evasion mechanisms in LUSC is still in its infancy, calling for more intensive research.The expression levels of FAT atypical cadherin 2 (FAT2) and mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 3 (SMAD3) in LUSC were assessed by bioinformatics analysis, with the correlation between FAT2 and CD8+ T cell infiltration examined. The FAT2 expression and immune cell infiltration in clinical samples were analyzed via immunohistochemistry. FAT2, SMAD3, and programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) expressions were determined using quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. The interplay between FAT2 and SMAD3 was elucidated through chromatin immunoprecipitation and dual-luciferase reporter gene assays. The mechanism by which FAT2 activates the Wnt/β-catenin pathway to induce PD-L1 expression was further validated by TOPFlash/FOPFlash dual-luciferase reporter assays and chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by quantitative PCR. After culturing tumor cells alongside CD8+ T cells, the effect of SMAD3-activated FAT2 on PD-L1-mediated immune escape was tested through Cell Counting Kit-8 and lactate dehydrogenase detection and evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The rescue experiments were designed by introducing Wnt pathway inhibitors to determine whether FAT2 affected PD-L1 expression through the Wnt pathway. Based on a mouse transplant tumor model, we verified the effect of knockdown of FAT2 and combination therapy with anti-PD-L1 on tumor growth.An upregulation of FAT2 in LUSC was observed, which showed a negative correlation with CD8+ T cell infiltration. High FAT2 expression was linked to increased PD-L1 levels, which suppressed the anti-tumor immune function of CD8+ T cells. SMAD3 was found to bind to the FAT2 promoter, stimulating its transcription. Rescue experiments illustrated that FAT2 overexpression could neutralize the positive impact of SMAD3 knockdown on the immune response of CD8+ T cells. In further research, FAT2 was found to mainly promote PD-L1 expression by activating the Wnt pathway. In addition, animal experiments demonstrated that the combination therapy of knocking down FAT2 and anti-PD-L1 significantly repressed LUSC growth.In summary, this study elucidated the important role of SMAD3 activation of FAT2 expression in LUSC immune escape and proposed a combined immune strategy targeting the FAT2/PD-L1 axis. The study can provide a new direction for the clinical intervention of LUSC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cardiac cachexia (CC) is an indicator of advanced heart failure (AHF), with significant unintentional weight loss (UWL) and poor prognosis. Its diagnostic criteria incorporate upregulation of established inflammatory cytokines. Identification of novel biomarkers, for example, via proteomic analyses, could unearth unstudied mechanisms behind CC formation with future applications in disease therapeutics. This study, therefore, aimed to explore the presence of contemporary, novel biomarkers, and mechanistic pathways in CC using targeted proteomics.Patients with AHF or stable heart failure were recruited and the presence of CC/UWL was identified. AHF was identified using the American Heart Association "I NEED HELP" criteria, and CC was identified using the contemporary 2008 consensus definition. All patients underwent phlebotomy, with plasma proteomic analyses using Olink Target 96 Cardiovascular II panel. Median proteins concentrations were compared between the CC/UWL group and the rest of cohort, with enrichment analyses conducted to identify potential novel pathways behind disease formation. Area under the receiver operator curve analysis was conducted to determine whether significant biomarkers had potential in identifying CC/UWL.Six proteins were differentially expressed in the CC/UWL group, of which four were novel: interleukin-27 and -4, vascular endothelial growth factor D, and bone morphogenetic protein-6. All were suitable biomarkers (area under the receiver operator curve range 0.741-0.826). Protein enrichment analyses yielded significant pathways in disease formation relating to immune regulation and cytokine signalling.We identified four novel biomarkers in CC, all of which are feasible biomarkers of disease identification, with proposed pathways of potential pathogenesis. Further research should be undertaken to validate our findings to better understand the mechanistic pathways in functional studies, with onward consideration regarding whether our findings have therapeutic applications.Copyright © 2026 Australian and New Zealand Society of Cardiac and Thoracic Surgeons (ANZSCTS) and the Cardiac Society of Australia and New Zealand (CSANZ). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
It is reported that bone morphogenetic protein 5 (BMP5) exerts a significant function in the pathogenesis of cancers. However, the role of BMP5 in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is unclear. Thus, this study was conducted to excavate the diagnostic and prognostic significance of BMP5 in LUAD.The expression level and prognostic significance of BMP5 were analyzed in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) pan-cancer dataset of LUAD, followed by Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) analysis. Correlation analysis between BMP5 and immune cell infiltration, immune checkpoints, and tumor mutation burden (TMB) were performed. The expression level, diagnostic and prognostic significances of BMP5 were confirmed in LUAD with Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets. The relationship between BMP5 expression and clinicopathological features of LUAD patients was analyzed, as well as BMP5-associated drugs for LUAD treatments. Lastly, in vitro experiments were carried out to evaluate the function of BMP5 in LUAD.BMP5 was aberrantly expressed in most cancer types and showed prognostic predictive value and involved in energy-related pathways in most cancer types. BMP5 was significantly associated with immune checkpoint genes, immune activators, immunity inhibitors, immune cells, immunoscore, TMB and microsatellite instability (MSI) in most cancer types. Low expression of BMP5 was significantly associated with poor prognosis of LUAD patients, and BMP5 could accurately predict the prognosis of LUAD. In addition, BMP5 was strongly related to various clinicopathological parameters and immune cells of LUAD. The half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) values of axitinib, gefitinib and lapatinib were significantly increased in BMP5 high-expression group, while the IC50 of Olaparib was markedly decreased. In vitro experiments uncovered that BMP5 could inhibit tumorigenesis of LUAD.BMP5 is a valuable diagnostic and prognostic biomarker in LUAD. BMP5 might inhibit tumorigenesis of LUAD by targeting cell cycle pathway. Axitinib, gefitinib, lapatinib, and olaparib might be used for LUAD treatment by targeting BMP5.© AME Publishing Company.
Breast cancer (BC) is the main cause of cancer-related mortality in women and is influenced by genetic, environmental and lifestyle factors. The inactivation of tumor suppressor genes, such as bone morphogenetic protein 6 (BMP6), breast cancer susceptibility gene 1 (BRCA1), estrogen receptor 2 (ESR2), glutathione S-transferase π1 (GSTP1) and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 3 (TIMP3), via methylation may contribute to the development of BC. The present study analyzed the methylation status of these genes in 60 BC and benign disease (BD) tissue samples from Mexican women and the association with clinical and histopathological variables. DNA was modified with sodium bisulfite, followed by methylation-specific PCR and electrophoresis, and analyzed using χ2 test, Fisher's exact test, logistic regression, odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence interval and Kaplan-Meier curves. The results indicated that the average age was higher in the BC group compared with that in the BD group (55 vs. 42 years; P<0.00001), with ≥50 years being a significant risk factor (OR, 5.44; P=0.00002). Only BRCA1 demonstrated a significant difference in methylation status, increasing the susceptibility to BC (OR, 2.50; P=0.0001), and tending to be associated with increased proliferation and lymph node metastasis. TIMP3 methylation was significantly associated with distant metastasis (OR, 8.65; P=0.028). Methylation of BRCA1 and TIMP3 demonstrated a significant association with poor prognosis in BC. BRCA1 was methylated more frequently in women with BC and TIMP3 was associated with a higher risk of distant metastasis. The present study highlighted the potential of these genes as prognostic biomarkers and the need to further explore DNA methylation for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes in future research.Copyright: © 2026 de la Torre-Guzmán et al.
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is a prevalent malignancy of the urinary system that lacks effective biomarkers for early diagnosis and prognosis. Bone morphogenetic protein 5 (BMP5), a member of the bone morphogenetic protein family within the TGF-β superfamily, is known to participate in the regulation of cellular differentiation, proliferation, and apoptosis. Bioinformatics analyses indicated that BMP5 expression is significantly reduced in ccRCC and is associated with unfavorable patient outcomes. Gain- and loss-of-function experiments in ccRCC cell lines showed that BMP5 overexpression markedly inhibited cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, promoted G1-phase arrest and apoptosis, and suppressed tumor growth in a xenograft mouse model, whereas BMP5 silencing produced the opposite effects. Rescue experiments further confirmed the specificity of BMP5-mediated phenotypes. RNA sequencing, Western blotting, comet assays, and immunohistochemical analyses further demonstrated that BMP5 overexpression was accompanied by increased markers of DNA double-strand breaks and sustained activation of DNA damage response (DDR) signaling. Time-course γ-H2AX analysis further revealed sustained DNA damage signals following genotoxic stress, consistent with increased DNA damage burden and delayed resolution of DNA lesions. In addition, pathway perturbation experiments further supported the contribution of DDR signaling to BMP5-associated cell fate regulation. Collectively, these findings suggest that BMP5 is associated with increased DNA damage burden and sustained DDR activation, which likely contribute to tumor-suppressive effects in ccRCC, highlighting its potential prognostic relevance and the possible therapeutic significance of BMP5-associated DDR signaling.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Angiogenesis is a fundamental process in cancer progression, but computational prioritization of angiogenesis-associated genes often relies on predefined gene sets or canonical signaling pathways, limiting the identification of non-canonical and context-dependent regulatory programs. To address this limitation, we developed a literature-guided integrative transcriptomic framework to prioritize angiogenesis-associated candidates across heterogeneous cancer types. The framework integrates bibliometric trend profiling, pan-cancer gene expression analysis, survival association assessment, tumor microenvironment-related transcriptional characterization, and functional enrichment analysis. Rather than prespecifying angiogenic regulators, candidate genes were prioritized through convergence across these complementary evidence layers. Across diverse cancer cohorts, the framework consistently identified cadherin 2 (CDH2) as a representative non-canonical angiogenesis-associated signal. CDH2-associated transcriptional programs were enriched in extracellular matrix organization, cell-cell adhesion, and structural remodeling processes, and tumor microenvironment analyses indicated preferential alignment with stromal and vascular-associated features, particularly cancer-associated fibroblast-related signatures, rather than immune-dominant profiles. In independent external glioma cohorts, CDH2 showed a non-uniform and context-dependent relationship with vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA)-associated transcriptional patterns, while CDH2-high tumors reproducibly exhibited higher extracellular matrix remodeling, adhesion/focal adhesion, epithelial-mesenchymal transition, and angiogenesis-related signature scores. In an independent Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas cohort, higher CDH2 expression was also associated with worse overall survival in a lower-grade glioma-preferred subset. Collectively, this study demonstrates the utility of a knowledge-guided integrative transcriptomic framework for prioritizing angiogenesis-associated genes beyond canonical regulators and highlights structure-oriented, non-canonical angiogenesis-related programs as reproducible biological signals.© 2026. The Author(s).
Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), including Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), are chronic disorders with relapsing and remitting disease courses. Several clinical indicators and biomarkers have been evaluated for their clinical utility in assessing disease prognosis and monitoring disease activity. This study evaluated the utility of growth differentiation factor-15 (GDF15) and bone morphogenetic protein-6 (BMP6) in inflammatory pathways and iron regulation in IBD.Between September 2015 and March 2016, this single-center, cross-sectional study included 40 CD patients, 29 UC patients, and 70 healthy controls. The disease activity was measured using the Mayo score and the Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI). Serum iron, hematological indices, inflammatory markers, and the novel biomarkers BMP6 and GDF15 as determined by ELISA were evaluated.Both the CD and UC groups showed significantly lower serum iron (p < 0.001), reduced mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, and higher red cell distribution width than the control group. Inflammatory markers, including erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP), were elevated in IBD, particularly during active disease, with CRP increasing significantly in active UC compared to remission (p = 0.040). In contrast, BMP6 and GDF15 levels did not differ significantly between the disease groups or activity states. Nonetheless, GDF15 demonstrated moderate positive correlations with serum iron (r = 0.314), hemoglobin (r = 0.320), and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC) (r = 0.344), suggesting a link to erythropoietic or iron-related processes rather than inflammation.Conventional markers reliably confirmed iron deficiency and inflammation in IBD. BMP6 and GDF15 levels did not differ significantly across disease states, indicating limited utility as markers of disease activity. Notably, GDF15 was positively correlated with serum iron, hemoglobin, and MCHC, suggesting its association with iron metabolism rather than active inflammation. Larger longitudinal studies are warranted to validate this potential role.Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s).
FAT atypical cadherin 2 (FAT2), a member of the protocadherin superfamily involved in cell adhesion and polarity, remains incompletely characterized in breast cancer. This study aimed to elucidate the expression pattern, clinical significance, and functional mechanisms of FAT2 in breast cancer.FAT2 expression and clinicopathological associations were analyzed using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) dataset. Recombinant FAT2 protein was generated, and its effects on migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) were assessed in HER2-positive breast cancer cell lines (BT-474 and MDA-MB-453). Downstream effectors were identified through gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) combined with correlation analysis and validated by gain- and loss-of-function experiments. Immunohistochemical analysis of 31 paired clinical specimens was performed to corroborate the in vitro findings.FAT2 mRNA was significantly downregulated in breast cancer tissues and was associated with advanced clinical stage, higher T stage, and negative hormone receptor status. High FAT2 expression correlated with longer overall survival, particularly in the ER-positive subgroup. Functionally, recombinant FAT2 protein inhibited cell migration and invasion at sub-cytotoxic concentrations and reversed the EMT phenotype. Integrative bioinformatics analysis identified the tight junction protein CLDN19 as a key downstream effector of FAT2, and rescue experiments demonstrated that CLDN19 knockdown markedly attenuated FAT2-mediated anti-migratory and anti-EMT effects. Immunohistochemical analysis validated the concurrent downregulation and strong positive correlation of FAT2 and CLDN19 in clinical specimens.FAT2 functions as a tumor suppressor in breast cancer by inhibiting migration, invasion, and EMT through transcriptional upregulation of CLDN19. The FAT2-CLDN19 axis represents a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for anti-metastatic intervention in breast cancer.Copyright © 2026 Xie, Lu, Li and Xu.
Adherens junctions physically connect neighboring cells and are built around classical cadherins, homophilic transmembrane proteins that link to the actin cytoskeleton. Classical cadherins can organize into ordered arrays in vitro, but whether they do so in cells remains to be established. Here, we use fluorescence polarization microscopy to show that the classical cadherin N-cadherin is orientationally ordered at cardiomyocyte cell-cell junctions. Whereas the desmosomal cadherin desmoglein 2 was similarly ordered across junction types, N-cadherin order was spatially heterogeneous. Order was lowest where organized myofibrils terminate at high-load, vinculin-enriched axial junctions and highest at low-load, vinculin-poor lateral junctions. This inverse relationship between order and mechanical load suggests that robust cadherin-mediated adhesion does not require ectodomain order. Our findings provide evidence that a classical cadherin is orientationally ordered in cells and show that mechanically active adhesions adopt distinct organizational strategies according to local mechanical demands.At cardiomyocyte junctions, N-cadherin is ordered where mechanical load is low but disordered where load is high, suggesting that cadherin organization adapts to local force conditions.
Preterm infants are prone to gastrointestinal complications such as infectious diseases and necrotizing enterocolitis, which are associated with intestinal inflammation and increased intestinal permeability. Intestinal epithelial barrier (IEB) function is known to be immature in preterm neonates; however, our understanding of how the IEB develops - particularly the formation of junctional complexes - remains limited. Here, we analyzed intestinal tissue specimens from healthy resection margins of six very immature preterm infants who underwent bowel resection due to focal intestinal perforation (at the chronological age of 25 to 28 weeks' gestation), and compared the composition of tight junctions, adherens junctions and desmosomes to that of adults. Using immunostaining, our observations show, that tight junction proteins Claudin-2, Claudin-3 and Occludin, adherens junction proteins E-cadherin and β-Catenin as well as desmosomal proteins Plakoglobin and Plakophilin-2 appeared as mature as in adults as early as 25 weeks' gestation. However, Claudin-1, -4 and -5, as well as ZO-1 staining patterns increased and became more defined with increasing gestational age, suggesting junctional maturation during gestational week 26 and 27. Desmosomal protein Desmocollin-2 was increased until 26 weeks' gestation whereas Desmoglein-2 and Desmoplakin expression was immature at 28 weeks' gestation compared to the expression in adults. Our study provides the first sequential characterization of junctional protein maturation across all major IEB components early in life in human samples. These findings may help identify key mechanisms underlying intestinal barrier-associated pathologies in preterm infants.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42233375
Berberis vulgaris (B. vulgaris) L. (Berberidaceae), deeply rooted in Iranian traditional medicine, exhibits significant antidiabetic potential attributed to its berberine content. This plant has been historically used for its glucose-lowering, anti-oxidant, and anti-inflammatory properties. This research investigated berberine's capacity to regenerate pancreatic β-cells in type 1 diabetic rats, specifically examining its dose-dependent effects on metabolic recovery, histopathological restoration, and molecular mechanisms underlying β-cell regeneration.Two groups of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats received daily oral berberine (50 and 100 mg/kg) for 60 days. We measured berberine half-life and gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) levels using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with ultraviolet-visible (Uv/Vis) and fluorescence detection (FD). Fasting blood sugar (FBS), lipid profiles, liver enzymes, insulin, and gastrin were assessed. Pancreatic histopathology (islet damage) and pancreatic and duodenal homeobox 1 (Pdx1) expression were analyzed.Berberine exhibited a 60-min half-life, with blood concentration declining to 0.63 and 0.95 µmol/l within 90 min. Treatment significantly elevated GABA levels (3.0 and 3.8 mg/dl vs diabetic group: 0.44 mg/dl) and reduced FBS by 50% (327 and 296 mg/dl vs diabetic group: 616 mg/dl). Gastrin levels increased to 8.70 and 8.93 pg/ml (vs diabetic group: 5.96 pg/ml). Histopathology revealed reduced islet shrinkage and vacuolization. Pdx1 expression was increased in the treated groups compared with diabetic controls.Berberine from B. vulgaris effectively stimulates pancreatic β-cell regeneration, as evidenced by restored histoarchitecture, up-regulated Pdx1, and sustained glycemic control despite rapid clearance. This validates its traditional antidiabetic use and positions berberine as a promising disease-modifying agent.
The aim of this study was to evaluate whether circulating anti-desmoglein-2 antibodies distinguish Boxer dogs with arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy from screened controls and assess the diagnostic utility of anti-desmoglein-2, cardiac troponin I (cTnI), high-sensitivity cTnI (HS-cTnI), and N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) relative to arrhythmia burden.This prospective cross-sectional study included 52 Boxer dogs (28 arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy-affected and 24 screened controls). Diagnosis was based on Holter monitoring (>300 ventricular premature complexes [VPCs]/24 h or documented ventricular tachycardia). Anti-desmoglein-2 antibodies, cTnI, HS-cTnI, and NT-proBNP were measured. Receiver operating characteristic analysis and correlations with VPC burden were performed.Anti-desmoglein-2 antibody concentrations did not differ between groups by either method (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay: P=0.687; Western blot: P=0.293). Receiver-operating characteristic analysis showed poor discriminatory ability for anti-desmoglein-2 (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay: area under the receiver operating characteristic curve [AUC] = 0.534, P=0.693; Western blot: AUC = 0.600, P=0.295). In contrast, cutoffs for NT-proBNP (1530 pmol/L, AUC = 0.856), HS-cTnI (0.21 ng/mL, AUC = 0.805), and cTnI (0.08 ng/mL, AUC = 0.795) all demonstrated good performance in differentiating groups (P<0.001) and showed positive correlations with VPCs (P≤0.001) for NT-proBNP (r = 0.60), HS-cTnI (r = 0.549), and cTnI (r = 0.471).The cross-sectional design and lack of pedigree data may have limited detection of subclinical disease. Disease stage and therapy may also have influenced biomarker concentrations.Anti-desmoglein-2 antibody lacked diagnostic value for arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy in Boxer dogs, whereas NT-proBNP, cTnI, and HS-cTnI showed promise as reliable clinical biomarkers.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study aims to uncover the role and mechanism of transforming growth factor α (TGFA) on the malignant progression of cervical cancer. Reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blotting were used to examine the expression levels of TGFA in cancer cells and tissues. Changes in cell viability, apoptosis, and malignant metastatic ability of cancer cells were detected using methylthiazolyldiphenyl-tetrazolium bromide (MTT), flow cytometry, and Transwell method respectively. Autophagy was evaluated via microtubule-associated proteins light chain 3 (LC3) and sequestosome 1 (p62) expression. A nude mouse xenograft model was used for in vivo validation. RNA pull-down assay was performed to explore the interaction between TGFA and desmoglein 2 (DSG2). These results indicated that TGFA expression was elevated in both cervical cancer tissues and cells. TGFA overexpression promoted cell proliferation, metastasis, and autophagy, whereas TGFA knockdown exerted the opposite effects and inhibited tumor growth. Mechanistically, TGFA bound to DSG2 and affected the downstream MYC oncogene (c-MYC)/ADAM metallopeptidase domain 17 (ADAM17) pathway. In conclusion, TGFA serves as an upstream regulator of the DSG2/c-MYC/ADAM17 axis, which is correlated with autophagy and malignant progression of cervical cancer.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42150891
Uterine gland development and function is essential for reproduction and women's health, yet the epithelial cell states and signaling interactions that govern gland fate specification are not well understood. Here, integration of single cell and spatial transcriptomics with organoid culture, lineage tracing, and genetic and hormonal perturbation models were used to define mechanisms regulating postnatal uterine epithelial differentiation. A developmentally restricted epithelial plasticity state was identified that precedes luminal and glandular cell lineage segregation and is accompanied by dynamic reorganization of stromal-epithelial communication during uterine differentiation. Pseudotime analysis revealed progressive acquisition of gland-associated programs, including forkhead box A2 (Foxa2), retinoic acid metabolic genes, and epithelial estrogen receptor alpha (Esr1) expression. Functional studies revealed that ESR1 acquisition and retinoic acid signaling suppress the multilayered organoid phenotype associated with epithelial plasticity, thereby promoting epithelial specification and lineage commitment. Moreover, neonatal hormonal perturbation of adenogenesis and conditional deletion of Foxa2 abolished this organoid phenotype. Together, these findings demonstrate that ESR1 acquisition, retinoic acid signaling and FOXA2-dependent glandular differentiation each restrict a transient epithelial plasticity state, coupling the loss of developmental plasticity to the emergence of the glandular lineage.
Previous studies demonstrate that individuals with elevated plasma trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) suffer worse myocardial injury following acute myocardial infarction. However, whether TMAO promotes myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury (MIRI) remained undefined. The purpose of this study was to determine if TMAO exacerbated MIRI. In this study, we found that TMAO exacerbated MIRI in both in vivo mouse models of ischemia-reperfusion and in vitro primary cardiomyocyte models of hypoxia/reoxygenation. Mechanistically, RNA sequencing and gene set enrichment analysis indicated that TMAO suppressed mitochondrial function-related pathways. Further, we confirmed that TMAO aggravated mitochondrial dysfunction during ischemia-reperfusion, manifested as ultrastructural damage, reduced mitochondrial membrane potential, elevated reactive oxygen species overproduction, impaired mitochondrial respiration and inhibited energy metabolism. TMAO-induced mitochondrial dysfunction was mediated through ferredoxin reductase suppression, as ferredoxin reductase overexpression reversed TMAO-exacerbated injury. TMAO bound to eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2-alpha kinase 3 (PERK) and sustained PERK/eukaryotic initiation factor-2α (eIF2α) pathway activation during IR. Pharmacological inhibition of PERK/eIF2α signaling (using GSK2606414 and ISRIB) reversed TMAO-induced ferredoxin reductase suppression, mitochondrial dysfunction, and MIRI exacerbation, indicating the key role of PERK/eIF2α signaling in this process. These findings provide novel insight that TMAO is a risk factor in MIRI. Through maintaining PERK/eIF2α activation, TMAO inhibits ferredoxin reductase expression thereby impairing ferredoxin reductase-dependent mitochondrial function. Pharmacological inhibition of the PERK/eIF2α pathway may represent a therapeutic strategy for alleviating MIRI with elevated TMAO.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer disease pathology and cerebral small-vessel disease frequently coexist in older adults, yet how their interaction influences early clinical progression remains poorly understood, particularly in individuals without dementia. We aimed to investigate how plasma Alzheimer disease biomarkers and white matter hyperintensities (WMHs) interact to influence cognitive trajectories and the risk of progression to cognitive impairment and dementia.We studied 463 nondemented participants from the ADNI (Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative). Linear mixed-effects models assessed interactions between plasma biomarkers and WMHs on cognitive trajectories. Cox models examined incident cognitive impairment and dementia. Moderated mediation analyses explored potential biological pathways.Among 463 participants, plasma phosphorylated tau 217 to β-amyloid 42 ratio was the only biomarker that consistently interacted with WMHs across multiple stages of disease progression, including cognitive decline (Mini-Mental State Examination: β=-0.05 [95% CI, -0.06 to -0.03]; executive function: β=-0.02 [95% CI, -0.03 to -0.01]; memory: β=-0.03 [95% CI, -0.04 to -0.02]; language: β=-0.03 [95% CI, -0.04 to -0.02]; visuospatial function: β=-0.02 [95% CI, -0.04 to -0.01]) and increased clinical risk (cognitive impairment: χ2=15.67, P=0.047; dementia: χ2=15.88, P=0.044). These interactive associations were most pronounced in cognitively normal individuals and men. Moderated mediation analyses indicated that plasma glial fibrillary acidic protein partially mediated the interaction between phosphorylated tau 217 to β-amyloid 42 ratio and WMHs for executive function and language performance.These findings indicate that phosphorylated tau 217 to β-amyloid 42 ratio and WMHs jointly contribute to clinical progression in nondemented individuals, with astrocytic activation potentially involved in this process.
The effects of adjuvant hyperthermia on glioblastoma-associated astrocytes remain poorly characterized. This study aimed to investigate the role of the purinergic P2X7 receptor, an ATP-gated ion channel, in mediating heat-induced astrocyte activation and its impact on tumor progression.Primary mouse astrocytes were subjected to heat stress (mild hyperthermia at 42°C). P2X7 signaling was examined using a specific antagonist (A-740003), siRNA-mediated knockdown, and live-cell calcium imaging. Astrocyte activation was evaluated by assessing Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein (GFAP) expression and pro-inflammatory markers. The pro-tumorigenic potential of astrocyte-conditioned medium was tested on U87 glioblastoma cells. An orthotopic mouse model was used to validate the effects of local hyperthermia, with or without P2X7 inhibition.Mild hyperthermia upregulated P2X7 expression in astrocytes and induced a substantial calcium influx, leading to activation of the Calcineurin-NFAT pathway. This process promoted a reactive astrocyte phenotype and a pro-tumorigenic secretory profile, enhancing U87 cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. In vivo, mild hyperthermia was associated with increased tumor progression, which was attenuated by pharmacological inhibition of P2X7.Heat stress facilitates glioblastoma progression by activating astrocytes through the P2X7-mediated calcium-calcineurin-NFAT signaling pathway. These findings highlight P2X7 as a potential therapeutic target for optimizing hyperthermia-based strategies in glioblastoma treatment.The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560134 is a review article
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a complicated neuropsychiatric disorder that is marked by long-term neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and poor neuroplasticity in stress-sensitive brain areas. Hesperidin is a citrus-derived flavanone glycoside that has been reported to have multitarget neuroprotective effects with antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and neurotrophic regulatory activities. However, its integrated effects across convergent pathological pathways in validated PTSD models remain insufficiently defined.Male Wistar rats were subjected to the single prolonged stress (SPS) paradigm and treated with hesperidin (50, 100, and 200 mg/kg), fluoxetine (20 mg/kg), or vehicle for 14 days. Biochemical assessments (malondialdehyde [MDA], catalase [CAT], superoxide dismutase [SOD]) and immunohistochemical measurements of neuronal and glial integrity (NeuN, glial fibrillary acidic protein [GFAP], brain-derived neurotrophic factor [BDNF]) in the hippocampus, amygdala, and prefrontal cortex were performed.SPS exposure induced marked oxidative imbalance, evidenced by increased MDA levels and reduced CAT activity, alongside significant upregulation of tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α), interleukin 6 (IL-6), and IL-1β, increased astrocytic reactivity (GFAP), and reduced BDNF expression. Hesperidin treatment significantly attenuated lipid peroxidation, partially restored CAT activity, and suppressed pro-inflammatory cytokines, with the most pronounced effect observed for IL-1β. Notably, hesperidin reduced astrocytic activation and preserved neuronal morphology, while enhancing BDNF expression in a dose-dependent manner, with optimal effects at 50-100 mg/kg. Conversely, there was little group variation in the activity of SOD, implying pathway-selective redox regulation.Hesperidin has multipathway, coordinated, modulatory effects on oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, glial activation, and neurotrophic signaling in the SPS model of PTSD. These findings support its utility as a mechanistic probe for interrogating convergent stress-related neuropathological pathways.© 2026 The Author(s). Animal Models and Experimental Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Chinese Association for Laboratory Animal Sciences.
To evaluate the effect of sublingual immunotherapy with dust mite drops on serum eosinophil cationic protein (ECP), thymus and activation-regulated chemokine (TARC), vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) levels and symptom improvement in allergic rhinitis (AR) patients.A prospective randomized controlled trial enrolled 300 AR patients sensitized to dust mites, randomly assigned to control group (conventional treatment, n = 150) and research group (conventional treatment plus sublingual dust mite drops, n = 150) for 6 months.Compared with controls, the research group showed significantly greater reductions in interleukin-4 (IL-4), interleukin-17 (IL-17), ECP, TARC, VCAM-1, lower adverse reaction rates, improved pulmonary function including forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume in the first second (FEV1), peak expiratory flow (PEF), FEV1/FVC ratio, and small airway function including maximal mid-expiratory flow (MMEF), expiratory flow rate at 50% of FVC (MEF50), expiratory flow rate at 25% of FVC (MEF25), as well as reduced symptom scores (all p < 0.05).Sublingual immunotherapy with Dust mite drops appears effective in suppressing systemic inflammation, minimizing treatment-related adverse events, enhancing both small airway and pulmonary function, and easing the clinical manifestations of allergic rhinitis.
Advanced age and diabetes mellitus (DM) are major risk factors for severe COVID-19, associated with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), cytokine storm, and increased mortality. SARS-CoV-2 spike protein (SP) binding to angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) potentially disrupts the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), promoting angiotensin II (Ang II) accumulation and vascular dysfunction. In individuals with preexisting endothelial dysfunction (ED), such as older adults with type 2 DM (T2DM), COVID-19 may exacerbate inflammation, vascular permeability, and tissue damage. This study aimed to elucidate the mechanisms by which SP exacerbates diabetes-associated ED using an in vitro aortic endothelial-bronchial epithelial co-culture model. Serum from healthy adults and T2DM patients was used to stimulate human aortic endothelial cells (HAoECs), with or without SP. ED was assessed via reactive oxygen species (ROS), intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), and endothelial permeability. ACE2 expression and Ang II levels were measured in ACE2-transfected human bronchial epithelial cells (BEAS-2BACE2-eGFP). Combined effects on lung injury and cytokines (CXCL8, IL-1β, and IL-6) were evaluated using a co-culture system. T2DM serum significantly increased ROS (609.33 ± 108.23%; p = 0.0016), ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 expression (68.55 ± 5.47 copies/μL; p = 0.0011 and 84.77 ± 3.81 copies/μL; p < 0.0001, respectively), and permeability (3.86 × 107 ± 4.8 × 106 FU; p = 0.0119) in HAoECs. In BEAS-2BACE2-eGFP, T2DM serum significantly increased ACE2 expression (5.45 ± 1.99 copies/μL; p = 0.0089), whereas co-exposure to T2DM + SP markedly reduced ACE2 (0.97 ± 0.29 copies/μL; p = 0.0086) and elevated Ang II (111.60 ± 15.81 pg./mL; p = 0.1343). Co-treatment with T2DM + SP further exacerbated ED, driving heightened inflammation, lung epithelial injury, and cytokine release. Diabetes-associated ED synergizes with SP to aggravate vascular inflammation and lung injury, identifying adhesion molecules and pro-inflammatory cytokines as potential biomarkers, and RAS dysregulation and endothelial activation as therapeutic targets for severe COVID-19 in T2DM.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Endothelial cell pyroptosis is a key factor promoting plaque instability in atherosclerosis (AS). Serum/Glucocorticoid Regulated Kinase 1 (SGK1) is upregulated in AS, but its upstream regulatory mechanisms and role in pyroptosis remain unclear. This study aims to elucidate the mechanism of action of the GATA Binding Protein 3 (GATA3)/SGK1 axis in ox-LDL-induced endothelial cell pyroptosis."AS and pyroptosis" related genes were screened using bioinformatics analysis. Transcription factor binding sites in the SGK1 promoter region were predicted using JASPAR. After establishing a pyroptosis model in ox-LDL-induced mouse aortic endothelial cells (MAECs), the effects of the GATA3/SGK1 regulatory axis on pyroptosis were detected using qRT-PCR, LDH release assays, and ELISA; the regulatory relationship was validated using the GATA3 inhibitor Pyrrothiogatain and SGK1 overexpression; and the mechanism of action of SGK1 was elucidated using a Caspase1 inhibitor (VX-765).Bioinformatics analysis identified 65 pyroptosis-related genes that were upregulated in AS, and this study focused on SGK1. The SGK1 promoter region contains 4 GATA3 binding sites. Ox-LDL significantly upregulated GATA3, SGK1, cleaved-Caspase-1, GSDMD-N and NLRP3 expression, while pyrrothiogatain reduced SGK1 expression and alleviated cellular damage and excessive inflammation. SGK1 overexpression reversed the protective effect of Pyrrothiogatain. Mechanistic studies showed that SGK1 overexpression exacerbated ox-LDL-induced pyroptosis, while VX-765 significantly reversed this effect.This study elucidates that GATA3 activated SGK1 transcription by directly binding to its promoter region, thereby promoting Caspase1/GSDMD-dependent endothelial cell pyroptosis.
This study investigated the mechanism by which Xiaoyao San ameliorates &quot;brain-gut&quot; interaction disorders in chronic stress-induced mice by examining its effects on T helper 1 cell(Th1)/T helper 2 cell(Th2) immune balance. Forty male C57BL/6 mice(6-8 weeks old, SPF grade) were randomly assigned to four groups(n=10 per group): control group, model group, Xiaoyao San group(7.63 g·kg~(-1)), and fluoxetine hydrochloride group(4.11 mg·kg~(-1)). Except for the control group, all groups underwent 28 days of chronic unpredictable mild stress(CUMS) to establish the model. Behavioral tests were conducted on day 28. From day 29, the Xiaoyao San and fluoxetine hydrochloride groups received corresponding drug solutions via oral gavage for 28 days(once daily), while the control and model groups received equivalent volumes of saline. CUMS modeling continued uninterrupted during the administration period. Behavioral assessments were repeated on day 56, with body weight monitored throughout the experiment. Hematoxylin-eosin(HE) staining was used to observe pathological changes in intestinal tissues. The villus height and crypt depth were measured, and their ratio was calculated. Immunohistochemistry(IHC) was employed to detect the expression of tight junction proteins zonula occludens-1(ZO-1) and occludin in the intestinal mucosa. Serum levels of interferon-γ(IFN-γ), interleukin(IL)-2, IL-4, IL-10, corticosterone(CORT), gastrin(GAS), motilin(MTL), and somatostatin(SS) were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA) and subjected to correlation analysis. Western blot was performed to assess T-box transcription factor T-bet and GATA-binding protein 3(GATA-3) protein expression in the hypothalamus and intestinal tissues. The results demonstrated that Xiaoyao San significantly alleviated CUMS-induced depressive-like behaviors, including weight loss, reduced sucrose preference, and decreased locomotor activity in the open field test. HE staining indicated that Xiaoyao San effectively restored intestinal villus structure and increased the villus height-to-crypt depth ratio. IHC results showed that Xiaoyao San enhanced the expression of occludin and ZO-1 related to intestinal mucosal barrier, suggesting improved intestinal barrier function. ELISA analysis revealed that Xiaoyao San significantly decreased serum levels of CORT, SS, IFN-γ, and IL-2, while increasing GAS, MTL, IL-4, and IL-10, indicating mitigation of stress-induced damage and inflammatory responses, as well as regulation of brain-gut peptide secretion. Western blot results showed that Xiaoyao San significantly reduced T-bet protein expression and the T-bet/GATA-3 ratio in both the hypothalamus and intestinal tissues, suggesting correction of Th1/Th2 immune imbalance induced by CUMS. Correlation analysis indicated significant associations between brain-gut peptides and Th1/Th2-related inflammatory factors, implying a link between Th1/Th2 inflammatory responses and brain-gut regulatory function. In conclusion, Xiaoyao San ameliorates brain-gut interaction disorders in chronic stress mice, potentially through restoring Th1/Th2 immune balance, attenuating inflammatory responses, and modulating &quot;brain-gut&quot; peptide secretion.
ObjectiveEndothelial dysfunction is a key pathological process in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases. Herein, we aimed to investigate the effect of homocysteine on endoplasmic reticulum stress in a model of endothelial dysfunction, focusing on glucose-regulated protein 78 mediation by homocysteine.MethodsWe established a hyperhomocysteinemia model in mice to examine the effect of homocysteine on cerebral microcirculation. In vitro, endothelial cells were used to explore the effect of homocysteine on endoplasmic reticulum stress. We conducted a bioinformatics study to investigate the impact of homocysteine on the vascular microenvironment. Furthermore, molecular dynamics simulation analysis was performed to explore the binding mode and stability between homocysteine and glucose-regulated protein 78.ResultsIn vivo, homocysteine increased the expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 and intercellular adhesion molecule 1 in brain tissue, whereas reducing the expression of tight junction protein 1. Furthermore, inhibition of endoplasmic reticulum stress effectively improved endothelial dysfunction induced by homocysteine. Finally, molecular dynamics simulations revealed a critical interaction between homocysteine and glucose-regulated protein 78, which likely impacts binding affinity.ConclusionsHomocysteine causes cerebral microcirculatory disorders. The mechanism is related to homocysteine-induced endoplasmic reticulum stress through regulation of glucose-regulated protein 78 protein function.
Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) promotes endothelial activation and a prothrombotic milieu through intermittent hypoxia, oxidative stress, and systemic inflammation, mechanisms closely linked to atherosclerosis progression. The vascular effects of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) therapy in patients with established coronary artery disease (CAD) remain incompletely understood.To evaluate the longitudinal effects of CPAP treatment on endothelial adhesion molecules and fibrinolytic balance in patients with CAD and OSA.In this randomized controlled analysis from the RICCADSA trial, 210 revascularized CAD patients with moderate-to-severe OSA were assigned to CPAP (n = 104) or no-CPAP (n = 106) and had available biomarker measurements at baseline and 12 months. Circulating intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) were assessed. Linear mixed-effects models were used to examine longitudinal changes and time-by-treatment interactions adjusted for cardiometabolic covariates.For ICAM-1, no significant time-by-treatment interaction was observed. For PAI-1, a borderline time-by-treatment interaction suggested a numerically smaller increase in the CPAP group compared with no-CPAP (p = 0.09). CPAP treatment was associated with a significantly greater reduction in VCAM-1 over time compared with no-CPAP (time-by-treatment interaction p = 0.045 in adjusted models).CPAP treatment was associated with selective modulation of vascular biomarkers in patients with CAD and OSA, characterized by attenuation of endothelial activation reflected by reduced VCAM-1 levels, while fibrinolytic imbalance appeared largely resistant to intervention. These findings support pathway-specific vascular responses to CPAP and provide mechanistic insight into residual atherosclerotic risk in this high-risk population.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Natalizumab, a monoclonal IgG4 antibody used in the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS), inhibits α4β1 (very late antigen-4, VLA-4)-binding to vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), thereby reducing leukocyte recruitment to inflamed tissues. The intricate mechanisms underlying these effects remain unclear, particularly concerning the heavy-chain shuffling of IgG4. We conducted an in vitro study to quantify the impact of bivalent IgG and monovalent Fab forms of natalizumab on the capture and migration of human primary memory T lymphocytes under shear stress, using VCAM-1 and CXCL12-coated surfaces. IgG natalizumab at concentrations near its cell surface EC50 (half-maximal effective concentration) showed significant of capture and resistance of adherent cells to shear stress, whereas significantly higher doses of Fab natalizumab, up to 100-fold greater than its cell surface EC50, were needed to achieve similar effects. These findings highlight that receptor occupancy alone may not adequately predict the functional outcomes of inhibitor antibodies. For optimal therapeutic effect, inhibition of cell-surface adhesion may require specific kinetic and geometric binding properties of antibodies. Insight Box This study shows how natalizumab functionally inhibits α4β1 (very late antigen-4, VLA-4)-mediated T-cell adhesion by integrating quantitative affinity measurements with dynamic assays performed under shear stress. We show that the antibody's bivalency provides a major functional advantage, enabling strong inhibition of cell capture and adhesion at concentrations near its EC50 (half-maximal effective concentration), whereas monovalent Fab fragments require 10- to 100-fold higher doses. These findings offer biological insight into why receptor occupancy alone cannot predict adhesion inhibition. By combining cell-based affinity quantification with real-time adhesion and migration assays, our work reveals how kinetic and geometric properties of antibody-integrin interactions shape immune cell dynamics, informing the rational design of next-generation integrin-targeting therapeutics.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
To determine disease-specific associations of serum vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) and associated mortality in systemic sclerosis (SSc).Participants were identified from the Australian Scleroderma Cohort Study. Data were linked with the National Death Index for cause-specific mortality. VCAM-1 was measured using a magnetic Luminex assay. Participant characteristics and information on organ specific manifestations were extracted until February 2024. Participants were stratified into VCAM-1 quartiles.Of 388 participants, 87.1% were female and 76.8% had limited cutaneous disease. Median age at diagnosis was 45.7 years (IQR 36.4-56.7).Participants with upper quartile VCAM-1 (Q4) had increased mortality compared to others (HR 2.17, 1.54-3.04; p < 0.001). Despite the significant increased mortality in Q4, there were no statistically significant differences in sex, age, disease duration, disease subtype, autoantibody profile or forced vital capacity across the VCAM-1 quartiles.Q4 were more likely to have pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH; p = 0.028), SSc-attributable myocardial disease (p = 0.009) and digital ulcers (p = 0.003). In cause-specific mortality analysis, Q4 were more likely to have PAH (HR 3.08;1.68-5.65, p < 0.001), SSc-attributable myocardial disease (HR 2.85;1.51-5.38, p = 0.001) and all-cause cardiovascular disease (HR 2.50;1.60-3.89, p < 0.001) listed as a cause or contributor to death. Q4 VCAM-1 level was not associated with interstitial lung disease presence, severity or cause-specific mortality.The increased mortality in participants with SSc and Q4 VCAM-1 levels is attributable to increased frequency of vascular disease manifestations. Q4 participants do not have a disproportionate frequency of other established risk factors for increased mortality, suggesting an independent role for VCAM-1 in disease pathophysiology.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British Society for Rheumatology.
Background: Wild blueberries (WB), abundant in (poly)phenols such as anthocyanins and chlorogenic acids, have shown vascular benefits in several preclinical and epidemiological settings. However, evidence from human trials remains limited. This double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover trial investigated the effects of the consumption of a WB drink on vascular reactivity and circulating adhesion molecules in healthy young adults. Methods: Participants received 300 mL of a WB drink (30 g of freeze-dried WB powder containing 740 mg total (poly)phenols, 460 mg total anthocyanins and 170 mg chlorogenic acid) or the same amount of a placebo (PL) drink. Blood pressure, heart rate, microvascular reactivity (i.e., reactive hyperemia index, RHI, lnRHI and FRHI) and arterial stiffness (i.e., augmentation index, AIx) were assessed at baseline and 2 h after consumption of the WB and PL drinks using Endo-PAT2000. In addition, plasma circulating adhesion molecules including vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), E-selectin, and cluster of differentiation 15 (CD 15 or Lewis x) were analyzed using ELISA. Results: Overall, analysis of variance did not show a significant effect of treatment on the modulation of markers of vascular function and adhesion molecules but revealed an effect of time, with an increase in terms of microvascular reactivity (RHI, p < 0.01; lnRHI, p < 0.05; FRHI, p < 0.001) and augmentation index (AIx, p < 0.01), and a reduction in the circulating levels of VCAM-1 (p < 0.001) following the intake of both WB and PL drinks. Conclusions: In conclusion, the intake of a WB drink failed to affect vascular function in young healthy subjects. Larger-scale and longer-term intervention studies, particularly in individuals at increased cardiovascular risk and in those with vascular dysfunction, are warranted to further explore the role of WB in modulating vascular reactivity.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder with complex pathogenesis, and current therapies face limitations in efficacy and safety. Huangqin (Scutellaria baicalensis) exhibits anti-inflammatory properties, yet its multi-target mechanisms against AD remain unclear. A systems pharmacology approach integrating multi-omics profiling was utilized to decode Huangqin anti-AD mechanisms. First, bioactive compounds and their potential targets were systematically identified, followed by constructing compound-target networks and enriching key pathways. Then, machine learning algorithms (Support Vector Machine/Recursive Feature/Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator) were applied to prioritize hub targets from network-derived candidates. Finally, molecular docking was conducted to validate ligand-receptor binding affinity. Twenty-nine bioactive compounds were identified, interacting with 55 AD-related targets. AKT1 emerged as the most central hub in the protein-protein interaction network. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analysis revealed Huangqin potential roles in modulating bacterial infection responses and regulating pathways such as IL-17, TNF, HIF-1α, and PI3K-AKT signaling. Machine learning algorithms were applied to prioritize key genes, which highlighted AKT1, solute carrier family 6 member 4, and chemokine ligand 2 as core targets, with molecular docking confirming strong binding between wogonin, baicalein, beta-sitosterol, and these targets. These findings suggest that Huangqin exerts multi-target effects on AD, centered on AKT1-mediated signaling crosstalk, to regulate inflammatory and immune pathways. This mechanistic insight establishes a foundation for clinical translation and AKT1-focused drug development.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Epilepsy is a chronic neurological disorder characterized by recurrent seizures, neuronal degeneration, and cognitive impairment. Current antiepileptic therapies mainly control seizures and do not effectively prevent epileptogenesis or restore neurological function. Human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (HuMSCs) and their cell-free derivatives, including secretome and exosomes, have emerged as promising regenerative therapies. This study aimed to compare the neuroprotective and cognitive effects of HuMSCs, secretome, and exosomes in a rat model of pilocarpine-induced epilepsy.Thirty male Wistar rats were randomly allocated into five groups (n = 6/group): healthy control, untreated epilepsy, HuMSC-treated epilepsy, secretome-treated epilepsy, and exosome-treated epilepsy. Epilepsy was induced by intraperitoneal pilocarpine administration following scopolamine pre-treatment. Treatments were administered intravenously on days 14, 28, and 42 after induction. Cognitive performance was assessed using the Morris Water Maze test between days 50 and 56. Histopathological examination of the hippocampus, immunohistochemical evaluation, and quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis of synaptic vesicle glycoprotein 2A (SV2A) and SRY-box transcription factor 10 (SOX10) expression were performed to determine therapeutic efficacy.HuMSC therapy significantly reduced hippocampal neuronal damage compared with untreated epilepsy, secretome, and exosome groups (p < 0.05). The mean number of damaged neurons was lowest in the HuMSC-treated group and approached normal control values. HuMSC treatment restored SV2A and SOX10 expression to levels comparable with those of healthy controls, indicating improved synaptic integrity and glial support. In contrast, secretome treatment produced moderate improvement, whereas exosome treatment showed limited therapeutic benefit. Cognitive assessment revealed significantly shorter escape latency and superior spatial learning performance in the HuMSC-treated rats compared with all other epilepsy groups (p < 0.05). Behavioral improvements were consistent with the molecular and histopathological findings, demonstrating enhanced neuroprotection and functional recovery following HuMSC administration.HuMSC therapy provided superior neuroprotective, molecular, and cognitive benefits compared with secretome and exosome treatments in a pilocarpine-induced epilepsy model. These findings support the potential of HuMSCs as a regenerative therapeutic strategy for epilepsy and suggest that intact stem cells may offer greater therapeutic efficacy than their cell-free derivatives. Further studies are required to optimize treatment protocols and evaluate long-term translational potential.Copyright: © Hastuti, et al.
Adaptive resistance to MAPK inhibitors remains a major clinical obstacle in BRAF-mutant melanoma, driven by reversible transcriptional and epigenetic reprogramming. Previous studies have implicated loss of SRY-box transcription factor 10 (SOX10) and concurrent activation of TGF-β signaling in this process, but the molecular link between them has remained unresolved. Here, we identify a SOX10-miR-106a/363-TGFBR2 regulatory axis that governs adaptive resistance. SOX10 directly activates transcription of the miR-106a/363 cluster through a distal cis-regulatory element. In turn, the miR-106a/363 cluster members miR-106a-5p and miR-20b-5p suppress TGFBR2 post-transcriptionally, while miR-363-3p indirectly reduces TGFBR2 expression by targeting SOX4, a transcriptional activator of TGFBR2. This dual-layered repression restrains TGF-β signaling and maintains drug sensitivity. Loss of SOX10 diminishes miR-106a/363 expression, derepresses TGFBR2, and promotes a mesenchymal-like, drug-tolerant state. Restoring miR-106a/363 expression partially re-sensitizes melanomas to RAF inhibitors in vivo. These findings reveal a previously unrecognized regulatory circuit linking SOX10 to TGF-β signaling and highlight the miR-106a/363 cluster as a potential therapeutic target to overcome adaptive resistance in melanoma.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42352524 is a review article
Neuroblastoma (NB) is among the most aggressive pediatric solid tumors, and outcomes for patients with high-risk or relapsed disease remain poor despite intensive multimodal therapy. Oncolytic adenoviruses represent a promising therapeutic approach; however, achieving tumor-selective replication while maintaining robust antitumor efficacy remains a major challenge. Paired-like homeobox 2B (PHOX2B) is a transcription factor that is broadly expressed in NB and largely absent from normal postnatal tissues, making its promoter an attractive candidate for transcriptional targeting. In this study, we developed a PHOX2B promoter-driven oncolytic adenovirus, Ad-pPHOX2B-5F, in which adenoviral E1 expression is controlled by the PHOX2B promoter. Using NB and non-NB cell lines, as well as isogenic models with PHOX2B overexpression, we examined the relationship between PHOX2B expression, viral gene activation, viral genome amplification, and cytotoxicity, and we evaluated antitumor efficacy in NB xenograft models. Ad-pPHOX2B-5F induced potent, selective cytotoxicity in PHOX2B-expressing NB cells, whereas cells with low or absent PHOX2B expression were largely resistant. Viral genome amplification and cytotoxicity were associated with PHOX2B expression, and PHOX2B overexpression in resistant G401 cells was accompanied by increased PHOX2B promoter activity, viral genome amplification, and susceptibility to Ad-pPHOX2B-5F. Notably, in selected NB cell lines, rapid cytotoxicity was observed despite limited detectable viral genome amplification and was accompanied by bystander cytotoxicity associated with filtered supernatants. In vivo, intratumoral administration of Ad-pPHOX2B-5F suppressed tumor growth in PHOX2B-positive xenografts and was associated with a reduction in PHOX2B-positive tumor areas. Together, these findings support the therapeutic potential of PHOX2B promoter-driven oncolytic adenoviruses for high-risk NB.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
We report an unusual case of basal cell carcinoma (BCC) with ductal differentiation presenting as a large unilocular cyst on the abdomen of an 83-year-old Japanese man. An initial punch biopsy showed part of the bilayered cyst wall, suggesting a sweat gland neoplasm. However, complete excision revealed a unilocular cyst continuous with underlying basaloid tumor nests showing peripheral palisading, stromal clefting, and partial BerEP4 expression, consistent with BCC. Both the luminal and outer layers of the cyst also showed partial BerEP4 expression. The luminal layer was positive for epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) and carcinoembryonic antigen, indicating that the unilocular cyst was a genuine cyst rather than a pseudocyst secondary to mucin deposition or tumor necrosis. The outer layer lacked myoepithelial markers including SRY-box transcription factor 10 and smooth muscle actin, suggesting that it represented part of the BCC rather than myoepithelium. Overall, we diagnosed the lesion as BCC with ductal differentiation forming a cyst with an EMA-positive lining. BCC with ductal differentiation has been reported, but cases with large unilocular cysts are uncommon. This case broadens the histologic spectrum of BCC and emphasizes the importance of complete excision and comprehensive immunohistochemical analysis in cystic lesions to avoid misdiagnosis.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Neuroblastoma (NB), a transcriptionally driven pediatric malignancy, exhibits a remarkable clinical and biological heterogeneity. Two major subtypes, adrenergic and mesenchymal, are differentially governed by distinct subsets of transcription factors that constitute the core regulatory circuitry (CRC). The adrenergic subtype is often associated with MYCN oncogene amplification and is particularly aggressive and therapy-resistant, underscoring the need for novel therapeutic targets.Gene knockdown with siRNAs, qRT-PCR, flow cytometry-assisted measurements of intracellular oxidation and cell death parameters, immunoblotting, cytotoxicity assays (MTT, colony formation).We identified the multifunctional non-POU domain-containing octamer-binding (NONO) protein as a guardian of individual CRC genes, thereby promoting the survival of NB cells with different MYCN copy numbers. In the MYCN-amplified Kelly cell line, intracellular oxidation induced by auranofin, an inhibitor of thioredoxin reductase 1 (TrxR1), rapidly down-regulated NONO mRNA and protein levels. Conversely, NONO knockdown by RNA interference (siNONO) also triggered intracellular oxidation. These effects were less pronounced in the SK-N-AS cell line carrying a single MYCN copy, as well as in non-malignant HS5 fibroblasts. In Kelly and IMR-32 cells, siNONO attenuated auranofin-induced activation of CRC genes, namely, heart and neural crest derivatives expressed 2 (HAND2) and paired-like homeobox 2B (PHOX2B). Furthermore, the Kelly cells were more sensitive to combinations of sublethal auranofin concentrations and siNONO than the counterparts with single MYCN copy. Importantly, MYCN-amplified cells demonstrated a significantly suppressed clonogenic survival 14 days after transient exposure to these combinations compared with each agent alone; HS5 fibroblasts were largely spared.Our findings reveal a new role for the transcriptional regulator NONO in maintenance of the cellular redox balance and justify the strategy of therapeutic targeting of MYCN-amplified tumors vulnerable to oxidative stress.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
4,4'-Diaminobenzophenone (DABP) is an emerging aromatic amine-benzophenone environmental contaminant with potential neurotoxic risk, while its molecular mechanisms remain insufficiently defined. Using an integrative framework combining network toxicology, machine learning-based target prioritization, molecular docking, in vitro neurotoxicity assays, and transcriptomic-metabolomic profiling, we systematically characterized the neurotoxic effects of DABP. Network analysis revealed prominent perturbations in mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-protein kinase (PI3K-Akt), calcium signaling, and inflammatory pathways. Machine learning approaches consistently identified ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), endothelin 1 (EDN1), semaphorin 3F (SEMA3F), growth arrest and DNA damage-inducible alpha (GADD45A), and FBJ murine osteosarcoma viral oncogene homolog (FOS) as core drivers of DABP-induced neurotoxicity, with SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) enabling quantitative interpretation of their contributions. Molecular docking supported stable interactions between DABP and these targets. Functionally, DABP exposure induced oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, lipid peroxidation, intracellular iron accumulation, and ferroptosis-related processes in SH-SY5Y cells, accompanied by sustained neuroinflammatory activation. Integrated transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses revealed coordinated dysregulation of inflammatory signaling, metabolic homeostasis, and synaptic-associated pathways. Collectively, this study establishes a systems-level mechanistic framework for DABP-induced neurotoxicity, providing critical insights for environmental neurotoxicity risk assessment and mechanistic toxicology of aromatic amine pollutants.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Plant polysaccharides possess significant anticonvulsant potential. This study investigated the neuroprotective effects of polysaccharide-rich birch sap (PRBS), previously characterized as primarily low-molecular-weight polysaccharides (MW·1.29 kDa), in a rat model of kainic acid (KA)-induced acute seizures.Rats received oral PRBS (6/10 mL/kg) for 7 days before KA-induced (15 mg/kg, i.p.) seizures. Seizure severity was evaluated using behavioral, electroencephalographic (EEG), and cerebral blood flow (CBF) monitoring. Brain tissues were analyzed via histology, Western blotting, and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) for neuronal damage, neuroinflammation, blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity, and glutamate metabolism.Results demonstrated that the higher dose (10 mL/kg) exerted potent anticonvulsant effects, significantly reducing tonic convulsion scores and EEG ictal spikes. Furthermore, the treatment mitigated KA-induced CBF deficits and prevented neuronal damage in the cortex and hippocampus. Mechanistically, PRBS suppressed glial activation, indicated by a decrease in GFAP+ and OX42+ cells and reduced expression of markers associated with a pro-inflammatory state (C3 and CD86). It also inhibited neuroinflammatory signaling by downregulating TLR4 and p-IkB levels while suppressing the overall activation of NF-kB p65, thereby decreasing the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1b, IL-6, and TNF-a). Additionally, the treatment attenuated BBB disruption by reducing albumin extravasation and upregulating tight junction proteins (claudin-5 and occludin). Finally, it restored glutamate homeostasis by upregulating the astrocytic transporter GLT-1 and glutamine synthetase, while downregulating glutamine transporters (SNAT1/3), glutaminase, and the vesicular glutamate transporter VGLUT1.PRBS exhibits potent antiseizure and neuroprotective properties that are closely associated with the modulation of TLR4/NF-kB-mediated inflammation, the preservation of BBB integrity, and the regulation of glutamate homeostasis, highlighting its potential as a natural therapeutic agent for seizures.Copyright © 2026 Lu, Wu, Chiu, Lee, Pan, Lin and Wang.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is essential for maintaining central nervous system homeostasis, and its disruption is associated with numerous neurological disorders. Ginsenoside Rh3 (GRh3), a bioactive saponin with recognized anticancer properties, has previously been shown to exert cytotoxic effects on neural cells, raising concerns regarding its neurovascular safety. In this study, we evaluated the effects of GRh3 in an in vitro co-culture transwell BBB model comprising mouse-derived bEnd.3 endothelial cells, pericytes, and C8-D1A astrocytic cells. Exposure to GRh3 (0.4-1.6 μM) for 24 h reduced transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER), increased extracellular lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release, decreased bEnd.3 cell viability, and reduced the expression of the tight junction (TJ) proteins ZO-1, Claudin-5, and Occludin. These alterations were accompanied by increased MMP2 and MMP9 levels and decreased TIMP1 expression. Molecular docking suggested potential interactions between GRh3 and MMP2/9. Moreover, siRNA-mediated knockdown of MMP2 or MMP9 partially restored TEER, reduced GRh3-associated LDH release, and attenuated the loss of TJ proteins. Collectively, these findings indicate that GRh3 impairs barrier-associated properties, at least in part through an MMP2/9-mediated mechanism, raising concerns regarding its neurovascular safety. However, because the barrier-associated changes occurred concurrently with detectable cytotoxicity, a direct barrier-specific effect cannot be distinguished from secondary consequences of cellular injury or cell loss. Further studies using minimally cytotoxic exposure conditions and in vivo models are required to establish the neurovascular relevance of these findings.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Intestinal barriers limiting gut-to-liver translocation of bacteria/l products are disrupted in cirrhosis. Cirrhosis is characterised by sustained β-adrenergic overactivity, which may contribute to barrier dysfunction but, its impact on the gut-liver-axis remains unclear. We investigated whether β-adrenergic signalling drives barrier disruption in experimental cirrhosis being amenable for treatment by non-selective beta blockers such as propranolol.Cirrhosis was induced in rats (CCl4, BDL) and mice (BDL), followed by propranolol or vehicle treatment. Chronic β-adrenergic stimulation was modelled by isoproterenol in mice, and VE-cadherin gain-of-function mice were used for mechanistic experiments. Barrier integrity and bacterial translocation were assessed by gut-to-liver FITC-dextran translocation, FITC-albumin endomicroscopy, hepatic 16S rDNA, faecal albumin, junctional immunofluorescence. Ileal transcriptomics, microbiota profiling, primary intestinal endothelial cells and human ileal organoids were used.Propranolol reduced hepatic 16S rDNA load and gut-to-liver translocation of FITC-dextran but not viable bacteria in both cirrhosis models. It restored muco-epithelial integrity, increasing mucus thickness, goblet cell number and epithelial tight junction proteins. Propranolol improved gut-vascular barrier dysfunction, reducing PV1 expression and normalising pathological FITC-albumin extravasation in BDL mice, with model-dependent modulation of VE-cadherin and claudin-5. Without liver injury, isoproterenol recapitulated intestinal barrier disruption and gut-to-liver translocation in absence of microbiota changes but being attenuated by propranolol. VE-cadherin GOF mice were protected from β-adrenergic-induced barrier disruption and showed reduced gut-to-liver translocation after BDL. Ileal transcriptomic alterations were partially reversed in pathways related to barrier function, inflammation and adrenergic signalling.Sustained β-adrenergic hyperstimulation disrupts the multi-layer intestinal barrier, promoting pathological bacterial translocation in cirrhosis. Propranolol restores barrier integrity through mechanisms involving endothelial VE-cadherin stabilisation, at least partly independent of microbiota changes and haemodynamic effects.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The present study evaluated the protective effects of Oralis SB® (Osb), a commercial multi-strain probiotic formulation, in a ligature-induced experimental periodontitis (EPD) Sprague-Dawley rat model. Male rats were subjected to ligature placement and orally administered Osb (1.25 × 108, 1.25 × 109, and 6.25 × 109 CFU/head) or received single-strain treatments with each of the four constituent strains (1.25 × 109 CFU/head) for 10 days. Periodontal changes were assessed by microbiological, biochemical, histological, and bone-related analyses. Ligature placement markedly increased anaerobic bacterial counts, neutrophil-associated myeloperoxidase activity, and inflammatory mediator production in gingival tissues, accompanied by elevated gingival IgA levels and impaired expression of epithelial tight junction-related genes, including claudin-1, claudin-5, occludin, and zonula occludens-1. Osb administration significantly attenuated bacterial overgrowth, restored gingival IgA contents, and suppressed the production of inflammatory mediators. Osb also reduced malondialdehyde level and inducible nitric oxide synthase activity, as markers of oxidative and nitrosative stress, and decreased metalloproteinase-8 expression in gingival tissue. In addition, Osb effectively prevented alveolar bone deterioration by improving focal bone mineral density, reducing osteoclast numbers, and restoring the receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB/osteoprotegerin balance. Histological evaluation further confirmed that Osb alleviated gingival inflammation and alveolar bone loss. Notably, the lowest dose of Osb (1.25 × 108 CFU/head) consistently produced significantly greater protective effects than each of the four individual component strains across all measured parameters. Osb exerted protective effects against EPD by modulating anaerobic microbial overgrowth, inflammatory and oxidative responses, epithelial barrier integrity, and alveolar bone resorption. These findings support the therapeutic potential of Osb in periodontitis.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509731 is a review article
Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), a persistent member of the Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), is widely detected in the environment and human populations and has recently been increasingly associated with neurotoxicity; however, its underlying molecular mechanisms, particularly those involving mitochondrial quality control, remain poorly defined. This study aimed to elucidate the mechanistic basis of PFOA-induced neurotoxicity, focusing on mitochondrial dysfunction, dynamics, and mitophagy, and to determine the downstream effects on neuronal integrity and cognitive function using both in-vitro and in-vivo approaches. In N2a cells, PFOA exposure induced significant oxidative stress, characterized by elevated intracellular and mitochondrial ROS levels and loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (Δψm). These alterations were accompanied by dysregulation of mitochondrial dynamics, evidenced by suppression of fusion proteins (MFN1, MFN2, OPA1) and enhanced activation of fission regulators (DRP1, FIS1). Concurrently, mitophagy was impaired, as indicated by dysregulation of PINK1-Parkin and LC3-p62 signaling, suggesting defective mitochondrial clearance. In-vivo, chronic PFOA exposure disrupted blood-brain barrier integrity, as reflected by increased MMP-9 and reduced tight junction proteins (ZO-1, occludin, claudin-5), and was associated with enhanced neuronal apoptosis, histopathological damage, and cognitive deficits. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that PFOA induces neurotoxicity through mitochondrial dysfunction-driven impairment of mitochondrial dynamics and quality control, leading to neuronal degeneration and neurobehavioral dysfunction.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) affects more than 9% of the population, and currently FDA-approved treatments show limited efficacy. There is therefore an urgent need to better understand the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms in order to identify new therapeutic strategies. Recent evidence implicates a role of angiotensin II (Ang II) signaling in PTSD symptomatology, yet the mechanisms through which Ang II contributes to trauma-related pathology remain unclear. We hypothesized that endothelial angiotensin type 1a receptors (AT1aR) is a key player in psychological trauma-induced changes in blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity, systemic and central inflammation, as well as PTSD-like symptoms. To test this hypothesis, we used the predator trauma model of PTSD in male and female wild-type (WT) mice and mice with an endothelial-specific depletion of AT1aR (eAT1aR-/-). One week later, anxiety-like and avoidance behaviors were assessed, and brain tissues were collected to evaluate BBB integrity and neuroinflammation. Both male and female eAT1aR-/- mice exhibited reduced generalized anxiety-like behavior, while avoidance behavior was selectively attenuated in males, independently of trauma exposure. Trauma-induced changes in cortical expression of the tight junction protein zonula occludens-1 were not affected by endothelial AT1aR deletion, whereas claudin-5 expression in the prefrontal cortex was increased in predator-exposed eAT1aR-/- females. Together, these findings provide the first evidence that endothelial Ang II-AT1aR signaling modulate basal levels of anxiety-like and avoidance behaviors independently of trauma exposure, while also regulating trauma-induced changes in BBB integrity in a sex-dependent manner. These results suggest that endothelial AT1aR signaling does not underlie the trauma-induced behavioral and immune phenotypes, but nonetheless highlight AT1Rs as a novel target for anxiolytic therapeutics.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB), primarily formed by brain microvascular endothelial cells (BMECs), restricts substance entry into the brain. BBB inflammation, involving barrier dysfunction and immune cell recruitment, contributes to neurological diseases and represents a therapeutic target. In this study, we characterized human immortalized cell-based multicellular spheroidal BBB (hiMCS-BBB) models as a tool for evaluating effects of BBB inflammation-targeted drugs. First, we examined the responses of the hiMCS-BBB models to the pro-inflammatory cytokine (TNF-α and IFN-γ) exposure. The cytokine treatment reduced claudin-5 protein expression levels at the BBB, accompanied by a 1.4 ± 0.1-fold increase in lucifer yellow permeability. Consistently, E-selectin protein expression was upregulated, accompanied by a 22.1-fold increase in THP-1 cell adhesion to the BBB. Then, we tested whether natalizumab (a monoclonal antibody used for multiple sclerosis treatment) and JPH203 (an inhibitor of L-type amino acid transporter 1) could modulate the immune cell adhesion. Both agents remarkably suppressed the cytokine-induced THP-1 cell adhesion to 0.2-fold relative to the respective controls. To summarize, our results demonstrate that the hiMCS-BBB models exhibit key features of BBB inflammation in response to inflammation stimuli and recapitulate clinically relevant responses to anti-inflammatory drugs, highlighting their potential to accelerate BBB-targeting drug development.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Methylphenidate (MPH) is a widely used psychostimulant for treating attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Emerging epidemiological findings suggest that MPH treatment increases the risk of cardiovascular events. However, as causality could not be inferred, further investigation of the potential impact of MPH on human vascular endothelial function is warranted. We investigated the effects of MPH on human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBEC) and human aortic endothelial cells (HAEC) across a range of concentrations, including those corresponding to therapeutic plasma levels, at 24 and 48 h. Gene expression profiling of twenty-nine endothelial function-related genes was performed. Protein expression was assessed by ELISA, Western blotting, immunofluorescence and FACS, and barrier function was evaluated using FITC-dextran permeability and electric cell-substrate impedance sensing assays. Key endothelial markers with differential levels were analysed also in plasma from ADHD children (n = 87) and adults (n = 102), and matched controls (n = 4 and n = 44, respectively). Exposure to MPH altered levels of several endothelial function-related genes. Across all concentrations tested, MPH increased the secretion of von Willebrand factor (vWF) and tissue plasminogen activator, whereas supratherapeutic concentrations 50 µM and/or 100 µM MPH decreased Claudin-5 expression and impaired endothelial barrier integrity. In clinical plasma samples, children receiving MPH showed higher vWF levels compared with medication-naïve children, but this was not observed in adult samples. Our findings suggest that acute exposure to therapeutic MPH concentration was associated with endothelial activation, and that supratherapeutic concentrations (50 µM and/or 100 µM) may further compromise barrier integrity. These experimental outcomes may propose potential effects on vascular health associated with MPH use. Further studies are needed to confirm these findings.© 2026. The Author(s).
Abundant evidence indicates extracellular vesicles (EVs) (exosomes and microvesicles) are mediators of intercellular communication. Previous reports from this group further showed that EVs from brain microvascular endothelial cells (BMEC) transferred the tight junction protein (TJ) claudin-5 (CLN-5) to leukocytes in vitro and during experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, leading us to hypothesize that such interaction might facilitate transendothelial migration (TEM) by a "zipper mechanism" whereby CLN-5 molecules on leukocyte-bound EVs temporarily replace those at interendothelial junctions. Such a mechanism is likely to be under strict spatiotemporal control. A corollary to this is that EVs are released from BMEC in a polar manner, such that only those released from the apical surface interact with leukocytes, while those from the basolateral surface bind adventitial targets.To assess polar EV release from BMEC and subsequent BMEC EV:leukocyte interactions during TEM using transwell assays, flow cytometry, nanoparticle tracking, super-resolution and live-time imaging were used.It was shown that EV release was highly polarized, as EVs accumulated predominantly in the chamber facing their membrane of origin. Supportive of polarized exosome release, apical and basolateral membrane material appeared segregated into discrete multivesicular body populations. Consistent with a role in TEM, apical-derived BMEC EVs preferentially bound leukocytes in a manner dependent on leukocyte adhesion, with TEM suppressed when EV release was inhibited. Polarized EV release was maintained under physiological flow, wherein CLN-5+ EVs exhibited near exclusive release at the apical surface, possibly reflecting their predisposition toward interacting with circulating immune cells.BMEC EVs are released in a polarized manner and those derived from the apical surface focally interact with adherent leukocytes. That inhibition of EV release further suppressed TEM suggests that BMEC EV:leukocyte binding is functionally coupled to the TEM process.
Peripheral neuropathy is a chronic neurological disorder characterized by inflammation, nerve damage, and impaired function. It arises owing to various factors, including traumatic nerve injury, neuropathic pain due to cancer, and diabetic neuropathy. Although conventional two-dimensional culture-based mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) demonstrate therapeutic potential for neuropathy, their regenerative efficacy and consistency are limited. Therefore, the present study proposes a nanobiology-based therapeutic strategy for neuroregenerative medicine.In this study, MSCs were preconditioned using transforming growth factor beta-3 and cultured in a three-dimensional dynamic culture system to produce highly functional mechanochemically primed regenerative EVs (MCR-EVs). In an ex vivo organotypic spinal cord slice injury model with demyelination, MCR-EVs were internalized by slice-resident cells and significantly attenuated cell death compared to conventional 2D-EVs (Con-EVs). MCR-EVs also promoted the recovery of axonal integrity and pro-survival signaling in injured spinal cord slices, as indicated by increased neurofilament-M immunoreactivity, restored protein kinase B phosphorylation, and growth-associated protein 43 expression. MCR-EVs exhibited enhanced therapeutic effects compared with Con-EVs in a mouse model of peripheral neuropathy induced by chronic constriction injury. The MCR-EV-treated group exhibited downregulated expression of proinflammatory genes, including tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-1β, interleukin-6, and cyclooxygenase-2, accompanied by inhibition of microglial activation and cell death. Additionally, the axonal structure was restored, as demonstrated by increased expression of neurofilament heavy chain, neuron-specific class III β-tubulin, and neuronal nitric oxide synthase. The MCR-EV-treated group also exhibited increased expression of Schwann cell-related markers (S100β, myelin basic protein, and myelin-associated glycoprotein), maintenance of neuromuscular structure, and upregulated platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1 expression levels. Moreover, in MCR-EVs, small RNA sequencing confirmed the presence of several miRNAs that are potentially associated with nerve regeneration, inflammation, and pain modulation.These results suggest that MCR-EVs contribute to the recovery of myelinated axons and regeneration of peripheral tissues, thus protecting endothelial cell components. MCR-EVs improved therapeutic outcomes compared to current Con-EV treatments and may promote peripheral neuropathic recovery by modulating anti-inflammatory and nerve regeneration pathways.© 2026. The Author(s).
Injury to the growth plate, a cartilage tissue found at the ends of children's long bones that is responsible for bone elongation, can result in bony repair tissue (or bony bar). The bony bar connects bone on both sides of the growth plate, preventing normal bone elongation. This can lead to abnormal growth and if severe, complete growth arrest. While surgical resection of this bar is performed clinically, the interpositional materials used to replace it are susceptible to bony bar reformation. Here, we developed a novel interpositional material based on a biodegradable,in situphotopolymerizable, biomimetic hydrogel with tethered TGFβ3.In vitrostudies with rat mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) encapsulated in the hydrogel and cultured for 9 weeksin vitroshowed that tethered TGFβ3 led to a hyaline-like cartilage with collagen type II, while soluble TGFβ3 produced tissue characteristic of fibrocartilage, confirmed by collagen type I. Treatment of a rat growth plate injury with the TGFβ3-tethered hydrogel with or without MSCs decreased bony bar formation and showed evidence of cartilage-like tissue after four weeks, while addition of MSCs promoted limb lengthening. This hydrogel with tethered TGFβ3 offers an innovative treatment for growth plate injuries by acting as an interpositional material that resists bony bar formation and restores growth.Creative Commons Attribution license.
Acute pancreatitis (AP) is a serious inflammatory disease with significant morbidity, yet its underlying molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood. This study reveals a novel epitranscriptomic pathway in AP pathogenesis centered on METTL1-mediated N7-methylguanosine (m7G) RNA modification. We found that METTL1 expression and global m7G levels were significantly elevated in serum from AP patients, pancreatic tissues of sodium taurocholate-induced AP mice, and in vitro models of LPS-polarized macrophages and STC-injured pancreatic acinar cells. Through integrated multi-omics analysis combining m7G methylome mapping and transcriptome profiling, we identified Musculin (MSC) as a key target whose mRNA stability is enhanced by METTL1-mediated m7G modification. Functional experiments demonstrated that MSC upregulation activates TNF signaling through phosphorylation of NF-κB, JNK, and MAPK proteins, thereby promoting macrophage M1 polarization and pancreatic acinar cell injury. The pathological significance of this pathway was confirmed in vivo, where pancreas-targeted knockdown of Mettl1 significantly attenuated AP severity. Furthermore, mechanistic studies using a catalytic-dead METTL1 mutant established that both the methyltransferase activity of METTL1 and subsequent TNF signaling activation are essential for driving inflammatory responses. Our findings delineate a previously unrecognized METTL1-m7G-MSC-TNF signaling axis that promotes AP progression, highlighting the therapeutic potential of targeting METTL1-mediated epitranscriptomic modification in inflammatory diseases.© 2026. The Author(s).
Despite advances in tissue engineering, the clinical application of scaffolds for meniscal repair remains limited by implantation challenges and the difficulty of directing stem cells toward a stable meniscal phenotype. Here, we present an injectable hydrogel composed of silk fibroin (SF) and tannic acid (TA), codelivering transforming growth factor-β3 (TGF-β3) and the transcription factor Mohawk (MKX). TA enhanced the β-sheet content of SF, yielding a hydrogel with superior rheological stability and shear-thinning behavior suitable for minimally invasive administration. The ST hydrogel provided sustained release of both bioactive factors over 35 days, with cumulative release below 16%. MKX attenuated TGF-β3-induced hypertrophic differentiation of adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells, promoting a fibrochondrocyte-like phenotype characterized by elevated expression of COL1A1, COL2A1, and aggrecan. Inflammatory stimulation assays demonstrated downregulation of osteoarthritis-related genes (e.g., MMP13, IL-6, and RUNX2) in the ST-TM group. In a rabbit meniscus tear model, ST hydrogels loaded with TGF-β3 and MKX significantly enhanced extracellular matrix deposition, promoted structural repair of the meniscus, and improved biomechanical properties at 10 weeks postimplantation. These findings support the potential of this dual-factor hydrogel system as a cell-free therapeutic strategy for functional meniscus regeneration, with potential relevance to the modulation of OA-related degeneration.Impact StatementThis study presents a novel injectable silk fibroin/tannic acid hydrogel codelivering transforming growth factor-β3 and Mohawk, which synergistically promotes fibrochondrocyte differentiation and inhibits hypertrophy of stem cells. Demonstrating injectable handling characteristics, controlled release, and in vivo efficacy, this cell-free platform offers a clinically translatable strategy for functional meniscus repair, with potential protective effects against osteoarthritis-related degeneration.
Biophysical and biochemical cues in the local cellular microenvironment, including topography, matrix mechanics, and growth factors, significantly regulate stem cell fate. However, strategies for in vitro replicating such complex organized three-dimensional (3D) cellular microenvironments and modulating cell alignment and differentiation by these cues in cell-laden hydrogels are far less developed. This study introduces light-responsive collagen peptide hydrogels mixed with magnetic nanoparticles as physical crosslinkers, leading to in situ formation of an organized network of human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) under magnetic-driven anisotropy. Moreover, by simply tailoring the nanoparticle surface with dopamine methacrylamide, chemical nanoparticle crosslinkers with dual magnetic-light-responsiveness are developed to tune matrix mechanical dynamics without significantly changing hydrogel stiffness and components. The encapsulated hMSCs exhibit enhanced spreading, alignment, and differentiation into ligamentocytes/tenocytes in anisotropic hydrogels with faster mechanical dynamics and transforming growth factor beta-3, contributing to the synergistic effects of these biophysical and biochemical cues. These simple manufacturing and conditioning strategies, which directly incorporate stimuli-responsive nanoparticle crosslinkers into cell-laden hydrogels, show great potential in developing advanced 3D organized in vitro models to modulate stem cell organization and fate.© 2026 The Author(s). Small published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Chronic post-traumatic thoracic aortic aneurysms may remain undiagnosed for years. In patients with genetically mediated aortopathies, open surgery is traditionally favored, whereas endovascular approaches remain controversial due to concerns regarding durability and long-term complications. We report a staged hybrid repair of a huge symptomatic post-traumatic thoracic aortic aneurysm in a patient with a subsequently identified variant in the TGF[Formula: see text]3 gene. The focus of this case lies in the interdisciplinary staged strategy combining open arch repair and thoracic endovascular aortic repair, guided by interdisciplinary decision making spinal cord protection strategies.A 41-year-old female was diagnosed with a 125 mm descending thoracic aortic post traumatic aneurysm with compression of adjacent structures. Additional visceral and cerebral aneurysms raised suspicion of a systemic connective tissue disorder. A staged hybrid approach was selected. Stage 1: frozen elephant trunk with arch reconstruction. Stage 2 comprised thoracic endovascular aortic repair following selective transposition of a directly originating left vertebral artery, guided by motor and somatosensory evoked potential monitoring and intraoperative balloon occlusion testing. Subsequent whole-genome sequencing identified a heterozygous variant in transforming growth factor beta 3.This case highlights the importance of early multidisciplinary planning and individualized staged hybrid strategies in complex thoracic aortic aneurysms, particularly when connective tissue disease is suspected but not yet genetically confirmed. Integration of open and endovascular techniques, combined with tailored spinal cord protection measures, can enable effective and durable repair while minimizing neurological risk in selected high-risk patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) is characterized by progressive nucleus pulposus cell loss and extracellular matrix degradation, in which persistent oxidative stress plays a critical pathogenic role. Transplantation of nucleus pulposus-derived stem cells (NPSCs) is a promising therapeutic strategy, yet the hostile oxidative microenvironment severely compromises cell survival. Although cellular quiescence has been suggested to enhance stress tolerance, its regulatory mechanisms and relevance in NPSCs remain largely unexplored.Oxidative stress was evaluated in human degenerated disc tissues, a rat needle-puncture degeneration model, and tert-butyl hydroperoxide-treated NPSCs in vitro. Proliferating and quiescent NPSCs were compared for reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, apoptosis, viability, and transcriptomic profiles. Pathway enrichment analyses were performed to identify critical signaling mechanisms. Recombinant transforming growth factor-beta 3 (rhTGF-β3) was used to activate the pathway, while small interfering RNA targeting the transforming growth factor-beta receptor type 2 (Tgfbr2) and the pharmacological inhibitor SB431542 were applied for pathway suppression. Functional assays, organ culture, and in vivo transplantation were conducted to assess cell survival and regenerative effects.Elevated oxidative stress was consistently observed across clinical, animal, and cellular models of disc degeneration. Quiescent NPSCs demonstrated enhanced resistance to oxidative injury, with reduced ROS accumulation, decreased apoptosis, and improved survival. Transcriptomic analyses revealed suppression of metabolic and P53-mediated apoptotic pathways, alongside marked activation of TGF-β/SMAD signaling. Activation of this pathway induced quiescence, reduced ROS levels, inhibited mitochondrial apoptotic signaling, and protected NPSCs from oxidative injury, whereas pathway inhibition abolished these protective effects. In both organ culture and in vivo transplantation models, quiescent and TGF-β-activated NPSCs exhibited superior survival and significantly improved disc structural preservation compared with proliferating or pathway-blocked cells.Activation of the TGF-β/SMAD pathway induces NPSC quiescence and enhances oxidative stress tolerance by suppressing P53-dependent mitochondrial apoptosis. Pharmacological induction of quiescence represents a potential strategy to improve stem cell-based therapies for intervertebral disc degeneration.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to elucidate the molecular mechanism uncoupling inflammation from pathological osteogenesis in radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (r-axSpA), specifically investigating the role of transmembrane TNF (tmTNF) reverse signalling.We established a tmTNF-overexpressing transgenic mouse model that spontaneously recapitulates spinal ankylosis characteristic of r-axSpA. Single-cell RNA sequencing, genetic knockout (TNFR1/2), and macrophage depletion strategies were employed to identify cellular effectors. A mannose-modified nanoparticle system delivering Ikbkb siRNA was developed to assess targeted therapeutic intervention.Macrophages were identified as the core drivers of osteogenesis, promoting bone formation via TGF-β3 (transforming growth factor beta 3) and BMP2 (bone morphogenetic protein 2) upregulation. Mechanistically, we discovered a novel reverse signalling axis wherein soluble TNFR1 binds to tmTNF, inducing the interaction of the tmTNF intracellular domain with the proteasome subunit alpha type-1 (PSMA1). This interaction activates the IKKβ/NF-κB (inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta / nuclear factor kappa B) pathway to upregulate TGF-β3 and BMP2, instructing macrophages to drive mesenchymal stem cell ossification. Crucially, targeted silencing of Ikbkb in macrophages significantly inhibited new bone formation.This study reveals a distinct sTNFR1-tmTNF-PSMA1-NF-κB reverse signalling axis that empowers macrophages to drive pathological osteogenesis in r-axSpA. Targeting this axis offers a precise therapeutic strategy to arrest structural damage beyond solely controlling systemic inflammation.Copyright © 2026 European Alliance of Associations for Rheumatology (EULAR). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Transforming growth factor beta 3 (TGF-β3) is a homodimeric cytokine with potential therapeutic applications in wound healing, tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. Production of recombinant TGF-β3 in Escherichia coli faces significant challenges due to TGF-β3's propensity for misfolding and aggregation, driven by a high disulfide bond content and low aqueous solubility. To address these limitations, the impacts of substituting non-conserved cysteine residues C7, C16 and C77 with serine on TGF-β3 folding, dimerization and activity were investigated. Whilst C7 and C16 form an intra-chain disulfide bond, C77 forms an inter-chain disulfide bond stabilizing dimer formation. Our results showed that the C7S, C16S double cysteine mutant protein exhibited reduced aggregation, increased dimer formation, and maintained wild-type biological activity in nano-luciferase reporter gene assay. In contrast, both C77S single and C7S, C16S, C77S triple mutants were purified predominantly in monomeric forms and displayed about 2.5-fold reduced activities. Our findings highlight the roles of the non-conserved C7, C16 and C77 cysteine residues in TGF-β3 folding and aggregation. The identification of the C7S, C16S mutant as a more soluble protein with wild-type TGF-β3 activity offers a promising strategy for improving recombinant TGF-β3 production to facilitate therapeutic applications. This study underscores the importance of targeted cysteine engineering to overcome the inherent challenges associated with the production of TGF-β3 and related complex disulfide-rich proteins.
Epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a fundamental process in development and disease; however, its study is often complicated by the intrinsic heterogeneity of commonly used epithelial cell models. Here, we show that pre-existing heterogeneity contributes to divergent outcomes following transforming growth factor-beta 3 (TGFβ3) treatment. Flow cytometry, gene expression profiling and imaging revealed persistent variability in E-cadherin (E-cad) and epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM) expression, with differentially sorted subpopulations displaying distinct transcriptional responses. Remarkably, some single-cell-derived clones exhibited paradoxical CDH1 upregulation during EMT, coinciding with GRHL3 induction and reflecting context-specific regulatory plasticity. Additionally, forskolin-mediated cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) activation enhanced epithelial stability and modulated EMT dynamics by preserving membrane-localised E-cadherin without preventing transcriptional repression of CDH1. Comparison with an epithelial subclone model further demonstrated how baseline identity shapes EMT trajectories. Moreover, in vivo analysis using zebrafish xenografts revealed that intrinsic epithelial features were associated with differential dissemination potential, reinforcing the connection between cellular identity and metastatic behaviour. These findings underline the importance of accounting for inherent heterogeneity in EMT models and demonstrate how intrinsic regulatory states and extrinsic signals intersect to shape epithelial plasticity.© 2026 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
The effects of TGF-βs (transforming growth factor-βs) in failing hearts involve cell-specific actions mediated through receptor-regulated Smads or Smad-independent pathways. The inhibitory Smad, Smad7, is a negative feedback regulator that restrains excessive TGF-β/receptor-regulated Smad signaling, while also exerting TGF-β-independent effects. We hypothesized that cardiomyocyte Smad7 upregulation contributes to the pathogenesis of pressure overload-induced heart failure and investigated the mechanisms underlying its actions.Cardiomyocyte-specific Smad7 knockout mice and corresponding Cre+ and Smad7fl/fl controls underwent transverse aortic constriction. Echocardiographic, histological, transcriptomic, and proteomic analyses were performed. RNA sequencing identified candidate pathways modulated by Smad7. Effects of Smad7 loss on TGF-β and ERBB2 (erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2) cascades were examined in vivo and in cardiomyocyte-like H9c2 cells using western blotting.Smad7 was upregulated in cardiomyocytes and fibroblasts following transverse aortic constriction and in patients with nonischemic cardiomyopathy. Cardiomyocyte-specific Smad7 knockout mice had no baseline abnormalities but developed worse systolic and diastolic dysfunction and increased cardiomyocyte hypertrophy after pressure overload. Cardiomyocyte Smad7 loss did not alter fibrosis after transverse aortic constriction but increased macrophage infiltration. Cardiomyocyte-specific Smad7 knockout hearts showed reduced expression of genes associated with cardiac contraction. Bioinformatic analysis identified TGF-β1, angiotensin, and ERBB2 as candidate upstream regulators mediating the effects of Smad7 loss. In vivo, cardiomyocyte Smad7 inhibited activation of TGF-β receptor 1 (TGFBR1)/Smad2/3 and ERBB2 without affecting TGF-β receptor 2 (TGFBR2) activity. In the absence of Smad7, pressure-overloaded cardiomyocytes exhibited increased TGFBR1/Smad3 activation. In H9c2 cells, endogenous Smad7 restrained TGFBR1/Smad3 activation without affecting TGFBR2 or ERBB2 activity.Cardiomyocyte Smad7 protects the pressure-overloaded heart from dysfunction, regulating genes involved in muscle contraction, likely through direct suppression of TGFBR1/Smad3.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42146949 is a review article
Rho-associated coiled-coil kinase 1 (ROCK1) and Transforming Growth Factor Beta Receptor 1 (TGFBR1) are pivotal mediators of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), cytoskeleton remodeling, cell adhesion, and cancer metastasis. Their simultaneous inhibition offers a promising therapeutic strategy to disrupt cancer metastasis. This study integrates machine learning (ML)-based predictive QSAR (Quantitative Structure Activity Relationship) modeling, structure-activity relationship (SAR) analysis, ML-based virtual screening to identify dual inhibitors targeting both ROCK1 and TGFBR1. Bioactivity data with SMILES representation of ROCK1 and TGFBR1 inhibitors were sourced from ChEMBL. Molecular descriptors and fingerprints (e.g., Morgan, AtomPairs2D, etc) were computed using RDKit and PaDEL to encode molecular properties. Analysis of chemical similarity using Tanimoto coefficients identified activity-cliff pairs of compounds with high structural similarity but significant activity differences. QSAR models were developed using individual and combined fingerprints, with additional strategies such as excluding activity cliff pairs and stratified sampling based on pIC50 quantiles. Predictive machine learning models, including Random Forest (RF), Gradient Boosting (GB), XGBoost (XGB), K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), Support Vector Machines (SVM), and Ridge Regression (RR), demonstrated robust performance (R2 > 0.6). The best ROCK1 and TGFBR1 models (RF Regressor) were used to screen a library of 1,48,684 compounds, resulting in the identification of a Hit (2-(1H-1,3-benzodiazol-1-yl)-N-[3-(1H-pyrazol-4-yl)phenyl]propanamide) with predicted dual ROCK1 (pIC50 = 7.29) and TGFBR1 (pIC50 = 7.00) inhibitory activity. Further, docking and molecular dynamics simulations of the Hit showed strong and stable interaction with both the targets hinge region residues, suggesting potential dual target inhibition activity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Risperidone (RIS) is a potent atypical antipsychotic drug that has gained widespread attention owing to its toxic effects on the body organs such as liver. The current research experiment was executed to elucidate the alleviative efficacy of engeletin (ENG) against risperidone (RIS) induced hepatic dysfunction. Thirty-six Sprague Dawley rats were divided into four groups including control, RIS (2 mg/kg), RIS (2 mg/kg) + ENG (10 mg/kg), and ENG (10 mg/kg) alone administered group for 10 weeks orally. RIS intoxication induced hepatic fibrosis as well as inflammation via upregulating the gene expression of transforming growth factor beta receptor 2 (TGFBR2), transforming growth factor beta receptor 1 (TGFBR1), nuclear factor- kappa B (NF-κB), transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGF-β1), collagen type I alpha 1 (COL1A1), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), SMAD3, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), interleukin-6 (IL-6), SMAD4 & interleukin-1beta (IL-1β). The administration of RIS promoted the levels of ROS and MDA while diminishing the activities of HO-1, GPx, SOD, GSR, CAT and GST. RIS intakes abruptly uplifted levels of gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), & alkaline phosphatase (ALP) while lowering the concentrations of albumin & total proteins in hepatic tissues. RIS exposure promoted the levels of Caspase-3, Bax & Caspase-9 while demolishing levels of Bcl-2. RIS intoxication dysregulated the normal architecture of hepatic tissues. Nonetheless, ENG therapy ameliorated hepatic dysregulations owing to its antioxidative, anti-inflammatory, anti-fibrotic as well as anti-apoptotic properties. In addition, advanced molecular docking analysis demonstrated strong binding affinity of engeletin with the key regulatory proteins SMAD3 (-9.3 kcal/mol) and NF-κB p65 (-9.1 kcal/mol), providing strong evidence that ENG can directly interact with the central regulators of the TGF-β1/Smad and NF-κB signaling pathways. In conclusion, ENG significantly ameliorated RIS-induced hepatotoxicity, highlighting its potential as hepatoprotective adjuvant therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41977327 is a review article
Depression remains a major global health challenge, and current treatments are suboptimal. Hydrogen sulfide (H₂S), an endogenous gasotransmitter, has antidepressant potential; however, its mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Understanding the mechanisms underlying the antidepressant-like role of H₂S is essential for developing H₂S as a therapeutic candidate for treating depression.Depressive-like behaviors were assessed via the open field test (OFT), novelty-suppressed feeding test (NSFT), sucrose preference test (SPT), tail suspension test (TST), and forced swim test (FST). Western blotting was used to analyze the protein expression levels. Cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-4, IL-6, and IL-10) were quantified via ELISA. Kynurenine-pathway (KP) metabolites were assayed by selective reaction/multiple reaction monitoring technology.Chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) reduced hippocampal growth differentiation factor 11 (GDF11) expression. H₂S significantly increased the expression of GDF11 and the ratio of p-Smad2/3/Smad2/3, a downstream effector of TGFBR1, indicating that H2S enhances the activation of GDF11/TGFBR1 pathway in the hippocampus of CUMS-exposed rats. Furthermore, hippocampal GDF11 knockdown and pharmacological blockade of TGFBR1 with SB525334, which disrupts H₂S-induced activation of the GDF11/TGFBR1 pathway, reversed the molecular effects of H₂S in CUMS-exposed rats, including suppression of necroptosis, attenuation of neuroinflammation, and normalization of kynurenine-pathway enzymes and metabolites, as well as abolished the antidepressant-like effects of H₂S.The hippocampal GDF11/TGFBR1 pathway mediates the antidepressant-like effects of H₂S by restraining the cascade of hippocampal necroptosis-neuroinflammation-KP disorder, suggesting that the GDF11/TGFBR1 pathway is a promising therapeutic target for depression.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Dermal papilla cells (DPCs) serve as the signaling hub regulating hair follicle (HF) development and cyclical growth. This study aims to investigate the biological function and molecular mechanisms of TGFBR1 (transforming growth factor β receptor 1), a differentially expressed gene identified through single-cell transcriptomic sequencing (scRNA-seq) in the DPCs from fine-wool sheep. Primary DPCs were isolated and purified using a combination of enzymatic digestion and mechanical dissociation, followed by immunofluorescence identification (α-SMA and SOX2-positive). Following successful transfection with constructed TGFBR1 overexpression plasmids and siRNA interference vectors, cell proliferation was assessed via EDU staining and CCK-8 assays. mRNA expression of key genes in Wnt/β-catenin, BMP, and Notch signaling pathways (PCNA, CCND1, CTNNB1, SFRP2, BMP2, NOTCH3, SMAD4, etc.) was validated by RT-qPCR. Single-cell transcriptomics revealed significant downregulation of TGFBR1 in DPCs from fine-wool sheep. Functional validation demonstrated that TGFBR1 overexpression markedly suppressed DPC proliferation, whereas knockdown of TGFBR1 expression promoted DPC proliferation. Molecular mechanism studies showed that TGFBR1 overexpression significantly downregulated PCNA, CCND1, CTNNB1, NOTCH3, and SMAD4 while upregulating SFRP2, BMP2, and TGFB1 expression. These findings demonstrate that TGFBR1 acts as a negative regulator of DPCs proliferation by modulating the activity of multiple signaling pathways, including Wnt/β-catenin, BMP, and Notch, thereby suppressing the proliferative capacity of DPCs. This study not only provides new theoretical support for elucidating the role of the TGF-β signaling pathway in H development but also offers theoretical reference for in-depth research on molecular breeding in ultra -fine-wool sheep and the molecular mechanisms underlying HF development.
Nanofluidics is a rapidly advancing technique for analyzing individual biomacromolecules without the need for chemical modification or immobilization on a surface. When combined with fluorescence microscopy, this approach enables detailed exploration of the structural and dynamic properties of single-stranded nucleic acids. This overview outlines the process for creating cost-effective lab-on-a-chip devices using polymer resins, which incorporate quasi-one-dimensional nanochannels with cross-sectional dimensions on the order of tens of nanometers. Additionally, we describe a method for fluorescently labeling specific gene sequences on single-stranded DNA. The technique is demonstrated through a case involving the localization of the transforming growth factor Beta receptor 1, TGFβR1 gene along with its associated miRNA binding site in the mouse genome.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) progression is linked to renal fibrosis, influenced by profibrotic factors like transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) and fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2). Despite advancements in synthetic drugs like enalapril, evidence for plant-derived candidates that slow kidney fibrosis remains limited, underscoring the need for rigorous preclinical evaluation.This study evaluates the antifibrotic efficacy of Morus alba Linn. leaf extract (MLE) and its primary compound, chlorogenic acid (CGA), in a mouse model of renal fibrosis induced by unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO).Twenty-five male Balb/c mice were assigned to five groups: sham operation (SO), UUO control, UUO with enalapril treatment, UUO with MLE, and UUO with CGA. Treatments were administered orally for 14 days, followed by assessments of fibrosis through histological analysis, immunohistochemistry, gene expression profiling, and molecular docking.Results indicated significant reductions in basement membrane thickening (from 31.19% in UUO to 21.87% with MLE), collagen deposition (from 6.85% to 2.7%), and decreased expression of key fibrotic markers such as TGF-β1 (from 26.21% to 11.91% with MLE and 5.92% with CGA), FGF-2, Collagen-1, Smad3, alpha-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), and β-catenin. Molecular docking analysis suggested that CGA formed plausible interactions with transforming growth factor beta receptor 1 (TGFβR1) (-9.5 kcal/mol) and fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) (-8.3 kcal/mol), indicating its potential antifibrotic properties.These findings suggest that MLE and CGA effectively alleviate renal fibrosis by modulating crucial profibrotic signaling pathways, presenting them as promising natural therapeutic alternatives for CKD-associated fibrosis.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Liver fibrosis represents the liver’s adaptive response to sustained and intense inflammation triggered by diverse insults, ranging from dietary factors to infectious agents. Although early-stage fibrosis can be reversible, unchecked progression often leads to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Therapeutic options remain limited, highlighting the pressing need for novel anti‑fibrotic agents. In this study, we evaluated the in vitro anti‑fibrotic effects of 7‑octenoic acid (7‑OCT), a bioactive constituent from Moringa oleifera Lam. Human hepatic stellate LX‑2 cells were stimulated with TGF‑β1 (10 ng/mL) in the presence or absence of 7‑OCT. Fibrotic marker expression was quantified at both the mRNA and protein levels. Comprehensive proteomic profiling and subsequent in silico docking analyses were performed to identify putative molecular targets and clarify mechanisms of action. Our results demonstrate that 7‑OCT significantly suppresses the expression of α‑smooth muscle actin (α‑SMA), collagen type I, and matrix metalloproteinase‑9 (MMP‑9) by downregulating transforming growth factor beta receptor 1 (TGFBR1) expression and inhibiting mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 3 (SMAD3) phosphorylation. Proteomic data implicates focal adhesion pathway proteins in mediating these effects. Collectively, these findings suggest that 7‑OCT is a promising lead compound for the development of anti‑fibrotic therapies.
Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a progressive vascular syndrome characterized by aberrant signaling, severe pulmonary artery remodeling, and right ventricular (RV) failure, a major driver of morbidity and mortality. Dysregulation of the apelinergic pathway has been implicated in pulmonary vascular remodeling in PAH. Using a sugen-hypoxia rat model of PAH, we assessed the ability of a novel apelin analog, resistant to native peptidase degradation, to reverse the pathological hallmarks of PAH and RV dysfunction. Apelin analog therapy corrected the vascular lesions in the lungs and nearly normalized pulmonary arterial pressures. Early cardiorenal syndrome, RV dilation and dysfunction as well as RV cardiomyocyte and fibroblast activation induced by pressure overload, were also reversed by apelin analog treatment. Single-nucleus RNA sequencing of the lungs and RV revealed apelin-analog treatment activated several protective pathways, including rebalancing protective BMPR2 (bone morphogenetic protein receptor type 2) signaling to counteract excessive pathogenic TGFBR2 (transforming growth factor β receptor 2) activity in PAH. These findings highlight the therapeutic potential of exogenous apelin in reversing pulmonary vascular and cardiac pathologies in PAH and support further investigation to evaluate the clinical benefits of apelin analog treatment in patients with PAH and RV failure.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) has complex etiologies. This study aimed to investigate the clinical significance of long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) NPPA-AS1 in AF and the pro-AF mechanism of the NPPA-AS1/miR-302e/transforming growth factor beta receptor 2 (TGFBR2) axis. This study included 120 patients with AF and 120 healthy controls. An in vitro AF model was established by stimulating rat primary cardiac fibroblasts (CFs) with angiotensin II (AngII). RT-qPCR, Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay, flow cytometry, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) were utilized to assess gene expression, cellular function, and protein concentration, respectively. Molecular target regulation relationships were validated using RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) and dual luciferase assays. Target genes predicted by multiple databases were selected for Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis to investigate the biological functions and related signaling pathways of the NPPA-AS1/miR-302e axis. NPPA-AS1 was highly expressed in AF patients, serving as an independent risk factor for AF onset while demonstrating excellent diagnostic efficacy for AF. Its expression may be closely associated with cardiac structural remodeling, myocardial injury, and inflammatory responses in AF patients. Mechanistically, NPPA-AS1 was found to act as a molecular sponge to negatively regulate miR-302e, which directly suppressed TGFBR2 expression, forming the NPPA-AS1/miR-302e/TGFBR2 regulatory axis. In vitro, this regulatory axis was associated with Ang II-induced cellular proliferation, apoptosis imbalance, expression of fibrotic molecules, and inflammatory factor secretion (tumor necrosis factor alpha [TNF-α], interleukin 6 [IL-6]), suggesting a potential role in AF-related pathological processes. Specifically, interference with NPPA-AS1 reversed these pathological effects, while inhibition of miR-302e counteracted this reversal. Further interference with TGFBR2 could re-block the pathological process. In vitro findings suggest that NPPA-AS1 may amplify AngⅡ-induced atrial fibrosis and inflammation by releasing TGFBR2 inhibition through "sponge-like" adsorption of miR-302e, indicating a potential contributory role in AF pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
To explore the effect of SP600125, a c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNK) inhibitor, on epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cell caused by transforming growth factor-beta 2 (TGF-β2).Human RPE cell line (ARPE-19) cells were treated with TGF-β2 and JNK inhibitor SP600125 in vitro. Cellular viability, migration and proliferation in ARPE-19 cells were examined by cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay, wound scratch, and bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) staining assay, respectively. Transforming growth factor-beta receptor 2 (TGF-βR2), Smad2/3, JNK, c-Jun, alpha-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), N-cadherin, and vimentin proteins were analyzed by immunoblotting. Moreover, TGF-βR2 was detected by immunofluorescence assay.TGF-β2 significantly enhanced viability, migration, and proliferation in ARPE-19 cells, induced phosphorylation of TGF-βR2, Smad2/3, JNK, and c-Jun, and upregulated α-SMA, N-cadherin, and vimentin expression. SP600125 inhibited these cellular processes and reduced the expression/phosphorylation of the above proteins; notably, it blocked TGF-β2-induced effects, including cell viability, migration, proliferation, phosphorylation of TGF-βR2, Smad2/3, JNK, and c-Jun, as well as upregulation of α-SMA, N-cadherin, and vimentin.JNK inhibitor SP600125 suppresses TGF-β2-induced the increases in cell viability, migration, proliferation, and EMT in RPE cells via the TGF-βR2/Smad2/3 and JNK/c-Jun signaling pathways.International Journal of Ophthalmology Press.
Rhodiola rosea L. is a traditional Chinese medicine used clinically to treat pulmonary fibrosis. Due to the presence of multicomponents in Rhodiola rosea L., the mechanism of its anti-fibrotic effect remains unclear. Here, we identified that herbacetin from Rhodiola rosea L. is an active molecule with anti-fibrotic effect in two mouse models of bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis and unilateral ureteral obstruction-induced renal fibrosis. We also uncovered the molecular mechanism through which herbacetin exerted its anti-fibrotic effect by inhibiting transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β)/Smad3 signaling. We found that herbacetin could bind to the transforming growth factor beta receptor 2 (TGFBR2) and induced its degradation via the lysosomal pathway following K48-linked ubiquitination, thereby suppressing TGF-β/Smad3 signaling. Thus, herbacetin is a novel anti-fibrotic agent and exerts its anti-fibrotic effect on pulmonary and renal fibrosis by targeting TGFBR2 for degradation.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Biliary atresia (BA) is a nongenetic cholangiopathy characterized by biliary obliteration. However, the underlying pathological mechanism remains unclear. We aimed to explore the epigenetic BA pathology by using BA-specific deciduous dental pulp stem cells (BA-SHED), which develop in parallel with cholangiocyte progenitor cells in human embryos.BA-SHED were isolated from human exfoliated deciduous teeth of patients with BA using the colony-forming unit fibroblast method. After sequential stimulation with cytokines and chemicals in cultured BA-SHED, the in vitro bile duct-forming capacity was analyzed using quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and immunofluorescence. Expression of hepatocyte nuclear factor 6 (HNF6) and transforming growth factor beta receptor 2 (TGFBR2) was analyzed using immunoblotting and RT-qPCR. The regulation of chromatin architecture at the HNF6 promoter was analyzed using nuclease-accessible chromatin-qPCR and chromatin immunoprecipitation-qPCR.BA-SHED showed an inheritable increase in HNF6 levels, resulting in TGFBR2 suppression and deficiency in bile duct formation. BA-SHED also accumulated Brahma and P65 complexes around the HNF6 promoter with chromatin architecture remodeling. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interferon-gamma co-stimulation mimicked the epigenetic signatures of BA-SHED.The present epigenetic memory in BA-SHED implies that BA-SHED imprint bile duct deficiency through TGFBR2 dysregulated by the HNF6 promoter activation epigenetically. Thus, BA-SHED are a potential model for expanding our knowledge in BA research.© 2026. The Author(s).
The mechanism by which specific tumor subsets in colorectal cancer (CRC) use alternative metabolic pathways, particularly those modulated by hypoxia and fructose, to alter the tumor microenvironment (TME) remains unclear. This study aimed to identify these malignant subpopulations and characterize their intercellular signaling networks and spatial organization through an integrative multi-omics approach.Leveraging bulk datasets, single-cell RNA sequencing, and integrative spatial transcriptomics, we developed a prognostic model based on hypoxia-and fructose metabolism-related genes (HFGs) to delineate tumor cell subpopulations and their intercellular signaling networks.We identified a specific subset of stanniocalcin-2 positive (STC2+) malignant cells spatially enriched within tumor regions and strongly associated with poor prognosis. This subset served as a key signaling hub in the TME, exhibiting increased epithelial-mesenchymal transition activity. STC2+ cells engage in two spatially organized ligand-receptor interactions: the growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15)-transforming growth factor beta receptor 2 (TGFBR2) pathway targeting endothelial cells and the migration inhibitory factor (MIF)-(cluster of differentiation 74 [CD74]+C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 [CXCR4]) pathway targeting macrophages.This study identified a malignant cell state in CRC that is metabolically defined and spatially limited, including liver metastases, and is characterized by elevated STC2 expression and active immune-stromal interactions. Given the interplay between metabolic reprogramming and TME remodeling, STC2+ malignant cells are a functionally significant subpopulation and a potential therapeutic target.© 2026 The Authors.
Vascular network disruption caused by spinal cord injury (SCI) exacerbates secondary neuronal damage. Although vascular barrier disruption naturally restores over time, its underlying mechanism is not fully clarified. Here, we found that blood factors promote the proliferation of endothelial cells (ECs), which are essential for revascularization in the repair process after SCI. In vivo, endogenous IgG leakage into the spinal cord initiates EC proliferation at the lesion after injury. In vitro, adult mouse serum promotes mouse ECs proliferation through beta-2-microglobulin (B2M) via transforming growth factor beta receptor 2 (TGFBR2). Under EC-specific knockdown of Tgfbr2 in vivo, we observed exacerbated blood extravasation and increased inflammatory cell infiltration compared to controls. Additionally, suppression of endothelial Tgfbr2 impaired motor function recovery, axon regrowth, and regeneration in injured mice. These findings suggest that targeting the B2M-TGFBR2 axis could be a potential therapeutic approach to promoting functional recovery against vascular disruption after SCI.© 2025. The Author(s).
Acetaminophen (APAP) overdose is associated with increased transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGFβ1) signaling and elevated oxidative stress, which exacerbate DNA damage. TGFβ1 has been shown to regulate ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (ATM) signaling and DNA repair in other cell types. This study investigates the DNA damage response (DDR) during APAP-induced liver injury, focusing on ATM-mediated regulation of TGFβ1 signaling. APAP administration in vitro and in vivo resulted in DNA damage, increased ATM signaling, accumulation of γH2AX, and activation of phosphorylated ataxia telangiectasia mutated (pATM) and phosphorylated checkpoint kinase 2 (pChk2). Pretreatment with an ATM inhibitor, KU55933, attenuated APAP-induced hepatocyte damage and resulted in attenuated mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 2/3 (SMAD2/3) signaling with no changes in activated TGFβ1 levels, suggesting that ATM activation modulates TGFβ1 signaling via post-translational mechanisms. APAP was found to promote transforming growth factor beta receptor 2 (TGFβRII) stabilization through activation of phosphorylated casitas B-lineage lymphoma (p-c-cbl) and subsequent neddylation of TGFβRII, which was attenuated by inhibitors of ATM signaling or neddylation machinery. In conclusion, APAP-induced hepatic DNA damage activates an ATM-mediated response that enhances TGFβ1 signaling through stabilization of TGFβRII, and inhibition of ATM consequently reduces APAP-induced hepatic injury.© 2025 The Author(s). Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.
To explore the underlying effect mechanism of fire needle therapy on hydroquinone-induced vitiligo based on transcriptome sequencing.Eighteen C57BL/6 mice were randomly divided into a blank group, a model group, and a fire needle group, with 6 mice in each group. The vitiligo mouse model was established in the model and fire needle groups using the hydroquinone depigmentation method. After successful modeling, in the fire needle group, fire needle therapy was operated on the white skin lesions, once a week and for 4 consecutive weeks. The skin and hair depigmentation conditions and depigmentation scores were observed before and after intervention. HE staining was used to observe skin morphology and melanin granules. Skin tissue from the local white lesions of 3 randomly selected mice in each group was subjected to RNA-seq to screen differentially expressed genes in skin tissue, followed by bioinformatics analysis.The mRNA expression of the partial differentially expressed genes was detected by real-time fluorescent quantitative PCR.Compared with the blank group, in the model group, the epidermis and dermis were thickened, and the depigmentation score of the skin and hair was higher (P<0.05), and the number of melanocytes in the epidermis and hair follicles, the number of melanocytes in the basal layer, and the number of epidermal cells containing melanin granules were decreased (P < 0.05). Compared with the model group, the depigmentation score of the skin and hair in the fire needle group was decreased (P<0.05), and the number of melanocytes in the epidermis and hair follicles, the number of melanocytes in the basal layer, and the number of epidermal cells containing melanin granules were increased (P<0.05). In comparison with the blank group, 1 291 differentially expressed genes were screened in the model group (including 985 up-regulated genes and 306 down-regulated genes), the functional enrichment analysis of gene ontology (GO) primarily focused on keratinization and keratinized envelope, and the metabolic pathway analysis from the Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG)was mainly enriched in the interactions between viral proteins and cytokines/cytokine receptors. When compared with the model group, 306 differentially expressed genes were screened in the fire needle group, and the GO enrichment was in keratinized envelope and the establishment of skin barrier, and the KEGG metabolic pathway analysis was enriched in the interaction between cytokines and cytokine receptors. Through WikiPathways enrichment analysis, fire needle therapy significantly exerted its effect through the oxidative stress and redox pathways. The gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA)showed that the Hippo signaling pathway and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signaling pathway were significantly activated. Compared with the blank group, in the model group, the mRNA expression was elevated for superoxide dismutase 3 (SOD3), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ), quinone oxidoreductase 1(NQO1), monoamine oxidase (MAO), interleukin 18 (IL-18), interleukin 1 family member 8 (IL-1F8), interleukin 1 family member 9 (IL-1F9), C-C motif chemokine ligand 8 (CCL8), serine/threonine protein kinase 4 (MST1), and MOB kinase activator 1A (MOB1A) in the skin tissue (P<0.05), and the mRNA expression was reduced for glutathione S-transferase alpha 3 (GSTA3), glutathione S-transferase alpha 4 (GSTA4), gamma-glutamyl cyclotransferase (GGCT), Wnt family member 3A (WNT3A), tyrosinase-related protein 1 (TYRP1), catalase (CAT), and forkhead box P3 (FOXP3) (P<0.05). Compared with the model group, the fire needle group showed the decrease in the mRNA expression of SOD3, PPARγ, NQO1, MAO,IL-18, IL-1F8, IL-1F9, CCL8, MST1 and MOB1A in the skin tissue (P<0.05), and the increase in the mRNA expression of GSTA3, GSTA4, GGCT, WNT3A, TYRP1, CAT and FOXP3 (P<0.05).Fire needling therapy can attenuate the depigmentation of skin in vitiligo induced by hydroquinone in mice. Its effect mechanism may involve the regulation of Hippo signaling pathways and PPAR signaling pathways, thereby mitigating oxidative stress and inflammatory response, and regulating the immune system, ultimately promoting the recovery of melanocytes and reducing the size of white patches.
Post-stroke depression (PSD) is a mood disorder that occurs subsequent to a stroke and is typified by a depressed mood and loss of interest. A traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) preparation, Diankuang Mengxing Decoction (DKMX), has demonstrated the potential to mitigate PSD in rats. However, the precise mechanism of action of this herbal preparation in the context of PSD remains to be elucidated.This study aims to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of DKMX extract in a rat model of PSD and its regulation of the TREM2/Wnt/β-catenin pathway.The high-performance liquid chromatography-ultraviolet (HPLC-UV) method was employed to quantify the active ingredients in DKMX extract. Following the establishment of the PSD rat model, a series of neurological function and depression-like behavior tests were conducted to evaluate the multifaceted therapeutic effects of DKMX extract, including its potential to alleviate depression-like symptoms, improve neurological function, regulate neuroinflammation, and promote neurogenesis. 3,5,37-Triphenyl tetrazolium chloride staining (TTC) was used to evaluate the extent of brain tissue damage. Nissl staining was used to visualise the morphological structure of nerve cells. Interleukin-1β (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and interleukin-10 (IL-10) were detected via enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The expression levels of microglia-specific markers Ionized Calcium Binding Adaptor Molecule 1 (Iba1) and Triggering Receptor Expressed on Myeloid Cells 2 (TREM2) were quantified by immunofluorescence staining, and alterations in hippocampal DCX expression were observed to assess the impact on neuroinflammation and nerve regeneration. Golgi staining was employed to facilitate the visualisation of dendritic spine density in neurons within the hippocampus. Western blot (WB) analysis was employed to detect the protein expression levels of glycogen synthase kinase-3β (GSK3β), p-GSK3β, Wnt family member 3a (Wnt3a), β-catenin and p-β-catenin in the hippocampus.The treatment with DKMX significantly improved behavioral and neurological outcomes in PSD rats by reducing cortical infarct volume, Longa score, and FST immobility time. Additionally, DKMX enhanced sucrose preference in the SPT. DKMX also attenuated neuroinflammation and promoted hippocampal neurogenesis in PSD rats. DKMX modulated TREM2 expression in microglia and activated the Wnt/β-catenin pathway to exert antidepressant and anti-neuroinflammatory effects.The results of our study indicate that DKMX extracts exert their anti-neuroinflammatory effects primarily through the TREM2/Wnt/β-catenin pathway, thereby alleviating symptoms and enhancing functional outcomes in rats with PSD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study investigated the protective effects and underlying mechanisms of Duhuo Jisheng Decoction(DHJSD) against nucleus pulposus cells(NPCs) ferroptosis and intervertebral disc degeneration(IDD) in a rat model based on the Wnt family member 3a(Wnt3a)/Yes-associated protein(YAP)/acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4(ACSL4) signaling pathway. In vitro experiments: twenty-five Sprague-Dawley(SD) rats were randomly divided into five groups and administered distilled water, low, medium, or high doses of DHJSD(4.9, 9.8, and 19.6 g·kg~(-1), respectively), or celecoxib(0.02 g·kg~(-1)) via gavage for seven consecutive days. Serum was collected following administration. NPCs degeneration was induced using interleukin-1β(IL-1β), and the effects of DHJSD-containing serum on NPCs proliferation and apoptosis were investigated. Cell viability and proliferation were measured using the CCK-8 and EdU assays, while apoptosis was assessed via Annexin V-FITC/PI dual staining. To further explore the role of the Wnt3a/YAP/ACSL4 pathway, the Wnt3a/β-catenin pathway agonist SKL2001 was applied. Western blot was performed to detect the protein expression of Wnt3a, phosphorylated glycogen synthase kinase 3β(p-GSK3β), phosphorylated β-catenin(p-β-catenin), β-catenin, YAP, ACSL4, and glutathione peroxidase 4(GPX4). Immunofluorescence staining was used to evaluate the expression of β-catenin, YAP, type Ⅱ collagen(collagen Ⅱ), and matrix metalloproteinase-13(MMP-13). Malondialdehyde(MDA) content was measured using a colorimetric assay. Mitochondrial membrane potential was assessed via the JC-1 assay, and mitochondrial ultrastructure was observed via transmission electron microscopy(TEM). In the in vivo experiments, SD rats were randomly assigned to four groups: sham operation, model, DHJSD(19.6 g·kg~(-1)), and celecoxib(0.02 g·kg~(-1)). An IDD model was established via needle puncture, followed by a 21-day intervention. Magnetic resonance imaging(MRI) of the caudal vertebrae was conducted, and the degree of disc degeneration was evaluated using Pfirrmann grading. Hematoxylin-eosin(HE) and safranin O staining were used to observe histopathological changes in intervertebral disc tissue. Western blot was employed to detect the expression of Wnt3a, p-GSK3β, β-catenin, YAP, and ACSL4 in nucleus pulposus tissue. RESULTS:: showed that DHJSD-containing serum promoted NPCs proliferation, enhanced cell viability in a dose-dependent manner, and inhibited apoptosis. Compared with the IL-1β group, DHJSD-containing serum significantly downregulated the expression of Wnt3a, p-GSK3β, β-catenin, YAP, and ACSL4, while promoting GPX4 expression. It also reduced nuclear translocation of β-catenin and YAP, increased collagen Ⅱ expression, decreased MMP-13 expression, lowered MDA content, elevated the JC-1 aggregate-to-monomer fluorescence ratio, and improved mitochondrial morphology. However, these protective effects were attenuated upon SKL2001 intervention. In the IDD rat model, both DHJSD and celecoxib significantly reduced Pfirrmann grades and histological scores, and downregulated the protein expression of Wnt3a, p-GSK3β, β-catenin, YAP, and ACSL4. In conclusion, DHJSD may ameliorate IDD by regulating the Wnt3a/YAP/ACSL4 signaling pathway, thereby inhibiting ferroptosis and extracellular matrix degradation in NPCs.
In elderly patients, bone regeneration is impeded by age-related shifts in mesenchymal stem cell differentiation propensity toward adipogenesis over osteogenesis. We investigated whether DNA demethylation by 5‑aza‑2'‑deoxycytidine (5azaC) synergizes with Wnt Family Member 3A (Wnt3a) signaling to induce osteogenic potential in 3T3‑L1 pre-adipocytes, generating osteoblast-like cells.3T3‑L1 pre-adipocytes were treated with 5azaC and/or Wnt3a. Osteogenic differentiation was assessed via ALP activity, mineralization assays, and marker expression. Transcriptomic and epigenomic profiling were performed and compared with MC3T3-E1 cells. Functional relevance of candidate genes was examined using siRNA knockdown.Transcriptomic and epigenomic profiling revealed that 5azaC and Wnt3a co-treatment induced broader gene expression and methylation changes than either treatment alone, closely resembling the osteogenic profile of MC3T3-E1 pre-osteoblasts. Among the overlapping differentially methylated and steadily expressed genes, Tyrosine 3-Monooxygenase/Tryptophan 5-Monooxygenase Activation Protein Eta (Ywhah) and Tyrosine 3-Monooxygenase/Tryptophan 5-Monooxygenase Activation Protein Epsilon (Ywhae) emerged as key regulators, whose knockdown notably enhanced Alpl expression even without 5azaC.Combining 5azaC-induced demethylation with Wnt3a is a potent strategy to redirect pre-adipocytes toward osteogenesis. Identification of key targets like Ywhah and Ywhae provides mechanistic insight into trans-differentiation and suggests therapeutic potential for bone regeneration, particularly in elderly periodontal patients.
Histone deacetylase 4 (HDAC4) is highly expressed in patients with essential hypertension and is closely related to myocardial injury. Therefore, this study aims to explore the effects and mechanisms of HDAC4 on cardiac injury in spontaneously hypertensive rats, with the aim of providing new directions for the diagnosis and treatment of hypertensive myocardial disease. Compared with those in the WKY group, the blood pressure, myocardial injury markers, myocardial cell apoptosis rate, cleaved-caspase9 protein, TNF-α, HDAC4 mRNA, HDAC4 protein, IL-6, cleaved-caspase3 protein, MDA, β-catenin protein, IL-1β, and Wnt3a protein levels in the SHR group significantly increased ( P < 0.05), while LVEF and SOD levels significantly decreased ( P < 0.05); interfering with HDAC4 expression can reduce the cardiomyocyte apoptosis rate, cleaved-caspase9 protein, TNF-α, HDAC4 mRNA, HDAC4 protein, IL-6, cleaved-caspase3 protein, MDA, β-catenin protein, IL-1β, and Wnt3a protein levels, and increase LVEF and SOD levels; overexpression of HDAC4 has the opposite effect. HDAC4 may play a role in regulating cardiac injury in SHR rats by regulating β-catenin signaling pathway.Copyright © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
Periodontitis is a chronic inflammatory disease that leads to the loss of periodontal supporting tissue. Furthermore, human periodontal ligament stem cells (hPDLSCs) are identified as candidate cells for the regeneration of periodontal and alveolar bone tissues. N6-Methyladenosine (m6A) performs a vital role in osteoporosis and bone metabolism. However, the role and mechanism of Methyltransferase-like 14 (METTL14) in the osteogenic differentiation of PDLSCs from periodontitis sufferers (pPDLSCs) is unclear. In this research, GSE223924 database analyzed the expression of METTL14 and Wnt Family Member 3A (WNT3A) in gingival tissue samples of 10 healthy subjects, 10 patients with periodontitis and peri-implantitis. RT-qPCR and western blot detected METTL14, COL1A1, Runx2, ALP, and WNT3A mRNA level and protein level. Osteogenic differentiation was evaluated by Alizarin Red S staining and ALP activity. MeRIP and dual-luciferase reporter assays verified interaction between METTL14 and WNT3A. GSE223924 database showed METTL14 was differentially expressed in patients with periodontitis and peri-implantitis. Furthermore, our data verified that METTL14 and WNT3A expression were decreased in pPDLSCs and were upregulated by osteogenic induction. METTL14 promoted osteogenic differentiation of pPDLSCs. METTL14 regulated WNT3A mRNA expression via m6A methylation. METTL14 facilitates osteogenic differentiation of pPDLSCs via modulating WNT3A, providing a possible target for improving alveolar bone regeneration outcomes.Highlights 1. METTL14 expression was decreased in pPDLSCs 2. METTL14 knockdown negatively regulated the osteogenic differentiation of pPDLSCs 3. WNT3A mRNA was a m6A-methylated target by METTL14.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Society of The Nippon Dental University.
Ischemic stroke is a predominant cause of neurological disability, characterized by neuroinflammation and neuronal apoptosis. The Wnt signaling pathway plays a critical role in brain repair. Yangyin Yiqi Huoxue Decoction, a traditional Chinese herbal formula, has shown potential in alleviating neuroinflammatory injury, yet, the precise mechanism underlying its effects remains unclear.This study aims to explore the therapeutic efficacy of Yangyin Yiqi Huoxue Decoction on ischemic stroke and its potential mechanism of action, particularly focusing on its modulation of the Wnt signaling pathway and impact on neuroinflammation and neural stem cells activity.The middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) rat model and an Oxygen glucose deprivation/re-oxygenation (OGD/R) cell model were employed. In vivo experiments were conducted to investigate the therapeutic effects of the Yangyin Yiqi Huoxue Decoction at high, medium, and low dosages (3.3, 1.65, and 0.83 g/kg). The effects of Yangyin Yiqi Huoxue Decoction on neuroinflammatory cytokine levels, microglial activation, and neural stem cells proliferation and differentiation were assessed in vivo experiments. Wnt signaling components were evaluated through Quantitative Real-Time PCR and Western blot in both vivo and vitro. Additionaly, the Wnt inhibitor Dickkopf-related protein 1(DKK1) was used to confirm the pathway's involvement.The high-dose group(3.3 g/kg) of the Yangyin Yiqi Huoxue Decoction exhibited the most pronounced therapeutic effects. Yangyin Yiqi Huoxue Decoction significantly reduced pro-inflammatory cytokine levels, inhibited microglial overactivation, and enhanced neural stem cells proliferation and differentiation. It also modulated the Wnt pathway by upregulating Wnt Family Member 3A(Wnt3a) and β-catenin, while downregulating Wnt Family Member 5A(Wnt5a) and glycogen synthase kinase-3β(GSK-3β). The inhibition of Wnt signaling by Dickkopf-related protein 1(DKK1) reversed these beneficial effects, confirming Yangyin Yiqi Huoxue Decoction 's mechanism.Yangyin Yiqi Huoxue Decoction exerts neuroprotective effects by suppressing neuroinflammation and promoting neural-stem-cell-mediated brain repair through the Wnt signaling pathway, positioning it as a potential candidate for ischemic stroke treatment.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
The Bu Shen Yi Sui capsule (BSYS), a modified version of the classical Chinese medicine formula Liu Wei Di Huang pill, has demonstrated therapeutic efficacy in the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS). Nevertheless, the precise mechanism through which BSYS facilitates remyelination remains to be elucidated.This research investigates the role and potential mechanisms of BSYS-modified exosomes (exos) derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) in promoting remyelination in a cuprizone (CPZ)-induced demyelination model in mice.C57BL/6J mice were administered a 0.2% CPZ-containing diet for 5 weeks to induce demyelination, followed by treatment with exosomes derived from BMSC (BMSC-exos) and BSYS-modified BMSC exosomes (BSYS-BMSC-exos) twice weekly for 2 weeks. Body weight measurements were recorded, and motor function was evaluated using the rotarod test. Pathological changes in myelin and axons were assessed via Luxol fast blue (LFB) staining, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and immunofluorescence (IF) staining. Oligodendrocyte proliferation, differentiation, and maturation were analyzed using IF double-staining, Western blot (WB), and real-time quantitative reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR). Additionally, microRNA (miRNA) sequencing and a luciferase reporter assay were conducted to verify miRNA binding to its target gene. Key markers of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway were examined using WB and qRT-PCR.BSYS-BMSC-exos treatment significantly increased both body weight and rotarod performance in CPZ mice. Moreover, BMSC-exos and BSYS-BMSC-exos reversed myelin loss and axonal damage. These treatments enhanced oligodendrocytes proliferation, differentiation, and maturation, with BSYS-BMSC-exos exhibiting a particularly pronounced effect on the expression of adenomatous polyposis coli clone CC1 (CC1), 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase (CNPase), proteolipid protein (PLP), myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG), and myelin basic protein (MBP). Sequencing and luciferase assays revealed that miR-15b-5p, enriched in BSYS-BMSC-exos, directly targets Wnt3a. Furthermore, BSYS-BMSC-exos elevated axis inhibition protein 2 (Axin2) expression while markedly reducing Wnt family member 3A (Wnt3a), phospho-glycogen synthase kinase-3β (p-GSK3β), β-catenin, and T-cell specific transcription factor 4/transcription factor 7-like 2 (TCF4/TCF7L2) levels.The findings suggest that BSYS-BMSC-exos alleviate neurological deficits, enhance oligodendrocytes differentiation and maturation, and promote remyelination in CPZ mice. miR-15b-5p, enriched in BSYS-BMSC-exos, targets and downregulates Wnt3a, thereby inhibiting the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The teleost scale is a unique calcified tissue that contains osteoclasts, osteoblasts, osteocytes and the bone matrix, similar to mammalian bone. Here, the effects of low-intensity pulsed ultrasound (LIPUS) on osteoblasts and osteoclasts in goldfish scales were investigated. Scales were treated with LIPUS, which is equivalent to use under clinical conditions (30 mW/cm2 for 20 min), then cultured at 15˚C. Alkaline phosphatase activity, a marker of osteoblasts, or tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) activity, a marker of osteoclasts was measured. The gene expression profile was examined using RNA-sequencing. Gene network and biological function analyses were performed using the Ingenuity® Pathways Knowledge Base. A single exposure of LIPUS significantly increased ALP activity but did not affect TRAP activity. These data indicated that LIPUS induced osteoblastic activation in goldfish scales. Using RNA-sequencing, numerous genes that were significantly and differentially expressed 3, 6, and 24 h after LIPUS exposure were observed. Ingenuity® pathway analysis demonstrated that three gene networks, GN-3h, GN-6h, and GN-24h, were obtained from upregulated genes at 3, 6 and 24 h culture, respectively, and included several genes associated with osteoblast differentiation, such as protein kinase D1, prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2, TNFRSF11B (tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily, member 11b) and WNT3A (Wnt family member 3A). A significant upregulation of expression levels of these genes in scales treated with LIPUS was confirmed by reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction. These results contribute to elucidating the molecular mechanisms of osteoblast activation induced by LIPUS.Copyright: © 2024 Tabuchi et al.
Pulmonary fibrosis is a severe respiratory condition marked by the formation of scar tissue in the lungs, which makes it distinguishable from atypical fibrosis. The specific mechanisms of angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) in pulmonary fibrosis are still unclear, although it has been demonstrated to have a significant role in this condition. The objective of this study was to examine the impact of ACE2 on lung fibrosis.Both in vivo and in vitro experimental approaches were employed in this study to evaluate the function of ACE2. In the in vivo experiments, an animal model of pulmonary fibrosis was established by injecting 0.1 mL of bleomycin solution into C57BL/6 male mice, and the effects of ACE2 overexpression on pulmonary fibrosis were observed, for the animal group overexpressing ACE2 (Model+ACE2 group), treatments with SB505124 (transforming growth factor-β type I receptor (TGF-βRI) (ALK5) inhibitor) and XAV939 (Wnt Family Member 3a (Wnt3a) inhibitor) were administered, to evaluate the effects of these pathway inhibitors on ACE2 overexpression in the treatment of pulmonary fibrosis. Lung tissue samples were collected from the animals and subjected to pathological examination (hematoxylin and eosin (HE) and Masson's trichrome staining) to assess the degree of pathological inflammation and fibrosis. Concurrently, the expression levels of proteins and genes related to the ACE2, Wnt/glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3β/β-catenin, and TGF-β1/Smad2 signaling pathways were measured using Western blotting and quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) techniques. In the in vitro experiments, pulmonary fibrosis was simulated in human lung fibroblasts (HLFs), which were stimulated with TGF-β1. The correlation of ACE2 overexpression to attenuate pulmonary fibrosis with Wnt/GSK-3β/β-catenin and TGF-β1/Smad2 signaling pathways was explored.The ACE2 overexpression could effectively reduce pulmonary fibrosis and inflammation in mice and HLFs by modulating signaling pathways (p < 0.01). In mice, ACE2 reduced inflammation and collagen accumulation, decreasing levels of α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) and fibronectin (p < 0.01). Compared to the Model+ACE2 group, the Model+ACE2+SB505124 underwent a greater reduction in inflammation and fibrosis, as well as decreased levels of α-SMA and fibronectin (p < 0.05). Overexpression of ACE2, XAV939, and SB505124 all significantly reduced the expression levels of Wnt3a, β-catenin, p-GSK-3β, TGF-β1, and p-Smad2 proteins in mice with pulmonary fibrosis (p < 0.05). In HLFs, ACE2 counteracted TGF-β1 effects, reducing cell proliferation and levels of fibrosis markers such as collagen, α-SMA and fibronectin (p < 0.01). It also inhibited the TGF-β1-induced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), showcasing its therapeutic potential against lung fibrosis and inflammation by regulating key signaling pathways and EMT processes (p < 0.01).The desirable effects of ACE2 in alleviating pulmonary fibrosis are associated with the regulation of the Wnt/GSK-3β/β-catenin and TGF-β1/Smad2 signaling pathway. These results offer significant evidence for further investigation into the potential use of ACE2 in treating pulmonary fibrosis and provide new avenues for the advancement of innovative therapeutic approaches.
SUMO1 (small ubiquitin-like modifier 1) is a central feature of post-translational SUMOylation, modifying a broad range of substrate proteins. SUMO1 itself is prone to succination, i.e., a post-translational Michael addition of cysteine onto fumarate, which results in the formation of succinated SUMO1 with modified properties. The present study assesses the structural and gas-phase stability modifications in SUMO1 induced by diethyl fumarate succination using advanced ion mobility spectrometry-mass spectrometry (IMS-MS) techniques. Among them, collision-induced unfolding (CIU) and slice-CIU highlight a modified unfolding process resulting from the creation of specific charge-dipole interactions involving the appended dicarbonyl moiety. The experimental results are further supported by molecular dynamics simulations to understand, at the atomistic level, the mechanisms underlying the CIU of gaseous (derivatized) SUMO1 ions.© 2026 American Society for Mass Spectrometry. Published by American Chemical Society. All rights reserved.
The success of fertilization largely depends on semen quality. However, semen cryopreservation can impair sperm function and reduce conception rates, thereby hindering the repopulation of threatened species, including Eld's deer (Rucervus eldii). Despite its importance, information on the effects of cryopreservation on sperm protein composition in Eld's deer remains limited. This study investigated the proteomic profiles of sperm from Siamese and Burmese Eld's deer at three stages-fresh, pre-freeze, and post-thaw-using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Comparative analysis revealed distinct protein expression patterns across stages. A total of 2294 proteins were identified, of which 16 and 14 were significantly differentially expressed between fresh and pre-freeze sperm and between fresh and cryopreserved sperm, respectively. Increased levels of coiled-coil domain-containing protein 136 (CCDC136) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) in pre-freeze sperm suggested cytoskeletal stabilization and immune activation during cooling. Post-thaw sperm showed decreased levels of nucleoside diphosphate kinase A (NME1) and zinc finger protein-like 1 (ZFPL1), indicating metabolic and chromatin disruption, whereas elevated cullin-4B (CUL4B) and small ubiquitin-like modifier 1 (SUMO1) reflected activation of DNA repair and protein turnover pathways. These molecular alterations were consistent with reduced post-thaw motility, viability, and membrane and acrosome integrity, highlighting key stress-response mechanisms. The identified proteins may serve as biomarkers for semen quality assessment and inform optimized cryopreservation strategies, thereby supporting conservation efforts for Eld's deer.Copyright © 2026 Society for Biology of Reproduction & the Institute of Animal Reproduction and Food Research of Polish Academy of Sciences in Olsztyn. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Dermatomyositis is a rare autoimmune disease that typically affects the skin, muscle and respiratory system. Patients with dermatomyositis usually require prompt treatment with intense immunosuppression to reduce disease progression and multiorgan damage. A previously well male in his 40s initially presented to an emergency department with severe neck swelling. He was reviewed initially by ear, nose and throat surgeons for a probable deep neck space infection. Having been cleared of this as a cause, he was referred to clinical immunology for investigation and treatment of suspected idiopathic angioedema. A creatine kinase level was promptly requested due to the atypical nature of neck oedema that was inconsistent with angioedema, along with the presence of skin and nail changes. The patient was given a provisional diagnosis of dermatomyositis and subsequently was shown to have a positive small ubiquitin-like modifier-1 activating enzyme (SAE1) autoantibody and typical muscle biopsy. This case highlights non-histamine and non-bradykinin-mediated neck swelling as an unusual presentation of dermatomyositis that manifested with dysphagia and significant muscle involvement requiring prompt treatment.© BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
We report a rare case of dermatomyositis with positive anti-small ubiquitin-like modifier-1 activating enzyme antibody complicated by Rosai-Dorfman disease. A 41-year-old Japanese man presented with fever and general malaise, followed by developed progressive dysphagia. Physical examination revealed extensive erythema, along with characteristic heliotropic rash and erythematous keratotic plaques on the extremities. Laboratory examinations showed elevated muscle enzyme levels, and anti-small ubiquitin-like modifier-1 activating enzyme antibodies were detected by immunoprecipitation-Western blotting, whereas other myositis-specific autoantibodies were negative. Chest and abdominal computed tomography showed no findings suggestive of interstitial lung disease or internal malignancy, but revealed multiple painless lymphadenopathies in the inguinal regions. Lymph node biopsy revealed the diagnosis of Rosai-Dorfman disease. To the best of our knowledge, the present case is the first reported case of dermatomyositis associated with Rosai-Dorfman disease, which may suggest a shared immunopathological mechanism between the two diseases.© 2026 Japanese Dermatological Association.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is frequently comorbid with persistent depressive disorder (dysthymia), indicating shared neurobiological pathways that influence stress modulation, emotional regulation, and neurohormonal adaptation. This study examines the roles of serum biomarkers-small ubiquitin-like modifier 1 (SUMO1), malondialdehyde (MDA), fractalkine (CX3CL1), and ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCHL1)-involved in oxidative stress management, neuroimmune regulation, and neuronal proteostasis. In this cross-sectional analysis, biomarker expression was assessed in 92 male trauma-exposed participants aged 19-50 years, divided into three groups: PTSD duration ≤ 5 years (n = 33, median age 34.0 years [IQR 31.0-41.0]), PTSD duration > 5 years (n = 31, median age 36.0 years [IQR 29.5-41.0]), and controls without current or past PTSD (n = 28, median age 33.5 years [IQR 24.3-41.5]). Participants were stratified into younger (19-34 years) and older (35-50 years) cohorts to account for age-related neurobiological variability. Dysthymic symptomatology was evaluated using the Cornell Dysthymia Rating Scale (CDRS), focusing on chronic subthreshold depressive features. Results indicated a significant association between PTSD and elevated dysthymic symptom burden (p < 0.001), with both PTSD subgroups demonstrating mild to moderate CDRS severity compared to euthymic controls. Biomarker analysis revealed phase-dependent alterations: SUMO1 levels were significantly elevated in the ≤5 years PTSD group compared to controls (p = 0.002), suggesting early compensatory neuroprotection, whereas UCHL1 was markedly increased in the >5 years PTSD group (p = 0.015), which is indicative of chronic neuronal damage and proteostatic disruption. No significant differences were observed in MDA or CX3CL1 across groups (p > 0.05). These findings highlight PTSD's contribution to sustained affective dysregulation, potentially mediated by temporal shifts in oxidative stress and protein homeostasis markers. Clinically, this supports the utility of biomarker profiling for risk stratification, early intervention, and personalized therapeutic strategies, such as targeted modulation of SUMOylation or UCHL1 activity, to enhance neuroresilience and mitigate progression to severe mood disorders.
High-fat diet (HFD) induces intestinal lipid accumulation and impairs intestinal health. Chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) has a positive effect on attenuating lipid accumulation, but its mechanism in HFD-induced lipid metabolism disorders and intestinal health remain unclear.This study explored the mechanism by which dietary CDCA alleviates lipid deposition and the metabolic changes induced by HFD.Yellow catfish were fed diets containing a control diet (10.58% lipid), HFD (15.96% lipid), control diet supplemented with 0.90 g/kg CDCA (CDCA), and HFD supplemented with 0.90 g/kg CDCA (HFD+CDCA) for 10 wk. Intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) were incubated for 24 h in 0.5 mM fatty acid (FA) or 50 μM CDCA after 4 h with or without farnesoid X receptor (fxr), small ubiquitin like modifier 1 (sumo1), or protein inhibitor of activated signal transducer and activators of transcription 1 (pias1) small interfering RNAs. Triglyceride, quantitative polymerase chain reaction, immunoblotting, electrophoretic mobility shift assay, and chromatin immunoprecipitation were performed in the intestine and IECs. SUMOylation of sterol regulatory element binding protein 1 (SREBP1) was investigated in IECs and HEK293T cells.Dietary CDCA ameliorated HFD-induced increase in triglyceride concentrations, lipogenesis, and FA uptake and reduction in lipolysis, lipid transport, bile acid absorption and transport, and SUMOylation. FXR activated SUMO1 transcription, which promoted SUMOylation of SREBP1 and inhibited SREBP1 nuclear translocation and accordingly helped CDCA alleviate FA-induced lipid accumulation. Lysine 264 was the important SUMOylation site of SREBP1 by SUMO1, whose SUMOylation reduced the binding ability to FA synthase (FAS), acetyl-CoA carboxylase α, and stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 (SCD1) promoters. Activation of FXR enhanced the interaction between small heterodimer partner (SHP) and PIAS1, which promoted SUMO1 attachment to SREBP1, and inhibited the transcription of fas, accα, and scd1.CDCA alleviated HFD-induced lipid accumulation by promoting SUMOylation of SREBP1 at lysine 264 via the FXR/SHP/PIAS1/SUMO1 pathway, suggesting an innovative mechanism for the use of CDCA to alleviate HFD-induced lipid accumulation in vertebrates.Copyright © 2025 American Society for Nutrition. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
SUMO1 (small ubiquitin-like modifier 1) is a key protein involved in the post-translational modification of a wide range of substrate proteins. SUMOylation plays a pivotal role in regulating various cellular processes such as protein localization, functional modulation, and complex formation. Notably, SUMO1 contains a cysteine residue in its sequence, making it susceptible to succination, i.e., a Michael addition of cysteine onto fumarate, forming a succinated cysteine. This could occur under conditions of elevated intracellular fumarate concentration, a hallmark of metabolic dysregulation. To investigate this hypothesis, we employ a multidisciplinary approach integrating advanced analytical techniques such as mass spectrometry (including liquid chromatography, ion mobility spectrometry, and hydrogen-deuterium exchange experiments), circular dichroism spectroscopy, and molecular dynamics simulations. We demonstrate that SUMO1 undergoes succination in vitro, leading to important conformational changes. These findings provide insights into the susceptibility of SUMO1 to metabolic alterations.© 2025 American Chemical Society.
Small Ubiquitin-like Modifier 1 Pseudogene 3 (SUMO1P3) is a novel long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) located at the 1q23.2 locus of the human chromosome. Recent evidence indicates that SUMO1P3 is aberrantly upregulated in nine types of human cancer and functions as an oncogene. Elevated SUMO1P3 expression is strongly associated with unfavorable clinicopathological features and poor prognosis in eight cancer types. Mechanistically, SUMO1P3 functions as a miRNA sponge, an epigenetic regulator, and directly interacting with proteins. It activates key signaling pathways, such as the Wnt/β-catenin and AKT pathways, and regulates Epithelial- Mesenchymal Transition (EMT), which facilitates cancer progression and therapy resistance. Due to its diverse functional roles, SUMO1P3 emerges as a promising diagnostic and prognostic biomarker, as well as a potential therapeutic target in precision oncology. This review provides a comprehensive summary of current research on SUMO1P3, highlighting its regulatory mechanisms, biological functions, and clinical significance in cancer biology.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Multiple acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (MADD) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by dysfunctional acyl-CoA dehydrogenases, leading to lipid accumulation in various tissues, including skeletal muscles, liver, and cardiac muscles, etc. Late-onset MADD presents with progressive muscular symptoms (muscle weakness, atrophy, and myalgia) and even multisystem disorders (metabolic encephalopathy, dilated cardiomyopathy, liver failure, acute kidney injury, respiratory failure, and cardiac arrest). Over the past decade, only one case of childhood late-onset MADD with severe multi-organ failure has been reported.We report a 15-year-old girl with worsening muscle weakness, atrophy, myalgia, hepatic insufficiency, respiratory failure and even cardiac arrest. Laboratory tests showed significantly elevated levels of creatine kinase MB isoenzyme (CK-MB) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). A weakly positive serum small ubiquitin-like modifier 1 activating enzyme (SAE1) antibody suggested antibody-negative polymyositis (PM), but serum acylcarnitine analysis indicated increased concentrations of various acylcarnitines, while urine organic acids was normal. Muscle biopsy revealed significant lipid deposition within muscle fibers pointing to the diagnosis of lipid storage myopathy (LSM). Genetic testing identified a homozygous c.250G>A (p.Ala84Thr) mutation in electron transfer flavoprotein dehydrogenase (ETFDH), inherited from her parents. Although this pathogenic mutation is known in MADD, it has not been associated with adolescent late-onset MADD with severe multi-organ failure. After riboflavin supplementation, the patient regained mobility without ventilator support, with no recurrence of myopathic symptoms upon follow-up.MADD is a rare but treatable disease and its diagnosis is challenging due to its high clinical heterogeneity. Therefore, based on clinical, biochemical and pathological findings, gene analysis is critical for accurate diagnosis and clinical intervention, as riboflavin supplementation has shown lifesaving therapeutic benefit even in adolescent late-onset MADD with severe multi-organ failure.© 2025 Zhao, Li, Cui, Chen and Zhong.
During sperm capacitation, post-translational modifications such as SUMOylation are crucial for maintaining protein homeostasis. Macroautophagy (autophagy) is essential for cellular and energy homeostasis, aiding in the survival of reproductive cells and protecting against ovarian aging. However, the role of autophagy in capacitated sperm remains unclear.This study aimed to explore the relationship between small ubiquitin-like modifier 1 (SUMO1)-modified proteins and autophagy during sperm capacitation, focusing on the involvement of immunoglobulin-binding protein 1 (IGBP1) in the autophagy pathway.Tandem mass spectrometry was employed to identify SUMO1-modified proteins in boar sperm before and after capacitation. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis was conducted to investigate the involvement of these proteins in autophagy, specifically examining the modification and degradation of IGBP1 via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway (UPP). The regulatory role of the PKA-mTOR signaling axis on autophagy during capacitation was also examined.A total of 229 SUMO1-modified proteins were identified in the non-capacitated group and 197 in the capacitated group, with 77 proteins unique to the non-capacitated state and 45 unique to the capacitated state. IGBP1 was found to be involved in the autophagy pathway, and its SUMO1 modification level significantly decreased after sperm capacitation, leading to its degradation via UPP. This degradation promoted autophagy and increased mTOR activity. The autophagy process involving IGBP1 was regulated by the upstream PKA-mTOR signaling axis. Additionally, a negative correlation between autophagy and apoptosis was observed during sperm capacitation, where the activation of autophagy enhanced capacitation and improved sperm-egg binding and embryonic development.The degradation of de-SUMOylated IGBP1 via UPP promotes sperm autophagy and enhances in vitro capacitation, providing new insights into the molecular mechanisms of sperm capacitation.© 2025 American Society of Andrology and European Academy of Andrology.
Cardiac fibrosis is a pivotal pathological process driving heart failure following ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury. STC1 (stanniocalcin-1), a conserved glycoprotein with mitochondrial regulatory functions, remains unexplored in myocardial fibrosis. This study investigates the mechanistic role of cardiomyocyte-derived STC1 in cardiac fibrosis.Mouse models of myocardial I/R injury were established by left anterior descending coronary artery ligation followed by 24-hour reperfusion. Cardiac-specific STC1 knockdown (adeno-associated virus 9-shSTC1) or overexpression (adeno-associated virus 9-STC1) preceded I/R injury induction. Cardiac function was assessed via echocardiography, and fibrosis was quantified histologically (Masson's trichrome, Sirius red) and molecularly (α-SMA [alpha smooth muscle actin], COL1A1 [collagen type I alpha 1 chain], COL3A1 [collagen type III alpha 1 chain], Smad2 [SMAD family member 2]). In vitro, cardiomyocyte-derived conditioned medium was applied to TGF-β (transforming growth factor beta)-stimulated fibroblasts, supplemented with recombinant STC1 for rescue assays. Protein-protein interactions were analyzed via coimmunoprecipitation and domain-deletion mutants.STC1 deficiency exacerbated post-I/R cardiac dysfunction and fibrosis, accompanied by elevated α-SMA, COL1A1, and phosphorylated-Smad2 levels. Conversely, STC1 overexpression attenuated I/R-induced functional decline and fibrosis. In addition, cardiomyocyte-derived STC1 suppressed TGF-β-driven fibroblast activation and Smad2 nuclear translocation. Mechanistically, STC1 directly interacted with the DOCKER domain of DOCK1 (dedicator of cytokinesis 1), disrupting DOCK1/RAC1-GTP (Rac family small GTPase 1 bound to guanosine triphosphate) signaling. Genetic ablation of the DOCKER domain abolished STC1's antifibrotic effects, restoring RAC1-GTP activity and fibrosis markers.Cardiomyocyte-derived STC1 mitigates cardiac fibrosis post I/R by targeting the DOCK1/RAC1 axis via its interaction with the DOCKER domain. These findings identify STC1-DOCK1 as a novel therapeutic pathway for ischemic heart failure.
This study aimed to investigate the role of protein tyrosine kinase-like 7 (PTK7) in the progression of fibrosis of renal tubular epithelial cells and to elucidate its underlying molecular mechanisms, thereby evaluating the potential of PTK7 as a therapeutic target for renal fibrosis. Immunohistochemistry, Western blotting, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) were performed to examine PTK7 expression in a mouse model of renal fibrosis. Public single-cell transcriptomic datasets were employed to analyze the expression distribution of PTK7 among different renal cell types. A stable PTK7-knockout transformed C3H mouse kidney-1 (TCMK-1) cell line was generated via clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats/CRISPR-associated protein 9 (CRISPR/Cas9), and following transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) stimulation, cellular morphological changes were observed. The expression levels of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-related proteins (E-cadherin and vimentin) and fibrosis-related proteins (α-SMA, fibronectin, and collagen I) were assessed. Cell proliferative activity and migratory capacity were evaluated by cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and wound healing assays, respectively, and the phosphorylation levels of Smad family member 2 (Smad2)/Smad family member 3 (Smad3) were analyzed to explore the potential mechanisms. PTK7 expression was significantly upregulated in the kidney tissue of the mouse model and was highly expressed in renal tubular epithelial cells. PTK7 knockout suppressed TGF-β1-induced EMT progression and the expression of fibrosis-related proteins (P0.001), and it attenuated the migratory ability of renal tubular epithelial cells under TGF-β1 stimulation. From a mechanism perspective, PTK7 deficiency effectively inhibited TGF-β1-triggered activation of Smad2/Smad3 phosphorylation. PTK7 promotes the fibrosis of renal tubular epithelial cells through activation of the TGF-β1/Smad signaling pathway, and PTK7 knockout can effectively alleviate fibrosis-related phenotypes at the cellular level. This study provides experimental evidence for further exploration of PTK7 as a potential therapeutic target against renal fibrosis.
GLIS family zinc finger 3 (GLIS3) is a transcription factor implicated in multiple malignancies, but its role in stomach adenocarcinoma (STAD) and its downstream effector axis remain unclear. We investigated whether GLIS3 coordinates epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and cancer stem cell (CSC)-like programs in STAD through a signaling cascade.GLIS3 expression and prognostic associations were analyzed using transcriptomic datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas, Genotype-Tissue Expression, and Gene Expression Omnibus. GLIS3 protein levels were evaluated by immunohistochemistry in 133 paired STAD tissues. Survival was assessed by Kaplan-Meier analysis together with multivariable regression models. Gain- and loss-of-function studies were performed in AGS and HGC-27 cells to evaluate proliferation, migration, EMT and CSC-like phenotypes. Mechanistic experiments interrogated a GLIS3-transforming growth factor beta receptor 3 (TGFBR3)-Hedgehog axis using ChIP-qPCR, dual-luciferase assays, co-immunoprecipitation, GLI reporter assays, and vismodegib treatment. Tumor growth was assessed in xenograft models.GLIS3 was consistently upregulated in STAD across public datasets and in the clinical cohort (median H-score: 112 vs 39, P < 0.001) and was associated with adverse clinicopathological features and poor survival. In the TCGA cohort, higher GLIS3 expression was associated with greater nodal burden, more advanced nodal and metastatic status, and worse vital status. In multivariable Cox models restricted to cases with defined stage classifications, GLIS3 remained independently associated with worse overall survival in the primary model (hazard ratio = 1.45, 95% confidence interval: 1.04-2.02; P = 0.031), with a consistent result in the sensitivity model. Functionally, GLIS3 enhanced proliferation and migration and promoted EMT marker switching and CSC-like traits. Mechanistically, GLIS3 transcriptionally activated TGFBR3 and increased Hedgehog pathway activity; bidirectional rescue experiments showed that TGFBR3 overexpression partially restored, whereas TGFBR3 silencing attenuated, GLIS3-driven EMT/CSC-like phenotypes and growth-related functions. Xenograft experiments supported an in vivo growth-promoting role of the GLIS3-TGFBR3-Hedgehog axis.GLIS3 identifies an aggressive STAD phenotype and engages a TGFBR3-Hedgehog program linked to EMT and CSC-like features. These findings support further evaluation of GLIS3 as a biomarker for risk stratification and provide a rationale for biomarker-guided targeting of the GLIS3-TGFBR3-Hedgehog axis in STAD.Copyright © 2026 Xiao, Deng, Li, Zheng and Zhang.
Those affected by Type 2 diabetes (T2DM) often encounter microvascular harm, and within this context, the kidneys are especially prone to damage. Among the approaches to manage such microvascular complications, Shenqi Tangluo Pill (SQTLW), a traditional Chinese herbal formulation, is commonly utilized in clinical settings for preventing and addressing microvascular issues linked to T2DM. Nonetheless, the detailed impacts and working principles of this herbal formulation in alleviating kidney damage caused by diabetes are still not clearly understood.The aim was to confirm the kidney-protective impacts of SQTLW on T2DM mice, as well as to clarify the fundamental mechanisms related to intestinal microbiota and the microbe-derived metabolite trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO), especially under the condition of intestinal flora depletion induced by a combination of broad-spectrum antibiotics (ABx).Diabetic db/db mice received sustained SQTLW intervention over an 8-week period. Following the 8-week intervention, evaluations were performed on fasting blood glucose levels (FBG), body mass, kidney function, and histopathological changes in renal tissue. Additionally, the makeup of gut microbial communities and the circulating concentrations of metabolites linked to TMAO were assessed. To assess the integrity of the intestinal barrier, histopathological examination of colonic tissue and expression profiles of zonula occludens protein-1 (ZO-1) and Occludin were performed. Expression levels of NOD-like receptor pyrin domain-containing 3 (NLRP3), Smad family member 2/3 (Smad2/3), fibronectin (FN), and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) in renal tissue were examined using immunodetection methods. Next, db/db mice were given a combination of ABx and SQTLW treatments to further examine if the therapeutic outcome is dependent on the regulation of gut microorganisms.SQTLW notably lowered FBG and body weight in db/db mice, ameliorated renal dysfunction, and alleviated histopathological injury of renal tissue, with a notable dose-response relationship. 16S rRNA gene sequencing-based profiling revealed that SQTLW substantially altered the compositional structure of distinct bacterial genera from the phyla Bacteroidota and Firmicutes, particularly Muribaculaceae and Lachnospiraceae. Colonic histopathology and molecular detection indicated that SQTLW effectively preserved intestinal barrier architecture. Targeted metabolomics via LC-MS/MS demonstrated that SQTLW significantly modulated TMAO-related plasma metabolites, including TMAO, choline, and creatinine. Moreover, SQTLW significantly downregulated renal expression of NLRP3 and Smad2/3, thereby attenuating fibrosis-related injury. Importantly, further experiments confirmed that depletion of gut microbiota by ABx partially attenuated the renoprotective effects of SQTLW in db/db mice.SQTLW confers protective effects against renal injury secondary to T2DM, potentially via modulation of gut microbial composition, preservation of intestinal barrier function, and regulation of TMAO-related metabolic pathways.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42099239 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 41890823 is a review article
Skeletal dysplasias are a common cause of short stature and are often linked with multisystemic features. The Hedgehog signaling pathway plays a vital role in skeletal development and is regulated by the protein kinase domain-containing cytoplasmic (PKDCC) gene, also known as vertebrate lonesome kinase. Pathogenic variants in the PKDCC gene have been reported in very few patients worldwide and are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. We report 2 siblings-a 6-year-old girl and a 3-year-old boy-who present with rhizomelic short stature, facial dysmorphism, low-set ears, and umbilical hernia. The girl has a history of cardiac septal defects and camptodactyly, while her younger brother shows no systemic complications. A comprehensive laboratory panel was normal in both siblings, and whole exome sequencing revealed a homozygous splice acceptor variant of the PKDCC gene on chromosome 2:g.42280377A>T, (NM_138370.3, c.640-2A>T), leading to a diagnosis of rhizomelic limb shortening with dysmorphic features. To our knowledge, this is the first report of siblings from India with a PKDCC pathogenic variant, underscoring the importance of genetic screening in cases of short stature accompanied by dysmorphism and dysplasia.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
Appropriately increasing the level of fat in feed exhibits potential protein-saving effects, but high levels of fat in the feed can cause liver injury in fish of largemouth bass. 18β-Glycyrrhetinic acid (GA), a natural extract from G lycyrrhiza, has been shown to enhance growth performance and improve intestinal health in animals. Thus, the present study was to investigate the effects of dietary GA on high-fat-induced liver fibrosis and the potential mechanisms in juvenile largemouth bass. The experiment comprised five different diets, including normal control (NC) diet (NC group), high-fat (HF) diet (HF group), HF diet supplemented with 0.5 mg/kg GA (HFL group), HF diet supplemented with 1.0 mg/kg GA (HFM group), and HF diet supplemented with 1.5 mg/kg GA (HFH group). A total of 750 healthy largemouth bass with an initial average weight of 17.39 ± 0.09 g were selected and randomly divided into five treatment groups, with three replicates per group and 50 fish per replicate. The feeding experiment was conducted for 11 weeks. In the liver, compared to NC, HF diet led to a marked reduction of the mitochondria-associated membranes (MAMs) gap, resulting in mitochondrial Ca2+ overload, augmented liver Ca2+ transport proteins expressions and reactive oxygen species (ROS) content (P < 0.05), decreased mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) content in the liver (P < 0.05). Thus, the activation of transforming growth factorβ1 (TGFβ1)-SMAD family member 2 (Smad2/3) signaling pathway resulted in the upregulation of pro-fibrogenic markers (α-Sma, collagen I, fibrontein, and Mmp9) mRNA expressions (P < 0.05). However, GA could alleviate this phenomenon. Through virtual docking analysis showed that the docking energy between GA and Sirtuin 3 (SIRT3) was -9.0 kcal/mol, and the binding effect between the two was stable. Such proposed mechanism was further corroborated by the SIRT3 siRNA transfection cell experiment, indicating that GA may potentially influence the mitochondrial calcium uniporter (MCU) expression by targeting SIRT3, thereby reducing mitochondrial Ca2+ content. Together, this study elucidates the essential role of GA in ameliorating liver lipid accumulation and improving liver health, highlighting that GA improves liver fibrosis and mitigates mitochondrial Ca2+ overload-mediated liver injury. Consequently, GA holds promise as a potential health-functional additive or therapeutic agent for liver fibrosis.© 2026 Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd.
Solid pseudopapillary neoplasm is a rare epithelial tumor of the pancreas with low malignant potential and a marked predilection for adolescent girls and young women. Although the overall prognosis is favorable after complete resection, preoperative characterization and surgical planning become more challenging in giant tumors with intratumoral degeneration, hemorrhage, and adjacent vascular compression. We report a 15-year-old girl who presented with acute abdominal pain persisting for 24 hours after strenuous physical activity. Imaging revealed a giant mixed solid-cystic mass in the pancreatic body and tail, and computed tomography angiography and venography demonstrated narrowing of the splenic vein with collateral venous circulation. After multidisciplinary assessment of oncologic safety and perioperative bleeding risk, the patient underwent laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy with splenectomy. Histopathology confirmed solid pseudopapillary neoplasm with negative margins and no nodal metastasis; ectopic splenic tissue was identified in the peripancreatic fat. Immunohistochemistry showed nuclear/cytoplasmic positivity for beta-catenin, loss of E-cadherin, positivity for CD10 and CD56, and partial positivity for lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1, supporting the diagnosis. The postoperative course was uneventful, and no evidence of recurrence was detected on short-term follow-up. This case suggests that giant solid pseudopapillary neoplasm may have been related to acute abdominal pain in the setting of intratumoral degeneration, hemorrhagic change, and local tension effect. Surgical strategy should balance oncologic safety, bleeding risk, and organ preservation. In patients requiring splenectomy, long-term infection prevention should include immunization planning, fever emergency counseling, and individualized antibiotic prophylaxis according to local guidance and risk stratification.Copyright © 2026 Zhou, Zha, Yang, Hou, Chen, Hu and Xing.
Chicken skin colour is an economically important trait influenced by consumer preferences across different markets. Previous studies established that white skin is dominant over yellow skin, with the β, β-carotene-9',10'-dioxygenase (BCO2) identified as the candidate gene. However, the precise causal mutation within this gene region has remained unidentified for over a decade, limiting the development of reliable molecular markers for breeding programs.Through genome-wide association analysis of 381 chickens, we confirmed that the BCO2 gene region on chromosome 24 was the major locus associated with skin colour. Transcriptome analysis revealed approximately 590-fold higher BCO2 expression in white-skinned than yellow-skinned chickens. By integrating whole-genome sequencing data from 63 individuals with high-quality genome assemblies, we identified a 24-bp insertion that showed near-complete co-segregation with the yellow skin phenotype in a backcross family of 180 individuals. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays revealed an insertion-dependent DNA-protein interaction, and DNA pull-down coupled with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) prioritised lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1 (LEF1) as a leading candidate interactor. Chromatin profiling revealed elevated trimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 27 (H3K27me3) and reduced chromatin accessibility at the gene locus in yellow-skinned chickens. Functional experiments revealed that knockdown of LEF1 or inhibition of enhancer of zeste homologue 2 (EZH2) significantly increased BCO2 expression, supporting a model in which the insertion is associated with LEF1/EZH2-sensitive, polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2)-linked repression and transcriptional silencing.The 24-bp insertion in the BCO2 regulatory region is a candidate causal variant for yellow skin in chickens, refining the genetic model of chicken skin colour variation and supporting a LEF1-PRC2-associated regulatory mechanism potentially involved in avian carotenoid metabolism. This finding enables the development of a reliable PCR-based diagnostic marker for skin colour, facilitating marker-assisted selection in poultry breeding and providing new insights into the genetic regulation of avian pigmentation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Silicosis is an incurable fibrotic lung disease caused by crystalline silica exposure. Aberrant activation of lung fibroblasts into pathological fibroblasts is a hallmark of silicosis. CTHRC1 has been considered a novel fibroblast activation biomarker. This study sought to explore CTHRC1's role in silicosis and determine the signaling pathways it modulates. A combination of transcriptomic analysis of clinical samples, LC-MS/MS, Co-IP, and cationic nanoliposome-based techniques was utilized. In vitro models of lung fibroblast activation induced by TGF-β1, PDGF or recombinant CTHRC1 (rCTHRC1), as well as in vivo models of pulmonary fibrosis induced by silica or bleomycin in mice were established. RNA sequencing, Western blot, RT-qPCR, AlphaFold2 analyses and rescue experiments using siCTHRC1, siCD44, CTHRC1 plasmids, and the PI3K activator 740 Y-P were performed to explore the underlying mechanisms. CTHRC1 is a significantly dysregulated gene implicated in myogenesis and ECM-related pathways. Mechanistically, lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1 (LEF1) exerts its transcriptional regulator role by binding to the CTHRC1 promoter region in TGF-β1-activated fibroblasts. Further, CTHRC1 mediates its pro-fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transition function by directly binding to the CD44 receptor. AlphaFold2 analyses revealed the binding between CTHRC1 and CD44 is accomplished by three critical CD44 residues: Arg41, Asn172, and Trp650. Rescue experiments demonstrated that the CTHRC1-CD44 complex exerts its pro-fibrotic effects through AKT signaling. In vivo, liposomal Cthrc1 siRNA mitigated fibrogenesis in both silica- and bleomycin-induced mouse fibrosis models. Our results uncover a previously unrecognized role of the LEF1-CTHRC1-CD44 axis in silicosis and highlight the therapeutic target potential of CTHRC1 in fibrotic lung diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
BCOR-CCNB3 fusion-positive sarcoma (BCS) is a recently recognized subtype of undifferentiated round-cell sarcoma that occurs predominantly in children and adolescents. Owing to its rarity, an optimal treatment strategy has not been fully established, and management has historically followed treatment protocols for Ewing sarcoma. Although radiotherapy is a potential treatment option, the role of carbon-ion radiotherapy (CIRT) in treating this tumor has not been previously reported. A 14-year-old boy presented with posterior neck pain. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated a tumor arising from the posterior elements of the third cervical vertebra. Needle biopsy revealed a round-cell sarcoma without EWS gene rearrangement, and the patient was initially treated for Ewing-like sarcoma. Systemic chemotherapy with vincristine, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide alternating with ifosfamide and etoposide was initiated, resulting in tumor shrinkage. Subsequently, the patient underwent CIRT (70.4 Gy in 16 fractions), followed by adjuvant chemotherapy. Magnetic resonance imaging after treatment completion showed no evidence of residual tumor. More than 12 years after treatment, the patient has remained asymptomatic without neurological deficits, tumor recurrence, or distant metastasis, although cervical kyphosis was radiographically observed. Subsequent genetic analysis confirmed the presence of the BCOR-CCNB3 fusion gene. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported case of BCS treated with CIRT. This case demonstrates that CIRT can achieve durable local control and suggests that it may represent a promising treatment option for BCS when surgical resection is challenging.Copyright © 2026 Oike, Imai, Ogose, Ariizumi, Murayama, Miyazaki, Kimura, Umezu and Kawashima.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) requiring hemodialysis presents numerous challenges to clinicians, including selection of appropriate chemotherapy agents, safe dose adjustment, and supportive care management. Due to the lack of prospective studies in patients undergoing dialysis, it is difficult to determine the optimal therapeutic approach for this population. These patients are commonly excluded from large-scale AML clinical trials, which further complicates the determination of effective management strategies and associated toxicities. We present the case of a 51-year-old man with ESRD on hemodialysis who developed an adverse-risk AML (characterized by a BCL6 corepressor (BCOR) mutation with runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) and nuclear receptor-binding SET domain protein 1 (NSD1) abnormalities). Initial presentation was notable for profound pancytopenia without circulating blasts, although peripheral blood flow cytometry confirmed AML. Management required a multidisciplinary discussion with leukemia specialists, nephrology, and pharmacy. The patient was treated with azacitidine and venetoclax rather than intensive induction chemotherapy because of dialysis dependence, cardiovascular comorbidities, and anticipated toxicity. Azacitidine was administered after dialysis sessions, while venetoclax dosing was adjusted because of concomitant posaconazole prophylaxis. Repeat molecular testing no longer detected previously identified BCOR and RUNX1 abnormalities, although a persistent NSD1 variant remained detectable, and molecular remission could not be confirmed. Treatment was successfully continued through 12 cycles without clinically significant tumor lysis syndrome. Approximately one year after diagnosis, relapsed AML was identified on peripheral blood flow cytometry. This case highlights the feasibility of venetoclax-based lower-intensity therapy in selected dialysis-dependent AML patients while underscoring the persistent therapeutic limitations and adverse prognosis associated with relapsed disease in this population.Copyright © 2026, Sapkota et al.
This research aimed to examine the clinical relevance and biological function of the tight junction protein claudin-2 (CLDN2) in gastric cancer, along with its regulatory interactions with lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1 (LEF1) and the Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (KEAP1)/nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF2) pathway. Analysis of CLDN2 expression and its prognostic implications in gastric cancer was conducted using data from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. The effects of CLDN2 or LEF1 on gastric cancer (GC) cells were detected by RT-qPCR, Western blot, cell-counting kit-8 (CCK-8), transwell assay, flow cytometry, CO-IP and immunofluorescence assays. The interactions between CLDN2 and LEF1 was predicted and validated using Gene MANIA and GEPIA. The functional association between CLDN2 and LEF1 was analyzed by rescue experiments. In GC tissues, CLDN2 was significantly upregulated and correlated with tumor stage, lymph node metastasis, and poor prognosis, showing elevated levels in young patients (21-40 years old) and individuals infected with Helicobater pylori (H. pylori). CLDN2 silencing inhibited GC cell proliferation, migration and invasion, induced G1-phase cycle block and apoptosis, and decreased cyclin D1 expression. CLDN2 and LEF1 were positively correlated and directly interacted, and suppressing LEF1 hindered the progression of GC. CLDN2 reduced KEAP1 expression and promoted NRF2 protein stability through post-transcriptional regulation. Silencing CLDN2 or LEF1 activated the KEAP1/NRF2 pathway and inhibited downstream p65, IkappaB kinase (IKK) and IκB protein expression. Reducing LEF1 levels counteracted the effects of CLDN2 on GC cell growth and KEAP1/NRF2 pathway. Increased levels of CLDN2, which modulate the LEF1 and KEAP1/NRF2 pathways, are correlated with GC progression and may be used as a marker for poor prognosis.Copyright© 2025 Polish Physiological Society.
Two hundred Holstein dairy cows (milk yield of 34.5 ± 0.6 kg/d, 3.1 ± 1.2 lactations) were enrolled to investigate the role of WNTs signaling network in early pregnancy loss. The ISG15 mRNA abundance of uterine luminal cells obtained via brushing on day 16 after service was used to determine initial pregnancy status, with confirmation via ultrasound on days 32 and 60. The mRNA abundance of cells obtained from uterine brushing for WNT2, WNT5A, WNT7A, WNT11, frizzled receptors (FZD), dickkopf proteins (DKK1), Kremen and LDL receptor related protein (LRP 5/6), lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1 (LEF1) and transcription factor 7 (TCF) was determined at day16 after insemination. Relative mRNA abundance of DKK1 (1.98-fold), WNT5A (2.67-fold), WNT7A (1.83-fold) and WNT11 (2.16-fold) genes in pregnant cows were significantly greater than in cows with early embryonic mortality (P < 0.05). In contrast, relative mRNA abundance of WNT2 (3.35-fold) and FZD6 (5.50-fold) genes were significantly greater in pregnant-embryo loss cows compared to pregnant cows on day 16 (P < 0.05). The relative mRNA abundance of LRP5, LRP6, LEF1, FZD3, FZD5, FZD8 and TCF genes were not affected by pregnancy status although their variances were lower; however, there was a negative correlation among ISG15 and these genes. In conclusion, differences in mRNA abundance of WNT signaling genes in uterine brushing samples are associated with pregnancy status in lactating dairy cows and may contribute to minimizing early bovine pregnancy losses.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The pathophysiology of melanoma is considerably complex. Wnt signaling via the β-catenin / transcription factor 7-like 2 / lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1 (LEF1) complex, microphthalmia-associated transcription factor, tyrosinase-related protein-2, tyrosinase, and cyclin-dependent kinase 2 are reported to activate the transcriptional gene expression associated with pigmentation and the differentiation and proliferation of melanocytes and malignant melanoma cells. Cinobufagin, a common active ingredient in traditional Chinese medicine, has been approved in China as a chemotherapeutic agent for the treatment of liver and prostate cancer. The primary aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of cinobufagin, paclitaxel, and their combination (cinobufagin/paclitaxel) on melanoma cells, both individually and in combination, in the G361 melanoma cell line.Within the study, half maximal inhibitory concentration doses were determined based on the [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide] assay, caspase-3 levels were measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay method, and mRNA expression levels were analyzed using RT-PCR.The use of cinobufagin/paclitaxel was found to increase caspase-3 levels by more than the use of cinobufagin alone; moreover, cinobufagin treatment decreased the expression of the β-catenin, c-myc, and cyclin D1 genes, whereas cinobufagin/paclitaxel was found to increase the mRNA expression of all genes considered (Bax, caspase-3, Bcl2, β-catenin, c-myc, Wnt, and cyclin D1).Cinobufagin can therefore be considered a promising natural pharmaceutical agent for the targeted treatment of cancers with high levels of LEF1.
Clear cell sarcoma of the kidney (CCSK), a rare renal interstitial tumor in children, poses a notable threat to the physical and mental health of children because of its highly aggressive nature, tendency to compress surrounding tissue and potential for metastasis. The present study reports two cases of pediatric CCSK treated at the Peking University First Hospital Ningxia Women and Children's Hospital (Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region Maternal and Child Health Hospital, Ningxia, China; July 2024-2025.7). Both patients were female infants aged 1 year. Upon initial admission, they were misdiagnosed with nephroblastoma and received radical nephrectomy and vincristine chemotherapy. Pathological consultation and advanced molecular sequencing identified specific expression of the BCL6 corepressor gene in patient tumor tissue, leading to a definitive diagnosis of CCSK. Furthermore, the present study aimed to provide an overview of the aberrant genes associated with CCSK to provide a useful reference for future research on the pathogenesis of CCSK and improvement of molecular pathology.Copyright: © 2026 Li et al.
Clazosentan, a selective endothelin-A (ET-A) receptor antagonist, is used to prevent cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Although pulmonary edema and fluid retention are recognized adverse effects, hypoxemia associated with atelectasis has not been described. Endothelin-1 contributes to hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction (HPV), which preserves ventilation-perfusion (V/Q) matching by diverting blood flow from poorly ventilated regions; pharmacologic ET-A blockade may attenuate HPV, increasing intrapulmonary shunt and impairing oxygenation. We report a man in his 60s with aneurysmal SAH (World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies [WFNS] I, Fisher 3) who underwent clipping surgery and postoperative clazosentan infusion (10 mg/h, standard Japanese dosage). On day 7 of infusion, hypoxemia (SpO2 < 90% room air) developed; on day 8, arterial blood gas showed PaO2 62.5 mmHg with a PaO2/FiO2 (P/F) ratio of 109. Chest computed tomography (CT) demonstrated right lower-lobe atelectasis without pulmonary edema or pleural effusion, and echocardiography showed normal cardiac function. Clazosentan was discontinued and corticosteroid therapy initiated, after which oxygenation improved and the atelectasis resolved. The patient was extubated on day 18 and discharged with good neurological recovery. This case illustrates a plausible mechanism whereby ET-A receptor blockade suppresses HPV, exacerbating V/Q mismatch in the presence of segmental atelectasis. Improvement after drug withdrawal supports this association. Clinicians should recognize that hypoxemia during clazosentan therapy may occur independently of fluid overload and warrants early respiratory evaluation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558375 is a review article
The expanding clinical use of Antibody-Drug Conjugates (ADCs) necessitates a clearer understanding of their real-world toxicity profiles across diverse clinical settings. This retrospective pharmacovigilance study analyzed 19,697 adverse event (AE) reports for seven approved ADCs from the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) database (Q1 2004 to Q1 2025). Using disproportionality analysis validated by multivariable logistic regression, we identified safety signals for both monotherapy and combination regimens. The analysis revealed that toxicity profiles are strongly driven by an ADC's molecular structure and treatment setting. Target-specific 'on-target, off-tumor' effects were prominent, linking Nectin cell adhesion molecule 4 (NECTIN-4) targeting to skin reactions, Trophoblast cell-surface antigen 2 (TROP2) to gastrointestinal toxicities, and both folate receptor α (FRα) and tissue factor (TF) to ocular disorders. Furthermore, payload and linker types drove distinct toxicities; topoisomerase I inhibitors were associated with increased respiratory toxicity and mortality, while non-cleavable linkers conferred a significantly stronger risk of hepatobiliary toxicity. Combination regimens not only amplified specific risks, such as endocrine disorders with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), but also fundamentally reshaped toxicity kinetics, accelerating AE onset with ICIs while significantly delaying it with other combinations. This real-world analysis confirms that ADC toxicities are highly specific to their molecular design and clinical context, highlighting that understanding these complex structural and kinetic interplays is essential for optimizing safety management in clinical practice.
Oxidative stress and neuroinflammation are critical contributors to hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. Microglia, the CNS-resident immune cells, undergo rapid activation in response to hypoxic stress. Endothelin-1 (ET-1), a vasoconstrictor implicated in cerebrovascular pathology, is upregulated by hypoxia; however, its role in microglial activation remains poorly understood. HMC3 human microglial cells were exposed to hypoxia (1% O2) for 4 hours. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) were quantified by flow cytometry. ET-1 and interleukin-6 (IL-6) protein concentrations were measured by ELISA and mRNA levels by qPCR. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation and ET-1 localization were assessed by flow cytometry and immunofluorescence, respectively. The endothelin B receptor (ETBR) antagonist BQ788 was used to assess ET-1 signaling in hypoxia-induced responses. Hypoxia significantly upregulated ET-1 gene expression (5.0-fold increase, p < 0.001, n = 4) and elevated ET-1 protein production by 1.4-fold (p < 0.01, n = 4). IL-6 expression and secretion increased 1.5-fold under hypoxic conditions (p < 0.01, n = 4), an effect that was attenuated by BQ788 pretreatment. ROS levels increased 1.9-fold in hypoxic HMC3 cells (p < 0.01, n = 4) but were significantly reduced by ETBR inhibition. Additionally, hypoxia elevated the percentage of MAPK-activated cells compared to both normoxic and BQ788-treated groups (p < 0.01). These findings demonstrate that hypoxia induces ET-1 overexpression, ROS generation, MAPK activation, and IL-6 production in microglia, establishing a self-perpetuating cycle of neuroinflammation. ETBR blockade with BQ788 disrupts this cascade, suggesting that ET-1 signaling is a promising therapeutic target to mitigate secondary injury in hypoxic-ischemic brain conditions.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42555010
Annexin A1 (AnxA1) regulates inflammation and neovascularization in ocular diseases, influencing growth factor signaling and cytoskeletal dynamics. Accordingly, this study aimed to investigate the role of the AnxA1 protein in diabetic retinopathy (DR) and to understand how its absence affects inflammation and vascular dysfunction in DR.DR model was induced 12 weeks after streptozotocin injection in wild-type (AnxA1+/+) and AnxA1 knockout (AnxA1-/-) mice. We evaluated the consequences of AnxA1 deficiency on retinal morphology, Müller cell activation, inflammation, and angiogenesis associated with DR. We also performed an in silico analysis in wild-type animals with DR induced for 6 weeks and in a dataset of patients with DR. Furthermore, a choroidal neovascularization model was used to evaluate the role of AnxA1 in angiogenesis signaling.AnxA1 deficiency exacerbated selective systemic inflammatory alterations and promoted retinal neurodegeneration associated with DR. AnxA1-/- diabetic animals exhibited increased circulating IL-6, IL-17, chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 1, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 levels, retinal monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and IL-4 upregulation, dysregulated MAPK/STAT3 signaling, and altered gliosis responses. In addition, AnxA1 deficiency was associated with a proangiogenic signaling profile characterized by increased retinal levels of EGF, VEGF-A, and endothelin-1 in DR, whereas the upregulation of VEGF-C was predominantly observed in the choroidal neovascularization model.Endogenous AnxA1 modulates inflammatory-glial and proangiogenic signaling pathways in the diabetic retina. Its deficiency is associated with selective inflammatory dysregulation and enhanced angiogenesis-related signaling during DR progression.
To compare the effects of High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT) and Moderate Intensity Continuous Training (MICT) on blood pressure homeostasis, cardiovascular structure, and function, and to explore the underlying neuro-humoral regulatory mechanisms in patients with essential hypertension (EH).A total of 56 EH patients were randomly (1:1) assigned to the MICT (35 min) or HIIT (1 × 10 min with 2 min intervals) for 8 weeks, three times per week. The primary outcome was the change in flow-mediated dilation (FMD). Blood pressure, traditional cardiovascular risk factors, cardiovascular structure and function, as well as neural, specific humoral, and nonspecific humoral regulation were assessed.Among 56 patients with EH who were randomized, 54 (96.4%) completed the 8-week evaluation. After an 8-week intervention, the improvement in FMD was significantly greater in the HIIT group compared with the MICT group (mean difference: 0.85% [95% CI, 0.50-1.21]). HIIT showed favored changes in nitric oxide, FMD, and endothelin-1, brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity, peak systolic velocity, corrected QT Interval, Ratio of Early Diastolic Mitral Valve Peak Flow Velocity to Early Diastolic Myocardial Velocity, angiotensin-(1-7), and C-reactive protein in EH patients (all P < 0.05). Both HIIT and MICT significantly improved systolic blood pressure, pulsatility index, resistive index, angiotensin II, and norepinephrine in EH patients (all P < 0.05), with no statistically significant differences between the two groups (all P > 0.05).Both HIIT and MICT yielded comparable effects on lowering systolic blood pressure and regulating neurohumoral factors. FMD was improved to a greater extent with HIIT, which also showed superior efficacy in arterial stiffness, hemodynamics, cardiac diastolic function, and inflammatory biomarkers.https://www.chictr.org.cn, identifier ChiCTR2500097077.© 2026 Yan, Liu, Gao, Guo, Wu, Gong, Gao and Wang.
Poor tendon-bone healing is a major challenge after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). TFRD, the total flavonoids of Rhizoma Drynariae, has pharmacological effects in promoting bone formation, but it remains less understood whether it accelerates tendon-bone healing by regulating the osteogenic differentiation of tendon-derived stem cells (TDSCs). TDSCs were isolated from the Achilles tendons of rats and characterized for their stem cell properties through flow cytometry and multilineage differentiation assays. The effects of TFRD on TDSC proliferation, migration, and osteogenic differentiation were evaluated using the cell counting kit-8 assay, scratch wound healing assays, Alizarin Red S staining, and Western blot analysis. Gene and protein expression levels associated with the transforming growth factor-β/bone morphogenetic protein (TGF-β/BMP) signaling pathway were assessed by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. A rat ACLR model was created and divided into four experimental groups: Sham, ACLR, TFRD, and TFRD + Noggin. Tendon-bone healing was analyzed using hematoxylin and eosin staining, Masson's trichrome staining, bone mineral density measurements, and immunohistochemistry. Noggin was used to inhibit BMP signaling for pathway validation. TFRD (50-100 μg/mL) significantly enhanced the proliferation, migration, and osteogenic differentiation of TDSCs, and increased the expression of key osteogenic markers, including runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP). Mechanistically, TFRD activated the TGF-β/BMP signaling pathway, leading to elevated levels of TGF-β1, BMP-2, and phosphorylated Smad1/5/8. Moreover, TGF-β1 extended the duration of BMP-2 signaling and suppressed Noggin expression. The osteogenic effects of TFRD were diminished when Noggin was applied, indicating its role in modulating the BMP pathway. In vivo, TFRD significantly improved collagen fiber alignment, calcification, and bone mineral density at the tendon-bone junction, while also upregulating RUNX2 and ALP expression. TFRD promotes osteogenic differentiation of TDSCs by activating the TGF-β/BMP signaling pathway, improves tendon-bone healing after ACLR, and provides experimental support for its clinical application.© 2026. The Society for In Vitro Biology.
Patient-derived organoids (PDOs) can recapitulate selected features of original tumors and provide a useful system for studying epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) in three-dimensional culture. Nonetheless, the protocol to generate EOC-PDOs has not yet been standardized. We therefore empirically refined the culture conditions and medium composition, considering the protocol effective when EOC PDOs were successfully established in five consecutive attempts. Tissue and ascites samples (from 29 and 8 patients, respectively) were used and the Syringe-extruded Organoid Basement membrane extract Assembly (SOBA) fragment culture method applied. Selected similarities in cell morphology, marker expression, and detectable alterations between organoids and patient-matched tumor tissue were assessed using pairwise comparisons. The refined workflow used a culture medium containing recombinant human R-Spondin 1 protein (250 ng/mL), Noggin, and NRG1, factors implicated in organoid maintenance and expansion. Ultimately, 31 EOC organoid lines successfully generated from 82.8% (24/29) of tissue and 87.5% (7/8) of ascites samples. The SOBA technique increased the 10 day PDO yield by 2.75-fold relative to the surface-attached dome method (p < 0.0001). This empirically refined workflow can be adjusted for specific experimental applications; however, further validation across larger and clinically diverse EOC cohorts is required.© 2026. The Author(s).
Demineralized bone matrix (DBM) is widely used as an alternative to autografts for repairing bone defects, but its clinical efficacy is limited by poor retention at the defect site and inadequate osteogenic capacity. Here, we developed a multifunctional carrier system aimed at improving the capacity of DBM by utilizing nanoclay-based self-assembly along with cell-derived exosome mimetics (EMs). EMs were derived from mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) osteogenically induced in spheroids and were functionalized with bisphosphonates (BP) to assemble a stable gel network with laponite nanoclays via BP-nanoclay edge interactions. The resulting self-assembled nanoclay gel exhibited excellent injectability, moldability, and self-healing properties, even when loaded with a high concentration of DBM, and supported MSC osteogenic differentiation. We further enhanced the potency of DBM-mediated osteogenesis and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling in the nanoclay gel by incorporating BP-functionalized EMs (EM-BPs) loaded with miR-200c that can target BMP antagonist noggin. Lastly, we validated the bone regeneration efficacy of DBM-loaded nanoclay gels in comparison to commercially available DBM putties using a mouse calvarial defect model. This approach presents a versatile nanoclay gel carrier platform that overcomes the limitations of current DBM formulations and provides a promising strategy for improved bone repair.
Does 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate synthase 2 (PAPSS2)-mediated sulfation contribute to defective decidualization in patients with recurrent implantation failure (RIF), and what are the underlying mechanisms?Downregulation of PAPSS2 enhances the interaction between bone morphogenetic protein receptor type 1A (BMPR1A) and bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2), as well as SMAD family member 1/5/9 (SMAD1/5/9)-dependent autophagic flux, thereby promoting decidualization and increasing the receptivity of endometrial stromal cells to trophoblast invasion.Decidualization is essential for embryo implantation and pregnancy maintenance, and impaired decidualization is considered a key pathological mechanism underlying RIF. Although protein tyrosine sulfation is a critical post-translational modification, its role in endometrial decidualization remains unclear.We integrated transcriptomic datasets, performed in vitro decidualization assays in immortalized human endometrial stromal cells (T-HESCs) and primary human endometrial stromal cells (hEnSCs), and established an artificial decidualization mouse model. Functional assays and molecular analyses were conducted between 2023 and 2026.Mid-secretory endometrial tissues were collected from patients with RIF and fertile controls. Decidualization was induced in T-HESCs and primary hEnSCs using dibutyryl-cAMP and progesterone. The effects of PAPSS2 knockdown or overexpression were assessed by RT-qPCR, Western blotting, immunoprecipitation, immunofluorescence, and in vitro implantation assays with BeWo spheroids. In vivo, an ovariectomized mouse model was used to evaluate decidualization under pharmacological modulation of BMP-SMAD signaling and autophagy.We found that sulfation levels were elevated in endometrial stromal cells from RIF patients. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that PAPSS2, a known sulfation-related gene, was consistently downregulated during decidualization. Mechanistically, PAPSS2 knockdown in endometrial stromal cells decreased BMPR1A sulfation, enhanced its binding affinity for BMP2, and activated the downstream SMAD1/5/9 signaling pathway. Functionally, the activation of this pathway promoted autophagy, thereby enhancing decidualization and increasing stromal cell receptivity to trophoblast invasion.Publicly available bulk transcriptomic datasets GSE75425 and GSE17504, together with the single-cell RNA-seq dataset GSE183837, were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database.Although our data support dysregulated sulfotyrosine levels and implicate the PAPSS2-BMPR1A sulfation axis in stromal decidualization in RIF, further studies with larger sample sizes are required to confirm their in vivo relevance.Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized mechanism in which the PAPSS2-BMPR1A sulfation axis fine-tunes BMP2/SMAD signaling and autophagy homeostasis to regulate decidualization. This study provides a molecular basis and highlights a potential therapeutic target for uterine factor-related infertility.This work was supported by the National Key Research and Development Program (No. 2025YFC2708000), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 82371647), the Science Foundation for Outstanding Youth of Liaoning Province (No. 2024JH3/50100023), and the Shenyang Young and Middle-aged Science and Technology Innovation Talents Support Program (No. RC210436).The authors declare no competing interests.N/A.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
The intestinal porcine epithelial cell line (IPEC-J2) is a nontransformed jejunal model derived from unsuckled piglets. It is increasingly used in gut physiology research, yet its application to nutrient absorption remains underexplored. Four media types were assessed for their ability to support IPEC-J2 barrier maturation and permeability: Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium/Ham's F-12 with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS10), 10% porcine serum (PS10), 5% porcine serum (PS5) supplemented with Wnt3a-R-spondin-Noggin conditioned medium (PS5+L-WRN), and PS5 with epidermal growth factor and insulin-transferrin-selenium (PS5+EGF+ITS). Culture medium influenced epithelial phenotype, with more than a 30-fold range in transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER), which plateaued by day 12. PS10 supported a balanced profile, characterized by intermediate TEER (2395.00 ± 485.51 Ω × cm2), lowest lactulose and mannitol permeability (p < 0.05), high lactate dehydrogenase activity (p < 0.05 vs. PS5+L-WRN and FBS10), enhanced membrane localization of tight junction proteins (p < 0.05 vs. PS5+EGF+ITS), and reduced fibroblast marker S100A4 (p < 0.05 vs. PS5+EGF+ITS). Treatment with digested infant milk formula did not compromise barrier integrity in PS10-cultured IPEC-J2 monolayers and enabled transport of free amino acids to the basolateral compartment. These findings support IPEC-J2 as an alternative to Caco-2 cells for applications in infant nutrition research in vitro.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Nutrition & Food Research published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Retinoic acid, acting through RAR/RXR nuclear receptors, is required for neuronal differentiation in Xenopus laevis. Bexarotene, characterised as a pan-RXR agonist, reduces the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease in mouse models by clearing amyloid plaque and by promoting neurogenesis. In this paper, we show that RXR-initiated bexarotene signalling generates additional neurons both during normal X. laevis development and in ectodermal explants in which bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signalling is inhibited. Differential gene expression analysis between ectodermal explants taken from uninjected embryos and from embryos co-injected with mRNA that expresses Noggin, a BMP antagonist, and RXRβ identifies genes mediating the transition from an epidermal to a neural fate. The explants express genes associated with an anterior neural fate, but not a neuronal fate. The addition of bexarotene to equivalent co-injected explants activates genes that promote neuronal differentiation and posterior character, including genes of the canonical Wnt signalling pathway. Xenopus ectodermal explants therefore provide a simple and efficient tool to identify novel retinoid agonists that promote neuronal differentiation. The genes expressed in response to bexarotene are consistent with a pathway to neuronal differentiation allied to standard retinoid signalling.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Most rabbit embryonic stem (rbES) cell lines established in embryonic fibroblast feeder layer systems predominantly exhibit pluripotency features restricted to a "primed" state, which hinders their directed differentiation into reproductive germ cells and limits their capacity for germline transmission.We developed a novel 3C system containing IWP2, DZNep, and TSA in iFLY medium supplemented with basic fibroblast growth factor, human leukemia inhibitory factor, and Noggin. Pluripotency maintenance and germline differentiation were validated by gene expression analysis and induction with BMP4, stem cell factor, and epidermal growth factor.The 3C system efficiently maintained the pluripotency of rbES cells with stable expression of core pluripotent genes. These cells showed upregulated expression of partial naïve markers and expressed formative pluripotent markers. Moreover, 3C cultured rbES cells were successfully differentiated into primordial germ cell like cells (PGCLCs).The 3C culture system confers rbES cells with naïve pluripotency and self renewal ability, as well as strong potential for directed germ cell differentiation. This system provides a reliable stem cell platform for genetic modification and breeding in livestock.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Liu, Li, Ullah, Gao, Wang, Liu and Du.
Studies on hearing loss indicate that the regulation of signaling pathways (including Notch, Wnt, FGF and BMP) can induce the regeneration of mammalian hair cells. As one of the potential vectors of gene therapy, adenovirus is hoped to resolve non-genetic hearing loss for its high transfection rate to supporting cells. The role of adenovirus-mediated regulation of the Notch, FGF, and BMP signaling pathways in hair cell regeneration warrants further investigation.We employed adenoviruses to selectively inhibit the Notch (Notch1-RNAi-AD) or FGF (FGFR3-RNAi-AD) signaling pathways individually, as well as to simultaneously inhibit both Notch and BMP signaling pathways (Notch1-Noggin-AD).Show that inhibiting the Notch pathway significantly increased the number of hair cells through transdifferentiation, which occurred at the expense of supporting cell loss. Following the inhibition of FGF signaling pathway, a small amount of cell proliferation was observed in the sensory epithelium in the apex of the cochlea. In contrast, after infection with Notch1-RNAi-AD and FGFR3-RNAi-AD, the number of hair cells increased significantly, and transdifferentiation and supporting cells proliferation also increased simultaneously in the cochlea. Finally, simultaneous infection of Notch1-Noggin-AD and FGFR3-RNAi-AD further increased the number of hair cells from transdifferentiation and proliferation.Here, we used adenoviruses to regulate the activity of signaling pathways to induce the regeneration of cochlear hair cells in neonatal mice explants and achieved some expected results. Our study suggests that regulation of the FGF signaling pathway induces the proliferation of supporting cells, which is different from transdifferentiation by Notch inhibition, and the co-regulation of the Notch, FGF and BMP signaling pathways can promote more significant hair cell regeneration from supporting cell proliferation, followed by transdifferentiation, and avoid the large loss of supporting cells.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Acquired resistance to osimertinib poses a major challenge in treating EGFR-mutant lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). Here, we demonstrate that shikonin, a natural compound from Lithospermum erythrorhizon, synergizes with osimertinib to overcome this resistance by inducing ferroptosis. In osimertinib-resistant LUAD cells (PC9-OR/H1975-OR), the shikonin-osimertinib combination significantly enhances cytotoxicity and suppresses proliferation while triggering ferroptotic events, including reactive oxygen species accumulation, lipid peroxidation, and iron overload alongside glutathione depletion. RNA-sequencing identifies Hes family BHLH transcription factor 1 (HES1) downregulation as crucial to this process. HES1 knockdown replicates the combination's effects, confirming its key role. Mechanistically, ATF3 is identified as a direct transcriptional target of HES1, with HES1 binding to the ATF3 promoter (-786 to -779 nt) to repress its transcription. The shikonin-osimertinib combination relieves this repression, leading to ATF3-mediated suppression of the ferroptosis regulators SLC7A11 and GPX4. In vivo, this combination potently inhibits tumor growth in xenograft models without observable toxicity. Our study reveals a novel HES1/ATF3 axis governing ferroptosis and proposes shikonin as a promising therapeutic adjuvant to overcome osimertinib resistance in LUAD.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC) is the most common primary liver cancer, with high recurrence and metastasis rates, and its molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood.The cancer genome atlas (TCGA) database was used to obtain LIHC-related information. TNMplot, gene expression profiling interactive analysis (GEPIA), and kaplan-meier plotter were used for differential gene expression analysis, visualization, and assessing the relationship between genes and patient survival. Reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blot (WB) were used to detect gene and protein expression levels. Cell transfection was used for gene knockdown and overexpression. Transwell and wound healing assays were used to evaluate cell migration and invasion. The jaspar database was used to predict transcription factor-gene interactions. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and dual-luciferase assays were used to validate transcription factor-gene binding.Never in mitosis gene a related kinase 2 (NEK2) was highly expressed in LIHC, and its high expression potentially had a negative impact on patient survival. NEK2 knockdown reduced the migration and invasion abilities of LIHC cells, decreased the expression of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers neural cadherin (N-cadherin) and vimentin, and increased epithelial cadherin (E-cadherin) expression, whereas NEK2 overexpression showed the opposite effects. E2F transcription factor 1 (E2F1) was also highly expressed in LIHC and positively regulated NEK2, exhibiting similar regulatory effects on LIHC cells. Moreover, NEK2 was positively correlated with Wnt/β-catenin marker catenin beta 1 (CTNNB1), as well as Notch signaling markers notch receptor 1 (NOTCH1), jagged canonical notch ligand 1 (JAG1), HES family BHLH transcription factor 1 (HES1), and HES-related family BHLH transcription factor with YRPW motif 1 (HEY1).The E2F1/NEK2 axis promotes the activation of Wnt/β-catenin and Notch signaling pathways and induces EMT to drive malignant behavior of LIHC cells.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Acute type A aortic dissection (ATAAD) is a life-threatening cardiovascular emergency. A key driver of disease progression is dysfunction of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs), whose loss of contractile phenotype and increased matrix degradation contribute to aortic wall weakening. Aberrant DNA methylation patterns have been observed in thoracic aortic disease and linked to VSMCs dysfunction and extracellular matrix degradation. This study aimed to investigate the change of DNA methylation in ATAAD and the mechanism underlying notch receptor 1 (Notch1) promoter methylation regulating VSMCs transition in phenotype. In this study, ATAAD patients showed higher DNA methylation levels in the ascending aortic wall than control patients. The levels of DNA methyltransferase (DNMT), MMP2, and MMP9 were increased, Notch1, α-SMA, and SM22α were decreased, and the levels of Notch1 promoter methylation were increased in tissue samples from ATAAD patients and cellular models. Overexpression of Notch1 promoted α-SMA and SM22α expressions, inhibited MMP2 and MMP9 expressions, and suppressed cell migration, and invasion, as well as facilitated Notch intracellular domain (NICD) and hes family bHLH transcription factor 1 (Hes1) expressions in VSMCs. Inhibition of DNA methylation in VSMCs can inhibit the levels of the Notch1 promoter methylation and thus promote Notch1 expression exerting similar results as overexpression of Notch1, whereas knockdown Notch1 has the opposite effect. In conclusion, Notch1 gene promoter methylation region regulates ATAAD by phenotypic transformation and functional alteration of VSMCs. These findings identify Notch1 promoter methylation as a pivotal epigenetic switch in ATAAD pathogenesis and suggest its therapeutic and biomarker potential.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
To observe the effects of electroacupuncture (EA) on improving motor function and regulating microglial activation based on Notch receptor 1 (Notch1)/Hes family bHLH transcription factor 1 (Hes1) pathway in mice with Parkinson's disease (PD).Thirty-six male C57BL/6 mice were randomly divided into a control group, a model group and an EA group, 12 mice in each group. PD model was established by intraperitoneal injection of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) for 7 consecutive days in the model group and the EA group. From the 1st day of modeling, EA was applied at "Baihui" (GV20) and bilateral "Shenshu" (BL23) in the EA group, with continuous wave, in frequency of 2 Hz and current of 2 mA, 15 min a time, once a day for 14 days continuously. The behavioral performance was evaluated by gait test, pole climbing test and hanging test, the number of positive cells of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and the co-expression positive cells of Notch1/ionized calcium binding adaptor molecule 1 (Iba-1) in the substantia nigra of midbrain was assessed by immunofluorescence, the protein expression of TH, α-synuclein (α-syn), Notch1, Hes1, Iba-1, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), Arginase-1 (ARG1), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6 and IL-10 was detected by Western blot, the mRNA expression of Notch1 and Hes1 was detected by real-time PCR.Compared with the control group, in the model group, the stride frequency was accelerated (P<0.001) and the stride length was shortened (P<0.001) for the four limbs, the pole climbing test time was prolonged (P<0.01) and the grip level was reduced (P<0.01); in the substantia nigra of midbrain, the number of positive cells of TH was decreased (P<0.001), the number of co-expression positive cells of Notch1/Iba-1 was increased (P<0.001), the protein expression of α-syn, Notch1, Hes1, Iba-1, iNOS, TNF-α, IL-1βand IL-6 was increased (P<0.01, P<0.05, P<0.001), the protein expression of TH, ARG1 and IL-10 was decreased (P<0.01, P<0.001), the mRNA expression of Notch1 and Hes1 was increased (P<0.01). Compared with the model group, in the EA group, the stride frequency was decelerated (P<0.001) and the stride length was increased (P<0.05, P<0.01, P<0.001) for the four limbs, the pole climbing test time was shortened (P<0.05) and the grip level was increased (P<0.05); in the substantia nigra of midbrain, the number of positive cells of TH was increased (P<0.01), the number of co-expression positive cells of Notch1/Iba-1 was decreased (P<0.001), the protein expression of α-syn, Notch1, Hes1, Iba-1, iNOS, TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-1β was decreased (P<0.05, P<0.01), the protein expression of TH, ARG1 and IL-10 was increased (P<0.05, P<0.001, P<0.01), the mRNA expression of Notch1 and Hes1 was decreased (P<0.05).EA can improve the behavioral performance and protect the dopaminergic neurons in PD mice, its mechanism may relate to the inhibition of Notch1/Hes1-mediated neuroinflammation, thus inhibiting the microglial activation.
This study aims to explore the modulatory effect of 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (15-PGDH) protein in the Notch1 signaling pathway in cervical cancer (CC) cells and assess how this modulation affects the proliferation and migration of CC cells. Moreover, this study offers fresh perspectives on the molecular mechanisms underlying CC by thoroughly analyzing the relationship between 15-PGDH and the Notch1 signaling pathway, and investigates the therapeutic potential of 15-PGDH.Human normal cervical epithelial cells and CC cell lines (human CC cell line [HeLa], human cervical squamous carcinoma cell line [Caski], and human cervical epidermoid carcinoma cells [ME180]) were selected as experimental models. Western blotting (WB) and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction were performed to evaluate the protein and messenger RNA levels of 15-PGDH and Notch receptor 1 (Notch1) signaling pathway-related proteins (Jagged canonical Notch ligand 1 [Jagged1] and Hes family bHLH transcription factor 1 [Hes1]). Results suggested that the HeLa and Caski cells exhibited significant expression of 15-PGDH and Notch1 signaling-related proteins. A series of experiments, including WB, cell counting kit-8 assay, Transwell migration assay, and 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine assay, was conducted in the HeLa and Caski cells to obtain an extensive understanding of how 15-PGDH influences Notch1 signaling regulation. This study also utilized the 15-PGDH inhibitor SW033291 and a Notch1 overexpression vector to evaluate the effect of 15-PGDH on CC cell growth, motility, and Notch1 signaling pathway modulation.Results demonstrated that in the normal human cervical epithelial cells, 15-PGDH was highly expressed, while the Notch1 signaling pathway-related proteins exhibited low expression quantities. However, in HeLa and Caski CC cells, 15-PGDH expression was significantly downregulated (P < 0.001 or P < 0.01), whereas the Notch1 signaling pathway was activated. Further studies revealed that 15-PGDH or its inhibitor influenced the stimulation of the Notch1 signaling pathway in the HeLa and Caski cells. Specifically, the 15-PGDH inhibitor SW033291 reduced 15-PGDH expression (P < 0.001 or P < 0.01) and promoted Notch signaling activation. Meanwhile, 15-PGDH upregulation suppressed Notch signaling activation. Furthermore, 15-PGDH successfully prevented the proliferation and migration of CC cells induced by Notch1 overexpression and reduced the activation of the Notch signaling pathway, as shown by the downregulation of Notch1 and its downstream effectors, Jagged1 and Hes1.This study highlights the role of 15-PGDH in regulating the Notch1 signaling pathway in CC cells, focusing on its effect on cell proliferation and migration. The results demonstrate that 15-PGDH suppresses CC cell proliferation and migration by downregulating the Notch1 signaling pathway. These findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying CC and suggest 15-PGDH as a promising therapeutic target.© 2025 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
Our aim was to assess the expression profiles of the messenger RNA (mRNA) expression profiles of stem-cell genes (POU5F1, NANOG) and pancreatic progenitor genes (CK19, HES1, INS, PDX1) in peripheral-blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) in selected neoplastic pancreatic diseases, such as cancer and neuroendocrine tumors, to identify neoplastic disease markers in the pancreas.In this study, 49 patients diagnosed with pancreatic neoplastic diseases (37 with cancer and 12 with neuroendocrine tumors) and 34 control patients, all of whom were hospitalized at a tertiary center, were enrolled. Venous blood samples were collected from the participants, and RNA was extracted from PBMCs. The mRNA expression levels of six stem-cell and pancreatic progenitor markers- POU5F1 (POU class 5 homeobox 1), NANOG, CK19 (keratin 19), HES1 (HES family bHLH transcription factor 1), INS (insulin), and PDX1 (pancreatic and duodenal homeobox 1)-were quantified via real-time quantitative PCR. The data were statistically analyzed to explore associations between gene-expression levels and various clinical, biochemical, and morphological parameters (including full blood count, Ca 19-9, weight, height, and BMI) via the Kruskal-Wallis test, Mann-Whitney U test, and Spearman rank correlation coefficient.The results revealed that the expression of the gene associated with early stem cells, NANOG (median= 0.002, p = 0.03), as well as the genes encoding insulin INS (median = 0.004, p = 0.02) and CK19 (median 0.0003, p = 0.005), was significantly elevated in patients with pancreatic cancer. However, the gene-expression levels in patients with neuroendocrine tumors did not exhibit statistically significant differences compared to those observed in the control group. Additionally, no significant differences in gene expression were observed among patients at different stages of pancreatic cancer. Furthermore, CK19 overexpression was found to be positively correlated with inflammatory markers, specifically C-reactive protein (CRP) and WBC, in patients with pancreatic cancer.An elevated mRNA expression of specific stem and pancreatic progenitor genes (NANOG, INS, CK19) in PBMCs may serve as a potential markers for pancreatic cancer, reflecting the disease's interplay with systemic inflammation.
To observe the effects of acupotomy therapy on synovial inflammation, macrophage polarization, and protein expressions of drosophila double-wing edge notch homologous gene 1 (Notch1)/Jagged typical Notch ligand 1 (Jagged1)/Hes family BHLH transcription factor 1 (Hes1) signaling pathway, so as to explore its mechanisms underlying improvement of knee osteoarthritis (KOA).Male New Zealand rabbits were randomly divided into the blank, model and acupotomy groups (8 rabbits in each group). The KOA model was established by immobilizing the left hind limb in an extended position using a modified Videman method with a plaster cast for 6 weeks. After modeling, 3 meridian lesion points with significant reactions were selected from "Hedingci", "Binwaishang" "Binneishang" "Chengfeijian" "Weiyangci" and "Yinlingci" for acupotomy treatment, once a week for a total of 4 times. X-ray detection was performed after modeling. Behavioral changes in the affected knee joint of the rabbits were observed before and after the intervention and the Lequesne MG scores were recorded. Histopathological changes in the synovial tissue of the left knee joint of rabbits were observed and pathological scores were recorded after HE staining. The positive expressions of cluster differentiation 86 (CD86) and macrophage mannose receptor-1 (CD206) in the synovial tissue were detected by immunohistochemical staining. The mRNA expression levels of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), CD206, Jagged1, Notch1, arginase-1 (Arg-1) and Hes1 in the synovial tissue were detected by real-time qPCR, and the protein expression levels of Jagged1, Notch1, Arg-1, and Hes1 were detected by Western blot.Compared with the blank group, the knee joint space of rabbits in the modeling group was significantly narrowed. Compared to the blank group, the model group showed significant increase in Lequesne MG scores (P<0.01), pathological scores (P<0.01), the positive expressions of CD86 and the mRNA expression levels of iNOS (P<0.01), the mRNA and protein expression levels of Notch1, Jagged1 and Hes1 (P<0.01, P<0.05) in synovial tissue;and a decrease in the positive expression of CD206 (P<0.01), the expression levels of CD206 mRNA, and Arg-1 mRNA and protein (P<0.01, P<0.05). After acupotomy intervention, modeling induced increase and decrease indexes mentioned above were reversed (P<0.01, P<0.05).Acupotomy can reduce the inflammatory response in synovial tissue of KOA rabbits by regulating the Notch1/Jagged1/Hes1 signaling pathway and promoting the polarization shift of synovial macrophages from M1-type to M2-type. This may be one of the mechanisms by which acupotomy treats KOA.
A substantial body of evidence indicates a positive correlation between dyslipidemia and an elevated risk of chronic kidney disease, with renal interstitial fibrosis frequently serving as a common pathway in the advanced stages of chronic kidney disease progression. Hydrogen has anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties, and magnesium hydride nanoparticle is a material with high hydrogen storage capacity. Magnesium hydride -fortified feed is capable of releasing hydrogen gas steadily and continuously within the digestive tract. A 12-week high-fat diet significantly elevated the serum urea and creatinine levels in mice. In contrast, dietary addition of magnesium hydride demonstrated a notable protective effect against pathological conditions. Additionally, magnesium hydride -fortified feed was found to reduce renal fibrosis and thereby improve renal function. In support of these findings, an in vitro study utilizing human kidney cortical proximal tubule epithelial cells (HK-2 cells) exposed to palmitic acid under conditions mimicking a high-fat diet confirmed the renoprotective effects of magnesium hydride. Furthermore, the primary target phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome 10 and the molecular mechanisms underlying the effects of magnesium hydride, specifically its ability to inhibit the transforming growth factor-beta -Smad family member 2 and 3 (Smad2/3) axis through downregulating the expression of phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome 10, were elucidated. Additionally, overexpression of Hes family BHLH transcription factor 1 can negate the beneficial effects of magnesium hydride, suggesting that Hes family BHLH transcription factor 1 may serve as an upstream regulatory target in the context of the effects of magnesium hydride. In conclusion, this study demonstrated that magnesium hydride functions as a safe and effective hydrogen source capable of inhibiting the activation of the transforming growth factor-beta/Smad2/3 and protein kinase B/mechanistic target of rapamycin pathways by increasing the expression of phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome 10. This mechanism counteracts the progression of high-fat diet-induced chronic renal damage.Copyright © 2025 Medical Gas Research.
The growth and development of chicken skeletal muscle directly affects chicken meat production, which is very important for broiler industry. Matrix metallopeptidase 2 (MMP2) exists in skeletal muscle. However, the underlying regulating of MMP2 remain unknown. In this study, MMP2 promoted cell proliferation and inhibited cell differentiation after overexpression in chicken primary myoblasts cells (CPMs). When MMP2 was knocked down, it inhibited CPMs proliferation and promoted cell differentiation. Subsequently, RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and bioinformatics analysis were performed on overexpressing MMP2. We identified 265 up-regulated genes and 229 down-regulated genes. Based on the fragments per kilobase million (FPKM) ≥ 10, the retained data were analyzed by Pearson correlation analysis. MMP2 was positively correlated with carboxypeptidase M (CPM), MSTRG.14120 and aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member A3 (ALDH1A3), and the correlation coefficient was the highest (0.998). MMP2 was negatively correlated with hes family bHLH transcription factor 1 (HES1), and the correlation coefficient was the highest (0.998). Go term was enriched in cellular components or biogenesis, cellular processes, and cell aggregation. KEGG was significantly enriched to the cancer pathway. qRT-PCR analysis validated the transcriptomic results of RNA-seq. In conclusion, these results provided new insights into the molecular mechanisms by which MMP2 affected the proliferation and differentiation of chicken myoblasts.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
In this study, we investigated recurrent copy number variations (CNVs) in the 19p12 locus, which are associated with neurodevelopmental disorders. The two genes in this locus, ZNF675 and ZNF681, arose via gene duplication in primates, and their presence in several pathological CNVs in the human population suggests that either or both of these genes are required for normal human brain development. ZNF675 and ZNF681 are members of the Krüppel-associated box zinc finger (KZNF) protein family, a class of transcriptional repressors important for epigenetic silencing of specific genomic regions. About 170 primate-specific KZNFs are present in the human genome. Although KZNFs are primarily associated with repressing retrotransposon-derived DNA, evidence is emerging that they can be co-opted for other gene regulatory processes. We show that genetic deletion of ZNF675 causes developmental defects in cortical organoids, and our data suggest that part of the observed neurodevelopmental phenotype is mediated by a gene regulatory role of ZNF675 on the promoter of the neurodevelopmental gene Hes family BHLH transcription factor 1 (HES1). We also find evidence for the recently evolved regulation of genes involved in neurological disorders, microcephalin 1 and sestrin 3. We show that ZNF675 interferes with HES1 auto-inhibition, a process essential for the maintenance of neural progenitors. As a striking example of how some KZNFs have integrated into preexisting gene expression networks, these findings suggest the emergence of ZNF675 has caused a change in the balance of HES1 autoregulation. The association of ZNF675 CNV with human developmental disorders and ZNF675-mediated regulation of neurodevelopmental genes suggests that it evolved into an important factor for human brain development.© 2024 The Author(s). The Journal of Comparative Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The Six1 (SIX homeobox 1) gene is pivotal in renal and pulmonary development and differentiation. Its dysregulation is implicated in oncogenesis and tumor progression via enhancing cell proliferation and delaying senescence. However, whether or how it functions in the natural aging have not been investigated. To answer this question, we generated Six1 gene knockout mice using CRISPR-Cas9 technology. All Six1 biallelic knockout mice died at birth since the underdeveloped lungs. In Six1+/- mice, the developmental deficiencies in kidneys with vacuolar degeneration and epithelial disruption in renal tubules, as well as hematopoietic interstitial infiltration and lungs with interstitial condensation and alveolar hypoplasia were observed. These developmental deficiencies persist with age and age-dependent phenotypes become more pronounced in Six1+/- mice compared to the wild-type, with upregulation of senescence markers (p16, p53) and senescence-associated secreted factors (e.g., TNF-α, TIMP-2), increased α-SMA expression and collagen deposition, as well as susceptibility to pulmonary fibrosis. Transcriptomic sequencing coupled with bioinformatics analysis indicated that genes with altered expression in Six1+/- mouse lungs showed enrichment in pathways associated with senescence, including the NF-κB and TNF signaling pathways. These transcriptional patterns were also associated with gene sets involved in mitochondrial metabolic processes. Collectively, these findings suggest that Six1 haploinsufficiency is associated with transcriptional signatures linked to aging-related pathways under physiological conditions in mice, providing potential clues for future studies exploring mechanisms of aging.© 2026. The Author(s).
Familial non-syndromic unilateral hearing loss (NS-UHL) is rare and its genetic etiology has not been clearly elucidated. This study aimed to identify the genetic cause of NS-UHL in a three-generation Chinese family. Detailed medical history consultation and clinical examination were conducted. Further, whole-exome sequencing (WES) was performed to identify the genetic etiology of the proband, and the variant was verified by Sanger sequencing. A novel missense mutation, c.533G>C (p.Arg178Thr), in the SIX homeobox 1 gene (SIX1) was identified in four patients and co-segregated with NS-UHL in a three-generation Chinese family as a dominant trait. Using bioinformatics analyses, we show that this novel mutation is pathogenic and affects the structure of SIX1 protein. These data suggest that mutations in SIX1 gene are associated with NS-UHL. Our study added the NS-UHL phenotype associated with SIX1, and thereby improving the genetic counseling provided to individuals with SIX1 mutations.Copyright © 2022 Li, Liu, Zhang, Hu, Li, Gu and Jiang.
Alternative splicing is a prevalent gene-regulatory mechanism, with over 95% of multi-exon human genes estimated to be alternatively spliced. Here, we describe a tissue-specific, developmentally regulated, highly conserved, and disease-associated alternative splicing event in exon 7 of the eyes absent homolog 3 (Eya3) gene. We discovered that EYA3 expression is vital to the proliferation and differentiation of myoblasts. Genome-wide transcriptomic analysis and mass spectrometry-based proteomic studies identified SIX homeobox 4 (SIX4) and zinc finger and BTB-domain containing 1 (ZBTB1), as major transcription factors that interact with EYA3 to dictate gene expression. EYA3 isoforms differentially regulate transcription, indicating that splicing aids in temporal control of gene expression during muscle cell differentiation. Finally, we identified RNA-binding fox-1 homolog 2 (RBFOX2) as the main regulator of EYA3 splicing. Together, our findings illustrate the interplay between alternative splicing and transcription during myogenesis.© 2023 The Authors.
The mortality rate of ovarian cancer (OC) is the highest among the different types of female reproductive system cancers. SIX homeobox 4 (SIX4), a member of the homeobox family, subfamily SIX, fulfills an important role in metastasis and angiogenesis in a variety of types of cancer. The aim of the present study was to investigate both the effects and the underlying mechanism of SIX4 on angiogenesis in OC. The Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis and Encyclopedia of RNA Interactomes databases were employed to predict the expression levels of SIX4 in OC tissues, and its association with the overall survival (OS) rate of patients with OC. The expression levels of SIX4 in OC cell lines were detected by reverse transcription‑quantitative PCR (RT‑qPCR) and western blot analysis. Following silencing of SIX4, the proliferation, invasion, migration and angiogenesis of OC cells were investigated via Cell Counting Kit‑8, colony formation, wound healing, Transwell and tube formation assays. Subsequently, the levels of insulin‑like growth factor 2 mRNA binding protein 3 (IGF2BP3) in OC cell lines were detected by RT‑qPCR and western blot analysis. The ability of IGF2BP3 to bind to SIX4 mRNA was detected via an RNA immunoprecipitation assay, and the stability of SIX4 mRNA was assessed by RT‑qPCR following Actinomycin D treatment. Finally, the effects of transfection of sh‑SIX4 and overexpression of IGF2BP3 simultaneously were examined to further delineate the mechanism involved. It was revealed that SIX4 was highly expressed in OC tissues and cells, and its expression was associated with low OS rates in patients with OC. SIX4 knockdown with short hairpin RNA inhibited the proliferation, migration and invasion of cells, as well as angiogenesis. In addition, IGF2BP3 overexpression led to an improvement in the stability of SIX4 mRNA. Overexpression of IGF2BP3 also reversed the inhibitory effect of SIX4 interference on the malignant phenotypes of OC cells. Taken together, the results of the present study demonstrated that IGF2BP3‑stabilized SIX4 promoted the proliferation, metastasis and angiogenesis of SKOV3 cells.
Esophageal carcinoma (EC) is a tremendous threat to human health and life worldwide. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been identified as crucial players in carcinomas including EC. An in-depth understanding on regulatory networks of lncRNAs contributes to the better management of EC. In this text, 2052 lncRNAs and 3240 mRNAs were found to be differentially expressed in 5 EC tumor tissues versus adjacent normal tissues by microarray analysis. Moreover, 297 carcinoma-related genes were screened out according to pathway and disease annotation analyses. In addition, 410 potential lncRNA-mRNA cis-regulation pairs and 395 lncRNA-mRNA trans-regulation pairs were screened out. Among these genes, 14 trans-regulated and 19 cis-regulated genes were found to be related with carcinomas. Additionally, 42 possible lncRNA-mRNA trans-regulation pairs and 26 cis-regulation pairs were found to be related with carcinomas. Also, 4 differentially expressed transcription factors in EC and lncRNAs possibly regulated by these transcription factors were screened out. Moreover, plenty of common upregulated or downregulated lncRNAs and mRNAs in EC were identified by comparative analysis for our microarray outcomes and previous high-throughput data. Furthermore, we demonstrated that ENST00000437781.1 knockdown inhibited cell proliferation and facilitated cell apoptosis by downregulating SIX homeobox 4 (SIX4) and ENST00000524987.1 knockdown had no influence on anoctamin 1 calcium activated chloride channel (ANO1) expression in EC cells. In conclusion, we identified some crucial lncRNAs and genes along with potential regulatory networks of lncRNAs/genes, deepening our understanding on pathogenesis of EC.© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Systemic sclerosis is an autoimmune fibrotic skin disease characterised by immune activation and fibrosis. Fibroblasts are at the core of this fibrotic process, differentiating into effector myofibroblasts; however, the drivers of this process remain obscure. Recently, metabolic changes in cells in fibrotic diseases have been uncovered, with changes in the TCA cycle and glycolysis being observed.The objective of this work was to elucidate the role of the glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) in systemic sclerosis.Serum from early diffuse systemic sclerosis (SSc) patients and healthy controls (HC) was collected for PKM2 analysis by ELISA. Fibroblasts were isolated from HC and SSc biopsies and treated with transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) to assess PKM2 expression. PKM2 was pharmacologically modulated, and collagen and Extracellular Matrix (ECM) regulators were evaluated. Metabolic activity was assessed using Seahorse assays, and lactate transport was chemically inhibited. Chromatin immunoprecipitation was performed using a histone lactylation-specific or isotype antibody, and lactate or acetate supplementation experiments were conducted.We found significantly elevated circulating and fibroblast PKM2 in SSc patients. Fibroblast PKM2 could be induced in healthy fibroblasts by TGF-β1 exposure. Furthermore, PKM2 drives a metabolic shift to glycolysis that can be blocked by forced tetramerisation of PKM2 from its dimeric form; this resulted in reduced ECM and matrix regulators. Mechanistically, PKM2-mediated glycolysis results in elevated lactate, which drives collagen via epigenetic regulation by histone H3K18 lactylation. Blockade of PKM2 dimerisation reduced Histone H3 at Lysine 18 (H3K18) lactylation at the collagen promoter, which could be restored with lactate but not acetate. We further demonstrated that lactate-induced collagen is partially mediated by HIF-1α.PKM2 drives activation of fibroblasts in SSc via metabolic changes such as glycolysis. Taking advantage of PKM2 tetramerisation or blockade of lactate generation could be a possible therapeutic option in a disease with few treatment options.Copyright © 2026 Steadman and O’Reilly.
Growth factor release from dentin and subsequent cellular response are critical in endodontic regeneration procedures. This study evaluated the effects of Nd: YAG (1064 nm) and diode lasers (980 nm, 635 nm) at varying energy densities on dentin morphology, Transforming Growth Factor-beta 1 release, and the biological response of stem cells to promote pulp regeneration in immature permanent teeth. Dentin blocks from extracted human teeth were treated with 1.5% NaOCl followed by pulsed Nd: YAG or continuous-wave diode lasers (average energy densities of 24, 60 and 120 J/cm2). Controls included 1.5% NaOCl/17% EDTA group and untreated samples. TGF-β1 release was quantified via ELISA. Cell viability (24-72 h), alkaline phosphatase activity (7 days), and surface morphology were assessed. One-way or two-way ANOVA with post-hoc tests were applied (p < 0.05). SEM analysis revealed that all lasers partially disrupted the smear layer and increased surface roughness, while SHED cells on laser-treated dentin showed flattened morphology with extended filopodia, indicating favorable cell-surface interactions. All laser groups significantly increased TGF-β1 release compared to the negative control (p < 0.05), with Nd: YAG at 60 J/cm² producing the highest levels, exceeding even the positive control (p < 0.05). Laser-treated specimens were non-cytotoxic and significantly increased ALP activity compared to the negative control (p < 0.001), with Nd: YAG at 60 J/cm² showing the highest activity, statistically higher than the NaOCl/EDTA positive control (p < 0.05). Low to moderate energy Nd: YAG and diode lasers enhanced TGF-β1 release and ALP activity without cytotoxicity, matching or exceeding EDTA treatment. Thus, laser-assisted dentin conditioning is a promising adjunctive strategy for regenerative endodontics.© 2026. The Author(s).
Naturally occurring isoforms of the proto-oncogene Erb-B2 Receptor Tyrosine Kinase 2 (ERBB2, HER2) incite unique pathways of tumor progression in mouse models of breast cancer. Although each isoform has been shown to progress to metastasis, the N-terminally truncated isoform (p95) was previously shown to be biased toward early distant dissemination prior to detection. Here we show how HER2 isoforms differentially promote go-or-grow phenotypes through biased utilization of tyrosine autophosphorylation sites in the intracellular tail of HER2. Fluorescently barcoded humanized full-length HER2 (WT), exon-16 splice HER2 isoform (d16), and p95 expressing tumor cell lines were derived from HER2 Crainbow mice, then utilized for a series of functional assays including proliferation, tumor growth rate, cell motility, collective cell migration, cellular morphology, and invasive potential. Quantitative analysis reveals biased tumor cell behaviors across each genotype. WT tumor cells are biased toward proliferation and collective migration, d16 cells are biased toward proliferation and individual motility, and p95 tumor cells are biased toward individual motility and invasion. Single cell analysis reveals a myogenic-like state transition in p95 cells accompanied by an increased nuclear translocation of the Myocardin Related Transcription Factor A (MRTFA). MRTFA knockdown, as well as knockdown of a downstream effector, Transforming growth factor beta 1 induced transcript 1 (TGFB1I1), both inhibit the p95 invasive phenotype. Furthermore, intracellular residue tyrosine 1139 (Y1139) is necessary for MRTFA translocation, and when edited in p95 cells (Y1139F) invasion and motility phenotypes are subsequently lost. Our data illustrate the importance of functionally selective signaling in HER2 and highlight the need for therapeutics that intercept metastasis by targeting HER2 biased signaling.
Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) and macrophages are key regulators of liver fibrosis, yet their direct communication during fibrogenesis remains incompletely characterized. We showed that genetic deletion of folate receptor beta (Folr2) significantly attenuated experimental liver fibrosis in mice. In both human and murine fibrotic livers, FOLR2+ macrophages are frequently juxtaposed with activated HSCs. Functionally, FOLR2 expressed by reparative, but not M1 or scar-associated, macrophages promotes HSC activation in a contact-dependent manner. Mechanistically, FOLR2 binds to transforming growth factor beta receptor II (TGFβRII) on HSCs, sustaining transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-β1) signaling and driving fibrogenesis. Finally, the natural compound fraxinellone targets FOLR2, disrupts its interaction with TGFβRII, and attenuates HSC activation and liver fibrosis. These findings identify the FOLR2-TGFβRII intercellular interaction as a critical mediator of macrophage-HSC crosstalk and highlight its disruption as a promising therapeutic strategy against liver fibrosis.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42530162 is a review article
Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a chronic and progressive respiratory disorder marked by aberrant activation of pulmonary fibroblasts and the occurrence of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in alveolar epithelial cells (AECs). This disease process is primarily driven by inflammation and oxidative stress (OS), leading to excessive deposition of the extracellular matrix (ECM). Current treatments provide limited efficacy and are associated with significant side effects. Leonurine and its sulfate derivative SCM198, derived from Herba Leonuri, exhibit anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. However, their therapeutic effects and mechanisms of action in PF remain poorly understood.Bleomycin (BLM) was delivered intratracheally to mice to establish a model of PF. Human Fetal Lung fibroblast-1 (HFL-1) fibroblasts and A549 AECs were subjected to transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) exposure for in vitro assays. This study comprehensively evaluated the effects of SCM198 on PF and explored its underlying molecular mechanisms through metabolomics analysis, western blotting, and additional biological techniques.SCM198 significantly ameliorated lung pathology and micro-Computed Tomography (CT) findings and reduced collagen deposition in BLM-treated mice. Furthermore, the levels of inflammatory markers and cytokines were decreased in lung tissue and Bronchoalveolar Lavage Fluid (BALF). In vitro, SCM198 inhibited fibroblast activation, EMT, and OS. It also down-regulated the TGF-β1/Smad2/3 pathway and activated the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) antioxidant pathway.The ameliorative action of SCM198 on BLM-induced pulmonary fibrosis is associated with suppression of the TGF-β1/Smad2/3 signaling axis and activation of Nrf2-mediated antioxidant defenses during the EMT process. However, further studies are needed to confirm the direct involvement of these pathways.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Periodontitis is a chronic infectious disease characterized by the progressive destruction of tooth-supporting tissues. Identifying reliable, noninvasive biomarkers is essential for improving early detection and monitoring. This cross-sectional case‒control study evaluated clinical periodontal parameters and quantified periostin and transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) levels in the saliva and gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) of patients with stage I-II periodontitis and periodontally healthy controls. A total of 60 systemically healthy, nonsmoking participants aged 20-60 years were included (30 periodontitis patients and 30 periodontally healthy controls). Clinical periodontal parameters, including the plaque index, gingival index, probing depth, and clinical attachment level, were recorded. GCF and saliva samples were analyzed using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Compared with periodontally healthy controls, stage I-II periodontitis patients had significantly greater numbers of clinical periodontal parameters (p < 0.001). They also had elevated salivary periostin (1,234.5 ± 505.82 ng/mL vs. 596.32 ± 320.47 ng/mL; p = 0.001), GCF TGF-β1 (10.14 ± 4.44 pg/mL vs. 6.50 ± 3.13 pg/mL; p = 0.003), and salivary TGF-β1 (31.59 ± 7.69 pg/mL vs. 20.25 ± 9.48 pg/mL; p = 0.001) levels. GCF periostin levels did not significantly differ between the periodontitis group (311.3 ± 210.3 ng/mL) and the periodontally healthy control group (208.6 ± 147.6 ng/mL) (p = 0.092). These findings suggest that salivary periostin and TGF-β1, together with GCF TGF-β1, may serve as promising noninvasive biomarkers for the diagnosis and monitoring of early-stage periodontitis. Salivary periostin showed particularly strong discriminatory potential and may hold promise for future chairside diagnostic applications.
Most drugs target proteins, and proteome-wide genetic analyses in diverse populations could discover potential novel and repurposed targets for improved prevention and treatment of ischemic heart disease (IHD) beyond statin therapy.The purposes of this study were to use cis-acting single nucleotide polymorphisms (cis-pQTLs) identified for plasma proteins in East Asians and Europeans to discover and validate potential drug targets for IHD.We measured plasma levels of 9,520 (Olink/SomaScan: 2,923/7,297) proteins in a case-cohort study of IHD (1,976 incident cases and 2,001 subcohort controls) in statin-free individuals in the prospective China Kadoorie Biobank (CKB). Genome-wide association studies identified 2,895 (Olink/SomaScan: 1,301/1,594) cis-pQTLs for these proteins in CKB. Two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) and colocalization analyses assessed associations of all available cis-pQTLs for these proteins with IHD in East Asians (n = 29,319 cases), with further replication in Europeans (n = 181,522 cases) and comparison with findings in previous MR studies.In CKB observational analyses, a total of 959 (Olink/SomaScan: 426/533) proteins were associated at false discovery rate-corrected P < 0.05 with IHD after adjusting for major IHD risk factors. Two-sample MR analyses provided genetic support for 54 unique (Olink/SomaScan: 36/28) proteins in IHD etiology. Colocalization analyses confirmed shared gene-protein-IHD associations (posterior probability of hypothesis 4 [PPH4] ≥0.8) for 15 unique (Olink/SomaScan: 10/10) proteins, including 8 lipid-related, 3 inflammation-related, 1 blood pressure-related, and 3 alcohol-related proteins in East Asians. In Europeans, MR analyses of 12 non-alcohol-related proteins showed directionally concordant results for 8 proteins, with 5 having strong colocalization evidence of shared gene-protein-IHD associations (PPH4 ≥0.8), including 4 lipid-related (proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9, LPA, APOE, cadherin-1) and 1 systolic blood pressure-related (fibroblast growth factor 5) protein. However, 4 proteins showed directionally discordant MR results, including 2 lipid-related (APOA5, SORT1) and 1 inflammation-related (transforming growth factor beta 1) proteins with strong colocalization evidence of shared gene-protein-IHD associations (PPH4 ≥0.8). Comparison with previous MR studies revealed little consistency across studies in the number and identity of target proteins for IHD beyond well-established lipid-related (low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, lipoprotein(a), and triglycerides) or inflammation-related (interleukin-6) protein targets.The findings support a role for lipid-driven chronic inflammation in IHD etiology, and treatment strategies simultaneously targeting multiple lipid and inflammation pathways should be prioritized for further research to improve drug treatment of IHD beyond statin therapy.Copyright © 2026 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Radiotherapy can reshape the tumor microenvironment by promoting the polarization of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) toward either an antitumor (M1-like) phenotype or an immunosuppressive (M2-like) phenotype that facilitates tumor progression. To evaluate the modulatory effects of the fusion antioxidant enzyme GS1XR on macrophage polarization under radiotherapy-associated conditions, we used hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) to establish an oxidative stress model in RAW264.7 macrophages. The cytotoxicity, intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging capacity, and cellular uptake efficiency were compared among GS1, GS1R, and GS1XR. Subsequently, two macrophage polarization reporter cell lines-RAW-PNos2-P (for M1-like polarization) and RAW-PArg1-P (for M2-like polarization)-were employed to assess the effects of the three fusion antioxidant enzymes, as well as N-acetylcysteine (NAC), on macrophage polarization induced by H2O2, transforming growth factor beta 1 and conditioned medium from irradiated nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells. The results showed that 200 μmol/L H2O2 significantly increased intracellular ROS levels with minimal impact on cell viability. GS1R and GS1XR exhibited stronger membrane permeability than GS1, and none of the three enzymes showed notable cytotoxicity at the working concentrations. Across all the three polarization-inducing models, antioxidant pretreatment consistently demonstrated a dual regulatory effect of enhancing or maintaining M1-like polarization while suppressing M2-like polarization. GS1R, GS1XR, and NAC were more effective overall than GS1, with GS1XR-featuring both membrane-penetrating and enzyme-responsive functionalities-showing particular promise as a radiotherapy adjuvant. This study reveals the bidirectional regulatory role of antioxidant treatment on macrophage polarization and provides a novel strategy for radiotherapy targeting macrophage plasticity.
Cell migration requires the precise coordination of signaling pathways that regulate cytoskeletal dynamics and adhesion turnover. Rho GTPase-activating proteins (RhoGAPs) play critical roles in shaping these processes by controlling the spatial and temporal activity of small GTPases. ARHGAP20 is a RhoA-specific GAP, a downstream target of the Ras-related GTPase Rap1, and has been implicated in cancer cell motility, yet its functional role in coordinating migration-associated signaling remains poorly understood. Here, we investigated the role of ARHGAP20 in cell migration and its impact on the coordination between adhesion- and contractility-associated signaling pathways regulated by Rap1A and RhoA respectively. Using loss-of-function approaches in MTLn3 cells, we show that depletion of ARHGAP20 impairs both directed and random migration, leading to reduced cell velocity and displacement, and increased cell adhesion. To explore the underlying signaling mechanisms, we developed a genetically encoded FRET biosensor to monitor Rap1A activity and combined it with a near-infrared RhoA biosensor to simultaneously analyze their spatiotemporal dynamics in living cells. We found that Rap1A and RhoA activities are negatively coordinated during leading-edge dynamics and that ARHGAP20 depletion enhances this local anticorrelation. To further define where ARHGAP20 regulates Rap1A-RhoA signaling, we applied a microdomain-based analytical framework to quantify local signaling clusters. This analysis revealed that ARHGAP20 selectively modulates Rap1A-RhoA coordination outside focal adhesion regions, while leaving signaling correlations and overlap within focal adhesions unchanged. Subcellular localization analyses further reveal that ARHGAP20 is largely excluded from focal adhesions but associates with microtubules, the endoplasmic reticulum, the Golgi apparatus, and multiple Rab-positive vesicular compartments, supporting a trafficking-dependent mechanism for its spatial targeting. Together, our results identify ARHGAP20 as a regulator of cell migration that modulates the coordination between Rap1A and RhoA signaling through intracellular vesicular trafficking, highlighting the GAP's role in organizing the spatial coupling between signaling pathways in adhesion-associated regions required for efficient cell migration.
Porcine cumulus-oocyte complexes (COCs) undergo dynamic morphological and molecular changes during maturation; however, cell type- and stage-dependent transcript patterns of Ras-related factors in cumulus cells and oocytes remain unclear. This study investigated changes in Ras-related factors during porcine in vitro maturation (IVM). Porcine COCs were cultured under IVM conditions supplemented with follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), and epidermal growth factor (EGF). Cumulus cells and oocytes were collected at 0, 22, and 44 h of IVM, and cumulus expansion was monitored using time-lapse imaging. Hormone receptor-related factors, CX43, Ras family members, and their RasGAP and RasGEF regulators were analyzed using RT-PCR and qPCR with band-intensity analysis. Progressive cumulus expansion was observed during IVM. In cumulus cells, R-Ras transcript abundance increased at 22 and 44 h, whereas RASA1 transcript abundance was lower at 44 h. In oocytes, R-Ras and H-Ras transcript abundance decreased during maturation. These findings indicate that selected Ras family members and their regulators exhibit distinct cell type- and stage-dependent transcript patterns during porcine COC maturation. These transcript-level findings provide a basis for future protein-level and functional analyses.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510934 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42506459 is a review article
In this Perspective, the interaction between receptor components of signaling pathways and downstream transcription factors, particularly homeobox genes, is examined. The manuscript proposes that positive-feedback loops between pathway receptor components and downstream transcription factors represent a central organizing principle in development, normal cellular function, and tumor plasticity. This aspect of signaling pathway function is often overlooked, and its implications for cancer progression and therapy remain insufficiently explored. Various possible forms of this mechanism are presented. The biological logic behind this mechanism is discussed. Several prominent examples of its operation are suggested, particularly in relation to receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK)-RAS-related signaling pathways and their homeobox gene outputs in both normal and cancer states. Special attention is devoted to epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), a process central to many cancers. Based on this concept, the manuscript briefly outlines the potential use of RTK- or RAS-targeted inhibitors together with epigenetic drugs in cancer therapy, with the goal of simultaneously blocking both the input and the transcriptional output of mutation-activated signaling pathways.Copyright © 2026 Vider.
Recurrent aphthous stomatitis (RAS) is a chronic autoinflammatory condition marked by recurring, painful sores in the mouth. It is often confused with Behcet's disease (BD), a rare systemic vasculitis that also presents with oral ulcers. Despite overlapping symptoms, BD has broader systemic implications, making an accurate diagnosis critical. This study aims to identify unique serum proteins that could reliably distinguish idiopathic RAS from BD.We reanalyzed our previous mass spectrometry dataset comprising blood samples from 12 BD patients, 12 individuals with idiopathic RAS, and 21 healthy controls. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) related to RAS were identified and examined through Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes and Gene Ontology pathway enrichment. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was created to explore functional connections among the DEPs. Validation of three RAS-related proteins was carried out using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in a separate cohort of 26 RAS patients, 26 BD patients, and 30 healthy individuals. Their diagnostic utility was then evaluated via receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis.A total of 99 proteins showed differential expression in RAS samples but not in BD cases when compared to healthy controls-85 were upregulated, and 14 were downregulated. Enrichment analyses indicated these proteins are primarily involved in metabolic and infection-related pathways, particularly influencing keratinocyte differentiation and oxidative stress responses. PPI network analysis highlighted key metabolic and keratinocyte-related proteins as central hubs, suggesting a role in RAS pathology. ELISA validation confirmed significantly elevated levels of ANXA2, ENO1, and S100A7 in RAS patients compared to both BD patients and healthy subjects.Our findings identify a set of RAS-related serum proteins with potential diagnostic value. These serum proteins may enhance the clinical differentiation of RAS from BD, aiding in more accurate and timely patient care.©2026 Zhu et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42468635 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42461992 is a review article
The rupture and demyelination of nerve fibers after spinal cord injury (SCI) are primary contributors to neurological dysfunction. The axon attraction signal pathway mediated by netrin-1 is crucial for promoting the effective regeneration and repair of nerve axons. Previous studies have proved that electroacupuncture (EA) can improve nerve function and promote nerve repair and regeneration in rats with SCI, yet its underlying mechanism remains to be elucidated. This study aims to evaluate the effects of EA on neural repair and to investigate its regulatory role in the axon guidance signaling pathway, thereby clarifying the mechanisms by which EA promotes nerve repair following SCI.Male Sprague Dawley rats were randomly assigned to the Normal group, Sham group, SCI group, and EA group, with each group further divided into subgroups based on intervention duration: 7, 14, and 28 days. Allen's method was employed to establish the SCI model. Dazhui (GV14) and Mingmen (GV4) acupoints were selected for EA intervention. Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan (BBB) score and the inclined plate test were used to evaluate the motor function of rats in each group. Morphological and structural changes in the injured spinal cord were assessed through magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The fractional anisotropy (FA), radial diffusivity (RD), and mean diffusivity (MD) values in the injured area were measured via diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), and the morphological changes of nerve fiber bundles were analyzed via diffusion tensor tractography (DTT). The expressions of netrin-1, deleted in colorectal cancer (DCC), ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate 1 (Rac1) and F-actin were quantified using immunofluorescence (IF) staining, Western blot (WB) and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).Compared with the Sham group, the SCI group exhibited significant deficits in motor function (P<0.01), disorganized spinal cord tissue structure, a markedly increased lesion area (P<0.01), impaired integrity of nerve fiber bundles, a significant decrease in FA value (P<0.01), and significantly elevated MD and RD values (P<0.01). Moreover, the expression levels of netrin-1, DCC, Rac1, and F-actin were significantly reduced (P<0.01). EA improved the behavioral performance of rats with SCI (P<0.01). Following EA intervention, the extent of spinal cord structural damage was alleviated, with increased FA values, decreased MD and RD values (P<0.01), alongside evident repair and reconstruction of damaged fiber bundles. Additionally, EA upregulated the expression levels of netrin-1, DCC, Rac1, and F-actin (P<0.01).EA can significantly improve the motor function of rats with SCI, regulate the nerve guidance factor netrin-1 and its receptor DCC, as well as the molecular switch Rac1, thereby promoting axonal cytoskeletal remodeling and facilitating neural repair. The nerve repair effect of EA may be achieved by regulating the axon attraction signal pathway mediated by netrin-1.© AME Publishing Company.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by amyloid-β deposition, tau pathology, and alterations in signaling pathways involved in neuronal survival and protein homeostasis. Lithium has been suggested as a potential neuroprotective treatment, but the molecular mechanisms associated with its long-term effects are still not fully understood. In this study, we investigated the effects of chronic lithium treatment on hippocampal proteins associated with PI3K-related signaling in triple-transgenic Alzheimer's disease (3xTg-AD) mice. Wild-type and transgenic animals received either a lower or higher lithium dose for eight months. Hippocampal samples were analyzed by LC-MS/MS proteomics followed by protein interaction and functional enrichment analyses. From a total of 7768 identified proteins, bioinformatic analyses identified 157 proteins shared between APP-, MAPT-, and PI3K-associated datasets. Further network analyses identified 18 proteins related to PI3K signaling, including seven proteins shared among all three datasets: FKBP1A, HSPA1B, HSPA8, RAS-related proteins, RPL13, RPL19, and RPL24. These proteins are associated with protein folding, translation regulation, cellular stress responses, and signaling pathways. Chronic lithium treatment was associated with changes in the expression of these proteins in both wild-type and transgenic animals. The observed effects differed between the two lithium concentrations tested and did not follow a simple linear pattern. Our findings suggest that long-term lithium exposure is associated with changes in molecular networks related to proteostasis and translational regulation in the hippocampus. Although additional studies are needed to better understand the mechanisms involved, these results provide a proteomic framework for investigating lithium-sensitive pathways that may be relevant to Alzheimer's disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
E1A-binding protein (p300)/CREB-binding protein (CBP) bromodomains represent attractive therapeutic targets for anticancer drug development. Herein, we describe a structure-guided optimization of the lead compound UMB298 through a conformationally constrained cyclization strategy. A concise four-step synthesis (overall yield >30%), centered on a three-component reaction, was developed, enabling efficient construction of a lactam-containing imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine library for rapid screening. Among these compounds, CZL-105 emerges as a promising p300/CBP bromodomain inhibitor. It exhibits potent activity against p300 and CBP while sparing BET and demonstrates strong antiproliferative potency in OPM-2 multiple myeloma cells. Acceptable metabolic stability and pharmacokinetics support once-daily oral dosing, leading to significant tumor growth inhibition (TGI = 61%) in an OPM-2 xenograft model. These results position CZL-105 as a promising lead compound for further development. This work combines a rational design strategy and efficient chemical synthesis, accelerating the discovery of novel p300/CBP bromodomain inhibitors.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42463562 is a review article
This study adopted an integrated strategy combining serum transitional component screening, network pharmacology prediction, and animal experiment verification to systematically explore the core active components and mechanism of action of Yinxing Yangnao Formula(YYF) in the treatment of vascular dementia(VD), aiming to provide solid experimental evidence for the modernization of this classical TCM prescription. With the use of ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-Orbitrap high-resolution mass spectrometry(UPLC-Orbitrap-HRMS), a total of 97 chemical components were identified from the YYF extract by combining accurate mass-to-charge ratio, characteristic fragmentation ions of MS/MS, comparison with reference standards, and matching with literature databases. Furthermore, 27 serum transitional components were captured through the analysis of YYF-containing serum from rats, which were inferred as the key material basis for the in vivo pharmacodynamic effects of YYF. The potential targets of the serum transitional components were predicted using the SwissTargetPrediction database, and VD-related disease targets were screened from authoritative databases including GeneCard, OMIM, and GEO with the keyword dementia vascular. A total of 275 common targets were obtained with the Jvenn online tool. The &quot;drug-component-target-disease&quot; network was constructed using Cytoscape 3.9.1 software, and core active components such as isoscopoletin, jaceosidin, catalpol, senkyunolide F, and bilobalide were screened out. The protein-protein interaction(PPI) network was constructed via the STRING database, identifying key regulatory targets including the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase family, sarcoma, protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 11, Janus kinase 2, and protein tyrosine kinase 2. Gene Ontology(GO) functional enrichment and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway analysis revealed that the core targets were mainly enriched in biological processes such as oxidative stress, neurological function, and immune and inflammatory responses, involving phosphoinositide 3-kinase-protein kinase B(PI3K-Akt), mitogen-activated protein kinase(MAPK), and Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription 3(JAK-STAT3) signaling pathways. Molecular docking results showed that bilobalide had a good binding effect with core targets. Verification experiments on VD rat models demonstrated that YYF might exert the therapeutic effect by alleviating oxidative stress through modulating the serum levels of superoxide dismutase(SOD), glutathione peroxidase(GSH-Px), and malondialdehyde(MDA). This study preliminarily clarified the material basis, pharmacological effects, and underlying mechanism of YYF in the treatment of VD, providing a direction and basis for subsequent research on the complete regulatory chain of &quot;drug-target-pathway-phenotype&quot;.
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is highly recurrent and metastatic; EP300 drives tumorigenesis, but its mechanism is unclear.EP300 expression was profiled in OSCC via databases, RT-PCR, and Western blot. Knockdown effects on proliferation (CCK-8, colony), cell cycle, and apoptosis (flow cytometry) were measured. EP300-Notch interplay was probed with Valproic acid, a Notch signaling activator (VPA) rescue assays.Our experimental results showed that EP300 was upregulated in OSCC Cell Lines. In addition, bioinformatics analysis showed that EP300 upregulation was significantly associated with poor prognosis of OSCC. Prior research and bioinformatics analyses have demonstrated a close relationship between EP300 and the activation of the notch signaling pathway in OSCC. After EP300 knockdown in OSCC cells treated with VPA, our results indicated that VPA could partially reverse the effects of EP300 knockdown on cell proliferation, cell cycle, apoptosis, and EMT processes in OSCC Cells.In this study, we observed that EP300 knockdown suppressed the Notch signaling pathway, consequently inhibiting OSCC cell proliferation, the cell cycle, and EMT while also promoting apoptosis. These findings suggest that EP300 is crucial for OSCC cell growth and development.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Chronic limb threatening ischemia (CLTI), the most severe stage of peripheral arterial disease, affects over 500,000 patients in the United States and is associated with a 25% annual risk of amputation. Diabetic CLTI patients experience exceedingly high rates of lower extremity amputation. Many of these patients fail or are not suitable for revascularization, yet no effective non-surgical therapies exist for this population. This study examined how human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) interrupt ischemic limb changes and stimulate muscle regeneration in a diabetic murine CLTI model. Mice treated with hiPSC-MSC demonstrated muscle regeneration, angiogenesis, and decreased inflammation. RT-qPCR expression of embryonic myosin heavy chain 3 (p < 0.01) and myoblast determination protein 1 (p = 0.03) mRNA was increased in ischemic muscle, at 30- and 7-days post-hiPSC-MSC injection, respectively, indicating muscle regeneration. Vascular endothelial growth factor-A mRNA expression was also increased at 7 days (p = 0.04), signifying increased angiogenic signaling. Treatment with hiPSC-MSC decreased expression of the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase subunit p47phox at 30 days (p = 0.02), suggesting decreased oxidative stress. Finally, hiPSC-MSC-treated mice had increased mRNA expression for the anti-inflammatory markers, including regulatory T cell (Treg) marker Foxp3 (p = 0.01) at 7 days and M2-biased macrophage marker CD206 at 7 and 30 days (p = 0.04 and p = 0.02, respectively). Our hiPSC-MSC preparation promoted muscle regeneration, partially through Treg-mediated M1 to M2 macrophage polarization. The use of hiPSC-MSC to improve CLTI outcomes in diabetic patients appears promising and warrants further study.© 2026 The Author(s). Bioengineering & Translational Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Institute of Chemical Engineers.
Disruption of bile acid metabolism contributes to various liver diseases. Although CREB binding protein/E1A binding protein p300 (CBP/p300) are known regulators of hepatic metabolism, their role in bile acid homeostasis remain elusive.Metabolomic and transcriptomic analyses on liver-specific CBP/p300 knockout mice were performed to assess bile acid metabolism. Cleavage Under Targets & Tagmentation (CUT&Tag) sequencing and chromatin immunoprecipitation-quantitative polymerase chain reaction were used to investigate the epigenetic mechanisms underlying CBP/p300-mediated bile acid regulation. A mouse model of cholestatic liver disease was established to validate the findings from the liver-specific CBP/p300 double-knockout mice by administrating a 0.1% 3,5-diethoxycarbonyl-1,4-dihydrocollidine (DDC) diet.Liver-specific CBP/p300 deletion caused intrahepatic cholestasis due to impaired bile acid efflux, along with elevated plasma bile acid levels. Transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses revealed decreased expression of bile acid synthesis and transport genes, including Abcb11 (encoding BSEP, the bile salt export pump). Mechanistically, CBP/p300 promoted Abcb11 transcription via H3K27 acetylation. In addition, CBP/p300 epigenetically regulated the transcription factor Kruppel-like transcription factor 10 (KLF10), which directly activated Abcb11 expression. Loss of CBP/p300 reduced H3K27Ac enrichment at both Klf10 and Abcb11 promoters, leading to their downregulation. Overexpression of Klf10 in CBP/p300-deficient hepatocytes partially rescued bile acid transport defects. Impaired Kruppel-like transcription factor 10-bile salt export pump (KLF10-BSEP) regulatory axis was also observed in a DDC-induced model of hepatic cholestasis.Our findings uncover a novel CBP/p300-KLF10-BSEP regulatory axis that orchestrates bile acid transport and highlight its therapeutic potential for cholestatic liver diseases.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hyperuricemia (HUA), a metabolic disorder characterized by elevated uric acid (UA), is marked by a rising incidence and trend toward earlier onset, both strongly associated with fructose intake. However, the roles of gut microbiota and their metabolites remain unclear. This study employed a fructose-induced HUA mouse model and fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) to assess the impact of fructose-altered gut microbiota on the microbial community structure and UA degradation capacity in recipient mice. Non-targeted metabolomics was then utilized to identify key metabolites, and the HUA-inducing effects and underlying mechanisms of the metabolite were further validated. The results confirmed that microbiota from fructose-induced HUA mice promoted HUA development in recipients, significantly increasing the abundance of Bacteroidota and reducing microbial UA degradation ability. Specifically, recipient mice exhibited disordered amino acid metabolism, primarily characterized by elevated N-Acetyl-L-leucine. This metabolite was subsequently shown to induce HUA by promoting UA synthesis through enhanced adenosine deaminase and xanthine oxidase activity, as well as inhibiting UA excretion via upregulation of the reabsorption transporter urate transporter 1 (URAT1) through E1A binding protein p300 (P300) regulation. These results highlight N-Acetyl-L-leucine as a pivotal gut microbiota-associated metabolite in fructose-induced HUA and offer new insights and potential targets for future interventions.© 2026. The Author(s).
Human unilateral cleft lip morphopathogenesis is a complex process involving multiple genes and proteins. Factors such as myosin heavy chain 3 (MYH3), interferon regulatory factor 6 (IRF6), and Gremlin 1 (GREM1) are implicated in craniofacial development; however, their precise role in unilateral cleft formation remains unclear, limiting improvements in treatment strategies. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) for MYH3, IRF6, and GREM1 proteins and chromogenic in situ hybridization (CISH) for IRF6 and GREM1 genes were used to analyze postnatal unilateral right cleft lip tissue (ten patients) and control tissue (six patients). The semi-quantitative counting method was applied, followed by statistical analysis. IHC revealed increased MYH3 expression in cleft muscle tissue and elevated IRF6 expression in the epithelium, whereas GREM1 showed low expression, with significant differences in connective tissue. CISH demonstrated increased IRF6 gene expression in the cleft epithelium, whereas GREM1 expression did not differ from controls. Multiple statistically significant correlations were identified, highlighting their potential involvement in cleft morphopathogenesis.
CREB binding protein (CBP) and its homolog E1A binding protein p300 (p300) are crucial lysine acetyltransferases that have been shown to play key roles in various human malignancies. However, the precise functions and regulatory mechanisms of CBP/p300 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain to be explored. Herein, we report that the expression levels of CBP and p300 are upregulated in HCC compared to normal tissues, and high CBP expression is associated with poor overall survival based on TCGA data. Combined knockdown of CBP and p300 or treatment with the CBP/p300 histone acetyltransferases (HAT) inhibitor A-485 reduces cell viability and promotes cell death in HCC cell lines. Additionally, inhibition of CBP/p300 activates autophagy, which mediates cell death in HCC cells. Mechanistically, the inhibition of CBP/p300 HAT activity attenuates H3K27ac at Ephrin type-A receptor 2 (EPHA2) super-enhancer and suppresses the expression of EPHA2. EPHA2 overexpression can partially rescue CBP/p300 HAT inhibition-mediated autophagy and loss of cell viability. These findings reveal a novel epigenetic mechanism of CBP/p300 in HCC and identify the CBP/p300 inhibitor A-485 as a promising therapeutic candidate for HCC.
Paclitaxel-based intraperitoneal chemotherapy (IPC) is a cornerstone strategy for treating gastric cancer peritoneal metastasis (GCPM). However, a subset of patients exhibit resistance to this therapy. Our study revealed that glucose transporter type 3 (GLUT3) is a key mediator of paclitaxel resistance in GCPM, although its precise mechanism of action remains to be fully elucidated.Single-cell (nucleus) sequencing and immunohistochemical staining were used to analyze paclitaxel-resistant and paclitaxel-sensitive GCPM tissue samples. GLUT3 was knocked down in AGS and HGC27 cells and overexpressed in MKN45 cells to establish the corresponding experimental models. The CUT&Tag and ChIP-qPCR techniques were utilized to elucidate the GLUT3-histone H3 lysine 18 lactylation (H3K18la)-mitogen-activated protein kinase associated protein 1 (MAPKAP1) regulatory axis. A mouse peritoneal metastasis model was used to evaluate the ability of GLUT3 targeting to reverse ferroptosis resistance and paclitaxel chemoresistance.Results: GLUT3, glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), and solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) expression was significantly upregulated in paclitaxel-resistant GCPM tissues. Elevated GLUT3 expression correlated with poor prognosis in GC patients. Functionally, GLUT3 knockdown sensitized GC cells to both Erastin and paclitaxel, whereas GLUT3 overexpression conferred therapeutic resistance. Mechanistically, GLUT3 upregulated hexokinase 3 (HK3) expression, increasing glucose-6-phosphate (G6P) and lactate production. Elevated lactate levels supported E1A binding protein p300 (p300)-mediated H3K18la enrichment at the MAPKAP1 promoter, thereby activating its transcription. Rescue assays indicated that depletion of MAPKAP1 restored ferroptosis sensitivity in GC cells. In vivo, compared with paclitaxel monotherapy, the combination of GLUT3 inhibition and paclitaxel not only reduced tumor weight by 75.47% (P<0.05) but also significantly suppressed the expression of MAPKAP1, GPX4, and SLC7A11.Targeting GLUT3-H3K18la-MAPKAP1 reverses paclitaxel resistance by inducing ferroptosis, providing a novel combination strategy for treating refractory GCPM.© The author(s).
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) is a major cause of chronic low back pain, yet its molecular mechanisms remain unclear. We identified CRISPLD2 (cysteine-rich secretory protein LCCL domain-containing 2) as a critical regulator of nucleus pulposus cells (NPCs) homeostasis during IVDD. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis (scRNA-seq) revealed degenerative NPCs subsets enriched in iron metabolism and lipid peroxidation. CRISPLD2 knockdown in NPCs led to disrupted redox balance, elevated lipid peroxides, and excessive iron accumulation, promoting oxidative stress-induced ferroptosis and disc degeneration. Mechanistically, we identified a CRISPLD2-miR-548I-IL17A axis that governs ferroptotic cell death in IVDD, where CRISPLD2 deficiency was associated with reduced miR-548I expression, accompanied by subsequent upregulation of IL17A, thereby amplifying inflammatory and oxidative stress responses. In vivo, CRISPLD2 knockdown induced spontaneous IVDD and increased pain sensitivity, while restoration of CRISPLD2 or inhibition of IL17A alleviated ferroptosis and improved NPCs survival. Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated overexpression of CRISPLD2 successfully alleviated IVDD in lumbar spine instability and needle-puncture models, reducing oxidative stress-induced ferroptosis and restoring disc integrity. These findings highlight the critical role of CRISPLD2 in regulating oxidative stress-induced ferroptosis in IVDD and suggest that targeting the CRISPLD2-miR-548I-IL17A axis may provide a novel therapeutic strategy for preventing disc degeneration and alleviating discogenic pain.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Gastric cancer (GC) is a malignant tumor with poor prognosis. Studies have shown that cysteine-rich secretory protein LCCL domain containing 1 (CRISPLD1) is associated with tumor progression. However, its role in GC is unclear. The present study aimed to determine the pathogenic mechanism of CRISPLD1 in GC. Analysis of public databases revealed high mRNA expression of CRISPLD1 in GC, which was associated with poor prognosis. Additionally, CRISPLD1 expression levels showed significant correlations with T stage, overall survival events, and stage. Knockdown of CRISPLD1 reduced cell proliferation, invasion, and migration. Furthermore, CRISPLD1 knockdown decreased intracellular calcium levels in GC cells and inhibited the phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase (PI3K)-protein kinase B (AKT) signaling pathway. Treatment with an AKT activator reversed the inhibitory effect of CRISPLD1 knockdown on GC cell migration and invasion. Our findings suggest that CRISPLD1 promotes tumor cell progression in GC by mediating intracellular calcium levels and activating the PI3K-AKT pathway, highlighting CRISPLD1 as a potential therapeutic target for GC.© 2024 The Authors.
There are limited methods to stably analyze the interactions between cancer cells and glial cells in vitro, which hinders our molecular understanding. Here, we develop a simple and stable culture method of mouse glial cells, termed mixed-glial culture on/in soft substrate (MGS), which serves well as a platform to study cancer-glia interactions. Using this method, we find that human lung cancer cells become overly dependent on metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 (mGluR1) signaling in the brain microenvironment. Mechanistically, interactions with astrocytes induce mGluR1 in cancer cells through the Wnt-5a/prickle planar cell polarity protein 1 (PRICKLE1)/RE1 silencing transcription factor (REST) axis. Induced mGluR1 directly interacts with and stabilizes the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) in a glutamate-dependent manner, and these cells then become responsive to mGluR1 inhibition. Our results highlight increased dependence on mGluR1 signaling as an adaptive strategy and vulnerability of human lung cancer brain metastasis.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Objective: To explore the mechanisms of prickle planar cell polarity protein 1 (PRICKLE1) involved in the occurrence of skeletal Class Ⅲ malocclusion. Methods: After extracting the genomic DNA of all family members of the skeletal Class Ⅲ malocclusion pedigree with maxillary hypoplasia collected in the Department of Orthodontics at the Affiliated Stomatological Hospital of Nanjing Medical University in October 2021, whole exome sequencing and Sanger sequencing were performed to screen pathogenic genes/mutation sites and validate the mutations. Jaw tissue was collected during the operation of orthognathic patients who were treated in the Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery at the same hospital from October 2021 to December 2022. Following the extraction of human jaw bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells and transfection with overexpressing lentivirus (lentiviruses overexpressing the gene of interest served as the wild group, lentiviruses overexpressing mutation site served as the mutant group) and knockdown lentivirus (divided into knockdown group 1 and 2, with transfection interference negative lentiviruses as the control group). Various assays including real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR), Western blotting, proliferation and Transwell assays, alkaline phosphatase staining and alizarin red staining were performed. Construction of zebrafish animal model, morpholino oligonucleotide (MO) were injected to knock down the expression of prickle1a and prickle1b in zebrafish (co-knocking group), and the control group was injected with standardized MO as a reference. Transcriptome sequencing, enrichment analysis and co-expression analysis were performed on the zebrafish craniofacial tissues of the two groups. Results: Two patients of this family carried this mutation PRICKLE1 c.113C>T. The transfection experiments showed that compared with the wild group (relative expression of PRICKLE1 was 21.97±0.60), the relative expression of mutant group (5.05±0.05) was significantly reduced (P<0.05), and cell proliferation and migration ability significantly enhanced (P<0.05), and osteogenic differentiation ability was significantly reduced (P<0.05). Compared with the control group, the proliferation and migration ability of cells in the two knockdown groups were significantly enhanced (P<0.05), and the osteogenic differentiation ability was significantly reduced (P<0.05). Zebrafish model experiments showed the width of the ethmoid plate was significantly reduced in the co-knocking group (282.50±61.77, t=5.29, P<0.001) compared with the control group (338.80±24.92). Transcriptome data and enrichment analysis showed that the differentially expressed genes were significantly enriched in the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway after the simultaneous knockdown of prickle1a and prickle1b in zebrafish. Conclusions: PRICKLE1 c.113C>T mutation might suppress the osteoblastic differentiation ability of jaw bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells by downregulating the MAPK signaling pathway, thereby involving the development of skeletal Class Ⅲ malocclusion.
Human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) are the cornerstone of regenerative medicine; large quantities of hMSCs are required via in vitro expansion to meet therapeutic purposes. However, hMSCs quickly lose their osteogenic differentiation potential during in vitro expansion, which is a major roadblock to their clinical applications. In this study, we found that the osteogenic differentiation potential of human bone marrow stem cells (hBMSCs), dental pulp stem cells (hDPSCs), and adipose stem cells (hASCs) was severely impaired after in vitro expansion. To clarify the molecular mechanism underlying this in vitro expansion-related loss of osteogenic capacity in hMSCs, the transcriptome changes following in vitro expansion of these hMSCs were compared. Cysteine-rich secretory protein LCCL domain-containing 2 (CRISPLD2) was identified as the most downregulated gene shared by late passage hBMSCs, hDPSCs, and hASCs. Both the secreted and non-secreted CRISPLD2 proteins progressively declined in hMSCs during in vitro expansion when the cells gradually lost their osteogenic potential. We thus hypothesized that the expression of CRISPLD2 is critical for hMSCs to maintain their osteogenic differentiation potential during in vitro expansion. Our studies showed that the knockdown of CRISPLD2 in early passage hBMSCs inhibited the cells' osteogenic differentiation in a siRNA dose-dependent manner. Transcriptome analysis and immunoblotting indicated that the CRISPLD2 knockdown-induced osteogenesis suppression might be attributed to the downregulation of matrix metallopeptidase 1 (MMP1) and forkhead box Q1 (FOXQ1). Furthermore, adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated CRISPLD2 overexpression could somewhat rescue the impaired osteogenic differentiation of hBMSCs during in vitro expansion. These results revealed that the downregulation of CRISPLD2 contributes to the impaired osteogenic differentiation of hMSCs during in vitro expansion. Our findings shed light on understanding the loss of osteogenic differentiation in hMSCs and provide a potential therapeutic target gene for bone-related diseases.© 2023 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Associations of CRISPLD2 (cysteine-rich secretory protein LCCL domain containing 2) and genes belonging to its activation pathway, including FOS (Fos proto-oncogene), CASP8 (caspase 8) and MMP2 (matrix metalloproteinase 2), with nonsyndromic orofacial cleft risk, have been reported, but the results are yet unclear. The aim of this study was to evaluate single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in FOS, CASP8 and MMP2 and to determine their SNP-SNP interactions with CRISPLD2 variants in the risk of nonsyndromic cleft lip with or without cleft palate (NSCL±P) in the Brazilian population. The SNPs rs1046117 (FOS), rs3769825 (CASP8) and rs243836 (MMP2) were genotyped using TaqMan allelic discrimination assays in a case-control sample containing 801 NSCL±P patients (233 nonsyndromic cleft lip only (NSCLO) and 568 nonsyndromic cleft lip and palate (NSCLP)) and 881 healthy controls via logistic regression analysis adjusted for the effects of sex and genomic ancestry proportions with a multiple comparison p value set at ≤0.01. SNP-SNP interactions with rs1546124, rs8061351, rs2326398 and rs4783099 in CRISPLD2 were performed with the model-based multifactor dimensionality reduction test complemented with a 1000 permutation-based strategy. Although the association between FOS rs1046117 and risk of NSCL±P reached only nominal p values, NSCLO risk was significantly higher in carriers of the FOS rs1046117 C allele (OR: 1.28, 95% CI: 1.10-1.64, p = 0.004), TC heterozygous genotype (OR: 1.59, 95% CI: 1.16-2.18, p = 0.003), and in the dominant model (OR: 1.50, 95% CI: 1.10-2.02, p = 0.007). Individually, no significant associations between cleft risk and the SNPs in CASP8 and MMP2 were observed. SNP-SNP interactions involving CRISPLD2 variants and rs1046117 (FOS), rs3769825 (CASP8) and rs243836 (MMP2) yielded several significant p values, mostly driven by FOS rs1046117 and CASP8 rs3769825 in NSCL±P, FOS rs1046117 in NSCLO and CRISPLD2 rs8061351 in NSCLP. Our study is the first in the Brazilian population to reveal the association of FOS rs1046117 with NSCLO risk, and to support that CRISPLD2, CASP8, FOS and MMP2 interactions may be related to the pathogenesis of this common craniofacial malformation.
The environment and events that we are exposed to in utero, during birth and in early childhood influence our future physical and mental health. The underlying mechanisms that lead to these outcomes are unclear, but long-term changes in epigenetic marks, such as DNA methylation, could act as a mediating factor or biomarker. DNA methylation data were assayed at 713 522 CpG sites from 9537 participants of the Generation Scotland: Scottish Family Health Study, a family-based cohort with extensive genetic, medical, family history and lifestyle information. Methylome-wide association studies of eight early life environment phenotypes and two adult mental health phenotypes (major depressive disorder and brief resilience scale) were conducted using DNA methylation data collected from adult whole blood samples. Two genes involved with different developmental pathways (PRICKLE2, Prickle Planar Cell Polarity Protein 2 and ABI1, Abl-Interactor-1) were annotated to CpG sites associated with preterm birth (P < 1.27 × 10-9). A further two genes important to the development of sensory pathways (SOBP, Sine Oculis Binding Protein Homolog and RPGRIP1, Retinitis Pigmentosa GTPase Regulator Interacting Protein) were annotated to sites associated with low birth weight (P < 4.35 × 10-8). The examination of methylation profile scores and genes and gene-sets annotated from associated CpGs sites found no evidence of overlap between the early life environment and mental health conditions. Birth date was associated with a significant difference in estimated lymphocyte and neutrophil counts. Previous studies have shown that early life environments influence the risk of developing mental health disorders later in life; however, this study found no evidence that this is mediated by stable changes to the methylome detectable in peripheral blood.© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press.
This study aimed to construct an atlas of the cell landscape and comprehensively characterize the cellular repertoire of the pulmonary endarterectomized tissues of patients with chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH). Five pulmonary endarterectomized tissues were collected. 10× Genomics single-cell RNA sequencing was performed, followed by the identification of cluster marker genes and cell types. Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis was conducted. Seventeen cell clusters were characterized, corresponding to 10,518 marker genes, and then classified into eight cell types, including fibroblast/smooth muscle cell, endothelial cell, T cell/NK cell, macrophage, mast cell, cysteine rich secretory protein LCCL domain containing 2 (CRISPLD2)+ cell, cancer stem cell, and undefined. The specific marker genes of fibroblast/smooth muscle cell, endothelial cell, T cell/NK cell, macrophage, mast cell, and cancer stem cell were significantly enriched for multiple functions associated with muscle cell migration, endothelial cell migration, T cell activation, neutrophil activation, erythrocyte homeostasis, and tissue remodeling, respectively. No functions were significantly enriched for the marker gene of CRISPLD2+ cell. Our study, for the first time, provides an atlas of the cell landscape of the pulmonary endarterectomized tissues of CTEPH patients at single-cell resolution, which may serve as a valuable resource for further elucidation of disease pathophysiology.
Prickle planar cell polarity protein 1 (PRICKLE1), a core component of the non-canonical Wnt/planar cell polarity (PCP) pathway, was recently reported to be upregulated and correlated with poor prognosis in solid cancers. However, the effect of PRICKLE1 on acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remains unknown. This study aims to characterize the prognostic significance of PRICKLE1 expression in patients with AML.RNA-seq was performed to compare mRNA expression profiles of AML patients and healthy controls. qRT-PCR and western blotting were used to analyze the expression of PRICKLE1 in AML patients and cell lines, and two independent datasets (TCGA-LAML and TARGET-AML) online were used to validate the expression results. The correlations between the expression of PRICKLE1 and clinical features were further analyzed.Our data showed that PRICKLE1 expression levels were markedly high in AML patients at the time of diagnosis, decreased after complete remission and increased again at relapse. Of note, PRICKLE1 was highly expressed in drug resistant AML cells and monocytic-AML patients. High PRICKLE1 expression was found in FLT3/DNMT3A/IDH1/IDH2-mutant AML and associated with poor prognosis. Furthermore, high expression of PRICKLE1 may be correlated with migration and invasion components upregulation in AML patients.These results indicated that high PRICKLE1 expression may be a poor prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target of AML.
Prostate cancer remains a major cause of cancer-related mortality, and new therapeutic strategies are needed for advanced disease. Niclosamide and related salicylanilide compounds have emerged as multitarget anticancer agents, but the molecular contexts associated with their activity remain incompletely understood. Here, we applied a phenotype-oriented integrative framework to characterize the molecular context and phenotypic activity of NSC828786, a niclosamide-like salicylanilide derivative. Cross-cohort transcriptomic analyses identified AMACR (alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemase) and HPN (hepsin) as consistently upregulated genes in independent prostate adenocarcinoma cohorts. NCI-60 profiling demonstrated broad-spectrum low-micromolar antiproliferative activity, including AR-negative prostate cancer and breast cancer cell lines spanning multiple receptor subtypes; however, quantitative ranking did not support preferential receptor subtype selectivity. CellMiner COMPARE analysis showed no significant correlation between baseline AMACR or HPN expression and NSC828786 sensitivity. Structure-based analyses supported computational compatibility of NSC828786 with predicted HPN- and AMACR-associated binding regions, while zebrafish assays showed no overt developmental abnormalities at concentrations ≤ 5 μM. These findings identify NSC828786 as a phenotypically active salicylanilide derivative and position HPN and AMACR as exploratory candidate molecular associations warranting further mechanistic and target engagement studies.
Gene therapy-based biological pacemakers have been proposed as an alternative to their hardware-based counterparts. In this context, short-term ectopic expression of the T-box transcription factor 18 (TBX18) in the ventricle has been reported to generate potent, short-term pacemaker function in various animal models. Here, we investigated the impact of adeno-associated virus-mediated (AAV-mediated), long-term expression of TBX18 and compared the outcomes with those of the pacemaker ion channel hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated potassium and sodium channel 2 (Hcn2). Our findings revealed that CMV-driven ectopic TBX18 expression in mouse hearts led to severe cardiac fibrosis. At lower, nonfibrogenic levels, TBX18 maintained its transcriptional function but failed to induce pacemaker phenotypes. TBX18-expressing cells showed suppressed expression of key working myocardial genes, but the pacemaker gene program was not induced. Electrophysiological studies showed abnormal automaticity in TBX18-expressing cells, combined with prolonged repolarization and various current changes. However, no hyperpolarization-activated funny current was detected. In a complete atrioventricular block rat model, AAV-mediated Hcn2 expression induced robust ectopic pacemaker activity in the presence of isoproterenol, whereas TBX18 expression neither generated such activity nor augmented Hcn2-mediated pacing. In conclusion, at functionally nonfibrogenic levels, TBX18 is neither sufficient nor necessary to induce pacemaker activity. In contrast, Hcn2 generates reliable pacing, making it a more viable candidate for biological pacemaker development.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) represents a major complication associated with diabetes mellitus, notably contributing to patient morbidity and mortality. However, early diagnosis of DKD remains challenging due to the lack of clear diagnostic biomarkers. Therefore, in the present study, microarray and RNA‑sequencing data from the Gene Expression Omnibus database were systematically analyzed. Using differential expression and weighted gene co‑expression network analysis, 49 genes with marked expression changes in DKD were identified. Subsequent analyses, including functional enrichment, protein‑protein interaction network construction, machine learning techniques and assessment of immune cell infiltration, led to the identification of three hub genes: Spleen‑associated tyrosine kinase, apoptotic peptidase activating factor 1 and ADAM metallopeptidase domain 10, as promising diagnostic markers, which were further evaluated by receiver operating characteristic curve analysis. Expression changes of the identified hub genes were validated in both DKD mouse models and clinical patient samples. Collectively, the present study provided a novel perspective on the molecular basis of DKD, and highlighted novel candidates for potential diagnostic and therapeutic applications.
Neuronal growth regulator 1 (NEGR1) is an IgLON cell adhesion molecule significantly associated with depression risk in genome-wide association studies. Since the role of NEGR1 in depression pathophysiology remains incompletely understood, we investigated changes in NEGR1-associated gene expression levels in stress-susceptible male mice exposed to chronic restraint stress.Mice were subjected to 21 consecutive days of restraint stress, and stress-induced maladaptive phenotypes were evaluated by tail suspension, forced swim, splash, and open field tests. After sacrifice, the hippocampi were collected, and the levels of NEGR1-associated genes were assessed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR).In the stress-exposed group, weight was significantly reduced, and immobility time was significantly higher in the tail suspension and the forced swim tests, while grooming bouts in the splash test were reduced. No changes were observed in the open field test. A z-score normalization integrating all behavioural parameters was applied to classify the animals as resilient or susceptible to restraint stress. In stress-susceptible mice, NEGR1, Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor 2 (FGFR2), Limbic System-Associated Membrane Protein (LSAMP), and Neurotrimin (NTM) mRNA levels were significantly higher compared to controls, while ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 10 (ADAM10), a metalloprotease releasing NEGR1 from neuronal membranes, was significantly reduced. Interestingly, ADAM10 expression negatively correlated with the behavioural z-score, whereas NEGR1 and LSAMP expression showed positive correlations.These findings indicate a potential role for NEGR1 in depressive-like behaviors elicited in a stress-susceptible phenotype. Considering NEGR1 genetic association with depression, our results suggest that the NEGR1 pathway may contribute to depression pathophysiology by modulating the interplay between genetic predisposition and exposure to stress as a crucial environmental precipitating factor.© Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
During the healing process of infected wounds, tissue damage caused by pore-forming toxins (PFTs) secreted by bacteria, as well as sustained inflammatory cascades and abnormal collagen expression are key factors leading to delayed wound healing and scar formation. To address this challenge, a multifunctional cell-mimicking liposome (RM-OB@Lips) co-loaded with berberine (BBR) and Nintedanib (Ofev) is engineered, which synergistically integrates toxin neutralization, antibacterial activity, and anti-fibrotic properties to achieve scarless wound repair. The erythrocyte membrane modification enabled efficient α-hemolysin (Hlα) adsorption via ADAM10 (ADAM metallopeptidase domain 10) receptors, resulting in a 68% reduction in toxin levels at infection sites and a significant attenuation of tissue damage and apoptosis. Sustained release of BBR eradicated drug-resistant pathogens while modulating inflammation. In a murine Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)-infected wound model, RM-OB@Lips treatment significantly suppressed proinflammatory cytokine secretion (Tumor necrosis factor-α: 62.6%, Interleukin-1β: 70.0%, Interleukin-6: 57.7%) and markedly reduced inflammatory cell infiltration at infection sites, and the formulation achieved an 82% wound closure rate after 14 days. Furthermore, Ofev inhibited fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transition by downregulating α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) expression and restored physiological type I/III collagen ratios, yielding regenerated skin morphologically and functionally comparable to normal tissue. Critically, this study provides the first direct evidence linking PFTs clearance to scar prevention, establishing a novel therapeutic paradigm for drug-resistant wound infections through the coordinated actions of detoxification, antimicrobial intervention, and fibrosis suppression.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Over 100 genetic variants are linked to iron (Fe) biomarkers in European populations, but their effects on nonheme Fe absorption remain unknown. Additionally, despite the higher body Fe burden observed in East Asian (EA) individuals, the genetic factors influencing Fe absorption in this population remain unexplored.We aimed to examine the impact of genetic variation on Fe absorption and evaluate how it differs across individuals of genetically inferred Northern European (NE) or EA ancestry.Participants in this genetic association study were healthy males and premenopausal females of EA (n = 253) or NE (n = 251) ancestry, aged 18-50 y. Genotyping data were obtained using the Illumina Global Diversity Array. Fe absorption was assessed using the erythrocyte Fe isotope incorporation method, normalized to a serum ferritin (SF) of 40 μg/L. We evaluated the associations of candidate variants with SF-corrected Fe absorption, tested for variant-ancestry interaction effects, and assessed a European-derived polygenic score for SF (PGS-SF).Seven variants nominally associated with SF-corrected Fe absorption in either EA or NE were tested for variant-ancestry interactions. Two variants remained significant after Bonferroni correction (P-interaction < 0.007), rs1672992 in hepsin and rs9423600 in urocortin 3 (UCN3), indicating ancestry-specific genetic effects on Fe absorption. The C allele of rs1672992 was associated with a 26% decrease in Fe absorption in NE (P = 0.04) but with a 62% increase in EA (P = 0.008). The G allele of rs9423600 was associated with a 27% decrease in Fe absorption in NE (P = 0.005) but with a nonsignificant 17% increase in EA (P = 0.18). The PGS-SF was significantly associated with SF-corrected Fe absorption in both groups (P < 0.05) but captured only a small proportion of its variance (NE: 1.8%, EA: 2.3%).Our findings underscore the need to further understand the genetic architecture of Fe metabolism across diverse populations to inform precision nutrition strategies aimed at reducing Fe-related chronic diseases. The study was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT04198545.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Nutrition. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
MicroRNAs (miRs) are involved in cardiac remodeling, and tachyarrhythmia can regulate miR expression. While microRNA-1 (miR-1) is essential for genes involved in atrial tachyarrhythmia, the effect of rapid electrical stimulation (RES) on fibroblast-derived exosomal miR-1 is unknown. This study investigated the molecular regulation of exosomal miR-1 and its therapeutic potential in human atrial fibroblasts (HCF-aa) using RES.HCF-aa were cultured in a pacer dish and exposed to RES (0.5 V/cm and 10 Hz). We then investigated whether miR-1 expression could be regulated in HCF-aa under RES, and examined the effects on T-box transcription factor 18 (Tbx18) and connexin 43 (Cx43) protein levels.RES initially upregulated and subsequently downregulated exosomal miR-1 expression. Overexpression of miR-1 reduced Tbx18 levels but increased Cx43 expression in HCF-aa after 64 hours of RES. Conversely, mutant miR-1 and miR-1 antagomir significantly reduced Cx43 expression. Luciferase reporter assays indicated that miR-1 antagomir pretreatment suppressed the transcriptional activity of Tbx18 on the Cx43 promoter, an effect reversed by mutating the Tbx18 binding site. RES for 24 hours increased exosomal miR-1 and led to a reduction in Tbx18 3'-UTR luciferase activity; this effect was mitigated by mutating the hsa-miR-1-3p binding site. Immunohistochemical staining confirmed that miR-1 antagomir downregulated Cx43, while Tbx18 siRNA upregulated Cx43 in RES-exposed HCF-aa.In HCF-aa under RES, miR-1 and Tbx18 regulated Cx43 expression, with miR-1 modulating Cx43 through Tbx18. These findings provide insights into the molecular mechanisms of cardiac remodeling and offer potential therapeutic targets for treating tachyarrhythmia.
Cypermethrin, a type II pyrethroid insecticide, is widely used worldwide, but its potential teratogenicity remains a cause for concern. The present study aimed to investigate the dose-dependent effects of cypermethrin on neural tube development in early-stage chick embryos. Specific pathogen-free fertilized eggs (n = 125) were divided into five groups and treated subblastodermally at the 28th hour of incubation with saline (control) or cypermethrin at 0.01, 0.1, 1, or 10 ppm. The embryos were dissected after 48 h and evaluated for morphological, immunohistochemical, and genetic findings. Morphological analysis revealed a significant increase in open neural tube frequency, reduced crown-rump length, and decreased somite number at 1 and 10 ppm (p < 0.05). Immunohistochemical findings showed a dose-dependent increase in Caspase 3 and TUNEL indices, accompanied by a significant reduction in PCNA at higher concentrations (p < 0.001). Gene expression analysis revealed a consistent downregulation of transcription factor AP-2 (TFAP2) at all doses (p < 0.001), a non-significant alteration in brain and reproductive organ-expressed protein (BRE) (p > 0.05), and a significant upregulation of T-box transcription factor 18 (TBX18) at 10 ppm (p < 0.001). In conclusion, cypermethrin exposure during post-gastrulation impairs neural tube closure in chick embryos through enhanced apoptosis, reduced proliferation, and transcriptional dysregulation. These findings provide experimental evidence of the embryotoxic potential of pyrethroids and emphasize the need for stricter regulation of pesticide use to minimize developmental risks.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Blood-based biomarkers could be an alternative method to increase compliance in population-based screening programs for early detection of colorectal cancer (CRC). We aimed to identify blood-based biomarkers that can identify patients with early-stage asymptomatic CRC for use in national screening programs.In a nested cohort of 1982 participants with a positive fecal immunochemical test (FIT, with > 100 ng Hemoglobin/mL) from the Danish CRC screening program, serum levels of 18 blood-based biomarkers (including GDF-15, hepsin, IL-8, keratin 1/10, L1CAM, MIA, MCP-1, NSE, OPG, AFP, CD44, CATD, TWEAK, YKL-40, CEA, midkine, osteonectin and ferritin) were measured. Biomarkers associated to CRC after adjusting for various possible confounders were combined with age and sex in a predictive multivariable model for CRC.Complete biomarker and clinical data were collected from 1959 subjects, including 237 (12.1%) with CRC and 623 (31.8%) with advanced adenomas. IL-8 was unaffected by confounders, increased across the adenoma-carcinoma progression, and associated to CRC (OR: 1.83, 95% CI, 1.59-2.11, P < .01) even when restricting analyses to early-stage CRC (OR: 1.41, 95% CI, 1.15-1.73, P < .01). Combining IL-8, OPG, CEA, ferritin, and age resulted in an AUC of 0.717 (0.682-0.751) for discriminating subjects with and without CRC.Application of blood-based biomarker panels consisting of colorectal neoplasia-associated proteins seem to be potential predictors for early detection of CRC. Especially IL-8 could have a significant impact on future screening models, though further testing in true screening cohorts is needed.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sepsis-associated acute respiratory distress syndrome (SA-ARDS) is a severe disease with high morbidity and mortality. Emerging evidence indicates that ferroptosis plays a critical role in the development of SA-ARDS. However, the key regulatory targets and underlying molecular mechanisms remain to be further elucidated. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was performed based on the GSE66890 dataset to identify SA-ARDS-related gene modules. Candidate genes were screened by intersecting WGCNA module genes with ARDS-related targets from the GeneCards database and ferroptosis-related genes from FerrDb. An in vitro SA-ARDS model was established in HuLEC-5a cells using lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Cell viability, inflammatory cytokine levels, apoptosis, and ferroptosis-related parameters, including ROS, MDA, 4-HNE, and Fe2+ levels, were evaluated using MTT, ELISA, flow cytometry, and corresponding assay kits. The mRNA and protein expression levels were determined by RT-qPCR and Western blot. The transcriptional regulation of topoisomerase II alpha (TOP2A) by GATA binding protein 2 (GATA2) was verified using JASPAR prediction, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), and dual-luciferase reporter assays. All cellular experiments were performed using three independent biological replicates. WGCNA identified the salmon and cyan modules as significantly associated with SA-ARDS. Intersection analysis identified TOP2A as a key ferroptosis-related gene in SA-ARDS. TOP2A was significantly upregulated in LPS-induced HuLEC-5a cells. Knockdown of TOP2A markedly alleviated LPS-induced cellular injury, as evidenced by enhanced cell viability, reduced levels of inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-8, TNF-α), decreased apoptosis rate, and lowered ROS and Fe2+ accumulation, reduced MDA and 4-HNE levels, restored GPX4 and SLC7A11 expression, and decreased ACSL4 expression, along with increased expression of endothelial barrier-related proteins. GATA2 directly bound to the TOP2A promoter and activated its transcription. TOP2A overexpression reversed the protective effects of GATA2 knockdown in LPS-induced HuLEC-5a cells. GATA2 transcriptionally activated TOP2A expression, which in turn promoted ferroptosis and exacerbated LPS-induced HuLEC-5a cell injury.GATA2 transcriptionally activates TOP2A to induce ferroptosis and exacerbate endothelial injury in SA-ARDS.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10616-026-01035-2.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a plasma-cell malignancy driven by dysregulated NF-κB signaling, promoting tumor survival, proliferation, and chemoresistance. Given observed overexpression of NF-κB components in MM cell lines, we evaluated the selective NF-κB inhibitor QNZ (EVP4593) for anti-myeloma activity. QNZ selectively reduced viability and inhibited proliferation of MM cells in vitro and ex vivo, though stromal contact partly attenuated its cytotoxicity. QNZ dose-dependently suppressed MM xenografts, increased apoptosis, and reduced proliferation, while preserving MM plasma cell identity. Mechanistically, QNZ triggered mitochondrial, caspase- (cleavage of pro-caspase-9, -8 and -3) and PARP-mediated apoptosis with downregulation of Mcl-1, dismantled pro-survival NF-κB/Akt/c-Myc signaling with concomitant mTOR modulation, and induced cell-cycle perturbation accompanied by altered phospho-ATM and decreased levels of key regulators (SIRT1, Chk2/p-Chk2, Cdc2/p-Cdc2, p-4EBP1, CDK4, cyclin A2, and cyclin B1). Transcriptomic profiling demonstrated that QNZ treatment induced extensive gene expression reprogramming in MM cells, prominently upregulating stress- and metabolism-associated genes including DDIT3, PHGDH, SESN2, and NFE2L1, consistent with activation of ER stress-mediated apoptotic and amino acid metabolic pathways. Finally, QNZ displayed significant synergy with proteasome inhibitors and IMiDs, particularly second-generation carfilzomib and pomalidomide, as well as with dexamethasone and melphalan, providing a strong preclinical rationale for clinical evaluation of QNZ in MM.© 2026 The Author(s).
Introduction:GATA binding protein 2 (GATA2) deficiency is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by immunodeficiency, progressive cytopenias, and an increased risk of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Novel variants continue to broaden the clinical and genetic spectrum of this condition.Case Presentation:An 11-year-old girl presented with recalcitrant cutaneous warts, recurrent infections, and multilineage cytopenias. Her father had longstanding leukopenia and MDS that progressed to AML. Laboratory evaluation revealed monocytopenia, B- and Natural killer-cell lymphopenia, and dysplastic bone marrow findings. Genetic analysis identified a previously unreported heterozygous splice-site variant in GATA2 (c.1017 + 1 G > A), confirmed in stored DNA from her deceased father. Despite supportive care and allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation from a matched unrelated donor, she developed severe graft-versus-host disease and died from transplant-related complications.Conclusion:This report identifies a previously unreported GATA2 splice-site variant with clinical and familial evidence supporting pathogenicity, contributing to the expanding mutational spectrum and enhancing understanding of genotype-phenotype correlations in GATA2 deficiency.
Malignant rhabdoid tumors (MRT) are highly aggressive pediatric malignancies driven by SMARCB1 loss and consequent epigenetic dysregulation, with dismal survival rates underscoring the need for novel therapies. Given the central role of chromatin modifiers in MRT pathogenesis, we investigated a novel combinatorial epigenetic approach simultaneously targeting histone deacetylases (HDACs) and bromodomain and extraterminal (BET) family proteins. Using a focused epigenetic compound screen across multiple MRT cell lines, we identified that the HDAC inhibitor panobinostat (LBH589) and the BET inhibitor birabresib (OTX015) act synergistically to inhibit cell proliferation, with combination index (CI) values consistently <1. Transcriptomic profiling revealed that this synergy is underpinned by a profound downregulation of cell cycle genes, leading to G1/S phase arrest. Mechanistically, the combination therapy cooperatively restores the expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors p21 and p16. This restoration inhibits cyclin D1-CDK4/6 kinase activity, reduces retinoblastoma protein (Rb) phosphorylation, and consequently represses the E2F1 transcriptional program and its key targets, including cyclin A2 and cyclin B1. In vivo, this dual-epigenetic targeting significantly attenuated tumor growth in MRT xenograft models, outperforming either monotherapy, and was associated with suppressed proliferation and E2F1 signaling. Our findings unveil a novel synergistic strategy that pharmacologically recapitulates a core SMARCB1-mediated tumor-suppressive circuit, nominating combined HDAC and BET inhibition as a promising therapeutic avenue for MRT.© 2026. The Author(s).
Gastric cancer (GC) is a primary epithelial malignancy originating in the stomach. This research explored the influence and mechanism of Orientin on cellular senescence in GC. Orientin was predicted to regulate multiple cell cycle-related pathways, including cyclin-dependent protein kinase activity. Orientin docked with cyclin dependent kinase 2 (CDK2), cyclin A2 (CCNA2), cyclin E1 (CCNE1), and cyclin E2 (CCNE2) with binding energies of -9.1, -7.5, -7.2, and -8.3 kcal/mol, respectively. The IC50 values of Orientin for AGS and HGC-27 cells were 24.33 μM and 39.28 μM, respectively. Orientin dose-dependently inhibited GC cell proliferation, promoted G0/G1 phase arrest, as well as downregulated CDK2, CCNA2, CCNE1, and CCNE2 expression. It enhanced senescence-associated β-galactosidase staining intensity, upregulated p16 and p21, and downregulated phosphorylated retinoblastoma (p-Rb). In vivo, Orientin also suppressed tumor progression, promoted p16 and p21 expression, and inhibited CCNE/CCNA-CDK2 signaling. Orientin exerts anti-cancer effects in GC through triggering cellular senescence and cell cycle arrest, likely via activating p16/p21-Rb signaling axis and inhibiting the CCNE/CCNA-CDK2 pathway.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV)-associated hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) refers to liver cancer caused by chronic HBV infection and is the leading cause of liver cancer globally. Although aurora kinase A (AURKA) has been reported to be highly expressed in HBV-associated HCC, its specific mechanisms of action remain unclear. Through bioinformatics analysis (Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO)) and experimental validation (Western blot), the expression levels of AURKA, hepatitis B virus X protein (HBX), and GATA binding protein 2 (GATA2) were assessed. A HepG2.2.15 cell model was established. Functional assays (colony formation, flow cytometry, mouse xenograft tumor model) and mechanistic studies (dual-luciferase reporter assay, JASPAR database analysis, and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)) were conducted to investigate the mechanism of AURKA in HBV-associated HCC. Bioinformatics analysis identified AURKA as a core gene in HBV- associated HCC. AURKA was highly expressed in HBV-associated HCC. Knockdown of AURKA inhibited the proliferation of HepG2.2.15 cells, induced apoptosis, and reduced the protein level of the autophagy substrate P62 as well as the ratio of the autophagy marker LC3BII/LC3BI. By forming a complex with GATA2, HBX enhanced the transcriptional activity of the AURKA promoter, thereby promoting the malignant phenotypes of HepG2.2.15 cells. Additionally, in vivo experiments demonstrated that knockdown of GATA2 inhibited tumor growth. In conclusion, GATA2-regulated AURKA promotes the development of HBV-associated HCC, underscoring its potential as a therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
The antioxidant defence system is crucial for herbivorous insects to adapt to various host plants. This study focused on catalase 2 gene (HcCAT2) to investigate the antioxidant mechanisms that underlie the ability of Hyphantria cunea to adapt to a wide range of hosts and to develop a disruptor for its polyphagous behaviour. Results indicated that, compared to larvae fed on the highly preferred host plant Morus alba, HcCAT2 expression increased 33.19- to 47.25-fold in larvae reared on Betula platyphylla and Tilia amurensis with moderate and low preference, respectively. Silencing HcCAT2 consistently reduced larval body weight and downregulated growth-related genes (e.g., Cyclin A2 and Decapentaplegic) across all host plant groups. Moreover, HcCAT2 silencing significantly downregulated key glycolytic genes (Hexokinase and Pyruvate kinase), the tricarboxylic acid cycle gene (Isocitrate Dehydrogenase 2) and lipid metabolism genes (e.g., Acetyl-CoA Carboxylase) in larvae fed on all three host plants. The redox response in larvae was complex, as HcCAT2 silencing led to a marked downregulation of negative regulators of oxidative damage and key ROS-producing genes. The nucleic acid pesticide CS-dsHcCAT2, designed to target HcCAT2 expression, demonstrated potent silencing efficacy. Treatment with CS-dsHcCAT2 suppressed larval body weight on all host plants. Collectively, the HcCAT2-mediated antioxidant defence system is critical to the host plant adaptation of H. cunea, and CS-dsHcCAT2, by inhibiting HcCAT2 expression, holds promise as an effective agent to disrupt the polyphagous behaviour of H. cunea.© 2026 Royal Entomological Society.
Breast cancer remains one of the leading causes of cancer-related mortality among the women worldwide. The metal oxide nanoparticle-based formulations offer improved drug efficacy which makes them promising candidates for cancer therapy. This study investigates the anti-breast cancer potential of isolated Chlorogenic acid (CGA) from Hydrocotyle javanica (H. javanica) complexed with Zinc oxide (ZnO) nanoparticles. CGA was isolated using systematic chromatography and characterized by 1H NMR, 13C NMR, and mass spectrometry. The isolated CGA was then coated onto ZnO and encapsulated with chitosan (CS). The resulting CGA-ZnO complex was characterized using X-Ray Diffraction, Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy, Field Emission Scanning Electron Microscopy and other techniques. The CGA-ZnO exhibited a hexagonal wurtzite structure (JCPDS card (No. 36-1451)), spherical morphology, +15 mV zeta potential, decreased polydispersity index (0.32) which differentiate CGA-ZnO complex from ZnO alone. CGA-ZnO caused significant decrease in MCF-7 cell's viability (53.14% at 20 μM) compared to CGA (89.21% at 20 μM) or ZnO (97.23 at 20 μM) alone with minimum cytotoxicity to normal cells, MCF-10A (IC50 70 μM). CGA-ZnO elevated ROS levels and increased the apoptotic population in MCF-7 (18.70%), MDA-MB-231 (39.59%) and MDA-MB-468 (45.4%). CGA-ZnO treatment depleted GSH level, SOD and catalase activity, while increasing TBARS levels . The elevated levels of phosphorylated p53, increased p21, and reduced Cyclin A2/CDK2 induced S-phase arrest in MCF-7. Additionally, CGA-ZnO downregulated the expression of phospho-NRF2, GPx, xCT and elevated ferritin, DMT1, cleaved Caspase 3 to activate ferroptosis-regulated cell death axis. Furthermore, rescue assay confirmed the mechanism by which CGA-ZnO efficiently kills the breast cancer cells.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Bisphenol A (BPA), an environmental endocrine disruptor, is implicated in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but its molecular mechanisms are unclear. This study employed an integrative computational framework to identify potential BPA-related molecular targets in HCC, assess their statistical clinical value, and generate hypotheses regarding their roles within the tumor microenvironment. BPA and HCC targets were retrieved from public databases and intersected with differentially expressed genes in HCC, identifying fifteen overlapping genes statistically enriched in cell cycle regulation, p53 signaling, and viral carcinogenesis. Six hub genes (MKI67, CCNA2, EZH2, CCNB1, CDK1, BIRC5) were significantly upregulated in HCC with high internal cross-validated diagnostic accuracy (AUC > 0.96), although these estimates may be susceptible to overfitting and require external validation. Molecular docking and dynamics simulations predicted stable BPA binding to six proteins (Ki67, Cyclin A2, EZH2, Cyclin B1, CDK1, Survivin), with van der Waals forces calculated as the primary driving energy contribution by MM-PBSA. The two-gene (CCNB1/EZH2) risk model showed statistical associations with patient survival, validated internally and externally, although its generalizability remains limited. Mendelian randomization provided genetic evidence consistent with a potential risk-associated role for CCNB1 and a protective-associated role for EZH2. Single-cell analysis localized high CCNB1 and EZH2 expression to malignant and proliferative T-cells, correlating with specific immune infiltration patterns and checkpoint expression. In conclusion, these computational findings suggest a statistical and structural association between BPA exposure and HCC-related core cell-cycle regulators (e.g., CCNB1/EZH2). The data generate the hypothesis that CCNB1 and EZH2 may serve as prognostic biomarkers and potential contributors to HCC biology, possibly through coordinated effects on cell cycle dysregulation and immune microenvironment remodeling, though direct evidence of in vivo molecular targeting by BPA or causal pathway activation is not established by this study. These findings provide novel insights into BPA's putative role in hepatocarcinogenesis and offer clues for future experimental validation regarding risk assessment and therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Tumor proliferation and immune infiltration are key determinants of breast cancer biology, yet their prognostic value in the advanced setting remains incompletely defined. We evaluated the clinical relevance of tumor‑infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) and four cell cycle regulation biomarkers-Ki67, MCM2, Cyclin A, and PHH3-across major breast cancer subtypes in a contemporary real‑world cohort.We conducted a retrospective analysis of the outcomes of 398 patients with advanced breast cancer treated between 2020 and 2024. Clinicopathological variables were compared across HER2-/HR+, HER2+, and triple‑negative breast cancer (TNBC). Progression‑free survival (PFS) was assessed using Kaplan-Meier analysis and log‑rank tests. Multivariable polytomous logistic regression identified factors associated with PFS < 2 years. Subtype‑specific associations between TILs and PFS > 2 years were evaluated using multivariable Cox models adjusted for age, ECOG status, tumor grade, and prior therapies. Additional Cox regression models assessed predictors of overall survival (OS).Low TIL density was independently associated with early progression (RRR 2.28, 95% CI 1.19-4.03). Proliferation markers showed consistent associations with PFS: elevated Ki67, MCM2, Cyclin A, and PHH3 each correlated with shorter survival, with MCM2 showing the strongest effect. TIL-PFS associations were subtype‑dependent. In HR+/HER2 - disease, high TILs were linked to shorter PFS (HR 2.27, 95% CI 1.18-4.02), whereas in TNBC, low TILs predicted markedly worse outcomes (HR 2.33, 95% CI 1.88-2.86). TIL levels were not prognostic in HER2 + disease. Across all subtypes, high expression of Ki67, MCM2, Cyclin A, and PHH3 was significantly associated with reduced OS in multivariable models.Subtype‑specific immune infiltration and elevated proliferation activity are key predictors of disease trajectory in advanced breast cancer. TILs carry divergent prognostic meaning across subtypes, whereas proliferation markers consistently identify high‑risk disease. Integrating immune and proliferative biomarkers may enhance risk stratification and guide treatment tailoring, particularly within TNBC and hormonally driven tumors.© 2026. The Author(s).
Erythropoietin-producing hepatocellular carcinoma (Eph) receptor A4 (EphA4) binds to a broad range of ephrin ligands and is upregulated in various tumors. EphA4 activation plays crucial roles in the maintenance of cancer invasiveness, immune evasion, and stem cell properties. Furthermore, a novel EphA4 ligand, secretory ribonuclease 1, has been identified, and its interaction stimulates EphA4 signaling, leading to the promotion of cancer stem cell properties. Therefore, EphA4 has been considered an attractive target for cancer therapies. Thus, monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against EphA4 are essential for basic research and mAb-based treatment in the clinic. In this study, we developed a novel anti-human EphA4 mAb, Ea4Mab-3, using the Cell-Based Immunization and Screening (CBIS) method. Ea4Mab-3 reacted with EphA4-overexpressed Chinese hamster ovary-K1 (CHO/EphA4) and endogenous EphA4-positive lung squamous cell carcinoma LK-2 in flow cytometry. The binding affinities (apparent dissociation constant KD values) were determined as 4.5 × 10-9 M for CHO/EphA4 and 2.5 × 10-9 M for LK-2. Furthermore, Ea4Mab-3 did not exhibit cross-reactivity with other Eph receptor-overexpressed CHO-K1 cells. In addition, Ea4Mab-3 is suitable for immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry. These results indicate that Ea4Mab-3, established using the CBIS method, facilitates basic studies of EphA4 and is expected to be useful for mAb-based tumor diagnosis and therapy.
Effective repair of peripheral nerve injuries often requires nerve grafts, yet outcomes remain suboptimal due to limited intrinsic regenerative support. Developing bioactive grafts to actively orchestrate the regenerative microenvironment is a critical unmet need. Our previous studies have demonstrated that extracellular vesicles from skin-derived precursor Schwann cells remarkedly enhance peripheral nerve regeneration. The purpose of this study was to investigate the molecular mechanisms by which extracellular vesicles from skin-derived precursor Schwann cells influence peripheral nerve regeneration. We established rat models of sciatic nerve defects and designated three intervention groups: autograft, nerve grafts incorporating extracellular vesicles from skin-derived precursor Schwann cells, and a control group with nerve grafts (silicone conduits filled with vehicle). Nerve injury was induced and surgical implantation of the respective grafts to bridge the defect was performed. Transcriptomic profiles (RNA-sequencing) and bioinformatic analyses were performed at 11 time points spanning the 12-week period post-injury. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis revealed that critical regenerative processes, including axon regeneration, myelination, angiogenesis, inflammatory chemotaxis, cell death, and proliferation/migration, occurred in distinct temporal phases. Notably, the nerve grafts incorporating extracellular vesicles from skin-derived precursor Schwann cells demonstrated more robust and temporally coordinated activation of these processes compared with the control groups. Importantly, we found that the nerve grafts incorporating extracellular vesicles from skin-derived precursor Schwann cells downregulated Epha4, which encodes Ephrin receptor A4, a transmembrane receptor known to inhibit Schwann cell migration and myelination. We further identified that vesicle-enriched miR-20b-5p directly targets Epha4. Functional assays confirmed that miR-20b-5p overexpression promoted Schwann cell migration and myelination, whereas its inhibition within nerve grafts incorporating extracellular vesicles from skin-derived precursor Schwann cells attenuated their pro-regenerative effects. This study provides a comprehensive temporal transcriptomic atlas of nerve regeneration and demonstrates that nerve grafts incorporating extracellular vesicles from skin-derived precursor Schwann cells modulate the regenerative microenvironment after peripheral nerve injury via the miR-20b-5p/Epha4 axis. These results offer critical mechanistic insights regarding nerve regeneration and novel therapeutic perspectives for extracellular vesicle-based neural repair strategies.Copyright © 2026 Neural Regeneration Research.
The stria vascularis is a key structure in the inner ear responsible for generating and maintaining the endocochlear potential (EP), and its dysfunction is closely associated with various forms of hearing loss. The stria vascularis is composed of marginal cells, intermediate cells, and basal cells, among which marginal cells play a central role in the generation and maintenance of the EP. Therefore, establishing an in vitro primary culture model of marginal cells is essential for investigating the biological characteristics of the stria vascularis and its involvement in hearing loss-related disorders. In this study, we successfully isolated and cultured primary marginal cells from the stria vascularis of neonatal mice. Strial tissues were obtained by microdissection, digested with type II collagenase, and purified by differential plating to remove most fibroblasts, with cultured cells reaching over 80% confluence by day 7. Immunofluorescence staining demonstrated stable expression of cytokeratin 18 (CK18) and potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily Q member 1 (KCNQ1), confirming successful isolation, high purity, and preserved physiological function of marginal cells. Based on this model, in vitro oxidative stress and cellular senescence models were established using hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and D-galactose, respectively. Treated cells exhibited significantly increased intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and senescence-associated β-galactosidase (SA-β-gal) positivity, indicating high sensitivity of primary marginal cells to oxidative stress and senescence-inducing stimuli. Collectively, this study establishes a stable and reproducible system for the culture and modeling of mouse primary marginal cells, providing a reliable in vitro platform for investigating stria vascularis dysfunction and related mechanisms.
Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have emerged as key regulatory molecules involved in driving cancer progression. However, the specific functional roles of numerous lncRNAs in ovarian cancer (OC) remain largely underexplored. The present study aimed to elucidate the role and underlying mechanisms of potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily Q member 1 opposite strand/antisense transcript 1 (KCNQ1OT1) in OC progression. Bioinformatics prediction using the TargetScan and starBase databases revealed that both KCNQ1OT1 and kallikrein-related peptidase 10 (KLK10) harbor complementary binding sites for microRNA (miR)-140-5p. The direct interaction between miR-140-5p and KCNQ1OT1 or KLK10 was experimentally validated using miRNA pull-down assays. Analysis of GEO datasets (GSE66957 and GSE47841), followed by RT-qPCR validation in SKOV3 and IOSE80 cells, revealed that KCNQ1OT1 and KLK10 were markedly upregulated, whereas miR-140-5p was downregulated in OC compared with that in normal ovarian controls. CCK-8 and wound-healing assays demonstrated that silencing KCNQ1OT1 markedly suppressed OC cell proliferation and migration, effects that were reversed by miR-140-5p inhibition. Conversely, inhibition of miR-140-5p enhanced OC cell proliferation and migration, which were abrogated by KLK10 knockdown. Collectively, these findings identified a previously unrecognized regulatory axis in OC, in which KCNQ1OT1 promotes tumor cell proliferation and migration by modulating the miR-140-5p/KLK10 pathway. The present study advances the mechanistic understanding of lncRNA-mediated oncogenesis and provides preliminary evidence supporting a potential role of KCNQ1OT1 in OC progression.Copyright: © 2026 Duan et al.
Coronary artery disease (CAD) represents a complex interplay of genetic, environmental, and lifestyle factors. In this study, we utilized whole-exome sequencing (WES) on 28 patients with obstructive CAD to identify rare variants that may influence clinical outcomes beyond conventional atherosclerotic risk. We examined 74 genes curated from the Genomics England PanelApp, focusing on familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), cardiac arrhythmias (CA), and pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), ultimately detecting 8,251 variants. After applying a stringent filtering process with a population maximum allele frequency (PopMax AF) threshold of <0.1%, we identified 68 candidate variants across 23 genes. The majority were associated with CA (47/68, 69%), followed by PAH (12/68, 18%) and FH (9/68, 13%). Notably, 30 variants (44%) were novel, and 18 were categorized as high-impact frameshift mutations. The highest burden of candidate variants was found in the sodium voltage-gated channel alpha subunit 10 (SCN10A), followed by the ryanodine receptor 2 (RYR2), mitochondrial seryl-tRNA synthetase 2 (SARS2), A-kinase anchoring protein 9 (AKAP9), and hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated channel 4 (HCN4). Clinical evaluation revealed a pathogenic variant in the low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) and likely pathogenic variants in sodium voltage-gated channel alpha subunit 5 (SCN5A) and potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily Q member 1 (KCNQ1); additionally, nine other variants were predicted to be deleterious, including five novel SCN10A variants. Functional annotation using Gene Ontology (GO) and Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) highlighted mechanisms impacting cardiac structure, electrical conduction, and lipid homeostasis.
<p>Glioblastoma remains a lethal malignancy with limited therapeutic advancements. Emerging evidence implicates cell cycle dysregulation in glioma pathogenesis, yet the mechanistic role of cyclin‑dependent kinase 1 (CDK1) remains underexplored. The present study systematically evaluated the clinical relevance and functional impact of CDK1 in glioma progression through multi‑modal experimental approaches. CDK1 expression was analyzed using public datasets and then verified by western blotting using patient tissue samples (n=37) from the Second Hospital of Hebei Medical University (Shijiazhuang, China). Survival analysis was performed using Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas and The Cancer Genome Atlas datasets, alongside multivariate Cox regression to evaluate prognostic independence. Functional assays, including small interfering RNA‑mediated CDK1 knockdown, were conducted in glioma cell lines to assess proliferation (Cell Counting Kit‑8 and EdU), migration/invasion (Transwell), apoptosis (acridine orange/ethidium bromide staining and flow cytometry) and radiosensitivity (γ‑H2AX foci quantification post‑irradiation). The expression levels of downstream cell cycle regulators were quantified via quantitative PCR. The results indicated that CDK1 was significantly upregulated in glioma tissues compared with normal controls, with expression levels escalating with tumor grade. High CDK1 expression correlated with a reduced overall survival and served as an independent prognostic marker. CDK1 knockdown attenuated glioma cell proliferation, migration and invasion, while enhancing apoptosis and radiosensitivity. Mechanistically, CDK1 knockdown downregulated cell cycle regulators proliferating cell nuclear antigen, minichromosome maintenance complex component 2‑4 (MCM2‑4), MCM6, polo‑like kinase 1, TTK protein kinase and mitotic arrest deficient 2 like 1, implicating mitotic dysregulation as a central pathway. The present study established CDK1 as a master regulator of glioma progression through coordinated control of proliferation, DNA repair and metastatic potential. The robust association between CDK1 expression, tumor grade and survival, coupled with functional validation across complementary assays, positions CDK1 inhibition as a promising therapeutic strategy. The mechanistic elucidation of its cell cycle network provides a novel framework for targeting glioma‑specific therapeutic targets.</p>.
Lifestyle interventions are cornerstones of metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MASLD) management, and differential DNA methylation of potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily Q member 1 (KCNQ1) was involved in MASLD-related diseases. However, little is known about the DNA methylation mechanism of KCNQ1 underlying the effect of lifestyle interventions on the most common liver disease.This study aimed to investigate the role of DNA methylation of KCNQ1 in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) after diet intervention.This study utilized 38 male C57BL/6 mice (9-week-old, SPF grade). Following a 1-week acclimatization period, animals were randomly allocated to receive either a methionine-choline deficient (MCD, n = 23) or methionine-choline sufficient (MCS, n = 15) dietary regimen for 4 weeks. Seven mice per group were subsequently euthanized for MASH model validation. After confirming successful model establishment, remaining MASH mice underwent randomized allocation to four-week interventions: low-fat diet (LFD, n = 8), continued MCD feeding (n = 8), or control MCS maintenance (n = 8). Genomic DNA methylation patterns in hepatic and adipose tissues were analyzed using methylation-sensitive restriction enzyme sequencing (MethylRAD). For LFD-treated MASH specimens, EpiTYPER mass spectrometry and quantitative reverse transcription PCR were employed to assess DNA methylation status and transcriptional expression of KCNQ1, respectively.Hypermethylation in the intron of KCNQ1 was observed after LFD intervention in the liver and adipose tissue of MASH mice (p < 0.05) with MethylRAD sequencing. High DNA methylation and low mRNA expression of KCNQ1 were validated in adipose tissue of MASH mice in response to LFD (p < 0.05) with the EpiTYPER array.The study reinforced the role of DNA methylation in regulating gene expression of KCNQ1 in response to LFD intervention and highlighted that the DNA methylation of KCNQ1 in MASH adipose tissue could be tissue-specific. All these results contribute to elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying the activities of DNA methylation in MASH.© 2025. The Author(s).
Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome (JLNS) is characterized by congenital bilateral sensorineural hearing loss, a prolonged QT interval (QTc) on an electrocardiogram (ECG), and a high incidence of sudden death in childhood. More than 90% of JLNS cases are associated with variants in the potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily Q member 1 gene, KCNQ1 (Kv7.1). Herein, eighteen identified JLNS-related KCNQ1 variants were examined, including I145S, Y148S, G168R, Y171X, S182R, G186D, R190Q, G269D, G272D, A302V, G306V, V307V, S333F, A344A, F351L, K422S, T587M, and R594Q. Using an integrative method, we systematically characterized the biophysical properties, functional, and membrane trafficking of KCNQ1 variants distributed in different structural domains of the channel. The results demonstrated that all the variants resulted in functional deficiencies, with impaired localization in the plasma membrane being the most common cause. Although many variants exhibited normal cell surface expression consistent with protein stability, structural simulation analysis revealed that these KCNQ1 variants disrupt either KCNQ1-KCNE1 or KCNQ1-calmodulin (CaM) interaction, leading to channel dysfunction. These finding provide significant implications for the future treatment and prevention of JLNS.
Presbycusis, or age-related hearing loss (ARHL), is a progressive condition that involves a steady decline in auditory function, primarily caused by the physiological alterations that occur with aging. This disorder arises from the combined effect of multiple interconnected factors that progressively affect the auditory system over time. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and transcriptomic analyses in human populations are valuable approaches for identifying potential genes associated with ARHL. This research seeks to assess the potential of protective drugs or strategies for treating ARHL by analyzing target gene-miRNA interactions identified in human blood and associated with presbycusis. We performed RNA sequencing to analyze the transcriptomes of peripheral blood leukocytes from ARHL patients. To identify genes associated with ARHL, the RNA-sequencing data from the peripheral blood leukocytes were compared and further validated by real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) using whole blood samples from the same ARHL patients. To explore the involvement of target genes and microRNAs (miRNAs) in ARHL, we examined miRNA expression patterns using RT-qPCR and reporter gene assays. We found that four genes were up-expressed in ARHL serum: Fas Ligand (FASLG), Neural Cell Adhesion Molecule 1 (NCAM1), Nectin Cell Adhesion Molecule 1 (NECTIN1), Macrophage Receptor with Collagenous Structure (MARCO). The up-expressed FASLG is associated with cell apoptosis and aging. Additionally, we showed that miR‑5195 and miR-3941 regulated FASLG expression in House Ear Institute-Organ of Corti 1 (HEI-OC-1) and HeLa cells via targeting of FASLG using luciferase reporter assays. Finally, the over-expression of the FASLG gene may be associated with the development of ARHL, and the inhibitory role of miR-5195 and miR-3941 could be a key factor in the prevention or protection against ARHL.Copyright: © 2025 Lee et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Aims: Myocardial fibrosis is an important medium for atrial fibrillation (AF). Exosomes have been demonstrated to affect the development of AF. This study explored the molecular mechanism of exosomes from patients with AF (AF-exo) mediating myocardial fibrosis and thus affecting the development of AF. Results: Prolactin-induced protein (PIP) is highly expressed in AF-exo. AF-exo promoted the proliferation and activation of cardiac fibroblasts (CFs) as well as the migration and endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndMT) of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). However, the effect of AF-exo on CFs and HUVECs was mitigated by PIP-specific short hairpin RNA (shPIP). Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-shPIP reduced the incidence and duration of AF in rats, and improved myocardial fibrosis and collagen deposition. ATPase plasma membrane Ca2+ transporting 2 (ATP2B2) overexpression or inhibition reverses the role of PIP or shPIP in CFs, HUVECs, and AF rats. Activation of the cyclic guanosine monophosphate/protein kinase G (cGMP/PKG) pathway is beneficial to alleviate myocardial fibrosis, but this effect is mitigated by shATP2B2. Innovation: Our investigation substantiates the pivotal role of the PIP/ATP2B2 axis in both HUVEC myocardial fibrosis and EndMT progression. Our findings suggest that AF-exo can suppress the activation of the cGMP/PKG pathway mediated by ATP2B2 through exosomal PIP, thus promoting myocardial fibrosis, indicating potential targets for novel antifibrotic drug development targeting either PIP or ATP2B2. Conclusion: Exosomal PIP can inhibit the activation of cGMP/PKG pathway mediated by ATP2B2, thus promoting the development of AF. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 43, 14-36.
Background/Objectives:MYO3A belongs to the unconventional myosin superfamily, and the myosin IIIa protein localizes on the tip of the stereocilia of vestibular and cochlear hair cells. Deficiencies in MYO3A have been reported to cause the deformation of hair cells into abnormally long stereocilia with an increase in spacing. MYO3A is a rare causative gene of autosomal recessive sensorineural hearing loss (DFNB30), with only 13 cases reported to date. In this study, we aimed to elucidate the phenotypes caused by MYO3A variations. Methods: Massively parallel DNA sequencing was performed on 15,684 Japanese hearing loss patients (mean age 27.5 ± 23.1 years old, 6574 male, 8612 female and 498 patients for whom information was unavailable), identifying nine candidate patients with MYO3A variants. Results: We identified eight causative MYO3A variants by massively parallel DNA sequencing, including six novel variants, and reported nine individuals possessing MYO3A gene variants, which is the largest group of non-related patients yet to be detected. Our findings confirmed that MYO3A variants cause progressive hearing loss, with its onset varying from birth to the second decade, eventually leading to severe-to-profound hearing loss. Conclusions: We clarified that patients with MYO3A gene variants present with late-onset, progressive hearing loss. Our findings have enabled us to predict the outcomes of hearing loss in patients with candidate MYO3A gene variants and to provide intervention in a timely manner.
Nectin cell adhesion molecule 1 (NECTIN1) is a cell adhesion molecule that belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily. It has been considered the most ubiquitous receptor for herpesviruses. However, in the context of flavivirus infection, its role was previously unknown. In this study, we described an arrayed siRNA screen mainly targeting Ig-like proteins that showed NECTIN1-restricted bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection. We demonstrated that the depletion of NECTIN1 could significantly enhance the infection of both biotypes and multiple genotypes of BVDV, including BVDV-1a, -1b, -1c, -1p, -1m, -1v, and -2a. Notably, the IgV of NECTIN1 has emerged as the key domain restricting BVDV infection. Moreover, NECTIN1 inhibited BVDV attachment without exerting a significant influence on BVDV translation or transcription. Furthermore, we demonstrated that both NECTIN1 and CD46 could bind to BVDV E2, while the binding affinity of NECTIN1 for BVDV E2 was greater than that for CD46. We further identified that the BVDV E2 domain DD was a key domain of BVDV interacting with NECTIN1. In addition, we showed that NECTIN1 inhibited infections by classical swine fever virus (CSFV), Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV), and Zika virus (ZIKV), which belong to the Flaviviridae family, but had limited effects on bluetongue virus (BTV), vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), Akabane virus (AKAV), and Sindbis virus (SINV). Overall, our study has important implications for understanding the entry of BVDV and revealed a novel role for NECTIN1 as a restriction factor that inhibits flavivirus infection.NECTIN1, also known as CD111 or PVRL1, has been recognized as the primary receptor for several alpha herpesviruses, including herpes simplex virus (HSV), pseudorabies virus (PRV), and bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1). However, our study revealed a novel role for NECTIN1 in the virus life cycle by influencing BVDV infection. Contrary to its role as a receptor for alpha herpesviruses, NECTIN1 acts as a restriction factor for BVDV by inhibiting viral attachment via competition with CD46 for binding to the domain DD of BVDV E2. We further revealed that the replication of members of the Flaviviridae family was inhibited by NECTIN1, while the replication of other RNA viruses did not significantly differ. Our results demonstrate that NECTIN1 is a novel factor restricting Flaviviridae family virus replication and highlight the complexity of virus-host interactions and the multifaceted nature of host factors involved in viral infection.
Viral keratitis caused by herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) is a lifelong recurring disease and an unignored cause of blindness worldwide. Current antiviral therapy cannot eliminate the transcriptionally silent HSV-1 in latently infected patients. With the explosive applications of the clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated nuclease (Cas) 9 gene-editing system in recent years, we aim to develop a CRISPR/Cas9 system targeting down the major HSV receptor, NECTIN-1 on human corneal epithelial cells (HCECs), to provide a novel strategy for herpes simplex keratitis (HSK) treatment.The selected single guide RNAs (sgRNAs) targeting human nectin cell adhesion molecule 1 (NECTIN-1), together with Cas-9, were assembled into lentivirus. HCECs were infected with Lenti-Cas9-gRNAs to establish NECTIN-1 knockdown cells. Following HSV-green fluorescent protein (GFP) infection, cell survival and virus infection were determined by fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry. Relative HSV DNA amount was also compared through quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction.Lentivirus packaged with the CRISPR/Cas9 system and the two selected sgRNAs both successfully edited down the protein levels of NECTIN-1 of HCECs. After HSV-GFP infection, the infection rate of HCECs in knockdown groups dramatically decreased, especially in the NECTIN-1 knockdown group 1. In addition, the relative HSV DNA amount of both knockdown groups was only 30% when compared with the control group.We successfully knocked down the NECTIN-1 expression in vitro by the CRISPR/Cas9 system, which alleviated the HSV infection in HCECs.This study offered a promising target for the cure of HSK.
Risperidone (RIS), a first-line antipsychotic for bipolar disorder, is frequently detected in aquatic systems due to its environmental persistence. Although several studies have reported the neurotoxic effects of RIS on fishes, the underlying toxicological mechanisms remain largely unclear. To fill this gap, zebrafish embryos were exposed to environmentally relevant concentrations of RIS (0.05, 0.5, and 5 μg/L), with astaxanthin (Asta) used as an inhibitor, to investigate the neurodevelopmental toxicity of RIS. Our findings demonstrated that RIS induced morphological abnormalities and neurobehavioral deficits in larvae. This toxicity was primarily driven by the disruption of the antioxidant defense system, leading to significant oxidative stress and subsequent neural apoptosis. Crucially, RIS exposure dysregulated key neurodevelopmental genes (including neurogenin-1, mbp, manf, gfap, and c-fos) and reduced levels of critical neurotransmitters (5-HT, DA, and ACh) by 18 %-54 %, thereby impairing neuronal development and synaptic transmission. Transcriptomic profiling revealed that RIS disrupted neural cell homeostasis by modulating critical pathways such as the TNF signaling pathway, aldosterone-regulated sodium reabsorption, and tyrosine metabolism. Non-targeted metabolomic analysis further showed that RIS disrupted amino acid, purine, and pyrimidine metabolism, impairing energy supply and signal transduction in neuronal cells. Integrated multi-omics analysis established that RIS exposure disrupted lipid metabolism, promotes cell death, and impairs the metabolic homeostasis of fundamental biomolecules such as amino acids. These collective disturbances ultimately compromised energy provision, signal transduction, and neuro-metabolic homeostasis within the developing nervous system. This study delineates the mechanistic basis for RIS-induced developmental neurotoxicity, providing critical insights for its environmental risk assessment.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neurogenesis has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the relationship between CSF neurogenin-1 levels and cognitive decline, as well as neurodegeneration in older adults, both with and without cognitive impairment, remains unclear. The current study included 666 individuals, comprising 161 cognitively unimpaired (CU) older adults and 505 cognitively impaired (CI) older adults. To examine the association of CSF neurogenin-1 levels with changes in cognitive performance and neurodegeneration over time, we performed a series of linear mixed-effects models. In these models, baseline CSF neurogenin-1 levels served as the predictor of interest, while cognitive measures, such as Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores, and hippocampal and ventricular volumes, served as the dependent variables. Higher CSF neurogenin-1 levels were associated with a slower rate of cognitive decline over time in the CI individuals but not in the CU individuals. Regarding structural MRI features, we found that higher baseline CSF neurogenin-1 levels were associated with a slower rate of ventricular enlargement in the CI individuals but not in the CU individuals. No association was observed between CSF neurogenin-1 levels and hippocampal atrophy in either group. Our findings suggest that neurogenin-1 may play a neuroprotective role in CI individuals, potentially slowing cognitive decline and structural brain changes associated with the disease.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 40545564 is a review article
Egg quality traits are economically important in the poultry industry. To explore the genetic architecture and identify potential candidate genes, a genome-wide association study (GWAS) was performed for 13 egg quality traits using data from whole-genome sequencing of 299 Longyan Shan-ma female ducks, including 12 quantitative traits and one qualitative trait, eggshell color (ESC; white, light green, green). From estimation of pedigree genetic parameters, heritability (h2) ranged from 0.022 to 0.996 for the 12 quantitative traits, with the highest h2 (0.996) for eggshell color a* value (ESCA) and the lowest h2 (0.022) for egg yolk percentage relative to EW. A total of 8,874 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)-based significant associations (1.0 × 10-6) and 247 insertion-deletion (indel)-based significant associations (1.00 × 10-5) were identified, including 5,980 SNPs and 159 indel markers. From 5,924 SNPs and 143 indels associated with ESC traits, 181 potential candidate genes were identified, and most significant SNPs and indels (P < 1.0 × 10-20) were located at 1.86 Mb (44.29-46.15 Mb) on chromosome 4. The top SNP (chr4:45325309:C>A; P = 7.97 × 10-43) and the top indel (chr4:45299595:delTTCCACTCCAC; P = 4.20 × 10-36) for the ESC a* value were within two known ESC candidate genes; ATP-binding cassette subfamily G member 2 (ABCG2) and protein kinase cGMP-dependent 2 (PRKG2). Of 56 SNPs and 16 indels associated with other egg quality traits, 46 potential candidate genes were identified including synapse differentiation-inducing 1-like (SYNDIG1L) for EW, and core histone macro-H2A.1 (LOC101795967) and neurogenin 1 (NEUROG1) for egg shape index; and four genes including collagen type VI alpha 3 chain (COL6A3), lysine demethylase 7A (KDM7A), LOC101802169, and sperm-associated antigen 16 (SPAG16) for egg yolk weight and the percentage of yolk to total egg weight. Of the 46 genes, the molecular functions of 22 are related to protein binding, indicating important roles in the formation of egg quality traits. Our findings provide new insight into the genetic basis of egg quality traits in ducks.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Cerebellar neurons, such as GABAergic Purkinje cells (PCs), interneurons (INs) and glutamatergic granule cells (GCs) are differentiated from neural progenitors expressing proneural genes, including ptf1a, neurog1 and atoh1a/b/c. Studies in mammals previously suggested that these genes determine cerebellar neuron cell fate. However, our studies on ptf1a;neurog1 zebrafish mutants and lineage tracing of ptf1a-expressing progenitors have revealed that the ptf1a/neurog1-expressing progenitors can generate diverse cerebellar neurons, including PCs, INs and a subset of GCs in zebrafish. The precise mechanisms of how each cerebellar neuron type is specified remains elusive. We found that genes encoding the transcriptional regulators Foxp1b, Foxp4, Skor1b and Skor2, which are reportedly expressed in PCs, were absent in ptf1a;neurog1 mutants. foxp1b;foxp4 mutants showed a strong reduction in PCs, whereas skor1b;skor2 mutants completely lacked PCs, and displayed an increase in immature GCs. Misexpression of skor2 in GC progenitors expressing atoh1c suppressed GC fate. These data indicate that Foxp1b/4 and Skor1b/2 function as key transcriptional regulators in the initial step of PC differentiation from ptf1a/neurog1-expressing neural progenitors, and that Skor1b and Skor2 control PC differentiation by suppressing their differentiation into GCs.© 2024. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.
Glucosidase II beta subunit (GluIIß), encoded from PRKCSH, is a subunit of the glucosidase II enzyme responsible for quality control of N-linked glycoprotein folding and suppression of GluIIß led to inhibitory effect of the receptor tyrosine kinase (RTKs) activities known to be critical for survival and development of cancer. In this study, we investigated the effect of GluIIß knockout on the global gene expression of cancer cells and its impact on functions of immune cells. GluIIß knockout lung adenocarcinoma A549 cell line was generated using CRISPR/Cas9-based genome editing system and subjected to transcriptomic analysis. Among 23,502 expressed transcripts, 1068 genes were significantly up-regulated and 807 genes greatly down-regulated. The KEGG enrichment analysis showed significant down-regulation of genes related extracellular matrix (ECM), ECM-receptor interaction, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction and cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) in GluIIß knockout cells. Of 9 CAMs encoded DEG identified by KEGG enrichment analysis, real time RT-PCR confirmed 8 genes to be significantly down-regulated in all 3 different GluIIß knockout clones, which includes cadherin 4 (CDH4), cadherin 2 (CDH2), versican (VCAN), integrin subunit alpha 4 (ITGA4), endothelial cell-selective adhesion molecule (ESAM), CD274 (program death ligand-1 (PD-L1)), Cell Adhesion Molecule 1 (CADM1), and Nectin Cell Adhesion Molecule 3 (NECTIN3). Whereas PTPRF (Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase Receptor Type F) was significantly decreased only in 1 out of 3 knockout clones. Microscopic analysis revealed distinctively different cell morphology of GluIIβ knockout cells with lesser cytoplasmic and cell surface area compared to parental A549 cells and non-targeted transfected cells.Further investigations revealed that Jurkat E6.1 T cells or human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) co-cultured with GluIIß knockout A549 exhibited significantly increased viability and tumor cell killing activity compared to those co-cultured with non-target transfected cells. Analysis of cytokine released from Jurkat E6.1 T cells co-cultured with GluIIß knockout A549 cells showed significant increased level of angiogenin and significant decreased level of ENA-78. In conclusion, knockout of GluIIß from cancer cells induced altered gene expression profile that improved anti-tumor activities of co-cultured T lymphocytes and PBMCs thus suppression of GluIIß may represent a novel approach of boosting anti-tumor immunity.© 2024. The Author(s).
MicroRNAs are tissue-specific expressed short RNAs that serve post-transcriptional gene regulation. A specific microRNA can bind to mRNAs of different genes and thereby suppress their protein production. In the context of the complex phenotype of fibromyalgia, we used the Axiom miRNA Target Site Genotyping Array to search genome-wide for DNA variations in microRNA genes, their regulatory regions, and in the 3'UTR of protein-coding genes. To identify disease-relevant DNA polymorphisms, a cohort of 176 female fibromyalgia patients was studied in comparison to a cohort of 162 healthy women. The association between 48,329 markers and fibromyalgia was investigated using logistic regression adjusted for population stratification. Results show that 29 markers had p-values < 1 × 10-3, and the strongest association was observed for rs758459 (p-value of 0.0001), located in the Neurogenin 1 gene which is targeted by hsa-miR-130a-3p. Furthermore, variant rs2295963 is predicted to affect binding of hsa-miR-1-3p. Both microRNAs were previously reported to be differentially expressed in fibromyalgia patients. Despite its limited statistical power, this study reports two microRNA-related polymorphisms which may play a functional role in the pathogenesis of fibromyalgia. For a better understanding of the disease pattern, further functional analyses on the biological significance of microRNAs and microRNA-related polymorphisms are required.
Sleep bruxism (SB) can cause damage on teeth, headache and severe pain affecting both sleep and daily functioning. Yet despite the growing interest into bruxism, the underlying clinically relevant biological mechanisms remain unresolved. The aim of our study was to understand biological mechanisms and clinical correlates of SB including previously reported disease associations.We used data from the FinnGen release R9 (N = 377 277 individuals) that are linked with Finnish hospital and primary care registries. We identified 12 297 (3.26%) individuals with International Classification of Diseases (ICD)-10 codes used for SB. In addition, we used logistic regression to examine the association between probable SB and its clinically diagnosed risk factors and comorbidities using ICD-10 codes. Furthermore, we examined medication purchases using prescription registry. Finally, we performed the first genome-wide association analysis for probable SB and computed genetic correlations using questionnaire, lifestyle, and clinical traits.The genome-wide association analysis revealed one significant association: rs10193179 intronic to Myosin IIIB (MYO3B) gene. In addition, we observed phenotypic associations and high genetic correlations with pain diagnoses, sleep apnea, reflux disease, upper respiratory diseases, psychiatric traits, and also their related medications such as antidepressants and sleep medication (p < 1e-4 for each trait).Our study provides a large-scale genetic framework to understand risk factors for SB and suggests potential biological mechanisms. Furthermore, our work strengthens the important earlier work that highlights SB as a trait that is associated with multiple axes of health. As part of this study, we provide genome-wide summary statistics that we hope will be useful for the scientific community studying SB.© Sleep Research Society 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Sleep Research Society.
Zeolite imidazolate framework-8 (ZIF-8) is a nanomaterial of metal-organic frameworks (MOFs), which have various applications in drug delivery and water pollution remediation. However, little is known about its developmental neurotoxicity in aquatic organisms, especially on the low-level exposure. In the present study, we investigated the toxic effects of ZIF-8 NPs on the neuron development, behavioral traits, oxidative stress and gene expression in zebrafish embryos. Firstly, our results showed that ZIF-8 induced significantly embryonic malformations and abnormal development of nervous system in zebrafish embryos with a concentration-dependent manner. Meanwhile, the locomotor behavior was obviously inhibited while the anxiety behavior was greatly increased after ZIF-8 exposure. Secondly, the levels of ROS and antioxidant enzyme activities (CAT, SOD and MDA) together with AChE and ATPase were substantially increased in the ZIF-8 exposed groups. At the molecular level, ZIF-8 NPs could down-regulate the expression profiles of neural development-related genes (gap43, synapsin 2a and neurogenin 1) and PD-like related genes (dj-1, dynactin and parkin), but up-regulate the expression levels of neuro-inflammatory genes (nox-1, glip1a and glip1b) in larval zebrafish. In addition, we further explored the molecular mechanism of neurotoxicity induced by ZIF-8 with pharmacological experiments. The results showed that specific inhibition of ROS-mediated oxidative stress by the astaxanthin could reverse the expression patterns of ATPase, AChE and neurodevelopmental genes. Moreover, astaxanthin can partially rescue the ZIF-8-modulated locomotor behavior. Taken together, our results demonstrated that ZIF-8 had the potential to cause neurotoxicity in zebrafish embryos. These informations presented in this study will help to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of ZIF-8 nanoparticles exposure in zebrafish, which providing a scientific evaluation of its safety to aquatic ecosystems.Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Neurogenin 1 (Ngn1) belongs to the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor family and plays important roles in specifying neuronal differentiation. The present study aimed to determine whether forced Ngn1 expression contributes to bone homeostasis. Ngn1 inhibited the p300/CREB-binding protein-associated factor (PCAF)-induced acetylation of nuclear factor of activated T cells 1 (NFATc1) and runt-related transcription factor 2 (Runx2) through binding to PCAF, which led to the inhibition of osteoclast and osteoblast differentiation, respectively. In addition, Ngn1 overexpression inhibited the TNF-α- and IL-17A-mediated enhancement of osteoclast differentiation and IL-17A-induced osteoblast differentiation. These findings indicate that Ngn1 can serve as a novel therapeutic agent for treating ankylosing spondylitis with abnormally increased bone formation and resorption.
As a possible target for pro- or anti-angiogenic therapy, the process of angiogenesis has become more widely recognized in disease and is essential in normal growth and development. The current study examined the immunological activities of macrophages during angiogenesis in quail embryos. CD68 was used to identify perivascular macrophages, which also retained expression of some stem cell markers, including CD34 and CD117, and also CD21. The macrophages also expressed vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a key promoter of angiogenesis, and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), which degrades matrix components to facilitate the formation of new blood vessels. The growth factor bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) and platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha (PDGF-α), which are often associated with mesenchymal cell recruitment and vascularization, were also expressed in the perivascular macrophages. More recently, studies investigating macrophages have become more prominent due to their proposed effects on endothelial cells. Macrophages are also increasingly considered potential targets for pro- or anti-angiogenic therapies, and this research provides insights into protein expression and roles in angiogenesis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Radiation therapy for rectal cancer often causes long-term bowel dysfunction. We investigated radiation-associated motility changes in human rectal smooth muscle, focusing on the role of platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha-positive (PDGFRα⁺) cells and interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC). Human rectal tissues were obtained from patients undergoing surgery with (n=61) or without (n=51) preoperative concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT). Isometric tension recordings were used to assess myogenic responses to potassium chloride (KCl), acetylcholine (ACh), sodium nitroprusside (SNP), and adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Neurogenic components were assessed using electrical field stimulation. Intracellular microelectrode recordings measured slow wave activity. Expression of interstitial cells, neuronal cells and smooth muscle cells was assessed by immunohistochemistry and quantitative PCR. ATP-induced relaxation and ATP-associated suppression of slow wave activity were significantly attenuated in irradiated rectal tissue, while responses to KCl, ACh, and SNP were preserved. PDGFRα and Kit expression levels were markedly decreased in irradiated tissue (P < 0.001), whereas NOS1, VAChT, and MYH11 expression levels remained unchanged. Immunostaining confirmed reduced PDGFRα⁺ cells and ICC in irradiated tissue. Pelvic irradiation delivered in the context of preoperative CCRT was associated with reduced PDGFRα⁺ cells and ICC, with associated attenuation of ATP-mediated inhibitory responses, which may contribute to rectal dysmotility. These results suggest that preserving purinergic signaling may offer a potential therapeutic approach to improve long-term bowel function after pelvic radiotherapy.
Spontaneous phasic contractions (SPCs) in the epididymal duct play an important role in transport and maturation of sperm. In proximal cauda of the rat epididymis, platelet-derived growth factor receptor α (PDGFRα)-positive smooth muscle cells (SMCs) generate ANO1 Ca2+-activated chloride channels (CaCCs)-dependent spontaneous transient inward currents (STICs) to electrically drive SPCs.Here, we explored whether epididymal ANO1+, PDGFRα+ cells may have region-specific functions in generating SPCs.Patch clamp technique was applied to isolated epididymal cells dispersed from the rat epididymis. Membrane potential changes and SPCs were recorded from epididymal tissue preparations using an intracellular microelectrode and video imaging, respectively. To verify ANO1 currents in PDGFRα+ SMCs, patch clamp recordings and immunohistochemistry were performed using PDGFRα-eGFP mice.Rat epididymal cells of both proximal cauda and caput developed spontaneous transient depolarizations (STDs) that were inhibited by Ani9 (3 µM), the ANO1-specific inhibitor, CPA (10 µM), a sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase (SERCA) inhibitor, or nifedipine (1 µM), an L-type voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel (LVDCC) inhibitor. Ani9 (10 µM) slowed slow waves and associated SPCs in proximal cauda but not the caput. In the mouse epididymis, the proximal cauda consisted of a few layers of SMCs where SMCs in the innermost layer primarily expressed PDGFRα, whereas the caput was composed of one or two layers of PDGFRα+ SMCs. In both regions, Ani9 (3 µM) abolished STICs in PDGFRα+ SMCs that co-expressed ANO1. However, Ani9 (10 µM) slowed SPCs in the proximal cauda but not the caput.Despite the fact that epididymal PDGFRα+ SMCs in both the proximal cauda and caput develop ANO1-dependent STICs, they appear to serve as pacemaker cells driving SPCs in the proximal cauda, whereas corresponding cells in the caput have a role other than SPCs' pacemaking.© 2026 The Author(s). Andrology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of American Society of Andrology and European Academy of Andrology.
: Morphological and functional changes occur after loop ileostomy surgery such as villous atrophy and decreased contractility. This study aims to examine the changes in motility of the proximal and distal limbs of the ileostomy. Morphological, molecular and functional approaches of smooth muscle are attempted to elucidate the cause of the changes in motility.: Full thickness strips of circular muscle were prepared from 25 patients (median age 64 years). Western blot was performed to quantify the expression of contractile proteins. Expression of genes was quantified using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction.: The distal limb showed morphological atrophy and a significant reduction in the contractile response to acetylcholine and potassium chloride, as well as a reduced relaxation response to sodium nitroprusside. However, no changes in the number of platelet derived growth factor receptor-α-positive (PDGFRα+) cells and interstitial cell of Cajal (ICC) were observed between the proximal and distal limbs. Western blot analysis confirmed that the expression levels of proteins associated with contraction such as myosin phosphatase targeting subunit 1, protein kinase C-potentiated phosphatase inhibitor protein-17 kDa, and Rho-associated, coiled-coil containing protein kinase 1, were significantly down-regulated in the distal limb. Despite the decrease in the expression of these proteins, neuronal cells and smooth muscle cells were preserved in the distal limb that has been diverted after ileostomy.: Although morphological, molecular and motility changes including down-regulation of contractile protein expression were observed in the distal loop, number of PDGFRα+ cells, ICCs, and neuronal cells were preserved. These results may explain restoration of the bowel motility after ileostomy take-down with low incidence of ileus.
Intestinal epithelial cells rely on a complex array of stromal signals to determine their fate and function along the crypt-villus axis, but the precise cellular sources and combinations of signals at each position remain poorly defined.We generated an atlas of Foxl1-lineage cells along the crypt-villus axis using single-cell RNA sequencing integrated with in situ hybridization, immunofluorescence, and reporter mouse models.We identify 4 spatially distinct Foxl1-lineage subepithelial populations: crypt, villus-base, villus-mid and villus-tip, that segregate into 2 related pairs. Crypt and villus-mid Foxl1-lineage cells share a low platelet-derived growth factor receptor α transcriptional program enriched for canonical Wnts and R-spondins, consistent with regenerative signaling functions. In contrast, villus-base and villus-tip Foxl1-lineage cells are platelet-derived growth factor receptor α-high and express noncanonical Wnt5a and bone morphogenetic protein ligands. Crypt Foxl1-lineage cells are additionally enriched for extracellular matrix proteins and complement components, whereas villus-base Foxl1-lineage cells express contractility-associated genes, suggesting a role in villus architecture. Villus-mid Foxl1-lineage cells display signatures of immune regulation and inflammation, whereas villus-tip Foxl1-lineage cells are specialized for regulation of ribonucleoprotein complexes and nutrient sensing.This atlas provides a foundational resource for understanding how diverse stromal populations coordinate signaling niches and influence intestinal epithelial homeostasis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Fibro-Adipogenic Progenitors (FAPs) are muscle-resident mesenchymal stromal cells that are essential for skeletal muscle regeneration, but also drive pathological fibrosis and adiposity. FAP properties have been modulated by transgenic strategies, but the field lacks an efficient tool for specific, localized, in vivo FAP targeting. Adeno-Associated Viruses (AAVs) have become a standard for delivery of transgenes with both natural and engineered cell specificity for uptake, or tropism. The goal of this study was to develop an AAV system with FAP specificity. We isolated the promoter for murine platelet derived growth factor receptor alpha (Pdgfra), a FAP-specific marker, to drive expression of the reporter, ZsGreen. Cell transfection confirmed that full-length (2.2 kb) and truncated (826 bp) promoters restricted expression to FAPs, with the 826 bp sequence providing higher gene expression. Next, we compared AAV5 and AAV8 serotypes, packaging each promoter sequence versus the CMV promoter or to no vector. Following intramuscular AAV injection (1 × 1011vg/TA), immunofluorescence and cell-sorting revealed that AAV5 harboring the 826 bp Pdgfra promoter provided optimal FAP specificity and expression level. Importantly, minimal off-target expression in myofibers or other mononucleated populations, including endothelial, immune, and satellite cells was found. These results demonstrate the development of an AAV-based tool for precise, in vivo manipulation of FAPs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) reprograms host cellular pathways to promote viral persistence and tumor development by supporting the survival and expansion of infected and bystander cells. Among the signaling axes implicated in this process, oncogenic activation of receptor tyrosine kinases, particularly platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRA), is a well-established hallmark of Kaposi sarcoma pathogenesis. However, the impact of virus-driven cell surface glycosylation changes in PDGFRA-associated signaling remains uncertain. Here, we identified a critical role for KSHV in reshaping the glycosylation landscape of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs), thereby reprogramming PDGFRA signaling. We show that KSHV infection enhances a unique glycan profile in human and mouse MSCs, enriched in branched complex N-glycans with limited α(2-6) sialylation, Transcriptomic analyses of KSHV-infected MSCs and Kaposi's Sarcoma patient samples revealed a coordinated dysregulation of pathways involved in carbohydrate metabolism, nucleotide-sugar transport, and sialic acid turnover, with a particular focus on sialic acid turnover (NPL/NEU3), the UDP-N-acetylglucosamine transporters SLC35A3/B4, and complex N-glycan elongation (MGAT5/B3GNT2/B4GALT1) as critical nodes underlying reduced α(2-6) sialylation and increased N-glycan branching. This remodeled glycan landscape contributes to create a permissive context for galectin-1 (Gal-1) binding, which in turn enhances PDGFRA activation and downstream signaling. These findings identify an integral component of KSHV-driven mesenchymal cell reprogramming, unveiling a lectin-dependent mechanism of RTK activation in Kaposi sarcoma pathogenesis.
This study aims to systematically compare the differences in the effects of Eucommiae Cortex(EC) and salt-stir fried Eucommiae Cortex(SEC) on improving adenine-induced renal fibrosis in rats and explore the molecular mechanism by which SEC enhances the therapeutic effect on renal fibrosis based on epithelial-mesenchymal transition(EMT). Rats were randomly divided into a blank control group, model group, positive drug group, and groups with low, medium, and high-dose EC and SEC. Western blot and immunofluorescence techniques were utilized to detect the expression of fibrosis marker proteins such as α-smooth actin(α-SMA), collagen Ⅰ, fibronectin, and vimentin in renal tissue. Real-time fluorescent quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction(PCR) was used to detect the transcriptional expression levels of key EMT transcription factors snail family transcriptional repressor 1(Snai1), twist family BHLH transcription factor 1(Twist1), zinc finger E-box binding homeobox 1(ZEB1), inflammatory factors tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin-1β(IL-1β), and interleukin-6(IL-6) in renal tissue. In in vitro experiments, a fibrosis model was established by using transforming growth factor-β(TGF-β) to stimulate renal tubular epithelial NRK-52E cells, thereby evaluating the inhibitory effects of EC and SEC on the protein expression of fibrosis markers and the EMT process. The underlying molecular mechanism was further explored by combining network pharmacology and western blot. Both EC and SEC significantly reduced the protein expression levels of fibrosis markers including fibronectin, collagen Ⅰ, vimentin, and α-SMA and obviously inhibited the transcriptional expression of key EMT transcription factors including Snai1, Twist1, and ZEB1 and inflammatory factors including TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6 in rats with adenine-induced renal fibrosis and in NRK-52E cells stimulated by TGF-β. The inhibitory effects of SEC were stronger than those of EC. Network pharmacology analysis revealed that the chemical components of SEC with significant change exerted the effect by focusing on the mitogen-activated protein kinase(MAPK) signaling pathway. Further experiments confirmed that both of EC and SEC significantly inhibited phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase(p38) induced by adenine and TGF-β and elevated expression of its upstream apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1(ASK1), with SEC exhibiting a more pronounced inhibitory effect. Furthermore, the ASK1 inhibitor Selonsertib significantly downregulated levels of EMT and p38 phosphorylation in NRK-52E cells stimulated by TGF-β. Therefore, SEC can enhance the therapeutic effect on renal fibrosis by inhibiting the EMT process, and its specific mechanism is related to the inhibition of the ASK1/p38 signaling pathway.
The genetic basis of impaired intestinal barrier function in preterm infants is poorly understood. Variants in single immunoglobulin interleukin1-related receptor, a negative regulator of Toll-like receptor signaling, have been identified in preterm infants with necrotizing enterocolitis. We hypothesized that single immunoglobulin interleukin1-related receptor variants associated with necrotizing enterocolitis impair gut barrier function to pathobionts. The aim of this study was to determine how single immunoglobulin interleukin1-related receptor genetic variants disrupt neonatal intestinal barrier integrity and promote susceptibility to Gram-negative bacteria implicated in sepsis and necrotizing enterocolitis pathogenesis.Transgenic mice and preterm infant-derived enteroids expressing SIGIRR variants identified in necrotizing enterocolitis were used to define how single immunoglobulin interleukin1-related receptor regulates epithelial junctional protein assembly. An Escherichia coli strain identified in neonatal sepsis was used for functional evaluation of gut barrier function.Neonatal mice harboring the SIGIRR p.Y168X mutation (Sigirrmu/mu), exhibited loss of epithelial junctional proteins, impaired barrier function, and activation of Twist family BHLH transcription factor 1 with exaggerated Toll-like receptor signaling. Sigirrmu/mu mice were highly susceptible to bacteremia when enterally challenged with pathogenic E coli. Pharmacologic inhibition of Twist family BHLH transcription factor 1 or genetic deletion of Toll-like receptor 4 restored barrier integrity. Preterm human enteroids expressing the SIGIRR p.Y168X and p.P115R variants recapitulated barrier defects and Twist family BHLH transcription factor 1 activation in a bacteria-free environment. Twist family BHLH transcription factor 1 inhibition reversed these defects in both human and murine enteroids.SIGIRR preserves neonatal intestinal epithelial barrier integrity by repressing TWIST1-mediated disruption of junctional proteins. Loss of SIGIRR function compromises epithelial barrier and promotes bacterial translocation, revealing a genetic mechanism underlying gut barrier dysfunction in necrotizing enterocolitis and neonatal sepsis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Renal lipid metabolic dysregulation drives tubular injury and fibrosis in chronic kidney disease (CKD), yet endogenous targets governing tubular lipid homeostasis remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to elucidate how calycosin (CAL), an O-methylated isoflavone from Astragali Radix, corrects renal lipid metabolic dysregulation and attenuates fibrosis in CKD.An adenine-induced CKD mouse model and TGF-β1-stimulated HK-2 cells were treated with CAL. Lipidomics and network pharmacology screened candidate targets. Surface plasmon resonance (SPR) and molecular dynamics simulations validated target binding. Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated renal phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1 (PCK1) overexpression in vivo and lentiviral overexpression in vitro established the regulatory relationship. The PCK1 inhibitor 3-mercaptopicolinic acid served as reverse validation.CAL improved renal function, alleviated fibrosis, and reduced lipid deposition both in vivo and in vitro. Lipidomics revealed that CAL bidirectionally modulated renal lipid metabolism by suppressing glycerophospholipid, sphingolipid, and glycerolipid accumulation while restoring omega-3 PUFA-enriched lipids and decreasing lipid saturation. SPR confirmed direct binding of CAL to PCK1. Gain-of-function experiments demonstrated that PCK1 negatively regulates Twist family BHLH transcription factor 1 (TWIST1) in the kidney. Accordingly, CAL activated the PCK1/TWIST1/carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 A (CPT1α) axis, restoring fatty acid oxidation and suppressing lipid uptake, thereby attenuating lipotoxicity-driven oxidative stress and tubular apoptosis.This study identifies PCK1 as an endogenous binding target of CAL in the kidney and delineates the PCK1/TWIST1/CPT1α axis as the downstream signaling circuitry through which CAL corrects tubular lipid metabolic disorders and attenuates renal fibrosis, providing mechanistic rationale for targeted CKD therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
BACKGROUND: Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is one of the primary contributors to global cancer mortality. Elevated expression of centrosomal protein 55 (CEP55) is frequently observed in NSCLC and is closely linked to tumorigenesis and disease progression. However, the prognostic value of CEP55 in NSCLC has not been fully established. The current meta-analysis assessed how increased CEP55 expression may influence prognosis in patients diagnosed with NSCLC. METHODS: Eligible studies were retrieved via a systematic search across major biomedical databases. Additionally, validation cohorts were retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. To quantify the prognostic relevance of CEP55, hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were synthesized from eligible studies. The Newcastle-Ottawa Scale was leveraged to assess the methodological quality of the included studies. This review was registered with PROSPERO (CRD420251006676). RESULTS: A total of 18 independent study cohorts (6 literature-derived and 12 database-derived) involving 4,829 patients were included. The meta-analysis revealed that elevated CEP55 expression was significantly associated with poorer overall survival (OS) in NSCLC patients [HR = 1.22, 95% CI: 1.13–1.32]. Subgroup analysis by histological subtype showed that CEP55 serves as an independent predictor of poor OS in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) [HR = 1.28, 95% CI: 1.20–1.37], whereas its prognostic utility in lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) was not statistically significant [HR = 0.98, 95% CI: 0.90–1.06]. Multivariate analysis further confirmed CEP55 as an independent risk factor for LUAD, with its prognostic impact being particularly evident in early-stage disease characteristics—including Stage I, limited tumor infiltration (T1–T2), and the absence of distant metastasis (M0)—as well as in patients with negative surgical margins or those who had not received chemotherapy. CONCLUSION: CEP55 may act as a potential indicator for predicting disease progression and survival outcomes in NSCLC, particularly in LUAD. Further investigation into the underlying mechanisms of CEP55 is necessary.
Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is one of the most frequently occurring and aggressive cancers globally, but its complex molecular mechanisms remain only partially understood. This study investigated the effects of Wilms tumor 1-associated protein (WTAP) on NSCLC cell ferroptosis and immune escape through N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification of twist family BHLH transcription factor 1 (Twist1).Western blot and reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction were used to assess Twist1 expression in NSCLC cell lines and its circular structure. Small interfering RNAs targeting Twist1 and WTAP were transfected into H2170 cells, and their effects on cell viability, apoptosis, ferroptosis markers (reactive oxygen species [ROS], malondialdehyde [MDA], and Fe2+), and immune escape were evaluated using cell counting kit-8, flow cytometry, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP Nick-End labeling, ROS staining, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Co-culture with CD8+ T cells was employed to assess cytotoxicity and exhaustion marker expression (Lymphocyte activation gene-3, Programmed cell death protein 1, and T-cell immunoreceptor with Ig and ITIM domains). Magna methylated RNA immunoprecipitation, photo-activatable ribonucleoside-enhanced cross-linking and immunoprecipitation, and treatment with the methylation inhibitor 3-Deazaneplanocin A (3-DAA) confirmed the m6A modification of Twist1 and WTAP's regulatory role.Twist1 was dramatically elevated in the NSCLC cell lines (P < 0.05). Knockdown of Twist1 inhibited NSCLC cell viability; promoted apoptosis; increased ROS, MDA, and Fe2+ levels; enhanced the cytotoxicity of CD8+ T cells; and reduced the expression of exhaustion markers (P < 0.05). These effects were partially reversed by the ferroptosis inhibitor Fer-1. WTAP expression increased in the NSCLC cells, and its knockdown markedly reduced the m6A modification and expression of Twist1 (P < 0.05). Furthermore, overexpression of Twist1 partially reversed the inhibitory effects of WTAP knockdown on NSCLC cell proliferation, ferroptosis, and immune escape (P < 0.05).Twist1 is highly expressed in NSCLC. It promotes NSCLC progression by enhancing ferroptosis and immune escape. WTAP-mediated m6A methylation plays a critical role in regulating Twist1 expression. The WTAP/Twist1 axis may serve as a potential therapeutic target for NSCLC.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is a major cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. One protein involved in RNA processing and splicing, SNRPA1, has been suggested to play a role in the pathogenesis of NSCLC. Therefore, investigating the regulatory mechanisms involving small nuclear ribonucleoprotein polypeptide A' (SNRPA1) in NSCLC could provide valuable insights into the disease progression. The study involved the analysis of SNRPA1, methyltransferase 3, n6-adenosine-methyltransferase complex catalytic subunit (METTL3), insulin like growth factor 2 mRNA binding protein 2 (IGF2BP2) and twist family bHLH transcription factor 1 (TWIST1) expressions in lung tissues and normal lung tissues using data obtained from the TCGA, CPTAC, and/or ENCORI databases. The prognostic value of SNRPA1 in lung tissues was assessed through the Kaplan-Meier Plotter database and TCGA database. mRNA expression was quantified via qRT-PCR, while protein expression was evaluated using western blotting assay or IHC assay. Cell viability, proliferation, migration, and invasion were analyzed through various in vitro assays. The interaction between SNRPA1 and METTL3 or IGF2BP2 was studied using RIP assay, dual-luciferase reporter assay, and actinomycin D assay, while the association of SNRPA1 with TWIST was determined through Co-IP assay and CHX assay. The effects of METTL3 silencing and SNRPA1 overexpression on malignant growth of NSCLC cells were confirmed using a xenograft mouse model assay and a lung metastasis model. SNRPA1 expression was significantly upregulated in NSCLC tissues and cells. Depletion of SNRPA1 led to the inhibition of NSCLC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Additionally, METTL3 and IGF2BP2 were found to stabilize SNRPA1 mRNA expression through m6A methylation modification. SNRPA1 overexpression attenuated the effects induced by METTL3 knockdown on NSCLC cells in vitro. Furthermore, SNRPA1 was observed to interact with TWIST1 in NSCLC cells, and TWIST1 overexpression attenuated SNRPA1 knockdown-induced effects on the key malignant phenotypes. In vivo experiments showed that SNRPA1 overexpression rescued the effects of METTL3 depletion on the malignant growth of NSCLC cells. The findings of this study highlight the crucial role of the METTL3/IGF2BP2-SNRPA1-TWIST1 axis in promoting NSCLC development through m6A methylation modification. Targeting this pathway may offer novel therapeutic strategies for the treatment of NSCLC.The METTL3/IGF2BP2-mediated m6A methylation modification of SNRPA1 binds to TWIST1 to promote NSCLC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, ultimately leading to NSCLC progression.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10616-026-00924-w.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Pancreatic cancer (PC) remains a highly lethal malignancy with limited treatment options, largely due to its heterogeneity and therapy resistance. While ferroptosis-a form of iron-dependent cell death driven by lipid peroxidation-has emerged as a relevant pathway, its role in PC is incompletely understood, as is the oncogenic function of Centrosomal Protein 55 (CEP55). Here, we integrated TCGA data with immunohistochemical validation and demonstrated that CEP55 is significantly overexpressed in PC and correlates with advanced disease and poor prognosis. Functionally, CEP55 knockdown suppressed proliferation, migration, and clonogenicity, while inducing ferroptosis, as evidenced by elevated lipid peroxidation, iron accumulation, and glutathione depletion. Mechanistically, CEP55 silencing downregulated key ferroptosis suppressors, including GPX4, SLC7A11, and NQO1, increasing cellular sensitivity to ferroptotic stress. Erastin, a ferroptosis inducer, enhanced ferroptosis in CEP55-deficient cells and counteracted the tumor-promoting effects of CEP55 overexpression. In vivo, CEP55 silencing reduced tumor growth and altered ferroptosis markers. Our findings establish CEP55 as a novel driver of PC progression via ferroptosis suppression, supporting its potential as both a prognostic biomarker and a therapeutic target for combination strategies aimed at overcoming PC resistance.© 2026 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is a highly heterogeneous malignancy with variable clinical outcomes. Centrosomal protein 55 (CEP55) has been involved in the progression of multiple cancers, but its function in PCa is still largely uncharacterized. CEP55 expression was evaluated in clinical samples and cell lines via bioinformatics analysis, quantitative RT-PCR, and Western blot. Functional assessments, such as wound healing, Cell Counting Kit-8, and Transwell invasion, were carried out to evaluate the impact of CEP55 upregulation or knockdown on PCa cell growth and metastasis. Coimmunoprecipitation was utilized to observe the interaction between CEP55 and TPX2 microtubule nucleation factor. The role of CEP55 in ferroptosis regulation was assessed by measuring IC50 values of ferroptosis inducers, lipid reactive oxygen species levels, and the expression of ferroptosis-correlated proteins, solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) and glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4). Xenograft tumor models were created to evaluate the in vivo effects of CEP55 suppression. CEP55 showed a significant upregulation in PCa tissues and cell lines. CEP55 overexpression was linked to advanced clinicopathological features and poor prognosis. Mechanistically, CEP55 interacted with TPX2 to activate the aurora kinase A (AURKA)-PI3K-AKT signaling cascade. This activation led to increased expression of SLC7A11 and GPX4, reduced lipid reactive oxygen species accumulation, and conferred resistance to ferroptosis. Pharmacological inhibition of the TPX2-AURKA interaction with CAM2602 reversed these effects. In vivo trials illustrated that CEP55 knockdown inhibited tumor growth and downregulated key proteins in the TPX2-AURKA-PI3K-AKT and ferroptosis resistance pathway. Our findings demonstrate that CEP55 enhances PCa progression by stimulating the TPX2-AURKA-PI3K-AKT signaling pathway and inhibiting ferroptosis. Targeting this axis may represent a potential therapeutic approach for PCa.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Oxaliplatin (OXA) is commonly used in combination therapy for patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. While the emergence of acquired resistance dramatically reduces its efficacy. It was previously found that the sensitivity of drug-resistant hepatocellular carcinoma cells to OXA could be enhanced by a synthesized ethyl derivative (patented) of epigallocatechin-3-gallate, and also initially found that the reversal mechanism might be related to the miR-338-3p/HIF-1α/ TWIST pathway. In this study, the function of the miR-338- 3p/HIF-1α / TWIST pathway was investigated in OXA-resistant hepatocellular carcinoma cells, particularly its involvement in reversing chemoresistance mediated by EMT.The cell viability, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition markers of SMMC-7721 and SMMC-7721/OXA cells were measured using the MTT assay, wound healing assay, transwell assay, western blot, and qRT-PCR. The effects of miR-338-3p overexpression were evaluated by transfecting cells with miR-338-3p mimic or negative control mimic.The SMMC-7721/OXA cells exhibited an epithelial-mesenchymal transition phenotype, characterized by increased migration and invasion, reduced E-cadherin, and elevated vimentin expression. The miR-338-3p expression was dramatically downregulated in SMMC-7721/OXA cells. Overexpression of miR-338-3p enhanced OXA sensitivity, with the IC50 value of OXA decreasing from 51.23 μM to 19.26 μM, reversed the epithelialmesenchymal transition phenotype, and reduced the expression of hypoxia-inducible factor-1α and twist family bHLH transcription factor 1, key regulators of epithelial-mesenchymal transition. The results indicated that the miR-338-3p regulates epithelial-mesenchymal transition and chemoresistance in OXA-resistant hepatocellular carcinoma cells by targeting hypoxiainducible factor-1α and subsequently down-regulating twist family bHLH transcription factor 1.This study implies that the resistance of SMMC-7721/OXA cells to OXA is likely related to the acquisition of the EMT phenotype. The up-regulating miR-338-3p could be a new treatment method for over-coming OXA resistance in hepatocellular carcinoma.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
This study aimed to investigate the molecular mechanisms by which melatonin (MLT) mitigates ovarian damage in mice exposed to abnormal light cycles. Female C57BL/6 mice from the same batch were randomly assigned to five experimental groups: normal light cycle (LD), reversed light cycle (DL), reversed light cycle with MLT supplementation (MDL), constant light (LL), and constant light with MLT supplementation (MLL). Models of reversed and constant light exposure were established, and exogenous MLT was administered. The results indicated that MLT significantly alleviated ovarian developmental impairment induced by abnormal light cycles, reduced oocyte apoptosis, and attenuated the downregulation of Ddx4, androgen receptor (Ar), and estrogen receptor alpha (Erα) protein expression levels. RNA-seq analysis identified key genes involved in ovarian development, including Insl3, Runx2, and Timp1. Subsequent Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses revealed that differentially expressed genes were significantly enriched in biological processes related to steroid biosynthesis, ovarian follicle development, female gonad development, regulation of reproductive processes, apoptosis regulation, circadian rhythm, and associated signaling pathways. These findings suggest that MLT regulates ovarian germ cell development and estrogen synthesis signaling pathways through modulation of Ddx4, Ar, and Erα expression.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42322505 is a review article
Histone deacetylation regulates mammalian follicular development via ovarian granulosa cells (GCs) autophagy, but the underlying mechanisms remain largely unknown. This study aimed to elucidate the epigenetic role of HDAC2 in GC autophagy and follicular development through ZFP42.HDAC2 knockdown combined with autophagy detection were performed to identify the effect of HDAC2 on autophagy and ZFP42 in GCs. Subsequently, chromatin accessibility assay and CRISPR/dCas9-P300 epigenetic editing were used to explore the molecular mechanism that HDAC2 regulates the expression of ZFP42. Finally, In vitro and in vivo methods were applied to evaluate the functional effects of ZFP42 on autophagy and follicular development.Knockdown of HDAC2 Induces autophagy in GCs. ZFP42 protein level dynamically decreased during follicular development. Chromatin accessibility assay and CRISPR/dCas9-P300 editing revealed that HDAC2 dynamically altered H3K27ac occupancy at the promoter of ZFP42 to activating transcriptional activation of ZFP42. Functionally, ZFP42 protein interacted with the autophagic marker Beclin1 to modulate autophagy. Moreover, ZFP42 promoted GC autophagy and apoptosis to decrease serum estradiol (E2) levels and block follicular development in vivo.These results provided mechanistic insights into ovarian follicle development, and proposed ZFP42 as a potential therapeutic target for autophagy-related reproductive disorders.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Metabolism plays an essential role in cellular processes: development, growth, differentiation, and determination of cell identity. Understanding how metabolic processes dynamically change across cell types, stages, and environmental conditions is crucial for studying developmental biology, aging, and disease progression. Genomewide metabolic models (GEMs) are a powerful network-based tool for studying these processes by integrating omics data to model context-specific metabolism. However, current approaches, such as Flux Balance Analysis (FBA), have limitations in addressing the dynamic nature of metabolism across developmental stages at a sample-specific resolution. To address this, we introduce a novel network-based method for analyzing cell and stage specific metabolic flow using directed and weighted metabolic networks that account for sample-specific transcriptomic data. We apply this method to study ovarian follicle development, providing a deeper understanding of intracellular metabolic processes, identifying key metabolites, enzymes, and potential markers for follicular maturation, important for IVF. By incorporating biologically meaningful data, this approach bridges the gap between theoretical metabolic network models (GEMs) and experimental observations, offering a systems-level view of metabolic dynamics in developmental and understudied contexts.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42130734
Rodents represent one of the key functional groups in ecosystems, and their population outbreaks can disrupt ecological equilibrium and cause substantial economic losses in agricultural production. Therefore, rational control of rodent populations is essential for maintaining ecosystem stability and minimizing economic damage. The striped hamster displays marked seasonal reproductive patterns, leading to significant fluctuations in population size across seasons. Investigating how female striped hamsters regulate follicle development in response to photoperiodic cues offers a promising target for the strategic management of pest populations.Adult female striped hamsters were exposed to long (LP), medium (MP), and short (SP) photoperiods. Ovarian follicle development was assessed through hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining of ovaries. Transcriptome sequencing was conducted to identify signaling pathways associated with photoperiodic regulation of follicle development. Serum levels of FSH, LH, and cAMP, as well as ovarian cAMP concentrations, were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA). Real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) was further employed to quantify the expression of key genes involved in follicle development. Correlations between cAMP levels and hormonal or gene expression data were analyzed to elucidate the main factors mediating photoperiod-regulated follicle development.Long photoperiod (LP) promotes follicle development, whereas short photoperiod (SP) suppresses it. The cAMP signaling pathway serves as a key mechanism mediating photoperiod to regulate follicle development. Photoperiod modulates the synthesis of FSH, LH, and cAMP, thereby coordinately influencing downstream reproductive physiology.GPR3, ADCY5, PDE1A, and PDE3A are identified as core factors in the cAMP signaling pathway and are proposed as potential molecular targets for the rational control of farmland rodent populations.Copyright © 2026 Xue, Zhang, Qi, Fan, Xu, Chen, Wu and Xu.
Halogenated derivatives of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), such as chlorinated PAHs (ClPAHs), are an emerging class of contaminants that are being detected in the environment as well as in wildlife and human populations. Previous studies have shown that chemical substitution of PAHs, including chlorination, may alter the toxicity of parent PAHs; however, whether chlorination affects their endocrine-disrupting potential remains unexplored. In this study, we examined the effects of phenanthrene (Phe), one of the most prevalent PAHs, and its chlorinated congeners, 9-chlorophenanthrene (9ClPhe) and 9,10-dichlorophenanthrene (9,10Cl2Phe), on hormone production in granulosa cells, key hormone-secreting cells of the ovary. We observed that Phe and its chlorinated congeners differentially altered anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH), estradiol (E2), and progesterone (P4) secretion. Since mitochondria are central to steroidogenesis, we further evaluated mitochondrial function. While Phe increased ATP production, both 9ClPhe and 9,10Cl2Phe increased ROS, decreased mitochondrial membrane potential, and reduced the expression of markers for mitochondrial dynamics and mitophagy without altering ATP levels. We further tested impacts on cell fate and found that neither Phe nor its chlorinated congeners altered granulosa cell apoptosis. Together, these results suggest that chlorination of Phe leads to dose-dependent, differential effects on hormone production and mitochondrial pathways without inducing cell death in granulosa cells. This study highlights the potential adverse impacts of ClPAH exposure on ovarian follicle development and female fertility by disrupting steroidogenesis and mitochondrial quality control.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) is a complex endocrine disorder associated with insulin resistance, hyperandrogenism, and infertility. Gut microbiota dysbiosis is suspected to play a significant role in the pathogenesis of PCOS through the gut-brain-gonad axis, an axis that remains incompletely understood.This study aims to evaluate the role of gut microbiota dysbiosis in the mechanism of PCOS with insulin resistance by analyzing the abundance of Lactobacillus sp., levels of Zonulin, Short Chain Fatty Acids (SCFAs), Insulin-Like Growth Factor-1 (IGF-1), and ovarian follicle count in a rat model of PCOS with insuline resistance, which in this study devided into 2 groups, control and treatment group, consist of 20 rats each. This experimental study employed an SEM-PLS approach to assess the relationships among microbiota, inflammation, metabolism, and ovarian function variables in an insulin-resistant PCOS rat model with insulin resistance.The results showed decreases in Lactobacillus sp., SCFAs, and ovarian follicle counts, along with an increase in IGF-1 levels in PCOS model rats.The study, utilizing an insulin-resistant Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) rat model, established a strong, statistically significant link between gut microbiota dysbiosis and endocrine/ metabolic dysfunction. These were observed through increased levels of key markers: Zonulin (Control: 3.775, Treatment: 5.545), HOMA-IR (Control: 78.3400, Treatment: 140.9760), and IGF-1 (Control: 141.9665, Treatment: 189.5700). The Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) analysis confirmed two primary pathogenic pathways: (1) Gut Microbe/Metabolite Pathway: A reduction in beneficial Lactobacillus sp. was linked to lower SCFA levels, which influenced IGF-1 and negatively affected ovarian follicle development; (2) Inflammation/Insulin Resistance Pathway: The model established a statistically significant cascade where PCOS induction was strongly associated with Zonulin (β = -0.717), which then positively predicted HOMA-IR (β = 0.630), and HOMA-IR, in turn, strongly predicted IGF-1 (β = 0.662), defining the mechanism as PCOS → Zonulin → HOMA-IR → IGF-1.The dysbiosis mechanism involving gut microbiota in this study's model includes PCOS, Zonulin, HOMA-IR, and IGF-1, as these variables demonstrated statistically significant relationships.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41917350 is a review article
Reproductive efficiency is a pivotal factor contributing to the unsustainability of the cattle industry. The follicle-stimulating hormone receptor (FSHR) is integral in regulating ovarian follicle development and the response to assisted reproduction technology (ART) protocols. This systematic review synthesized 29 studies to assess the association between FSHR gene polymorphisms and reproductive outcomes in cattle. The findings revealed that 34.6% of the studies exhibited a risk of methodological bias due to incomplete reporting of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) positions and primary sequences. The most frequently investigated SNP variants were located in exon 10 (e.g., g.1973C>G; g.337 C>G) and the 5' untranslated region (5'UTR) domain (e.g., g.-278G>A), with diverse geographic and species distributions. Bioinformatic analysis indicated that variants in exon 10 are situated in the functionally significant extracellular domain of the receptor. All studies examining genotype-phenotype associations (n = 8) of FSHR SNPs in exon 10 were conducted in both naturally estrous (n = 4) and hormonally intervened estrous (n = 4) cow. However, the majority of significant associations (P < 0.05) were attributed to hormonal protocol interventions. The synthesis of these significant findings suggests that no simple inheritance pattern, such as a specific heterozygote or homozygote advantage, can be generalized for the FSHR gene. The association between a genotype and a reproductive phenotype is largely contingent upon complex interactions between specific SNPs, breed, and the type of phenotypic parameter measured. Therefore, it is concluded that FSHR polymorphisms have the potential to modulate ovarian response, particularly to ART, rather than serving as a primary fertility gene.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42567980
Psychological resilience is an adaptive capacity that enables individuals to maintain or regain equilibrium following stress. Infertility treatment represents a significant psychological stressor for many couples. Although higher resilience has been associated with better psychological well-being in patients undergoing medically assisted reproduction, its relationship with embryological outcomes remains unknown. This study aimed to determine whether psychological resilience in couples undergoing infertility treatment is associated with blastocyst quality. In this prospective observational study, a total of 126 infertile couples who underwent intracytoplasmic sperm injections, with fresh autologous gametes, were included. Psychological resilience in both partners was assessed using the 10-item Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale. The number of mature oocytes retrieved, semen parameters, and sperm histone retention were evaluated. The primary outcome was the Day 5 good-quality blastocyst development rate. Higher psychological resilience in men, but not in women, was independently associated with a higher good-quality blastocyst development rate (B = 0.06, 95% CI 0.01-0.11, p = 0.02) and remained significant in sensitivity analyses. Male resilience was also positively correlated with sperm morphology (ρ = 0.28, p = 0.001) and inversely correlated with sperm histone retention (ρ = -0.26, p = 0.02). Psychological resilience in men, but not in women, was associated with sperm characteristics and blastocyst quality in couples undergoing infertility treatment. These findings suggest that psychological factors may be reflected in biological parameters relevant to reproduction. Further studies are needed to investigate underlying mechanisms and reproductive outcomes beyond embryo development.Psychological resilience is the ability to adapt to and recover from stressful situations. Infertility treatment can be emotionally challenging for couples, but it is not known whether resilience is related to laboratory outcomes during treatment. In this study, we assessed psychological resilience in 126 couples undergoing intracytoplasmic sperm injection, a fertility treatment in which one sperm is injected into each mature egg. We found that higher resilience in men was associated with better sperm characteristics and a higher rate of good-quality embryos reaching the blastocyst stage on Day 5. This association was not observed in women. These findings suggest that psychological factors in men may be linked to biological features relevant to reproduction. However, this was an observational study and cannot prove cause and effect. Larger studies are needed to confirm these findings and to understand the biological mechanisms involved.© the author(s).
Spermiogenesis is a highly specialized differentiation process involving by extensive nuclear remodeling and cytoplasmic reorganization. Disruption of these events is a major cause of male infertility, however the genetic determinants underlying human spermiogenic failure remain incompletely understood. NUP210L, which encodes a testis-enriched nucleoporin, has recently been implicated in male infertility, although direct evidence in humans is limited and murine models do not fully recapitulate the human phenotype.To investigate the genetic basis and spermiogenic consequences of a homozygous NUP210L variant in a patient with severe oligoasthenoteratozoospermia (OAT), and to evaluate its impact on fertilization.A consanguineous family with an affected male proband was studied. Whole-exome sequencing followed by Sanger validation was performed to identify the causative variant. Comprehensive sperm analyses, including light and transmission electron microscopy, immunofluorescence, Western blotting, and chromomycin A3 staining, were conducted to assess ultrastructure, protein localization, and chromatin remodeling. Fertilization outcomes of intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) with or without artificial oocyte activation (AOA) were evaluated.A homozygous in-frame deletion in NUP210L (c.1501_1503del, p.Ser501del) was identified. Patient sperm exhibited marked spermiogenic defects, including impaired chromatin condensation, acrosomal abnormalities, mitochondrial sheath disorganization, and fibrous sheath dysplasia. Although NUP210L protein levels were preserved, immunofluorescence revealed abnormal accumulation and mislocalization, suggesting functional impairment rather than loss of expression. Chromomycin A3 staining indicated significant histone retention, consistent with defective nuclear remodeling. Notably, the sperm-specific oocyte activation factor PLCζ was undetectable, consistent with total fertilization failure (TFF) following conventional ICSI. In contrast, ICSI combined with AOA successfully restored fertilization and enabled blastocyst development.This study identifies a homozygous NUP210L variant associated with severe spermiogenic defects and impaired sperm function. The findings support a role for NUP210L in human spermiogenesis that is not fully recapitulated in murine models. The successful rescue of fertilization by AOA further suggests that NUP210L-related defects are associated with impaired oocyte activation, providing human-based evidence that nucleoporin dysfunction contributes to male infertility.© 2026 American Society of Andrology and European Academy of Andrology.
AIM: To investigate the effects of sodium nitrite on spinal cord development in early-stage chick embryos. MATERIAL and METHODS: Sixty specific-pathogen-free fertile Leghorn-type eggs at Day 0 of incubation were used. Group 1 (control) received saline, Group 2 (low-dose) was administered 0.0042 mg of sodium nitrite, and Group 3 (high-dose) received 0.0084 mg. Embryonic disks were microscopically examined after 72 hours of incubation. RESULTS: In the control group, the surface ectoderm was intact, the neural tube was properly closed, and the neuroepithelium, basement membrane, somites, and notochord exhibited normal morphology. Neural tube defects were identified in seven embryos in the low-dose group and nine embryos in the high-dose group. Statistical analysis revealed that both sodium nitrite-exposed groups exhibited a significantly higher incidence of neural tube defects compared with the control group (p < 0.05). However, no statistically significant difference was observed between the low- and high-dose groups. CONCLUSION: Exposure to low and high doses of sodium nitrite induced neural tube defects in chick embryos, suggesting potential embryotoxic effects.
In-vitro embryo production (IVP) in cattle is limited by the suboptimal competence of oocytes matured outside the follicular environment. While maturation is often achieved, incomplete cytoplasmic maturation may impair embryo development and survival. This study evaluated the influence of follicle size on oocyte cytoplasmic maturation, lipid metabolism, cumulus cell function, and embryo cryosurvival. Oocytes were collected from small (< 6 mm), medium (6-9 mm), and large (10-20 mm) follicles and evaluated at 0, 12, and 24 h of in-vitro maturation (IVM). Organelle distribution, lipid and mitochondrial content and distribution, cortical granule distribution, and transzonal projections (TZPs) were evaluated. Gene expression was assessed in surrounding cumulus cells, and embryo development and cryotolerance were evaluated following fertilization and culture. While organelle patterns did not differ among follicle sizes for mitochondria, lipids, or cortical granules, oocytes from large follicles had lower lipid accumulation by 24 h IVM, and fewer TZPs throughout maturation. Gene expression in cumulus cells from large follicles also had a greater abundance of transcripts involved in steroidogenesis, growth factor signaling, and glucose metabolism midway through maturation. Although cleavage and blastocyst development rates were similar across groups, embryos from large follicle oocytes had higher post-thaw survival and lower lipid content than those from small follicles. These findings demonstrate that follicle size affects key metabolic and structural aspects of oocyte maturation, ultimately influencing embryo quality. Selecting oocytes from larger follicles may improve embryo cryosurvival by promoting more complete cytoplasmic maturation and more efficient lipid regulation during IVM.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Reproduction and Development published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Cashmere production declines with age in Inner Mongolian cashmere goats, but the molecular mechanisms are unknown. This study employed a transcriptome-wide RNA-seq analysis to compare age-associated and breed-related gene expression profiles in goat skin, with particular emphasis on age-dependent AKT1 expression and its associated signaling pathways. Skin tissues from cashmere goats at 12 and 15 months and age-matched non-cashmere controls were analyzed by RNA-seq (BGIDNBSEQ platform). Differential expression and functional enrichment analyses were performed on skin transcriptomes of cashmere and control goats at 12 and 15 months. Age-specific functional profiles emerged: 12-month cashmere goats showed enrichment in GTPase activity, glucose transport, and ribosomal assembly, whereas 15-month goats were enriched for autophagosome assembly and apoptosis. FoxO signaling was commonly enriched across both ages, while the Hepatitis B pathway was unique to 12 months. AKT1 was significantly upregulated at 12 months coinciding with peak cashmere production with reduced expression at 15 months. This age-dependent pattern was supported by coordinated regulation of downstream effectors, including TSC2, PIK3R2, MAPK9, and FOXO3. Collectively, these transcriptomic data provide a mechanistic framework linking age-dependent AKT1 regulation to the decline in cashmere fiber production.
Carnosine is a naturally occurring endogenous dipeptide with great potential to improve reproductive function and fertility. In this study, supplementation of 1 μg/mL carnosine during in vitro maturation (IVM) significantly enhanced the developmental competence and quality of the resulting bovine embryos. Carnosine treatment effectively elevated mitochondrial membrane potential, mitochondrial activity, and ATP content in oocytes. Moreover, it strengthened the antioxidant and anti-apoptotic capacities of oocytes, as evidenced by reduced intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, lowered DNA damage and an early apoptosis rate, alongside increased glutathione (GSH) content, an elevated BCL2/BAX mRNA ratio, and upregulation of antioxidant genes SOD1, CAT, GPx1, and GPx4. Notably, combined application of 1 μg/mL carnosine during IVM and 10-7 M melatonin during in vitro culture (IVC) synergistically improved both blastocyst development and quality. Collectively, these findings provide novel evidence supporting the therapeutic potential of carnosine in optimizing in vitro embryo production in bovine, and highlight the value of stage-specific supplementation strategies to further improve embryonic development efficiency.
To evaluate whether time-lapse monitoring improves embryological outcomes and clinical pregnancy rates compared to conventional culture in a sibling-oocyte study.This multicenter-study involved 205 first-time retrieval cycles (n = 3244 mature oocytes). Sibling-oocytes from patients with ≥ 4 oocytes were randomized into conventional and time-lapse groups. The primary outcome was the good-quality blastocyst rate. Key secondary outcomes included Day-2 Good Quality Embryo (GQE) rates and clinical pregnancy rates for both fresh and frozen-thawed embryo transfers (FET).The time-lapse group exhibited a significantly higher GQE rate on Day 2 (42.1% vs. 35.3%, p < 0.01) and a higher good-quality blastocyst rate (44.1% vs. 38.1%, p < 0.01) compared to the conventional group. While clinical pregnancy rates showed a higher trend in the time-lapse group for both fresh ET (44.4% vs. 15.8%) and FET (45.3% vs. 36.7%), these differences did not reach statistical significance. Time-lapse monitoring successfully identified embryos with early pronuclear disappearance as early as 14 h post-insemination. Morphokinetic analysis revealed that abnormal cleavage patterns were associated with significantly lower blastocyst development potential compared to normal cleavage (p < 0.01).Time-lapse culture provides a stable environment that enhances embryo quality. While clinical pregnancy rates showed a positive trend, further large-scale studies are needed to confirm the impact on live birth rates.© 2026 The Author(s). Reproductive Medicine and Biology published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japan Society for Reproductive Medicine.
Electroporation-mediated delivery of Clustered-Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated protein 9 components is an effective approach for genome editing in porcine embryos; however, mosaicism remains a major limitation. Selecting normally fertilized zygotes with two pronuclei (2PN) before electroporation may improve editing uniformity and reduce mosaicism. Therefore, this study investigated the effects of 2PN selection, optimized timing of pronuclear observation, and Hoechst 33342 staining conditions on embryo development and genome editing efficiency in porcine embryos.In the first experiment, pronuclear dynamics after in vitro fertilization (IVF) were evaluated by collecting zygotes at 8-24 h post-fertilization, followed by centrifugation, fixation, and Hoechst 33342 staining. In the second experiment, the effects of Hoechst 33342 concentration (5 and 10 μg/mL) and exposure duration (10 and 30 min) on embryo development were assessed using live zygotes collected 20 h after fertilization. In the third experiment, zygotes with visible 2PN selected after centrifugation and Hoechst staining were electroporated with guide RNA targeting the TP53 gene. Developmental competence, mutation efficiency, and mosaicism were compared with non-selected control zygotes.The proportion of zygotes with 2PN gradually increased after fertilization and reached the highest level (47.4%) at 20 h post-IVF before significantly declining at 24 h (p < 0.05). Among the staining conditions tested, treatment with 5 μg/mL Hoechst 33342 for 30 min resulted in the highest blastocyst formation rate (14.3%, p < 0.05). Following electroporation, blastocyst development rates did not differ significantly between the 2PN-selected group (6.5%) and the control group (10.8%). Similarly, the biallelic mutation rate and total mutation efficiency were comparable between selected zygotes (78.6% and 85.5%, respectively) and controls (81.8% and 92.5%, respectively).Selection of porcine zygotes with 2PN before electroporation did not improve genome editing efficiency or reduce mosaicism despite optimization of pronuclear observation timing and Hoechst staining conditions. The persistence of mosaicism may be associated with asynchronous DNA replication between maternal and paternal pronuclei. Although 2PN selection was safe for embryo development, additional strategies targeting pronuclear synchronization and replication timing are required to achieve more uniform genome editing in porcine embryos.Copyright: © Takebayashi, et al.
The efficiency of intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) in cattle remains limited, particularly when sex-sorted spermatozoa are used, partly due to insufficient chromatin decondensation associated with the highly compact protamine structure of bovine sperm. This study evaluated thioglycolic acid (TGA) as an alternative reducing agent to dithiothreitol (DTT) to promote controlled chromatin decondensation while preserving sperm DNA integrity and improving ICSI outcomes. Sex-sorted and conventional bovine spermatozoa were treated with different TGA concentrations (0.5-5 mM), and sperm functional parameters and chromatin integrity were assessed. Low TGA concentrations (0.5-1 mM) increased CMA3 positivity, indicating increased protamine-DNA accessibility, without compromising sperm viability or chromatin integrity, whereas higher concentrations impaired sperm function. Based on these findings, 1 mM TGA was selected for subsequent ICSI experiments. In contrast, DTT treatment increased DNA fragmentation and chromatin instability. Following ICSI, sperm treated with 1 mM TGA exhibited a higher normal fertilization rate (two pronuclei; 70.4%) compared with the DTT-treated (36.8%) and control groups (8.3%). Moreover, embryos derived from TGA-treated spermatozoa showed high cleavage competence (79.0%) and improved blastocyst development (46.0%). Gene expression analysis of Day 8 blastocysts revealed increased IGF2 and OCT4 expression, reduced Survivin expression, and increased HSP70 expression, potentially reflecting altered cellular regulation in embryos derived from TGA-treated spermatozoa. In conclusion, optimized TGA treatment may facilitate controlled sperm chromatin decondensation while preserving DNA integrity, representing a promising strategy to improve bovine ICSI outcomes using sex-sorted spermatozoa.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Variants in the human PAX4 gene are associated with both monogenic and complex forms of diabetes, yet their pathogenic effects remain difficult to define in models that accurately mimic human islet architecture and neonatal metabolic transitions. Here, we created a porcine PAX4 loss-of-function model using CRISPR/Cas9 cytidine deaminase base editing to introduce a premature stop codon in the PAX4 coding sequence. PAX4 knockout piglets developed severe hyperglycemia within 24 h of birth, followed by rapid postnatal clinical deterioration and uniform death by day 3. Biochemical analysis showed significant diabetic decompensation, including electrolyte imbalances, hyperosmolality, azotemia, dyslipidemia, and metabolic acidosis. Gross and histological examinations revealed notable pancreatic hypoplasia with preservation of exocrine tissue. Single-nucleus RNA sequencing and immunohistochemistry demonstrated an almost complete loss of insulin- and somatostatin-producing β- and δ-cells, respectively, with relative preservation of glucagon-expressing α-cells. Overall, these results establish PAX4 as a crucial factor in pancreatic endocrine development and postnatal glucose regulation in a large-animal model. This platform offers a human-relevant system for studying diabetes-associated PAX4 variants and for testing regenerative and gene-based therapies for insulin-deficient diabetes.
Cardiorespiratory coupling (cardiovascular-respiratory interactions) is a marker of autonomic nervous system function and maturation. We hypothesize that differences in autonomic maturation are associated with disparate outcomes of premature infants.We collected continuous bedside cardiorespiratory data from birth to 40 weeks post-menstrual age (PMA) for 191 preterm infants born between 23-0/7 weeks to 28-6/7 weeks of gestation. Using the respiratory and ECG wave forms, we calculated cardiorespiratory phase synchronization (CRPS) as a measure of cardiorespiratory coupling. Using linear mixed effects modeling, we studied the trajectory of CRPS as a function of PMA and chronological age (CA) and any difference between groups separated by discharge status, respiratory outcome and neurological outcomes at the 40th week PMA, and different gestational ages.CRPS showed a decline reaching a nadir at approximately 3 weeks of age followed by a gradual increase toward term. The infants born at later GA showed higher values and steeper increases than infants of lower GA. Contrary to our hypothesis, the trajectory of the increase was similar regardless of outcome assessed.Autonomic maturation following preterm birth shows a fixed predictable pattern that appears to be independent of respiratory or neurologic outcomes or clinicians' assessment of readiness for discharge.Cardiorespiratory phase synchronization (CRPS) trajectories, a marker of autonomic nervous system functio is provided for 175 extremely preterm infants across post-menstrual age (PMA) and chronological age (CA). CRPS initially declines but subsequently increases with advancing PMA and CA, irrespective of discharge status and respiratory and neurological outcomes at 40 weeks PMA. At all CAs after the initial decrease, CRPS was higher for infants born at 27-28 weeks compared to those born earlier.© 2026. The Author(s).
Paired mesoderm homeobox protein 2B (PHOX2B) is a transcription factor essential for autonomic nervous system development. Heterozygous mutations in the PHOX2B gene are associated with neurodevelopmental disorders, including congenital central hypoventilation syndrome and Hirschsprung's disease. Additionally, PHOX2B plays a role in the genetic landscape of neuroblastoma, with mutations detected in both familial and sporadic forms of this rare cancer. Notably, PHOX2B is highly expressed in most neuroblastoma cells. Despite its significance, little is known about the regulation of PHOX2B gene expression, and limited attention has been given to the genomic features of the antisense strand at the PHOX2B locus, although the presence of an antisense transcript is suggested by bioinformatics analyses. In this study, we characterize the recently annotated human antisense transcript PHOX2B-AS1 and the previously unidentified mouse antisense Phox2b transcript. Our findings reveal that PHOX2B positively regulates PHOX2B-AS1 expression and that inhibiting the antisense transcript reduces PHOX2B protein levels. Together, these results provide strong evidence for the existence of a gene antisense to PHOX2B and highlight a strict correlation and reciprocal regulation between PHOX2B and PHOX2B-AS1.© 2026 The Author(s). The FEBS Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Autonomic nervous system (ANS) maturation is crucial for neonatal adaptation, but in preterm infants, this process is often delayed, leading to increased vulnerability. Heart rate variability (HRV) provides a non-invasive measure of ANS function, yet existing evidence is contradictory regarding how birth gestational age influences HRV development at comparable postmenstrual ages.This study aims to investigate HRV metrics at 35-36 weeks postmenstrual age in preterm neonates with a wide range of birth gestational ages. We hypothesize that lower birth gestational age correlates with reduced HRV, indicating delayed ANS maturation and diminished parasympathetic tone.We conducted a longitudinal cohort study of preterm neonates divided into two groups: Group A (28-33 weeks GA) and Group B (34-36 weeks GA). Short-term HRV recordings (mean duration 17 minutes, SD 4.3) were obtained within 24 hours after birth, on the 3rd-4th postnatal day, and again at 35-36 weeks PMA for neonates born before 35 weeks. HRV features included time-domain, frequency-domain, and non-linear measures.Of 132 recruited preterm neonates, 88 were included in the final analysis. Preterm neonates with higher gestational age at birth (Group B) exhibited elevated time-domain measures (HTI, SDNN, RMSSD, pNN50) and higher frequency-domain indices (LF, LF/HF, TP) compared with those born earlier (Group A). Compared with Group B, Group A (28-33 weeks GA) had higher mean heart rates and exhibited stronger long-range correlations in heart rate dynamics.This study demonstrates that advancing gestational age is associated with greater parasympathetic modulation and more balanced sympathovagal control. Birth gestational age is a strong determinant of autonomic nervous system development at 35-36 weeks postmenstrual age. These findings highlight the importance of stratifying by gestational age in HRV studies and may inform neurodevelopmental monitoring and NICU care strategies.Copyright: © 2026 Kokkinaki et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
The olfactory placode (OP) gives rise to a wide array of chemosensory neurons in the nasal region, including olfactory sensory neurons, vomeronasal sensory neurons, and those of the septal organ and Grueneberg ganglion. During placodal invagination, the OP also produces migratory neurons, including gonadotropin-releasing hormone-1 (GnRH-1) neurons, somatostatin-expressing neurons, Prokineticin Receptor 2 (Prokr2) pioneer/terminal nerve (TN) neurons, which are thought to initiate olfactory bulb development. Despite decades of research, the genetic lineage and molecular identity of OP-derived neuronal types remain under investigation. GnRH-1 neurons play essential roles in reproduction and chemodetection but appear genetically distinct from olfactory and vomeronasal chemosensory neurons. The Golgi-associated olfactory signaling regulator Goofy/Gfy is broadly expressed across the placode-derived nasal chemosensory neurons. To determine whether its expression is specific to nasal chemosensory neurons or it is a shared genetic feature across OP derivatives we characterized Gfy expression and lineage at embryonic and postnatal stages. Our results confirm broad Gfy expression in developing chemosensory neurons and subsets of olfactory pioneer/TN neurons. However, we found that while Gfy was not expressed in GnRH-1 neurons while migrating, analysis at late development and postnatal stages, revealed the existence of Gfy-traced neuronal populations in the basal forebrain, some of which also express GnRH. These findings uncover previously unrecognized genetic heterogeneity among migratory nasal neurons and reinforce previous studies suggesting the existence of additional neurons with nasal origin in the brain. In addition to this, analysis of Gfy expression along the developmental trajectory of vomeronasal sensory neurons at postnatal stages revealed intriguing differences in the developmental dynamics across the two main types of vomeronasal sensory neurons.
Maternal mental health has been linked to early physiological regulation in infants, with depression, anxiety, and PTSD shaping autonomic nervous system development. Respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA), an index of parasympathetic control, reflects infants' ability to regulate arousal and predicts later self-regulation. While maternal prenatal distress has been implicated in fetal autonomic programming, the extent to which these effects persist postnatally remains unclear. In the Rohingya camps in Bangladesh, home to nearly 1 million people fleeing genocide, children are exposed to extreme conditions that can undermine biopsychosocial development. This study examines associations between prenatal and postnatal mental health and infant RSA at 6 weeks of age in a sample of Rohingya refugee and Bangladeshi host community mothers in Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh. Findings indicate that postnatal-but not prenatal-distress is associated with lower infant RSA, with postnatal anxiety predicting lower RSA when infants were held and postnatal depression predicting lower RSA across both held and alone conditions. PTSD symptoms were not significantly associated with RSA. These results suggest that postnatal maternal distress may play a more proximal role in shaping infant autonomic function than prenatal exposure alone, underscoring the need for perinatal mental health interventions in displaced populations to support resilience.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The autonomic nervous system regulates physiological processes, including cardiovascular functions. Changes in maternal systolic and diastolic blood pressure (SBP; DBP), as well as fetal heart rate and heart rate variability, can serve as indicators of possible risk for adverse perinatal and developmental outcomes. This study examined the association between maternal blood pressure during pregnancy and fetal autonomic nervous system heart rate indices. This was a secondary analysis of a pregnant adolescent and young adult cohort with data collected between 2009 and 2012. Ambulatory SBP and DBP measurements were recorded for 24-hours, three times across the second and third trimesters of pregnancy. Fetal heart rate indices were obtained from a standardized paradigm at 36-38 weeks gestational age. Associations of maternal ambulatory blood pressure trajectories with fetal heart rate indices were evaluated while controlling for body mass index (BMI) using linear mixed model regression. Higher maternal nighttime SBP and DBP trajectories, when controlling for pre-pregnancy BMI, were associated with greater fetal heart rate variability during rest. The associations did not survive Bonferroni correction. Nighttime blood pressure trajectories may affect the development of the fetal autonomic system, and additional research in diverse, adult samples is needed.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Immunotherapy has revolutionized cancer treatment. However, its clinical application remains limited. There is an urgent need for new predictive and prognostic biomarkers that can identify more patients with objective and durable responses and thus, improve the accuracy of prognosis.A predictive model for immunotherapy was developed using 34 single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-Seq) datasets from various cancer types and eight bulk RNA-Seq datasets from immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) cohorts. Seven machine learning (ML) methods were applied to identify vital genes associated with both cancer and immune characteristics. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were validated using RT-PCR and immunohistochemical (IHC) analyses of clinical samples.Analysis of scRNA-seq datasets and autonomic nervous system development (ANSD) scores revealed 20 genes comprising a novel ANSD-related differential signature (ANSDR.Sig). A pan-cancer predictive model for ICI prognosis based on ANSDR.Sig was constructed, with the random forest algorithm yielding the most robust performance. Further screening using five ML methods on the ICI RNA-seq datasets identified 18 key genes, forming the Hub-ANSDR.Sig. Regulatory network analysis revealed diversified molecular interactions between Hub-ANSDR.Sig genes, transcription factors, and miRNAs. Hub-ANSDR.Sig was strongly associated with immune cell infiltration, microsatellite instability (MSI), and overall survival (OS) across various cancer types. In gastric cancer (GC), its role in immune dysfunction, tumor mutational burden (TMB), MSI, mutation frequency, immune infiltration, cell-cell communication, and developmental trajectories was confirmed. Moreover, several Hub-ANSDR.Sig genes were differentially expressed in GC compared to normal tissue and were enriched in immunotherapy-sensitive GC samples relative to resistant ones.Our results offer novel insights into predicting immunotherapy efficacy using ANSD-related signature, with the goal of improving clinical strategies and expanding potential indications. This approach also aims to develop more accurate prediction models and therapeutic interventions, thereby helping more patients benefit from immunotherapy.Copyright © 2025 Wu, Xue, Zhuang, Duan, Zhou, Wang, Wu, Zhou, Huan, Wang and Cheng.
Hyperglycemia during fetal development disturbs extracellular matrix (ECM) synthesis and deposition patterns, which disrupts organogenesis and adult organ function. Although the ECM cooperates in pancreas development, little is known about the effects of hyperglycemia on the pancreatic ECM during development. This study investigates the effect of severe maternal hyperglycemia on ECM composition and endocrine pancreas development in E19.0 mouse fetuses. Deposition patterns of pan-laminin, laminin (alpha 1 and gamma 1 chains) and integrin alpha 3 were evaluated by immunostaining. The proliferative index of islet cells and alpha and beta cell distribution were evaluated by PCNA, glucagon and insulin immunostaining, respectively. Pdx1 and Pax4 expressions were analyzed by RT-qPCR. While for pan-laminin and laminin (alpha1 and gamma1 chains) deposition was weaker in the endocrine pancreas of hyperglycemic mothers' fetuses, integrin alpha 3 deposition in the basement membrane was increased. The proliferative index of endocrine cells was lower in the hyperglycemic group, while the beta-cell area was increased. In addition, there was a tendency towards lower Pdx1 and increased Pdx4 expression. These data suggest that maternal hyperglycemia alters fetal endocrine pancreas morphogenesis by modifying peri-islet basement membrane molecule patterns, promoting a decrease in endocrine cell proliferation associated with changes in the expression of important growth factors for the beta cells differentiated and the proliferative state.
Gap junction Beta 2 Protein (GJB2, Connexin26, Cx26), the primary genetic cause of hereditary hearing loss (25%-50% of cases), has been exclusively regarded as forming an intercellular channel that mediates rapid communication. Here, we redefine its biological role by discovering its nuclear localization and direct transcriptional regulatory function in cochlear structure development. We demonstrate that Cx26 could aggregate in the nucleus of cochlear support cell and cell lines. Cx26 can bind to the promoter transcription start point of genomic DNA and directly regulate gene transcription, thus controlling the structural development of the tunnel of Corti during cochlear development. Further, we provide strategies based on mechanisms to promote the TC development and hearing rescue in Cx26 deficient cochlea, which has important implications for the discovery and development of treatment strategies for hearing loss caused by Cx26 deficiency.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Marsupials and placental mammals exhibit significant differences in reproductive and life history strategies. Marsupials are born highly underdeveloped after an extremely short period of gestation, leading to prioritized development of structures critical for post-birth survival in the pouch. Critically, they must undergo accelerated development of the orofacial region compared to placentals. Previously, we described the accelerated development of the orofacial region in the carnivorous Australian marsupial, the fat-tailed dunnart Sminthopsis crassicaudata, that has one of the shortest gestations of any mammal. By combining genome comparisons of the mouse and dunnart with functional data for the enhancer-associated chromatin modifications, H3K4me3 and H3K27ac, we investigated divergence of craniofacial regulatory landscapes between these species. This is the first description of genome-wide face regulatory elements in a marsupial, with 60,626 putative enhancers and 12,295 putative promoters described. We also generated craniofacial RNA-seq data for the dunnart to investigate expression dynamics of genes near predicted active regulatory elements. While genes involved in regulating facial development were largely conserved in mouse and dunnart, the regulatory landscape varied significantly. Additionally, a subset of dunnart-specific enhancers was associated with genes highly expressed only in dunnart relating to cranial neural crest proliferation, embryonic myogenesis, and epidermis development. Comparative RNA-seq analyses of facial tissue revealed dunnart-specific expression of genes involved in the development of the mechanosensory system. Accelerated development of the dunnart sensory system likely relates to the sensory cues received by the nasal-oral region during the postnatal journey to the pouch. Together, these data suggest that accelerated face development in the dunnart may be driven by dunnart-specific enhancer activity. Our study highlights the power of marsupial-placental comparative genomics for understanding the role of enhancers in driving temporal shifts in development.© 2025, Cook et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40871062 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 40700218 is a review article
Facial morphogenesis is regulated by several cellular interactions that are mediated by numerous morphogenetic signals. Based on the existing evidence, we hypothesize that oral cleft-associated single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are involved in the normal range of human face development. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the association between SNPs in oral cleft-related genes and variations in the normal range of facial morphology.A sample of healthy Brazilian teenagers (aged between 11 and 18 years old) were screened and collected. Frontal facial digitized photographs from orthodontic records were used to determine phenotypes, while the DNA extracted from saliva samples was used to investigate the candidate SNPs. Five oral cleft-associated SNPs in BMP2 (rs235768), BMP4 (rs17563), WNT3A (rs708111), WNT11 (rs1533767), and RUNX2 (rs1200425) were selected, and allelic discrimination analysis was performed using real-time PCR.A total of 58 individuals (27 boys and 31 girls) were included. The facial landmarks used for the facial measurements were the trichion (Tr), glabella (G), nassion (N), subnasale (Sn), labrale superior (Ls), labrale inferior (Li), gnathion (Gn), cheilon (Ch), and zygoma (Zg). rs17563 in BMP4 was associated with lip proportion, in which individuals with the homozygous GG genotype had a higher Ch-Ch:Ls-Li proportion than the heterozygous AG genotype (p = 0.034). rs1533767 in WNT11 was associated with G-Sn:Sn-Gn (p = 0.028), N-Gn:Sn-Gn (p = 0.035), and Sn-Gn:Tr-Gn (p = 0.039).Our study supported the hypothesis that oral cleft-associated SNPs are involved in the normal range of human facial morphology.© 2025 Küchler, Meger, Pires, Beisel-Memmert, Hemming, Coletta, Scariot, Matsumoto, Oliveira, Kirschneck and Cavalcante-Leão.
We aimed to describe facial directional asymmetry (DA) in individuals with different manifestations of laterality. Due to the overlap between brain and face development, a relationship between the manifestation of brain laterality and DA is hypothesised. These findings could clarify the relationship between the brain and facial phenotype and help to plan facial or oral motor rehabilitation. The DA of 163 healthy individuals was assessed by two complementary 3D methods: landmark and polygonal surface analysis using colour-coded maps. Handedness was assessed using the Edinburgh Handedness Inventory, while chewing side and eye preferences were self-reported. The results showed a similar DA pattern regardless of sex and laterality (the right-sided protrusion of the forehead, nose, lips, and chin) and a slightly curved C-shape of the midline in landmark analysis. A relationship between lateralized behaviours and DA was found only in males, in females the DA pattern was more homogenous. Right-handed individuals and right-side chewers showed a protrusion of the right hemiface. Males, left-handed and left-side chewers, manifested a protrusion of the left lateral hemiface. We suggest that these specific differences in males may be due to their typically higher level of brain asymmetry. No apparent relationship was found between eyedness and DA.© 2024. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 38070832 is a review article
Sensory organs must develop alongside the skull within which they are largely encased, and this relationship can manifest as the skull constraining the organs, organs constraining the skull, or organs constraining one another in relative size. How this interplay between sensory organs and the developing skull plays out during the evolution of sensory diversity; however, remains unknown. Here, we examine the developmental sequence of the cochlea, the organ responsible for hearing and echolocation, in species with distinct diet and echolocation types within the ecologically diverse bat super-family Noctilionoidea. We found the size and shape of the cochlea largely correlates with skull size, with exceptions of Pteronotus parnellii, whose high duty cycle echolocation (nearly constant emission of sound pulses during their echolocation process allowing for detailed information gathering, also called constant frequency echolocation) corresponds to a larger cochlear and basal turn, and Monophyllus redmani, a small-bodied nectarivorous bat, for which interactions with other sensory organs restrict cochlea size. Our findings support the existence of developmental constraints, suggesting that both developmental and anatomical factors may act synergistically during the development of sensory systems in noctilionoid bats.© 2023 American Association for Anatomy.
Skipped: PubMed ID 37960520 is a review article
Macrophages are essential immune cells in the cochlea that contribute to inflammation, tissue repair, and homeostasis. They also play an important role in local cochlear immunity. The developmental immigration and maturation of macrophages in the cochlea have been investigated and are considered essential for normal hearing acquisition. Most of our current knowledge regarding cochlear development is based on rodent models because of the ethical challenges of using human fetal samples for research. However, inter-species differences between rodents and humans have been reported. In this study, we used a primate animal model to investigate the distributions of macrophages in the developing cochlea. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a small monkey species that inhabits the New World, was used as the model.We investigated the distribution of macrophages in the developing cochlea of the common marmoset by performing immunohistochemical analyses of cochlear tissue from common marmoset embryos at different development stages.We revealed detailed distribution changes in the macrophages of a primate animal model cochlea. This observation indicates that most of the changes in the general distribution of macrophages were well preserved between rodents and this primate. The distribution changes observed in the common marmoset were also compatible with observations in the human fetus; although, observations in the human fetus are limited. Our observations in this study also revealed several differences between common marmosets and rodents.The time course of immunological development and maturations established in this study will aid in the study of the primate-specific developmental biology of the inner ear. These observations may eventually lead to new therapeutic strategies for hearing loss in humans. In addition, understanding the immunological steady-state of the cochlea may help in the study of age- and genetic-induced hearing loss and in the design of regenerative therapies.Copyright © 2023 Hosoya, Kitama, Shimanuki, Nishiyama, Oishi, Okano and Ozawa.
beta-Catenin is a central component of both the cadherin-catenin cell adhesion complex and the Wnt signaling pathway. We have investigated the role of beta-catenin during brain morphogenesis, by specifically inactivating the beta-catenin gene in the region of Wnt1 expression. To achieve this, mice with a conditional ('floxed') allele of beta-catenin with required exons flanked by loxP recombination sequences were intercrossed with transgenic mice that expressed Cre recombinase under control of Wnt1 regulatory sequences. beta-Catenin gene deletion resulted in dramatic brain malformation and failure of craniofacial development. Absence of part of the midbrain and all of the cerebellum is reminiscent of the conventional Wnt1 knockout (Wnt1(-/-)), suggesting that Wnt1 acts through beta-catenin in controlling midbrain-hindbrain development. The craniofacial phenotype, not observed in embryos that lack Wnt1, indicates a role for beta-catenin in the fate of neural crest cells. Analysis of neural tube explants shows that (beta-catenin is efficiently deleted in migrating neural crest cell precursors. This, together with an increased apoptosis in cells migrating to the cranial ganglia and in areas of prechondrogenic condensations, suggests that removal of beta-catenin affects neural crest cell survival and/or differentiation. Our results demonstrate the pivotal role of beta-catenin in morphogenetic processes during brain and craniofacial development.
